THE VOLVO GROUP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 The Volvo Group’s products and services contribute to much of what we all expect of a well-functioning society. Our trucks, buses, engines, construction equipment and ﬁnancial services are involved in many of the functions that most of us rely on ev ever ery da day.. THE VOLVO GROUP ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONTENT CEO comment 2 A GLOBAL GROUP SHARE OF NET SALES BY BUSINESS AREA 2015 OVERVIEW Our customers make societies function 4 Strong positions thanks to ... 6 Trucks, 68% ... competitive products ... 8 ... and ﬁrst-class services. 10 Construction Equipment, 16% Buses, 7% STRATEGY Volvo Penta, 3% Global context 18 Vision, Core values, Code of Conduct and Wanted position 20 Customer Finance, 3% Strategy 22 Other, 3% BUSINESS MODEL Value chain 24 Product development 26 Supply chain 30 Production 32 Distribution & Service 38 Products in use 42 Reuse & Recycling 46 Value creation 50 Sustainability context 52 Sustainability drivers 54 Sustainability ambitions 55 SHARE OF NET SALES BY MARKET 2015 Our material issues 56 Sustainable transport solutions 58 Shared value 64 Responsible business behavior 70 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2015 Europe North Global strength 76 America 39% Signiﬁcant events published in quarterly reports 78 33% Financial performance 80 Financial position 83 Asia 17% Cash ﬂow statement 86 Trucks 88 Construction equipment 92 Buses 95 Volvo Penta 97 South Volvo Financial Services 99 America Financial targets 101 5% 6% Financial management 102 Changes in consolidated shareholders’ equity 103 Rest of the The share 104 world Risks and uncertainties 107 NOTES Notes to ﬁnancial statements 111 Parent Company AB Volvo 158 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Report 2015 168 Board of Directors 178 Group Management 184 OTHER INFORMATION Proposed policy for remuneration to senior executives 188 Proposed Disposition of Unappropriated Earnings 189 Audit report for AB Volvo (publ) 190 Eleven-year Summary 191 Deﬁnitions 200 Annual General Meeting 201 Preliminary publication dates 201 The Volvo Group’s formal ﬁnancial reports are presented on pages 76–167 and 189 in the printed version and have been audited by the company’s auditors. THE VOLVO GROUP IMPROVED I T S P R O F I TA B I L I T Y I N 2 015 D uring 2015 the Volvo Group’s volumes were on the China, but gained market shares in its core segments and worked same level as in 2014, but sales increased by 10% hard to adapt its costs to the lower volumes. Buses had a positive as an effect of changes in currency exchange rates momentum in earnings and have an established position at the and amounted to SEK 312.5 billion. Despite the forefront of the electromobility. Volvo Penta had another strong unchanged volumes, proﬁtability improved thanks to competitive year, with a renewed, expanded and innovative product portfolio. product programs, cost-saving measures, favorable currencies and The customer ﬁnancing operations developed well with a good divestitures of shares in Eicher Motor Limited. For our truck busiproﬁt and return on equity. The Volvo Group’s operating income, ness, sales and proﬁtability increased in Europe and North Amerexcluding restructuring charges, improved to SEK 25.7 billion (8.4), ica as an effect of good demand for new trucks as well as spare which corresponds to an operating margin of 8.2% (3.0). Operating parts and services. However, this was partly offset by a less favoracash ﬂow in the Industrial Operations was strong and increased ble development in South America. The construction equipment to SEK 18.3 billion (6.4) contributing to a signiﬁcant strengthening business faced tough market conditions in many markets, not least of the ﬁnancial position. +10% +206% +186% OPERATING INCOME OPERATING CASH EXCL. RESTRUCTURING FLOW, INDUSTRIAL NET SALES, SEK bn CHARGES, SEK bn OPERATIONS, SEK bn –4.9 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 310 300 273 283 313 26.9 19.6 7.9 8.4 25.7 14.1 1.5 6.4 18.3 KEY RATIOS 2015 2014 KEY RATIOS 2015 2014 Net sales, SEK M 312,515 282,948 Operating cash ﬂow, Operating income excl. Industrial Operations, SEK bn 18.3 6.4 restructuring charges, SEK M 25,652 8,393 Return on shareholders’ equity, % 18.4 2.8 Operating margin excl. Total number of employees 99,501 104,571 restructuring charges, % 8.2 3.0 Share of women, % 18 18 Restructuring charges, SEK M –2,333 –2,569 Share of women, presidents and Operating income, SEK M 23,318 5,824 other senior executives, % 21 21 Operating margin, % 7.5 2.1 Employee Engagement Index, % 71 72 Income after ﬁnancial items, SEK M 20,418 5,089 Energy consumption, MWh/SEK M 6.9 7.9 Income for the period, SEK M 15,099 2,235 CO2 emissions, tons/SEK M 0.7 0.8 Diluted earnings per share, SEK 7.41 1.03 Water consumption, m3/SEK M 16.2 18.1 Dividend per share, SEK 3.001 3.00 Share of direct material purchasing spend from suppliers having made a 1 According to the Board’s proposal. CSR self-assessment, % 86 80 1 A GLOBAL GROUP CEO COMMENT Improved proﬁtability and cash ﬂow How would you summarize 2015 in terms of market “ We are now gradually moving development? Jan Gurander (JG): If we start in North America, the market was away from major restructuring incredibly strong and we have a very solid business. Around 90% of the Volvo trucks are now delivered with our own engines and for programs to more continuous gearboxes that ﬁgure is 85%. Naturally, this development is very improvement work”. positive for our dealer network in terms of share of business with the customer during the entire life cycle. The North American Martin Lundstedt market is slowing down, but in a controlled way, and we believe that 2016 will be a good year as well, albeit not as good as last year. And what about Latin America? Speaking of China: how is Construction Equipment JG: For Brazil, which is by far our biggest market in Latin America, coping with the downturn? it was a different story. Compared to the peak years, the drop in JG: The market for construction equipment in China today is demand has been dramatic. We are keeping our market shares and about one fourth of what it was when the market peaked. Last have adjusted production and our organization to this much lower year we continued to adapt our organization to manage the lower level – which we believe will be with us for the rest of 2016, at least. volumes in China. A lot of work has also been put into managing credit risks linked to dealers and customers in China. On the Turning to Europe, it seems that we are seeing a positive global level we focused more on our bigger machines where the trend when it comes to Renault Trucks? margins are better. We have done quite well in these segments JG: Yes, our new range is very well received by the customers and and increased our market shares. Overall, a tremendous job done has also to some extent opened the door to new segments. Overby Volvo Construction Equipment. In fact, all our Business Areas all, demand in Europe has been gaining momentum, slowly but performed well in 2015. Volvo Financial Services had a record steadily. Some of the factors behind this development are low year, with a result breaking the SEK 2 billion ceiling, and Volvo interest rates, low fuel prices and a need to invest in new trucks, Penta also had reason to celebrate since their result exceeded as the ﬂeet in Europe is rather old. SEK 1 billion. It is really good to see that our colleagues at Volvo Penta continue to turn innovation into sales and proﬁtability. One And if we look to the East? example is the new Forward Drive propulsion system that pulls the JG: The market in Japan in 2015 was basically ﬂat and rather boat through the water rather than pushing it, which is great if you undramatic. For the rest of Asia, the picture was rather mixed. are into wakeboarding or wakesurﬁng. India was the only emerging market where we had growth. As for China, the total market was down 25% in 2015. Our strategic And Volvo Buses? partner Dongfeng Commercial Vehicles (DFCV) is making adjustJG: Buses are looking good. We are seeing a gradual improvements to manage this lower volume. ment in proﬁtability, as an effect of a large number of activities carried out over the years. In addition to the ﬁnancial result, Volvo How is the cooperation between the Volvo Group and Buses also had a milestone year when Gothenburg’s ﬁrst route for DFCV developing? electric buses was opened in June. The electric bus is now ready JG: Very well. In June we signed a license agreement granting DFCV for serial production. It is quiet, does not have any exhaust emisthe right to develop an 11-liter engine based on the Volvo Group sions, and is about 80% more energy efﬁcient than a convenengine currently used in the UD Trucks models Quester and KuTeng. tional diesel bus. 2 A GLOBAL GROUP CEO COMMENT Jan Gurander Martin Lundstedt Mr Lundstedt: What is your view on sustainability? or a Volvo ticket. That says something about the strength of the Martin Lundstedt (ML): The 55 electric bus route in Gothenburg brand position Volvo has built up in that market. I have listened to is a great example of what can be achieved when we work people in the US talk about the Mack brand and what it repretogether with other actors in society to develop transport solusents to them. So I guess that my ﬁrst impression of the Group tions that are truly sustainable. There is no doubt in my mind that was that it was a great company with tremendous assets in terms this is the way forward. To be competitive we must deliver sustainof both its brands and its people. And after joining the Group I able transport solutions to our customers and act responsibly in have found an organization with deep knowledge about our prodour daily work. With our global spread and local presence, we ucts and customers. have a unique position to lead the transition towards a more sustainable transport and infrastructure industry. We take the lead by A lot of people who have met you since you joined the integrating sustainability as a natural part of our product and busiGroup have commented that whatever you discuss, you ness development, as we did in the ElectriCity project. But there always seem to talk about the customer. Would you agree? is more to it, we create value in local communities by linking our ML: Absolutely. Customer focus is something that is very close to societal engagement with our business objectives. As an example my own heart and something that I will reinforce and build on. That we conduct vocational training programs for service technicians goes throughout the whole value chain. I am not only talking about in developing countries. This creates employment opportunities the frontline, which is of course extremely important, but also for young people while securing skills for our long-term business through production, purchasing, research and development, ﬁnandevelopment. cial services etc. so that we put together a complete package. How would you comment the ﬁnancial result for 2015? And looking ahead? ML: In short, we increased our proﬁtability and had a positive ML: In 2015 the foundation was laid. We now enter the next phase cash ﬂow development. Our position today is to a large extent the – when we organize the truck operations based on our brands. It result of the great product ranges we launched a few years ago will increase our focus on customers and contribute to driving our and our different efﬁciency programs. We conducted these probusiness with higher speed and improved efﬁciency. We will have grams to reduce our structural costs, and we have. A lot of people a simpler organization in which decisions are made closer to the have put in hard work to make this happen and it is very rewarding customer and a mindset to always look for new ways to improve. All to see the results coming through. I would like to thank all emplyof our business areas have potential for further improvement, ees for their efforts during 2015. We will always look for new ways which means that we have an exciting time ahead of us. to become a more efﬁcient Group, but we are now gradually moving away from major restructuring programs to more continuous improvement work. Martin Lundstedt President and CEO You took ofﬁce in October 2015. What were your ﬁrst impressions of the Group? Jan Gurander ML: Well, ﬁrst of all my ﬁrst impression of the Volvo Group was Deputy CEO and CFO, formed much earlier. Having worked at a competing company for Acting President and CEO April 22–October 21, 2015. many years I had a rather clear view of the company and I have been impressed in many cases. As an example I have seen Volvo Trucks’ total solution approach being applied in emerging markets with not only perfectly adapted hardware but also on-site support. And if you go to Bangalore, India, you can either buy a bus ticket 3 A GLOBAL GROUP OVERVIEW Our customers make societies function The societies where many of us live function with the help of the type of products the Volvo Group provides. Customers use our trucks, buses, construction equipment and engines in many of the important functions that people rely on every day. The majority of the Volvo Group’s customers are companies within the transportation or infrastructure industries. The reliability and productivity of the products are important and in many cases crucial to our customers’ success and proﬁtability. 4 A GLOBAL GROUP OVERVIEW ON THE ROAD IN THE CITY With the help of our products, our customers ensure that there is The Volvo Group’s products are part of many people’s daily life. They food on the table, transport to the airport and newly constructed take people to work, collect garbage and keep the lights on. The roads to drive on. Our estimates show that around 15% of all food Volvo Group is developing tomorrow’s public transport solutions so in Europe is delivered by a truck from the Volvo Group. Our trucks that it is possible to get to work or school quickly and safely. also transport furniture, clothing, sanitary products, computers Our construction equipment is used to build housing, industrial and other products most people need in their daily lives. and sports facilities, and the Group’s vehicles help keep public areas Our buses transport people quickly to work. One can take an clean by transporting millions of tons of refuse from cities around intercity bus to visit relatives or go on holiday in one of the world every week. At hospitals the Group’s industrial our touring coaches. Our construction machinery engines power reliable backup generator sets to is used in infrastructure expanensure that the power is running. sion projects, for example for We also contribute to our construction of roads, railcustomers’ proﬁtability by ways and bridges. offering assistance with In order to ensure that the ﬁnancing, insurance as vehicles stay on the road well as favorable service and continue to operate agreements. safely, our dealer and service network helps our customers with excellent, quick service and ﬁrst-class technical solutions. OFF ROAD AT SEA The Volvo Group’s products contribute to the extraction The Volvo Group’s products are present at sea, whether of some of the world’s most important raw materials. Our vehicles it is on a holiday in the leisure boat or urgent help from the sea and machines, which conform to the latest emissions standards, rescue services. can be found at the bottom of mines and in the middle of forests. Sea conditions may be the roughest imaginable when the Our construction equipment and trucks are used daily to mine coast guard or sea rescue services are out on duty. The sea can iron ore, clear forests, transport lumber or haul many tons of also be calm and pleasant when travelling on a ferry or ﬁshing stone and rock. from the private leisure boat. The Group’s industrial engines power vital irrigation installaThe Volvo Group has marine engines for all situations and for tions at agricultural sites all over the world, so that farmers can all types of customers. We provide servicing all over the world. grow their crops. We help our customers with ﬁnancing and see to it that no machines remain at a standstill – no matter where in the world they operate. 5 AAGLOBAL GLOBALGROUP GROUP2015 OVERVIEW AVSNITT Strong positions thanks to ... competitive product programs, strong dealers and increasingly more complete offerings including services such as ﬁnancing, insurance, leasing, various service contracts, accessories and spare parts that support the core products, the Volvo Group has established shed leading positions on a global glo market. in heavy-duty in heavy-duty #2 #2 trucks diesel engines in construction in marine diesel #4 #1 equipment engines in buses for #2 target segments 6 AAGLOBAL GLOBALGROUP GROUP2015 OVERVIEW AVSNITT EUROPE 23.8 CHINA* NORTH AMERICA VOLVO GROUP JAPAN 13.8 18.9 19.6 DONGFENG 18.9 VOLVO DONGFENG medium duty GROUP trucks VOLVO GROUP MARKET INDIA* SHARES, 3.7 33.5 BRAZIL HEAVY-DUTY EICHER EICHER medium duty 20.1 TRUCKS, % VOLVO trucks GROUP The Volvo Group has SOUTH AFRICA AUSTRALIA established positions with strong market shares in truck 24.0 26.3 markets around the globe. VOLVO VOLVO GROUP GROUP * Volvo Group holds 45.6% in VECV, which produces Eicher trucks, and 45% in DFCV, which produces Dongfeng trucks. 7 A GLOBAL GROUP OVERVIEW ... competitive products ... All of the Volvo Group’s products have been developed to contribute to efﬁcient transport 75% 75% OF NET SALES CAME FROM SALES OF VEHICLES AND MACHINES and infrastructure solutions. Sales of new vehicles, machines and engines as well used DURING 2015 vehicles and machines, trailers, superstructures and special vehicles accounted for 75% of the Group’s net sales in 2015. Sales of vehicles and machines build a population of products that drives spare parts sales and service revenue. STRONG BRANDS The Volvo Group’s brand portfolio consists of Volvo, Volvo Penta, UD, Dongfeng brands. By offering products and services under different Terex Trucks, Renault Trucks, Prevost, Nova Bus and Mack. We partbrands, the Group addresses many different customer and market ner in alliances and joint ventures with the Sunwin, SDLG, Eicher and segments in mature as well as growth markets. LONG-HAUL REGIONAL DISTRIBUTIONN DISTRIBUTION CITY DISTRIB CONSTRUCTION TRUCKS Brands in the Volvo Group’s Volvo truck operations have a unique and distinct brand-speciﬁc character that attracts customers in their markets. UD Trucks are sold and marketed under the brands Volvo, UD, Renault Trucks, Mack and Eicher, which all offer customers a broad range of prodRenault Trucks ucts and services for efﬁcient and economic transports. In January 2015, Dongfeng was added to the truck line up, through the acquisition of 45% Mack of the Chinese truck manufacturer Dongfeng Commercial Vehicles. Eicher* Dongfeng Trucks* s* *Volvo Group holds 45.6% in VECV, which produces Eicher trucks, and 45% in DFCV, which produces Dongfeng trucks. 8 A GLOBAL GROUP OVERVIEW CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT Volvo Construction Equipment COMPACT CONSTRUCHEAVY CONSTRUCTION ROAD MACHINERY develops, manufactures and markets TION EQUIPMENT EQUIPMENT equipment for construction and related Wheel loaders Crawler Articulated A Compactors industries under the brands Volvo, excavators haulers h SDLG and Terex Trucks. Its products are leaders in many world markets, and include a comprehensive range of wheel loaders, wheeled and crawler hoe Backhoe Wh eled Wheeled W Wh l Wheel P Pavers excavators, articulated haulers, road rs loaders exc ators excavators lloaders machinery and a range of compact from equipment. SDLG rs Crawler excavators Crawler excavators exc ors SDLG wheel from SDL SDLG loaders Motor graders from SDLG Skidsteer aulers Rigid haulers Pipelayers loaders oaders from Terex rex Trucks BUSES Volvo Buses UD Bus The product range includes complete buses and bus chassis for city, intercity and coach trafﬁc. The company has a total offering that, in addition to buses, includes a global service network, efﬁcient spare parts handling, service and repair contracts, ﬁnancial services and trafﬁc information systems. The offer also Sunwin Nova Bus Prevost comprises complete transport systems for electric buses including charging infrastructure. POWER SOLUTIONS FOR SPECIAL-PURPOSE VEHICLES MARINE AND INDUSTRIAL APPLICATIONS Volvo Penta manufactures engines and drive The Volvo Group manufactures special-purpose systems for both leisure boats and commercial vehicles for use by for instance government, craft, with an engine range of 10 to 900 hp defense, peace-keeping and relief organizations. and has a global service network of The Volvo Group’s sales of defense material, as approximately 3,500 service points. Volvo deﬁned in the Swedish Military Equipment Penta also supplies industrial engines Ordinance (1992:1303) section A, amounted to ranging from 75 kW to 655 kW for a 0.32% (0.41) of net sales in 2015. 5. variety of industrial applications such as container handling, mining equipment and power generation. 9 AAGLOBAL GLOBALGROUP GROUP2015 OVERVIEW AVSNITT ... and ﬁrst-class services. 25% 25% OF NET SALES CAME FROM SPARE PARTS, SERVICES, ETC. DURING 2015 In addition to vehicles and machines, the Volvo Group’s offering includes various types of ﬁnancing solutions, insurance, rental services, spare parts, preventive maintenance, service agreements, assistance services and IT services. The range and ﬂexibility of the offering means that the solutions can be customized for each customer. 24 HOURS A DAY 7 DAYS A WEEK 10 A GLOBAL GROUP OVERVIEW S ince a large part of the offering within the afterTransport information systems market business is linked to the vehicle populaInformation is a means of competitiveness in the transport busition, they contribute to balancing the ﬂuctuations ness. Keeping track of a ﬂeet is necessary to maintain a clear in the sales of new products for the Group. Sales overview of the operation. The bottom line is increased revenue of services and aftermarket products accounted through improved utilization, and lower operating expenses for 25% of Group net sales in 2015. through fuel control and optimized administration. The Volvo Group’s different brands offer a range of integrated transport Efﬁcient workshops information systems based on the latest digital, wireless commuThe Volvo Group extensive network of workshops is expanding all nication technologies. the time. Customers have access to skilled service technicians Remote Diagnostics is one such system, which provides truck wherever they are. Genuine service maximizes uptime and customers in North America with proactive diagnostic and repair reduces the risk of unplanned workshop visits. Individual service planning assistance with detailed analysis of critical diagnostic plans for each truck, bus or machine guarantee that the right type trouble codes. The remote communication platform facilitates live of service is carried out exactly when needed. dealer and customer communication through Volvo Action Service. Products from the Volvo Group are built with genuine parts. CareTrack is Volvo CE’s telematics system that gives customThe best way to ensure that they remain tools for cost-effective ers access to a wide range of machine monitoring information operations is to keep the vehicle or machine 100% genuine. That designed to save time and money. CareTrack generates a wide is why the Volvo Group’s workshops use genuine parts, and they range of reports – including fuel consumption, operational hours are an integrated part of preventive maintenance and repair conand geographical location – via a web portal, as well as sending tracts. SMS/email alerts. Service and maintenance agreements Fuel management and driver training Service contracts give customers easy and convenient truck, bus or to keep costs down machine ownership for a ﬁxed fee. With these contracts customers A fuel consumption reduction of two or three litres per 100 kiloknow exactly when the vehicle or machine is due for service and meters can be crucial to success. With a more efﬁcient driving what the costs will be for maintenance and repairs. This gives them style a driver can make an active contribution to economy and the more time to focus on their core business. Customers can choose environment. The Volvo Group’s different driver training programs from different service contract levels. The basic services included optimizes driver skills, resulting in reduced fuel consumption, in each contract can be extended with a variety of options, allowing safer driving and reduced impact on the environment. It also customers to create a solution that exactly suits their needs. improves the operators’ total performance by getting the most out of their vehicles and machines as well as their drivers. Roadside assistance to keep vehicles in operation A ﬂat tire or a broken windscreen can happen to any vehicle at any Financial services time. But if it happens to our customers they are not alone. The Volvo Volvo Financial Services provides customer ﬁnancing and leasing, Group has various roadside assistance services available 24 hours a dealer ﬁnancing, and related fee-based products such as insurday, 7 days a week. Whenever customers need support they will be ance. These products are delivered as part of the Volvo Group connected to a case manager who speaks their own language and integrated total offer, creating value for dealers and customers by who will support them all the way during the case. If needed, a skilled providing convenience, speed and solutions tailored to their technician will support them at the roadside. Financial assistance, speciﬁc business needs. translation service, truck and trailer repair and rental, driver repatriation and legal assistance can also be included in the service. 11 Uptime key to proﬁtability Lauser Transporte has been trans“When your trucks porting goods in Germany’s stand still, you’re Baden-Württemberg region for 35 losing money” years. Philipp Lauser took over the company from his father, and How would you describe your business? while much has changed between “I think what makes us unique is that we offer that little bit extra. We don’t just drive from A to B like all the others – we also equip the two generations, uptime our trucks with extra features to help with the unloading as well. To deliver beverages, we have trailers with collapsible side doors remains absolutely vital. for easier access. We also have trucks with forklifts, which enable us to unload anywhere without any additional equipment.” How does uptime affect your business? “In my opinion, uptime is the most important factor when it comes 1 DAY to proﬁt, because if the truck doesn’t drive, you lose money and you will lose your customers. Our customers also have to satisfy their customers, so obviously uptime affects their service. UltiDOWNmately the biggest consequence is lost income, because you’re TIME not earning money, you’re spending money on repairs, and it’s much harder to satisfy customers with fewer trucks available for transport assignments.” = EUR 1,000 IN LOST REVENUE How important is servicing to maintaining high uptime? FOR THE CUSTOMER “It’s the easiest way to achieve high uptime. Just service your trucks the best you can and it will automatically reduce downtime. At the moment, we have service agreements with some of our trucks and in the future I think we will have this agreement with all our trucks.” LAUSER TRANSPORTE What is the advantage of having a service agreement? Location Wiernsheim, near Stuttgart, Germany “Because of all the electronics in a truck, when you have downHistory Jürgen Lauser started the company in 1980 and originally delivered milk in the Baden-Württemberg region. Today time, you often can’t say what’s wrong. It takes time to check all he runs the company in conjunction with his son, Philipp. the electronic parts and the result is that you can’t calculate the Fleet Approx. 50 trucks, roughly half of which are Volvo. cost of a repair. But a contract is something we can calculate. In Assignments Transporting beverages and building supplies addition, there is less stress for us because everything is manthroughout Baden-Württemberg and beyond. aged at the workshop.” 12 A GLOBAL GROUP UPTIME KEY TO PROFITABILITY FIVE TRENDS SHAPING CUSTOMER SERVICE Telematics enable maintenance to go from reactive 1 to preventive. The transfer of data makes it possible to offer industry 2 speciﬁc services in collaboration with partners. Customers want to operate their own devices such as 3 smartphones and computers and demand that they work ﬂawlessly with the Volvo Group’s vehicles. Interoperability and support need to be ensured. As the transport systems become more integrated and 4 sensitive to disruptions, customers will look for support to ensure uptime and productivity, leveraging information across their value chain. Autonomous vehicles and semi-autonomous services 5 will put new demands on customer service. 13 VOLVO AC TION SERVICE 25-year anniversary for Volvo Action Service Volvo Action Service is Volvo Trucks Emergency roadside assistance service, available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. TO THE RESCUE 16 AROUND THE GLOBE Volvo Action Service got its current LANGUAGES name in 1998. Previously it was called Action Service Europe. SPOKEN AT THE UPTIME SOLUTIONS CALL CENTRE IN GHENT, BELGIUM 14 A GLOBAL GROUP VOLVO ACTION SERVICE O riginally founded in 1990, Volvo Action Service celebrated its 25th anniversary in 2015. With the support of a comprehensive network Volvo Action Service helps repairs of the truck. They also support customers if they have problems with their trailer, superstructure, refrigeration, freezer units or tires. Volvo Action Service began when a small team from Volvo’s UK Headquarters in Warwick, worked together to set up the company’s ﬁrst purpose-built, multi-lingual, breakdown call center. On July 1, 1990, Action Service Europe (ASE) – as it was originally called – was ready to start taking calls. The start of the breakdown service was scheduled for midnight and the ﬁrst call came in at 1 am. It was taken by Peter Bryant, who continues to work at the call center today. Soon, the new call center was ﬁelding calls with the efﬁciency that it is noted for today and, with the move to a Volvo-run operation, customers were noticing a signiﬁcant improvement in the breakdown service. The success of ASE attracted attention from Volvo Trucks’ head ofﬁce in Sweden and other European markets. Based on the Warwick template, a new call center was opened in Ghent, Belgium, in 1993. Originally housed in a small building near the Volvo Parts central warehouse, it quickly grew into a 24-hour multilingual call center and training facility and remains central to Uptime Solutions’ operations to this day. Today the Volvo Group Uptime Solutions provides support to Volvo Trucks, Volvo Buses, Volvo Penta, Renault Trucks and UD Trucks, while additional call centers have since been opened in Lyon in France, Johannesburg in South Africa and – in 2014 – in Greensboro in the U.S. XHOSA AND ZULU GREENSBORO, USA VOLAR Xhosa and Zulu are two of the lanGreensboro, USA, is the most recent Volar is the emergency action service guages spoken at the Uptime Solutions addition to the Volvo Group call center for Volvo Trucks, Mack and Volvo Buses call center in Johannesburg, which network. It opened in 2014 and in South American countries including serves customers in all eleven national accepts calls 24-hours for Volvo Action Argentina, Chile, Peru and parts of languages of South Africa (English, Service and Mack OneCall. Read more Brazil. Afrikaans, Ndebele, Sotho, Northern about the Greensboro Uptime Center Sotho, Swazi, Tswana, Tsonga, Venda, on the next page. Xhosa and Zulu). 15 VOLVO UPTIME CENTER It’s the T eams providing front-line support to Mack and Volvo Trucks’ customers, dealers and drivers – from parts expediters to reliability engineers – in Greensboro’s customer’s new Uptime Center have one primary goal: keep the trucks rolling. A man driving a Volvo truck learned a lesson a few months back when his onboard GPS led him into the middle of a cow pasture – and with a load of pigs in his trailer. He called the Uptime Center call in Greensboro for help but simply said his truck was stuck in mud and he needed help getting pulled out. Walida Gwinn, Emergency Management Service (EMS) Coordinator, took the call. She dispatched a tow truck to bring out a heavy-duty wrecker and, an hour later, the towing company called to tell her the rest of the story. It was going to take hours to get the truck moving again. “They had to bring in more tow trucks and four-wheelers and a More than 85,000 Mack and chain saw to cut down a tree,” Gwinn says. “That’s when I called the driver’s company to send another truck and rescue the pigs.” Volvo Trucks vehicles on the road Gwinn is one of the 40 Volvo Action Service and Mack OneCall agents who take calls 24 hours a day from drivers who need help today in North America are when they are on the road. These agents occupy part of the ﬁrst equipped with GuardDog Connect ﬂoor of the new, 123,000-square-foot Uptime Center, which also and RemoteDiagnostics. The service can cut the average diagnostic time by 70% and the repair time by more than 20% compared to traditional repair processes. UPTIME CENTER NORTH AMERICA Location: Greensboro, North Carolina. Opened: 2014. Agents: 40 Volvo Action Service and Mack OneCall agents available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year. Cases: Agents handle an average of 19,000 inbound calls a month and make approximately 30,000 outbound calls. More than 9,000 of these were telematics cases or scheduled maintenance. “We want customers to see that, with us, they get great trucks but also the full range of uptime support that goes along with it.” Mark Curri, Vice President Aftermarket Quality & Operations, North America 16 A GLOBAL A GLOBAL 2015 UPTIME GROUPVOLVO GROUP AVSNITT CENTER includes parts specialists and technical experts who can troubleGuardDog Connect and Volvo Trucks’ Remote Diagnostics teleshoot difﬁcult cases. This is the ﬁrst time these support groups matics systems, the brands are now taking a more proactive have been together under one roof. approach to customer uptime. “We wanted to give our employees an environment that makes Trevor Williams, Remote Diagnostics Supervisor, co-ordinated it easy to deliver on the promise of uptime for our customers,” says a quick repair recently for a driver who had a time-sensitive load. Mark Curri, Vice President, Aftermarket Quality & Operations for Because the truck he was driving had Remote Diagnostics Volvo Group Trucks in North America. “We took our front-line installed, the Uptime Center staff was alerted when the truck regsupport, which is our call centre agents, and surrounded them istered a fault code. They diagnosed the problem and conﬁrmed with all the expertise they would need to get a truck back on the that the closest workshop had the right parts in stock before the road as quickly as possible. We specialize in taking care of the truck arrived for the repair. The truck was ﬁxed and back on the things that are most important to our customers: the driver, the road in less than two hours. truck and the load.” “With our telematics offerings, we’re trying to give customers The Uptime Center team is now receiving praise from customthe best information we can for them to make decisions about ers for their ability to sidestep unplanned downtime and respond their business,” Curri says. to technical problems during difﬁcult – and sometimes even life“We don’t try to make the decisions for them, but we have threatening – emergencies, such as during the wave of cold weather experts who look at the information and can see if it’s really worth that affected large parts of the US during the winter of 2014/2015. interrupting that driver’s trip.” Peter Dentler, who has been a Mack Parts Technical Analyst Since the Uptime Center opened in late 2014, it has become a for 10 years, says it is important to explore multiple options when popular stop for visiting customers and potential customers, as a truck is down. He recently received a call from an owner-operawell as dealers. The number of groups visiting the facility avertor who had been in a rollover accident and the cab was demolages about 20 a month. ished. Dentler worked with the Mack Trucks marketing, reliability “We want customers to see that with us, they get great trucks and technical support groups to expedite the case and the driver but also the full range of uptime support that goes along with it,” was up and running in two weeks. With the introduction of Mack’s Mark Curri says. REMOTE DIAGNOSTICS • Today it is possible to run diagnostic tests remotely on the brakes, transmission, batteries and exhaust fans. It is also possible to read the distance a truck has driven and the road surface and conditions it operates in. • When a truck sends a fault code, information such as ﬂeet name, vehicle identiﬁcation number, location (latitude and longitude) and the status (active or inactive) are all included. 17 A GLOBAL GROUP STRATEGY GLOBAL CONTEXT RESPONDING TO TRENDS IN THE WORLD AROUND US As part of our business and sustainability strategies, we continually analyze global megatrends as well as regional variations to assess their impact on the Volvo Group, seek new business opportunities and be well positioned to meet the transport needs of the future. Climate change and #1 resource scarcity FUEL There is widespread agreement that the burning the availability of natural resources and fuels, of fossil fuels, including oil and diesel, is a major infrastructure, political will, and incentives. We source of greenhouse gas emissions, which expect to see governments and multi-stakecauses climate change. Governments, business, holder partnerships place even greater focus and and other stakeholders aiming for a sustainable transport sector are responding by improving fuel incentives on renewable energy and lowering emissions. We strive to manage resource scarcity EFFICIENCY efﬁciency and moving towards lower carbon alternatives. This challenge is driving interest and by ﬁnding better ways to recycle, remanufacture, and refurbish products and components. AND LOWER opportunities in electromobility, as well as alternative and renewable fuels. Developments across CARBON regions vary in speed and direction, depending on ALTERNATIVES Urbanization #2 Today over seven billion people live on the planet. to provide more sustainable and efﬁcient solu8 The United Nations Population Fund expects tions for each type of urban development, there will be eight billion people by 2025, and whether a small or medium sized city or a mega over nine billion in 2050. Half the world’s populacity. The growth in emerging markets brings the tion already lives in cities, but the levels of urbandevelopment of larger middle classes, and citiization vary widely by region. In the next decade, we will see a much greater rural-to-urban shift in zens with rising disposable incomes will spend more on consumption and housing. These are also BN Asia and Africa in particular. As urban populations grow, cities face increasing social and enviimportant factors for the increased demand for transport and infrastructure in these parts of the PEOPLE BY ronmental challenges, including congestion, noise, trafﬁc accidents and pollution. This challenges the transport and infrastructure industry world. 2025 18 A GLOBAL GROUP STRATEGY GLOBAL CONTEXT Connectivity #3 and digitalization 470 Today we live in a hyper-connected world and opportunities for our industry in terms of monitorconnectivity is only accelerating. In 1995 about ing and analyzing vehicle data and transforming it 1% of the population had an internet connection to improved productivity and uptime, better fuel – today around 40% does. By 2020 there will be efﬁciency and new safety solutions. Productivity 80–100 billion connected devices, by some estigains in logistics and better utilization of inframates, and the expansion will continue with increasing numbers of sensors in all sorts of structure will gradually beneﬁt our business customers. Based on data insights we are working to THOUSAND devices. The Volvo Group has approximately 470,000 connected vehicles out with customers provide new services for our customers. CONNECTED today. The digitalization advancements create VEHICLES Autonomous vehicles #4 and safety developments The car industry is leading the autonomous vehigrowing automation in transportation and infracle development, but commercial vehicles and machines are also making advances. We expect this development to intensify, and we also expect structure solutions through the use of self-driving vehicles will also allow the industry to provide greater safety, fuel savings, and transport efﬁSELFfurther automation in our manufacturing. Every year there are more than 1.2 million fatalities and 50 million people injured through trafﬁc acciciency. With advancements in industrial robotics and increased sophistication in automation in industry, we will also see quality gains and new DRIVING dents. Greater trafﬁc safety education and better planning of roadways is part of the solution. The possibilities for smarter product development. VEHICLES Evolving trade and #5 regulatory environment Our transport and infrastructure solutions are in can see a lot of new value resulting from connecdemand in diverse markets across the globe, and regulations, customer requirements, and competitive dynamics vary both between markets and tivity, but at the same time governments, businesses, and other stakeholders must adapt rapidly to ensure the protection of data as well as RAPID ADAPTATION within individual markets. Our industry is chalintegrity in diverse market environments. lenged to meet shifting economic and regulatory conditions, access and develop human capital TO PROTECT around the world, and continually work to improve sustainability, effectiveness, and safety and secuDATA AND rity in the supply chain. As mentioned earlier, we INTEGRITY 19 A GLOBAL GROUP STRATEGY A GLOBAL GROUP 2015 AVSNITT VISION, CORE VALUES, CODE OF CONDUCT AND WANTED POSITION The Volvo Group is part of the global society as well as many local societies. This provides us with the opportunity to inﬂuence and contribute to social and business development. We strive to act responsibly, take into account the opinions of various stakeholders and create value for our shareholders and society. The vision is to become the world leader in sustainable transport solutions. The Volvo Group’s vision is to become the world leader in sustainable transport solutions by: • creating value for customers in selected segments • pioneering products and services for the transport and infrastructure industries • driving quality, safety and environmental care • working with energy, passion and respect for the individual. 20 A GLOBAL GROUP STRATEGY VISION, CORE VALUES, CODE OF CONDUCT AND WANTED POSITION OUR WANTED POSITION 2020 • We are among the most proﬁtable in our industry. • We are our customers’ closest business partners. • We have captured proﬁtable growth opportunities. • We are proven innovators of energy-efﬁcient transport and infrastructure solutions. • We are a global team of high performing people. OUR CORE VALUES OUR CODE OF CONDUCT The Volvo Group views its corporate culture as a unique asset, since it is The Code of Conduct is the mandatory, Group-wide policy for appropriate difﬁcult for competitors to copy. By applying and strengthening the experbusiness behavior and responsibility towards our stakeholders, and is the tise and culture we have built up over the years, we can achieve our vision. backbone of the Group’s CSR and sustainability commitment. The Code of Quality, safety and environmental care are our core values. They have a Conduct outlines the Volvo Group’s principles and minimum standard for long tradition and permeate our way of working. They are an important part conducting business in an appropriate, responsible and transparent manof our commitment to sustainability and corporate social responsibility. ner. The policy consists of business ethics, human rights and social justice and environmental principles which shall be applied in policies, decisions and activities. Quality Business ethics principles Quality is an expression of our goal to offer reliable products Volvo Group strives for integrity and compliance with business and services. In all aspects of our operations, from product ethics principles in all parts of our operations and prefers to development and production to delivery and customer support, the focus work with component suppliers, consultants, distributors and other busishall be on customers’ needs and expectations. Our goal is to meet or ness partners that share the same values. The most important principles exceed their expectations. With a customer focus based on everyone’s comto apply and implement relate to anti-corruption, not facilitating money mitment and participation, our aim is to be number one in customer satisfaclaundering, reporting in a transparent, truthful and timely manner, fair comtion. This is based on a culture in which all employees are responsive and petition and compliance with tax rules. aware of what must be accomplished to be the best business partner. Safety Principles of human rights and social justice Safety is about protecting the wellbeing of anyone coming into contact with our products, from product development to the Volvo Group shall support and respect the protection of interend of their life cycle. We have been in a leading position in the safety nationally proclaimed human rights and make sure that the Group is not domain for a long time; our goal is to reinforce this position. A focus on complicit in human rights abuses. Volvo Group’s commitment to employees safety is an integral part of our product development work. Our employees is that all employees shall be treated with respect and be offered equal are highly aware of safety issues, and the knowledge gained from our own opportunities, be provided the conditions for a safe and healthy work envicrash investigations and in-depth accident research are used in many places ronment and have the right to join an association to represent their interests. in the world. Our goal is to reduce the risk of accidents and mitigate the consequences of any accidents that may occur as well as to improve the personal safety and the work environment of the drivers of our vehicles and equipment as well as our employees. Our long-term vision is zero accidents with Volvo Group products. Environmental care Environmental principles We believe that it is self-evident that our products and our Environmental care has been a corporate core value for the operations shall have the lowest possible adverse impact on Volvo Group since 1972 and is an integrated part of daily busithe environment. We are working to further improve energy efﬁciency and ness throughout the value chain. We strive to design our processes and to reduce emissions in all aspects of our business, with particular focus on products in such a way that energy, natural resources and raw material the use of our products. Our goal is for the Volvo Group to be ranked as a shall be used efﬁciently. We aim to avoid materials and methods posing leader in environmental care within our industry. To achieve this goal, we environmental and health risks. strive for a holistic view, continuous improvement, technical development and efﬁcient resource utilization. 21 A GLOBAL GROUP STRATEGY STRATEGY STRATEGY FOCUSING ON PROFITABILITY T H R O U G H C U S TO M E R VA L U E AND EFFICIENCY Following more than a decade with an active acquisition strategy to build the scale needed to be competitive in commercial vehicles and diesel engines, the Volvo Group is in a phase focused on improved efﬁciency, increased proﬁtability and creating customer value. ECONOMIES OF SCALE ACHIEVED AFTER GROWTH PERIOD During the period 1999–2011 the Volvo Group’s strategy was priThe acquisitions along with organic growth have enabled the marily targeted at growth particularly through acquisitions while Volvo Group to reach the position as the world’s second largest at the same time focusing the business on commercial vehicles. manufacturer of heavy-duty trucks, one of the world’s largest On the truck side, acquisitions included Renault Trucks, Mack manufacturers of construction equipment, buses and heavy-duty and Nissan Diesel (now UD Trucks), the joint venture with Eicher diesel engines as well as a leading independent supplier of marine Motors in India and, in 2015, the strategic alliance with a 45% and industrial engines. These positions provide for economies of ownership in DFCV in China. scale in product development, production, distribution and service. Volvo Construction Equipment bought a 70% ownership in the The streamlining to commercial vehicles has also involved the Chinese wheel loader manufacturer Lingong (SDLG), Ingersoll divestment of non-core operations such as Volvo Aero. Rand Road Development and the hauler business from Terex (2014). COMMON ARCHITECTURE AND SHARED TECHNOLOGY CREATING SYNERGIES AND COST EFFICIENCY Many of the Volvo Group’s products have a common architecture commonality within electronics and transmissions while at the and shared technology (CAST) based on a modularized concept same time maintaining brand-speciﬁc attributes. and standard interfaces. CAST is the common base around which This approach provides for a critical volume base on which to brand unique products are developed. invest in the development of technology and solutions at the foreAt the center of this strategy trategy are the Volvo Group’s heavy-duty front of the industry. and medium-duty engine e platforms. There is also a high degree of Renault Trucks Mack IS ANSM SIONS TR Volvo CTRONICS UD ELE IN ENG ES Volvo CE Buses Volvo Penta 22 A GLOBAL GROUP STRATEGY Three phases in the Volvo Group’s development 1999–2011 2012–2015 2016–> ACQUISITION-DRIVEN TRANSFORMATION INCREASED GROWTH PROFITABILITY CREATING VALUE FOR OUR CUSTOMERS The Volvo Group creates customer value by delivering products through a retail network focused on building customer satisfacand services that meet our customers’ priorities and challenges. tion. As of March 1, 2016 the truck business will be organized We provide products and services that are tailored to meet our based on the brands in order to increase customer focus and to customers’ needs and improve their proﬁtability. This is delivered drive the business with higher speed and efﬁciency. TRANSFORMATION PROGRAM DELIVERING PROFIT IMPROVEMENT During the period of 2012–2015 the Volvo Group underwent a activities in Volvo CE and a review of what was core and non-core transformation program aimed at reorganizing the company to in the Group’s IT operations. This subsequently led to a decision take out overlaps, reduce structural costs and increase efﬁciency to divest the external IT business and outsource IT infrastructure and proﬁtability after the period of acquisition-driven growth. operations. Among the activities in the program to reduce the Group’s Having implemented almost all activities before the end of structural cost levels, which were launched at the end of 2013 2015 the cost reductions in the increased program are expected and implemented in 2014 and 2015, there were substantial to result in full-year savings of SEK 10 billion in 2016 compared reductions of white-collar employees and consultants, a reducto the full year 2012 when measured in local currencies. Total tion in research and development expenses, optimization of the restructuring charges for the program amounted to SEK 6.2 bilsales and service channel and the industrial footprint for trucks as lion at the end of 2015, of which SEK 2.3 billion was in 2015. well as a consolidation and optimization of the spare parts distriBy 2015 the efﬁciency program had already contributed to an bution worldwide. improvement in underlying earnings. In 2015 operating income In the autumn of 2014 additional opportunities to reduce costs excluding restructuring charges increased by 206% to SEK 25.7 bilwere identiﬁed and therefore the scope of the program was lion compared to SEK 8.4 billion in 2014. Operating cash ﬂow in the increased with the reorganization of Group Trucks Sales in order industrial operations increased by 186% to SEK 18.3 billion (6.4). to increase efﬁciency and reduce costs; further cost-reduction 25.7 18.3 OPERATING INCOME OPERATING CASH ; 2012 Reorganization, brand positioning and new strategy EXCL. RESTRUCTURING CHARGES, SEK bn FLOW, INDUSTRIAL OPERATIONS, SEK bn ; 2013 Extensive product renewal and launch of efﬁciency program ; 2014 Execute efﬁciency program and drive organic growth ; 2015 Deliver proﬁtability improvement 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 23 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL VALUE CHAIN VALUE CREATION THROUGHOUT O U R VA L U E C H A I N The Volvo Group takes a whole value chain approach to developing long-term, sustainable competitiveness. We take responsibility for the operations within our direct control and we strive to create mutually beneﬁcial partnerships with our business partners. PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT PURCHASING PRODUCTION 1 2 3 VALUE CREATION • Investments in research and development • In 2015, the Group made purchases of • At year-end 2015 the Volvo Group had 88,464 amounted to SEK 15.4 billion for 2015, goods and services totalling SEK 210.6 regular employees and 11,037 temporary The Volvo Group’s corresponding to 4.9% of Group net sales. billion. employees and consultants. 47,368 regular operation comprises • Product development is based on the • We have around 43,000 Tier 1 contracemployees and 4,341 temporary employees multiple activities and needs of customers, legislation, changes tors, of which about 6,500 supply autoand consultants were blue collar. products that create economic value. in society and new technology. motive product components. • The Volvo Group has 66 factories in 18 • More than 90% of the environmental • We strive to have long-term relationships countries around the world. impact from a truck occurs during use. with suppliers of technologically advanced • 54% of Volvo Group employees are located Consequently, product development components. in Europe, 18% in North America, 6% in focuses on sustainable transport • The Volvo Group applies the principles in South America, 19% in Asia and 3% in other solutions. its Code of Conduct to assess suppliers parts of the world. • Our main areas of focus are CO2 and fuel as a part of the purchasing process. • In 2015, the Volvo Group's wholly-owned efﬁciency; safety, automation and the • During 2015, 86% of the value bought truck operations delivered 207,475 trucks. driver environment; and complete transfrom automotive product suppliers underThe Group also delivered 8,825 buses, port solutions. went CSR assessment. Of the suppliers 44,718 units of construction equipment, • The Volvo Group’s cooperation with exterthat underwent the assessment 79% of 17,413 marine engines and 15,295 industrial nal research partners and participation in the value passed. engines. public research programs increases • Around 95% of the Volvo Group spending • All the Volvo Group’s wholly-owned producknowledge both for us and the societies on automotive products comes from suption facilities have third-party audited quality we operate in. pliers certiﬁed in accordance with ISO certiﬁcate and 98% have environmental 14001 or its equivalent. certiﬁcates. READ MORE The Volvo Group creates shared economic, environmental and social value with stakeholders across our value chain, as described on page 64. 24 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL VALUE CHAIN INVESTMENTS A signiﬁcant portion of generated capital is normally transferred back into the operation. The capital is used for investing in activities to strengthen competitiveness and create long-term value for the Group and its stakeholders. DISTRIBUTION AND SERVICE PRODUCTS IN USE RE-USE The Volvo Group’s income for 4 5 6 the year amounted to SEK 15,099 M. • During 2015, our service and aftermarket • More than 2 million trucks and 100,000 • In 2015, the total sale of remanufactured business represented approximately 25% buses, which the Group manufactured in components amounted to SEK 8.3 billion of the Volvo Group’s net sales, compared the past ten years, operate on roads an increase with almost 20% compared to to 26% in 2014. worldwide. 2014. • The Volvo Group’s products are distributed • According to our estimates 15% of food • The Volvo Group has eight remanufacturto customers through wholly-owned and in Europe is delivered by our trucks and ing centers worldwide handling used comindependent dealerships. more than 10 million people worldwide ponents from our whole range of brands. • Our service network supports customers can be transported daily on our buses and • Resource efﬁciency and recycling potenand maximizes their product’s uptime. coaches. tial is designed into our products during • The number of service points in South and • Our construction machines are present product development. North America has been signiﬁcantly at construction sites all over the world. • Remanufactured components are imporincreased in recent years. We have delivered half a million units of tant to our offering in order to reduce cusconstruction equipment in the last ten tomers’ ownership and operating costs. • Our dealer and service networks in Central years. and Eastern Europe have been optimized, • Remanufacturing is more labor intensive with increased service availability. • Our support services keep thousands of than production of new products and customers’ ﬂeets on the road, contributing requires high-skilled labor. Therefore, • All Volvo Group-owned dealers are covto productivity and growth. Today, approxiered by the Group’s environmental requireit also contributes positively to society. mately 470,000 Volvo Group vehicles ments and 90% of our distribution centers are connected via different telematics are certiﬁed according to ISO 14001. solutions. SHAREHOLDERS AB Volvo's shareholders normally receive a certain portion of the retained earnings in the form of a dividend, after consideration has been given to the Group's need for capital for continued development according to its strategies. The Board of Directors has proposed a dividend of SEK 3,00 per share, corresponding to a total of SEK 6,093 M for 2015. 25 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT DEVELOPING FOR OUR C U S TO M E R S We base our development of products and services on the needs and requirements of our customers. We develop products and services with the aim of solving a customer’s problem or improving their long-term proﬁtablility. T he world faces a number of challenges. These include transport and infrastructure needs for THREE FOCUS AREAS more than 9 billion people in 2050 and 1.2 million • CO2 and fuel efﬁciency trafﬁc fatalities per year. Others are fossil fuel • Safety, automation and driver environment dependency, greenhouse gas emissions and the earth’s ﬁnite resources. • Complete transport solutions In addition, the Volvo Group has to consider environmental regulations, new customer challenges and demands, societal and technological development, as well as fuel quality and infrastructure. Our primary focus is always to support our customers’ proﬁtability. Over the past few years, several countries and regions have conducted critical material assessments based on multiple facTotal life cycle assessment tors. These include scarcity, supply risks, environmental and social We conduct life cycle assessments (LCAs) for our products, takconcerns, and industry vulnerability to restrictions on supply and ing environmental impacts from the production, operation and cost increases. scrapping into account. Data, representing used resources and Similar assessment has been conducted to create a list of the emissions during the product life cycle, are collected and summamost critical materials from a Volvo Group perspective, including rized. The summary of resources and emissions are then associthose critical to our product development. The result helps us to ated with environmental impacts, e.g. climate change, measured understand the emerging risks and how to mitigate them. as global warming potential. The result indicates that the majority (98%) of the global warmResearch and product development focus areas ing potential is related to the operation of the truck based on Each stage of our product development process has different calculations for a Volvo FH with a life time driving distance of objectives e.g. ﬁnancial, quality and reliability, that need to be met 1,000,000 km, fuelled with conventional diesel. before proceeding to the next stage. Emissions, intelligent technology and energy efﬁciency are among the most important prodConsidering all materials uct-related issues for our business and stakeholders. Our It is estimated that about 45% of a typical Volvo truck is produced research and product development focus are therefore on CO2 from recycled material. Despite the high amount of recycled conemissions and fuel efﬁciency; safety, automation and the driver tent, virgin material is still needed to ensure quality, availablility environment as well as vehicle productivity. and durability. CO2 emissions and fuel efﬁciency We work with full optimization of diesel engines and fuels but GLOBAL WARMING POTENTIAL, % (100 YEARS PERSPECTIVE) more can be done to decrease CO2 emissions. Contributions have to come from the use of renewable and low-carbon fuels as well 98.4 as optimization of complete vehicle combinations. Other ways to 100 increase energy efﬁciency and reduce CO2 emissions include driver training and fuel management systems. Developing hybrid technology and electromobility 50 Electric and hybrid vehicles offer one way to increase energy efﬁciency and reduce environmental impact. The city bus market is moving away from diesel-powered vehicles and more and more 1.9 0.3 –0.6 cities are investing in electric public transport systems. Volvo 0 Production Fuel related Maintenance Recycling Buses is a leader in electromobility and is the European bus (truck driving) manufacturer that has invested most heavily in developing elec26 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT tric city buses the last couple of years. In 2012, Volvo Buses took the decision to only offer complete, low-ﬂoor city buses as hybrids on the European market. Volvo Buses has a product range to DIMETHYLETHER (DME) meet all public transport needs by offering hybrids, electric hybrids (plug in hybrids) and fully electric buses. • Can be produced from any biomass source On the truck side we believe that, in the long run, a dynamic • Can reduce CO2 emissions up to 95% as BioDME supply of electricity from the road could power long-haul trucks. compared to conventional diesel fuel We are currently developing practical knowledge through our • Handled as liquid at 5 bars pressure participation in Electric Road Systems concept studies. • Ultra low exhaust emissions without advanced The Volvo Group has also successfully been testing electromobility technologies and road testing fully electric trucks with aftertreatment European customers for several years. Read more about our • Relatively simple vehicle technology solutions on page 60. • 50% of conventional diesel energy density • Less noise Alternative and renewable fuels Following years of study and prototype truck trials running on different fuels, the Volvo Group recognizes that there is no single solution to meet all needs, see graph Renewable fuels below. We believe conventional diesel fuel, with increasing renewable or synthetic content, will remain the dominant fuel for all types of commercial transport for many years. The Volvo Group position on alternative fuels supports our strategic objective of efﬁciency by prioritizing our research and development to the following applications: • Long distance: liquid methane and Dimethylether (DME) are our main alternatives. Dynamic electric charging is an additional long term alternative. • Medium distance: compressed methane and DME are our main the technology as well as the potential for low cost throughout the alternatives. Dynamic electric charging is an additional long term value chain. In addition, DME does not create soot when comalternative. busted and therefore ultralow emissions can be reached without • Urban: electricity and compressed methane. the need for advanced exhaust aftertreatment. The Volvo Group will continue developing engines that can World leader in DME operate on DME as a fuel for commercial vehicles with an initial The Volvo Group is the world leader in pioneering DME as an focus on highway applications. In the future DME could be used in alternative fuel and ﬁeld testing continued during 2015 for both most applications. Mack Trucks and Volvo Trucks. In the US, the production of DME through a process using food waste, was certiﬁed by the authorSafety, automation and driver environment ities. DME produced from food waste reduces CO2 by 68% comSafety is about reducing the risk of accidents and mitigating the pared to conventional diesel fuel. Volvo Group truly believes that consequences of any incidents that occur. The Volvo founders DME holds great promise for the future. The main interest in DME, stated that “safety is and must be the basic principle in all design as a fuel, lies in the environmental beneﬁts and in the simplicity of work” and our safety ambition is zero accidents with Volvo Group products. Therefore, safety is an integral part of product development. Our aim is to improve product and trafﬁc safety as well as RENEWABLE FUELS the work environment for drivers and operators of vehicles and Biod iese l machinery. Safety can also be improved with the help of autoSyn thet DM Met E (D ic d ime iese l thyle ther mization where the main beneﬁts are productivity and energy han ) efﬁciency. Etha ol Biog nol as Biog as + Biod Hyd roge n+ iese l Elec B ioga HVO tricit (Hyd y vegerotreate s Safer product and services by research and robots table d oil) In Scandinavia, the Volvo Group’s in-house Accident Research Minimized climate impact Team has looked at heavy truck accidents for over 40 years. ComEnergy efﬁciency bining accident data analysis with the Group’s own research and Efﬁciency of land use test programs gives us solid insights into the causes of accidents Fuel potential and injuries. This work provides important input into our future product plans, advanced engineering and research. It shapes our Vehicle adjustment future solutions. Fuel costs Advanced safety systems require advanced test methods and Fuel infrastructure therefore Volvo Trucks is now testing advanced safety systems with the help of robot-steered trucks. Using robots instead of Optimal Less preferable human drivers results in better precision and repeatability. 27 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT Automation to increase energy efﬁciency The Volvo Group has participated in a number of projects to analyze the advantages of platooning, with a lead truck followed by one or more trucks or passenger cars. This set-up enables all following vehicles to be controlled automatically, to lower fuel EXHAUST EMISSIONS consumption, by safely reducing the gap between vehicles. Read REGULATIONS BROADEN more on page 61. THE FOCUS A new standard for drivability and driving comfort Ofﬁcial ﬁgures from the Swedish Work Environment Authority T reveal that truck drivers are over-represented in occupational he Volvo Group takes emissions injury statistics. Improving the driver’s working conditions and legislation extremely seriously in all our overall experience results in more relaxed, safer and healthier markets, and we always strive for a driving. Volvo Trucks has developed a number of features to suptransparent dialogue with the relevant port the driver’s comfort and driving experience such as Volvo Dynamic Steering and the I-shift Dual Clutch. See page 42. authorities. Complete transport solutions Our products and services are just one piece in the transport and infrastructure puzzle. So as well as offering single products and services, we deliver complete transport and site solutions that simultaneously solve customers’ problems, optimize customers’ The basic reason for emissions regulation is improvement operations and take the environment and society into consideraof air quality. Therefore the emission levels during on-road tion. We focus our development within complete transport solution on areas directly affecting the proﬁtability of the vehicles and driving that inﬂuences the air quality are important, not our customers, such as: only the results obtained in test cells or on chassis • uptime and aftermarket technologies dynamometers. • connected vehicle and infrastructure technologies In the mid 1990s, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) in the US accused several engine manufacturers, • customer and dealer service offerings including Volvo, of using illegal “emission defeat devices”. • solution integration and deployment Even though the manufacturers did not admit wrongdoing, • complete vehicle combinations, including superstructures and trailers in 1998, the manufacturers entered into a consent decree with EPA, paid ﬁnes and agreed to introduce new emis• vehicle architecture balancing various stakeholder interests. sions standards two years in advance. At the same time The Volvo Group is presently active in multiple programs focusing on optimizing customers’ operations with complete transport period, more stringent and complicated, but not always solutions. These programs address smart technology, integrated complete, emissions regulations were introduced in many transport systems, advanced engineering, and pioneering vehicle markets. Altogether this made interpretation of the emiscombinations. sions regulation difﬁcult. As a result we started the Volvo Group Emission Guideline Committee. Its main mission is Cooperation for success To advance the technologies needed for future product developto implement and maintain a common approach to product ment and to secure access to competent employees, the Volvo emissions management, supporting compliance with legisGroup is involved in multiple public programs and cooperative lation and contributing to sustainable transport solutions. ventures with research bodies and academic institutions. Since the 1990s, legal emissions limits in the US, EU and One example is our Academic Partner Program (APP), which is Japan have been reduced by approx. 95% for NOx (nitrogea systematic approach for long-term cooperation with selected universities and research institutes in areas of special interest. nous oxides) and PM (particulate matters). During the years it Read more on page 58. has been debated whether emissions on road have been improved correspondingly. This has led regulators to include focus on measurements of trucks and bus engines on road in addition to veriﬁcation of emissions in test cells. Non-road machinery is expected to follow this trend within some years. During product development, the Volvo Group tests truck and bus engine emissions performance both in the laboratory and on the road to ensure compliance. With the launch 28 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT EMISSION REGULATIONS FOR HEAVY-DUTY VEHICLES Russia Europe Euro 4* North Euro 6 America EPA 2010 China China 4-5 Japan PNLT South Africa India Euro 2 BS 3-4 Brazil EPA 98 Euro 5 Australia Euro 5** EPA 07 Particulates, g/kWh NOx g/kWh The emissions legislation varies for different regions. 0.16 Europe USA 8 In some regions the implementation of stricter rules is hindered by insufﬁcient availaibility of good fuel quality and low sulfur 0.12 6 content. In many parts of the world, the emissions legislation is based on the EU and US legislation. In 2010, EPA 2010 was 0.08 4 implemented in North America and at the end of 2013 Euro 6 0.04 2 was introduced in the EU. With the implementation of EPA 2010, emissions levels for particulates and nitrogen oxides (NOx) have 0 0 2002 2006 2009 2014 2002 2007 2010 decreased substantially. Euro 6 entails that emissions of nitroEuro 3 Euro 4 Euro 5 Euro 6 EPA EPA EPA gen oxides and particulate matter are reduced by more than 2002 2007 2010 95% compared to a truck from the early 1990s. Particulates, g/kWh NOx, g/kWh *Euro 5 mandatory on new vehicle types from January 1, 2016. **In addition to Euro 5 and EPA 2007, there is also NLT in Australia. of a new engine, the truck manufacturer is required to regularly perform emissions-related testing, report the results to the authorities and take action if the emissions are not within regulatory limits. In addition, the latest emissions regulations require all new heavy-duty trucks in Europe and North America to be equipped with on board diagnostic equipment that regularly checks the health of the engine and the vehicle. If, for example a system controlling the emissions does not work properly, the driver will be warned via the dashboard. The driver then takes the truck to a workshop. The Volvo Group uses portable emissions measurements system (PEMS) to measure on-road emissions performance. During 2015 the Volvo Group performed 25 legally required PEMS tests of Euro 6 and EPA 2010 customer owned vehicles. All the tests fulﬁlled the requirements. 29 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL SUPPLY CHAIN RESPONSIBLE SOURCING TO R E D U C E R I S K Our suppliers are expected to be cost efﬁcient and deliver the highest quality standards on products and services all the way from project planning, to production and delivery to our plants as well as providing a competitive aftermarket offer for the complete product life cycle. Building long-term partnerships with our suppliers gives them a strong foundation for success and a possibility to contribute to the Volvo Group’s bottom line. T o deliver sustainable transport solutions, we have high expectations of all our business partners. In SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT 2015, we bought goods and services at a total Our supplier assessment poses approximately value of SEK 210.6 billion from our suppliers. 40 questions relating to the principles in our Code Close to 43,000 suppliers delivered parts and services to the Volvo Group. Of those almost 6,500 of Conduct, including: supplied automotive parts. Our suppliers play a signiﬁcant role in • Social performance driving future growth, innovation, proﬁtability and continuous • Work environment and conditions improvement for the Volvo Group. Generally we source from sup• Human and labor rights pliers close to our production sites to ensure efﬁcient ﬂow of sup• Environmental care plies. This means that most suppliers are located in Europe and North America. At the same time, the Group’s expansion in Asia • Business ethics has led to an increased number of new suppliers located there. Responsible sourcing We have to act responsibly to be seen as a trustworthy business Since 2009, new suppliers have to be approved by the Group’s partner. Doing so will result in high productivity and stable longGlobal Sourcing Committe. Potential suppliers of automotive term relationships, which beneﬁt all parties. Our Code of Conduct products are also evaluated by a quality engineer. sets out the principles and minimum standards of responsible In addition, we conduct regular site visits during product develbehavior. Since 1996, our responsible sourcing program has conopment, which gives us better control over our existing supply chain. sistently increased supplier requirements on environmental issues, In 2015 we ran a pilot project to ascertain that potential conﬂict business ethics, human rights and social issues. minerals in our products originated from approved smelters. The The Volvo Group requires our suppliers of automotive compoprocess is designed to meet both the demands from the US nents to have a third-party certiﬁed environmental and quality Dodd-Frank Act and the upcoming European regulation. management system. Around 95% of the Volvo Group spending The result from the pilot project shows that the components on automotive products comes from suppliers that are certiﬁed in comes from approved smelters. accordance with ISO 14001 or its equivalent. As a member of the European Automotive Working Group on The Volvo Group and its suppliers must comply with the EU Supply Chain Sustainability, the Volvo Group has contributed to a requirements on chemicals and harmful substances, in accordharmonization of assessments for automotive suppliers. This proance with the REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and cess will facilitate an accurate and transparent way of working. Restriction of Chemicals) legislation. Suppliers must also meet We began to use the new process in 2015 and will implement it additional requirements on chemicals from the Volvo Group. fully during 2016. The majority of our purchasers and quality engineers have now had training on the business ethics, social justice and environAssessing our suppliers mental issues affecting our supply chain. During 2015, 86% of the value bought from automotive product After supplier training in CSR related issues in for instance Tursuppliers was assessed from a CSR perspective compared to key and Poland, our training was extended to India during 2015. 80% in 2014. Of these suppliers, the equivalent of 79% (72) passed the assessement. It is of business importance that we Developing ethical assessment rank countries from a CSR risk perspective. In 2015, 9% (12) of In line with general automotive industry practice, the Volvo Group the value bought from automotive product suppliers operated uses a self-assessment approach to evaluate potential and current from a high-risk country. Of this value the CSR assessed percentsuppliers’ performance and compliance with our ethical requireage was at the same level as last year i.e. 92%. ments. The Supplier Evaluation Model requires core suppliers and We also assess our non-automotive suppliers, such as suppliespecially those in high-risk countries or segments to update ers of indirect parts and services like IT and Logistic Services, their assessments in our supplier system, before new contracts from a risk segment perspective. During 2015, around 15% (4) of are signed. these suppliers, operating in high-risk segments, were assessed and 70% (63) passed the assessment. 30 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL SUPPLY CHAIN LONG-TERM PARTNERSHIPS T he Volvo Group strives to have long-term cooperation with suppliers in order to drive quality, efﬁciency and responsible behavior throughout the value chain. Action plan for non-compliant suppliers Supplier awards The ethical assessment includes a requirement for an action plan To sustain good relations and increase dialogue with suppliers, if a supplier does not fulﬁll all critical aspects. Among the most the Volvo Group Purchasing Supplier Awards will recognize the common causes for not passing are a lack of adequate complitop suppliers based on six different categories: Cost, Fuel Efﬁance processes and systems to enforce the Volvo Group’s CSR ciency & Innovation, Project Execution, Delivery, Aftermarket and and sustainability requirements down to the supplier’s own subTotal Value Management. contractors. We expect non-compliant suppliers to resolve the issues and ensure that our requirements are met. 31 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL PRODUCTION EFFICIENT AND RELIABLE PRODUCTION The Volvo Group has a global industrial and logistics system that is well-invested and able to efﬁciently meet the demand from our customers. T he Volvo Group has 66 production sites in 18 countries around the world. In addition to our proMANAGEMENT SYSTEMS duction sites, our industrial operations worldwide All the Volvo Group’s wholly-owned production faciliinclude several product development centers, and ties and distribution centers are third-party audited. a large number of parts distribution centers and logistics centers. With such a global spread we We hold certiﬁcates as follows: have developed tools, processes and production systems to help • ISO 9001 Quality management system: 100% of us set a global standard of excellence and guide our employees production facilities and 90% of distribution centers on responsible behavior. Read about our health, safety and well• ISO 14001 Environmental management system: 98% being work for our employees on page 74. of production facilities and 90% of distribution centers Component factories and assembly plants • ISO 50001 Energy standard: Macungie, Hagerstown Our industrial system for trucks consists of capital-intensive comand New River Valley plants in the US. ponent factories as well as labor-intensive assembly plants. The component factories supply the Group’s needs on a global basis whereas assembly plants in most cases are located close to end-markets to cater for different local needs and speciﬁcations. Engine and transmission manufacturing are common for all Stronger structure through joint ventures Volvo Group business lines. Köping, Sweden is a global hub for The Volvo Group industrial position has been strengthened in heavy-duty transmissions. many markets in Asia through the historical acquisitions of UD When it comes to engines the Group has two major hubs – Trucks and Lingong (SDLG) and the cooperation within trucks Skövde, Sweden for heavy-duty diesel engines and Pithampur, and buses with India-based Eicher Motors. The acquisition of India for medium-duty engines. Medium-duty engines are also 45% of the Chinese manufacturer Dongfeng Commercial Vehisupplied by the German engine manufacturer Deutz, primarily for cles (DFCV), which was completed in January 2015, will contriVolvo Construction Equipment. bute further to this development. Through its acquisitions the For Volvo Construction Equipment, production is more centralVolvo Group has also established a global industrial structure ized to a few larger hubs with the big wheel loaders and articuwith manufacturing as well as sales and distribution channels on lated haulers being produced mainly in Sweden and excavators all continents. mainly in South Korea. Continuous improvements Major restructuring completed In order to produce the best products on the market we are focusDuring 2014 and 2015 changes in our European industrial strucing on reduced costs, improved quality and shorter lead times. We ture for truck assembly were implemented in order to enhance the are driving continuous improvement through the Volvo Production efﬁciency of our manufacturing and thus strengthen competitiveSystem (VPS). VPS is used for many processes throughout the ness. In Sweden, the cab trim operations were relocated from organization, including production, product development, logistics Umeå to Gothenburg and the assembly of heavy-duty trucks was and administration. VPS uses methods that streamline operations concentrated to one line. In France, the assembly of medium-duty and minimize productivity losses. The system includes tools for trucks was concentrated to Blainville. During this period, producmeasuring and improving workplace safety, health and wellbeing. tion in Japan underwent major changes with a phasing-out of nonAt our production units, we have quality coordinators, safety core operations and a consolidation of operations to Ageo, adapting delegates and environmental coordinators and we measure and the capacity to the domestic demand of Japan and close markets. monitor to continuously improve. With these changes completed the future direction of the truck manufacturing is more focused on continuous improvements to drive increased productivity rather than on large restructuring activities. 32 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL PRODUCTION EFFICIENCY THROUGH HEALTH AND SAFETY O ur ambition is for zero accidents with our products for our employees and our customers. Our strategy to achieve this in the workplace includes providing safe and healthy working conditions to support a sustainable and high-performing workforce. Environmental performance 2005 and 2015, the Volvo Group decreased energy consumption In 2015, we had 15 licensed facilities in Sweden. The permits in our own production processes by roughly 20% in absolute cover general conditions for the operations such as allowed proterms. This means that the energy cost for 2015 has decreased duction volumes and the environmental performance. All permits with more than SEK 500 M thanks to energy efﬁcency activities. have speciﬁc site requirements related to impact on neighbours The accumulated saving is signiﬁcantly larger. and environment. No environmental permits are deemed to be For example, Volvo Construction Equipment has reduced elecrenewed for 2016. There were no major environmental incidents tricity consumption by focusing on idle time. By changing behavreported for the Volvo Group during 2015. The Group has reported ior, electricity consumption during idle time at the six largest environmental data since 1991. The latest quantitative data is plants has been reduced by 19% in 2015 and by 39% overall presented in the table below. since 2012. This is equivalent to heating 343 houses in Sweden for a full year. Energy efﬁciency Our energy efﬁciency index, which compares energy consumThe Group’s 2015 total energy consumption amounted to 2,106 pion with net sales, was 6.9 MWh/SEK M in 2015, compared with GWh, a reduction of 70 GWh compared to 2014. The main activity 7.9 MWh/SEK M in 2014. The 2015 energy efﬁciency index has behind the reduction was increased energy efﬁciency. By reducthereby improved 13% since 2014. ing energy, we both reduce costs and lower emissions. Between ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE OF VOLVO PRODUCTION PLANTS, INDUSTRIAL OPERATIONS Absolute values related to net sales 2015 2014 2013 20121 Energy consumption (GWh; MWh/SEK M) 2,106; 6.9 2,176; 7.9 2,536; 9.6 2,518; 8.6 CO2 emissions (1,000 tons; tons/SEK M) 221; 0.7 231; 0.8 280; 1.1 235; 0.8 Water consumption (1,000 m3; m3/SEK M) 4,919; 16.2 4,982; 18.1 5,815; 21.9 7,372; 25.2 NO x emissions (tons; kilos/SEK M) 344; 1.3 332; 1.2 347; 1.3 413; 1.4 Solvent emissions (tons; kilos/SEK M) 1,885; 6.2 2,472; 9.0 2,221; 8.4 2,358; 8.1 Sulphur dioxide emissions (tons; kilos/SEK M) 32.1; 0.1 37.9; 0.1 23.4; 0.1 26; 0.1 Hazardous waste (tons; kg/SEK M) 27,824; 91.6 24,944; 90.4 28,395; 107.0 32,547; 111.4 Net sales, SEK bn 303.6 276.0 265.4 292.2 1 Restated according to new accounting rules. 33 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL PRODUCTION Carbon emissions from production Transport and logistics In 2015, direct CO2 emissions from the Volvo Group’s production Carbon emissions resulting from our internal freight transport and facilities decreased from 231,000 tons to 221,000 tons. About deliveries to customers are more than double the CO2 emissions 40% of our total energy consumption came from low-carbon from our production plants. This is therefore a prioritized area for renewable sources, including hydropower electricity and biomass us with many different initiatives. heating. Carbon emissions for the total volume transported in our manThe Volvo Group has carbon-neutral facilities in Ghent, Belufacturing supply chain were calculated at 505,000 tons for 2014. gium, as well as Vara, Tuve and Braås in Sweden. Additionally we This is equivalent to reduced CO2 emissions of close to 3%. Data have facilities buying 100% of their electricity produced from for 2015 will be available in May 2016. landﬁll gas instead of fossil fuels. During 2015, we optimized rail transport in Sweden from Umeå to Tuve by utilizing free space and enhancing on and ofﬂoading. Chemicals and harmful substances This resulted in an annual CO2 saving of approximately 100,000 kg. Our global environmental standard for production plants requires This is equivalent to the CO2 emissions of 230 trucks transporting processes for health and environmental assessment of all chemthe same freight by road. icals. Since 1996, to restrict the use of chemicals with unwanted The majority of the Volvo Group’s major transport suppliers are characteristics, the Volvo Group has maintained a ‘black list’ of certiﬁed in accordance with ISO 14001, or equivalent. prohibited chemicals and a ‘grey list’ of products whose use must be limited. The lists are revised annually and serve as tools for substituting harmful substances in our production processes. Waste and water The Volvo Group’s minimum requirements on production plants include sorting and quantifying all waste at source, implementing measures to reduce the quantity of waste and increase reuse, material recycling and energy recovery as well as reducing the quantity of waste consigned to landﬁll. Waste is usually classiﬁed as either hazardous or non-hazardous. The total amount of hazardous waste in 2015 was 27,824 tons, compared with 24,944 tons in 2014, an increase of close to 12%. Hazardous waste sent to landﬁll amounted to 1,155 tons. Water consumption continues to decrease, from 4,982,000 m3 in 2014 to 4,919,000 m3 in 2015. During the year an evaluation was done of areas with the highest water-related risks. As a result we are working with preventive and mitigating activities at our facilities in for instance India. MAJOR PRODUCTION FACILITIES NORTH AMERICA SOUTH AMERICA Volvo Trucks New River Valley (US) Curitiba (BR) UD Trucks Renault Trucks Mack Trucks Macungie (US) Eicher* Dongfeng Trucks* Engines and transmissions Hagerstown (US) Curitiba (BR) Construction Equipment Shippensburg (US) Pederneiras (BR) St Claire, St Eustache, St Francois du lac (CA) Buses Curitiba (BR) Mexico City (MX), Plattsburgh (US) Volvo Penta Lexington (US) * Ownership ≥ 45% 34 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL PRODUCTION GLOBAL INDUSTRIAL STRUCTURE 48,074 54% Employees worldwide 2015 15,534 18% 17,046 19% 5,380 6% 2,430 3% Share of employees EUROPE ASIA OTHER MARKETS Blainville (FR), Göteborg, Umeå (SE), Gent (BE), Kaluga (RU) Bangalore (IN), Bangkok (TH) Brisbane (AU), Durban (ZA) Ageo (JP), Hangzhou* (CN), Bangkok (TH) Pretoria (ZA) Blainville, Bourg-en-Bresse (FR), Kaluga (RU) Durban (ZA) Brisbane (AU) Pithampur* (IN) Shiyan* (CN) Köping, Skövde (SE), Vénissieux (FR) Ageo (JP), Pithampur* (IN) Arvika, Braås, Eskilstuna, Hallsberg (SE), Konz-Könen, Changwon (KR), Shanghai, Linyi* (CN), Hameln (DE), Belley (FR), Kaluga (RU), Motherwell (UK) Bangalore (IN) Borås, Uddevalla (SE), Wroclaw (PL) Bangalore (IN), Shanghai* (CN) Göteborg, Vara (SE) Shanghai (CN) 35 On the hunt to save energy “The methodology has given us a Every Volvo Group employee can new mindset for energy efﬁciency. contribute to saving energy. But Every kWh saved is important” doing it together as a team effort – and supported by a continuous improvement model – can help save millions. This is something the Volvo Group plants such as Shippensburg, Curitiba, Umeå, T he Volvo Group is the only automotive manufacEskilstuna and Hagerstown have turer that has qualiﬁed for the WWF Climate Savers Program. The target is to reduce emissions already experienced. of CO2 in production and logistics and from products. Several Volvo Group sites have challenged themselves to hunt for energy savings in their facilities through a methodology called energy treasure hunt. “This methodology is a best practice for energy savings and CO2 emissions reductions. It is a team-focused continuous improvement model for environmental care that can be applied at any Volvo Group operation,” says Colin Kiefer, Global Environmental Manager at the Group’s truck manufacturing. The activity requires focused work and a motivated crossfunctional team with the right capabilities and technical skills. And the idea is to search for energy waste in areas like manufacturing 25 % equipment, lighting systems, and heating, ventilation and air conditioning units. Successful hunt in Curitiba Twenty colleagues took part in the ﬁrst energy treasure hunt in the IMPROVEMENT IN truck assembly plant in Curitiba, Brazil. The teams were instructed ENERGY to go and see on the factory ﬂoor what opportunities exist on a Sunday when all production processes were shut down, and on a Monday when the cab plant was in normal operation. Team leaders EFFICIENCY guided their teams on the hunt and ideas were generated based 36 A GLOBAL GROUP 2015 BUSINESS MODEL ON THE HUNT TO SAVE ENERGY on what they saw, heard and even felt (temperature and air ﬂow). Awarded work at Hagerstown Powertrain Production Approximately 40 energy-saving opportunities were identiﬁed with In order to achieve improvements in energy efﬁciency, the Powerthe potential to bring about annual savings of SEK 1.5 M. train Production team in Hagerstown, USA, has completed a “The methodology has given us a new mindset for energy efﬁnumber of energy reduction activities, such as reducing diesel ciency. Every kWh saved is important,” says Fabio Tokuue, enviusage from three gallons to one-third of a gallon per produced ronmental leader in the plant in Curitiba. engine, installation of de-stratiﬁcation fans for improved climate For Colin Kiefer, the successful result goes beyond cost reduccontrol and identifying and eliminating compressed air leaks. The tion: “To me the greatest result was the teamwork I observed in team won the internal Environmental Award earlier this year for identifying opportunities. I believe the teams realized that the coltheir great achievements in reducing energy usage in their facility, lective whole was greater than the sum of its parts, and this allowed demonstrating a systematic, lean and pragmatic approach with a us to exceed our goals and expectations for the treasure hunt.” focus on delivering results. “We have achieved 25% improvement in energy efﬁciency over Great teamwork at Volvo CE in Eskilstuna the past ﬁve years, and the value of our continuous improvement 18 employees split into three groups conducted a similar hunt at projects focused on energy reduction has resulted in over one the Volvo CE plant in Eskilstuna, Sweden. The teams spent a full million US dollars of savings per year,” said Matt Saloom, Director, day searching for ways to reduce idle energy consumption. Each Core Values in Hagerstown. team identiﬁed a number of improvement areas. For example, switching off processing machines on weekends will save around SEK 250,000 annually. All potential savings were incorporated into an action plan and ﬁndings were shared with other employees. All together the hunt generated savings of more than SEK 1 M a year. “This hunt brought together employees from various functions and departments to help eliminate wasted energy, reduce costs and encourage environmental awareness,” says project leader Boris Radojcic, Maintenance Machinery at Volvo CE in Eskilstuna. 37 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL DISTRIBUTION & SERVICE SUPPORTING OUR CUSTOMERS A L L OV E R T H E W O R L D One of our long-term business and sustainability ambitions is to be our customers’ closest business partner where success is based on being the best at solving customers’ problems and helping to make them successful. W e support customers in more than 190 Environmental product information markets. We have an extensive network Information about our CSR and sustainability performance of wholly-owned and independent dealincreasingly inﬂuences customers’ decisions to do business with erships, as well as workshops available the Volvo Group, especially ﬂeet owners. Clear and open product, along main routes. In the last couple of marketing and sales information is essential for customers to be years we have optimized our networks able to make an informed choice about our products and services. to ﬁt each market and thereby each customer in the demanding Customers receive Environmental Product Information (EPI) for transport and construction businesses. many of our products, based on the result of lifecycle assessment. Our EPI is divided into three sections: Increased important service offering 1. Production: information about energy consumption, emissions In addition to vehicles and machines, the Volvo Group’s offering and waste arising during production. includes various types of ﬁnancing solutions, insurance, rental 2. Use: information about fuel consumption, emissions and services, spare parts, preventive maintenance, service agreespare parts during the use phase. ments, assistance and IT services. The range and ﬂexibility of the offering means that the solutions can be customized for each 3. End of life: information about the scrapping and recycling of customer. As a large portion of aftermarket services are needed products. on a continuous basis while our products are in use, they help to All Volvo Group-owned dealers work according to the Group’s balance out the ﬂuctuations in our business cycle. By strengthenenvironmental requirements and towards fulﬁllment of the ISO ing the service offering, proﬁtability and revenue stability can 14001 standard. This means they receive, for example, detailed improve. The service offering is therefore an important element of instructions on how used oils and other ﬂuids are to be handled. the Volvo Group’s effort to achieve targets for proﬁtability and growth, both in mature and in new markets. During 2015, the Customer CSR Assessment spare parts, services and aftermarket products business repreDuring 2015, we ﬁnalized a pilot for the Customer CSR Assesssented approximately 25% of the Volvo Group’s net sales, comment. The project was initiated following the Swedish Governpared with 26% during 2014. ment’s introduction of requirements on the Swedish Export Credit Agency, EKN to include human rights in their assessments of Supporting customer uptime customers. The project was focused on customer ﬁnancing for The service support our customers receive makes a signiﬁcant Volvo Construction Equipment and the Group’s trucks in Africa contribution towards customer satisfaction. One part of this supand the Middle East. It focused on customers in high-risk segport is the Volvo Action Service, which celebrated its 25th anniments and extreme and high-risk countries, as deﬁned in our CSR versary in 2015, see page 14. Country Risk Atlas. The atlas is tailor-made for the Volvo Group To increase knowledge and skills and encourage the sharing of using risk indices from a global risk analytics company combined best practice the Volvo Group runs local, regional and global comwith the principles in our Code of Conduct. petitions for our aftermarket personnel. In 2015 the number of assessments performed was 40 for For example Mack Masters is about recognizing outstanding Group Trucks, 39 for Volvo Construction Equipment and 3 for technicians who demonstrate the skills, collaboration and probVolvo Buses. lem solving abilities needed to service today’s sophisticated In November 2015, Volvo Construction Equipment performed trucks and maximize uptime for customers. The 2015 winner was an audit and the process will be further developed based on that the Team Babine PG from Canada. input. Volvo International Service Training Award (VISTA) is the world’s During 2016, the Customer CSR Assessment process will be largest competition for aftermarket personnel. It is open to the implemented in other parts of the organization and in additional Volvo Trucks’ and Volvo Buses’ global service network. The CE geographies. Masters competition is a skills competition open to technicians of authorized Volvo CE dealers. During 2015, both Vista and CE Masters started selection of participants for competitions which will end in 2016. 38 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL DISTRIBUTION & SERVICE IMPORTANT AFTERMARKET D uring 2015, spare parts, services and aftermarket products represented about 25% of the Volvo Group net sales... 39 Renault L og on, place an order and within weeks a truck is delivered to your door, ready to go. It sounds too simple for a purchase as large and as important as a truck, but, for many businesses, that know what they want and need it quickly, Renault Trucks’ E-ComTrucks merce could be the perfect way to do business. The new online service was launched in the Netherlands last September and allows customers to purchase the Renault Trucks T-Drive – a model that represents around 50% of Renault Trucks’ current order intake – in one standard package at a set price. The package includes a 36 month/120,000 km operational lease, as offers well as the state-of-the-art tablet Tom Tom Bridge Connected Europe Truck. By offering only one model with standard speciﬁcation, Renault Truck E-Commerce can also guarantee fast and direct delivery within four weeks. “This is a fast, easy and transparent process for the customer,” says Charles Engelaar, project owner, Renault Trucks E-Comonline merce. “There is no need for long discussions with sales representatives, or negotiations over price. Just one click and you have a great offer.” By establishing a new sales channel, it is hoped that e-commerce can help Renault Trucks reach its ambitious targets to increase the market share in the Netherlands. The concept of sales e-commerce also supports the brand’s image and business model. “Renault Trucks promises to deliver ﬁxed cost of ownership,” adds Charles Engelaar. “Our products offer efﬁciency, productivity and value for money. We also offer services that are efﬁcient and cost effective, and Renault Trucks E-Commerce is a perfect example.” So is this the future of truck sales? “I think we will see over time a shift towards online sales, and by Almost anything can be bought being the ﬁrst to offer such a service, we’ve shown that we’re online – even heavy-duty trucks. ready for the future,” explains Charles Engelaar. “But it won’t replace dealerships, as they continue to perform the same serA world-ﬁrst initiative from vice role. E-commerce is a good complement to our business and a good solution for simple, straight-forward orders.” Renault Trucks has made this possible. T-DRIVE REPRESENTS AROUND 50% “By being the ﬁrst to offer such a service, we’ve shown OF RENAULT that we’re ready for TRUCKS the future.” Charles Engelaar 40 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL RENAULT TRUCKS OFFERS ONLINE SALES RENAULT TRUCKS E-COMMERCE • New sales channel to increase market shares • One standard package at a set price • Delivery promise within four weeks 41 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL PRODUCTS IN USE FUEL EFFICIENCY FOR CUSTOMERS A N D LO W E R I M PAC T O N THE ENVIRONMENT More than two million trucks and 100,000 buses delivered by the Volvo Group in the past ten years operate on roads globally, and more than half a million units of construction equipment are in operation across construction sites. Today, more than 470,000 Volvo Group vehicles are connected via different telematics solutions. V olvo Trucks is one of the leading companies in fuel efﬁciency as demonstrated by our Volvo FH MITIGATION ACTIVITIES series. There are a number of features to attain We strive to offer maximized uptime to our customers lower fuel consumption. The feature, I-See, and simultaneously limit the environmental impacts saves fuel on every hill by planning ahead and combined with the latest intelligent I-Shift softfrom usage. We do this in multiple ways, including: ware up to 5% fuel could be saved. Another feature is the Tandem • Fuel efﬁciency Axel Lift that allows the driver to disengage and raise one of the • Connectivity two drive axels if not needed and by that achieve up to 4% lower fuel consumption when unladen. • Driver comfort and safety The Renault Trucks T was awarded International Truck of the Year 2015 where one of the criteria was fuel economy. Fuel efﬁciency is equally important for our construction and infrastructure customers as proved by the latest crawler excavator from Volvo Construction Equipment. The fully optimized hydraulics system and ECO mode deliver the precise amount of power required for the task in hand. Through a function that automatiHybridisation and electriﬁcation cally switches off the engine after a pre-set inactivity period, fuel Volvo Group has a leading position in hybrid technology and consumption and emissions can be reduced further. electromobility. Read more about this on page 60 in the sustainAnother good example of fuel efﬁciency is demonstrated by able transport solutions section. Volvo Penta. In 2015, Volvo Penta succeeded in increasing penetration of the Inboard Performance System (IPS) in commercial Drivelines for alternative and renewable fuels vessels. This includes the ﬁrst IPS quadruple installations in operThe Volvo Group continues to demonstrate opportunities for ation for a ﬂeet of transfer vessels used for offshore wind farming. vehicles that can run on alternative and renewable fuels. We are As the installation takes up less space and reduces weight, it the world leader in pioneering DME as alternative fuel and we offers the vessel more speed, a longer range and lower fuel conbuilt the ﬁrst DME-fuelled Mack truck during 2015. For further sumption of up to 30%. information regarding our DME technology, please see page 27. Our commitment to fuel and energy efﬁciency does not stop by In Sweden, we have also been successfully running ﬁeld trials the driveline. To improve even more, it is essential to look at the on Volvo trucks Euro 5 using hydrotreated vegetable oils (HVO), whole vehicle combination, see page 60. which the Volvo Group believes is a better alternative to biodiesel, as there is a larger raw material base to produce it from. During 2015, Volvo Trucks approved the fuel for all Euro 5 engines and D5 and D8 Euro 6 engines. The HVO acts as regular diesel and reduces CO2 emissions between 30% and 90%. We have also expanded our model range in Europe with the new version of the Volvo FE CNG running entirely on methane gas. This truck reduces CO2 emissions by up to 70% when using biogas. Connectivity to optimize products in use Being connected is a vital aspect of daily life. Volvo Group Telematics enable commercial vehicles to perform services such as calling for help in case of an accident, to track and even immobilize stolen vehicles, monitoring driver times, connecting and managing ﬂeets, support fuel saving, and preheating the vehicle in the winter. The number of connected vehicles is increasing rapidly. The Volvo Group Telematics solutions now exist in our own and other products in the automotive industry in Europe, Asia, US and South 42 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL PRODUCTS IN USE RENAULT TRUCKS K R enault Trucks offers two ranges designed for construction work and other special applications, the C Construction and the K Heavy Construction. Ruggedness, working comfort, payload, pulling power, efﬁcient engines and easy body mounting all make these the perfect tools for businesses and local authorities with high demands. America under the names of Volvo Dynaﬂeet, Volvo Vehicle Customer competition for increased motivation Remote Diagnostics, Renault OptiFleet, UD Telematics and the In 2015 the UD Trucks Extra Mile Challenge was completed with Volvo CE CareTrack. the Australian team presented as the overall winner. The compeAnother example is the Mack Trucks’ GuardDog Connect, which tition demonstrates how customers can get the most out of UD is now active in more than 25,000 trucks. This service has delivered products and services by improving fuel efﬁciency, uptime, and a proven reduction in diagnostics time (70%) and repair time (21%). driver skills. The competition simulates a transport delivery cycle, and the winner is the team with the highest ﬁnancial proﬁt. The Safety and driving comfort Extra Mile Challenge demonstrates UD Trucks’ contribution to Other important uptime aspects for products in use are our safety furthering customer business success but also driver capability and driver comfort features. and conﬁdence, contributing to safer roads and motivated drivers. The new Volvo FH is the ﬁrst serial-produced heavy truck available with individual front suspension that largely facilitates the handling of the truck. The Volvo FH was also ﬁrst in bringing to market a dual clutch system for heavy duty vehicles. With the I-Shift Dual Clutch, the gear changes take place without any interruption in power delivery. Overall, the I-Shift Dual Clutch results in more relaxed and therefore safer driving, while reducing wear on the driveline and the rest of the vehicle. For our construction equipment, suspension systems and ergonomically-positioned machine interfaces increase the comfort for the operator. We have also developed passive and active safety solutions for the Group’s trucks such as collisions warning systems and lane changing assistance. In Europe, Volvo Buses was recently recognized for its unique Volvo Dynamic Steering stabilization system, based on Volvo Trucks technology. The system boosts driving safety and comfort. Now the system is being introduced on Volvo’s long-distance coaches in Europe. 43 The silent true value of “The results show that irrespective electric of the number of parameters taken into consideration, electric buses comprise the leading public transbuses port solution” says Niklas Gustafsson, Chief Sustainability Ofﬁcer. A city with half a million inhabitants would save up to SEK 100 M per year if the city’s buses ran on electricity instead of diesel. This is the ﬁnding from extensive analysis conducted in collaboration between the Volvo Group and the audit and advisory ﬁrm KPMG. The analysis has taken into consideration such factors as noise, travel time, emissions, energy use, taxes and the use of natural resources. 100 IN ANNUAL MSEK SAVINGS WITH ELECTRIC BUSES 44 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL ELECTRIC BUSES I n June 2015, the Volvo Group took a big step in the journey towards delivering sustainable transport solutions – as an entirely new electric bus route, operated by Volvo branded full-electric buses and electric hybrids, opened in Gothenburg. The aim of the route is to develop and test new solutions for sustainable public transport. It is the result of ElectriCity, a collaboration between the Volvo Group and several partners from industry, research and society. “The bus line is one of the most modern in the world and the interest is incredibly high, not least due to the buses being completely silent and emission-free, and being run on electricity from wind and hydro power,” says Niklas Gustafsson, Chief Sustainability Ofﬁcer, Volvo Group. “But the innovation aspect primarily pertains to the complete transportation system. A system that we can to SEK 100 M. Among other areas, the savings stem from reduced now show meets society’s socio-economic and environmental noise and air pollution, which is estimated to lead to decreased challenges.” health care costs of up to SEK 24 M. The annual reduction in carbon dioxide emissions would total 33,000 tons, corresponding A more complete picture of the savings of electric buses to emissions from about 3,000 Swedish households. Standard investment appraisals often do not take into account all of the costs and beneﬁts that impact society and the environment. Surprise concerts on the silent electric buses Therefore, to quantify these aspects, the Volvo Group and the ElectriCity recently launched the Silent Bus Sessions campaign audit and advisory ﬁrm KPMG have calculated the monetary value to bring further publicity to the electric public transport project by of an electric bus line. showing another side of sustainable transport; the quietness of “Electric buses are an excellent example of an innovation that electric buses. Unsuspecting passengers on the new bus route in can create substantial societal value,” says Daniel Dellham, KPMG. Gothenburg were treated to surprise performances by some of “By supplementing standard ﬁnancial analysis with socio-economic Sweden’s hottest artists. and environmental factors, one arrives at a more complete picture “Noise is one of the biggest health problems in big cities of the investment’s impact on companies and society.” around the world. Volvo’s electric buses are silent and emissionsThe analysis was based on a city with about half a million free, and we are convinced that electric public transport in cities inhabitants and 400 buses. If the buses were run on electricity is the way forward to achieve sustainable transport,” says Håkan instead of diesel, the total annualized societal saving would be up Agnevall, President Volvo Buses. 45 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL REUSE & RECYCLING TAKING A CIRCULAR A P P R OAC H Improved resource efﬁciency, reuse and recycling are increasingly important for society and our industry to counteract increasing demands and costs on the use of the planet’s ﬁnite natural capital. In 2015, total Volvo Group sales T he Volvo Group works consistently with lean methodologies to use less material as well as processes to integrate more recycled materials, of remanufactured components reduce waste and energy, recover heat, and assess our water footprint. increased by close to 20% compared We offer refurbished spare parts as a way of with 2014. extending the useful life of our products, and to reduce costs for our customers. Remanufacturing consists of three different parts: 1. Collecting: the customer’s worn part is collected and replaced with an exchange part – this part can be new or remanufactured. 2. Repairing: once the core is deemed reusable, it will be disCircular product development assembled, cleaned, re-machined, reassembled and tested. A truck produced by the Volvo Group is largely recyclable, since 3. Replacing: a new customer buys the remanufactured part almost 85% of its weight consists of metal – mostly iron, steel and from the dealer. aluminum. The additional materials are mainly plastic, rubber and material from electronics components. Growing remanufacturing business In order to work efﬁciently, recycling and remanufacturing Remanufacturing engines, gear boxes and other spare parts is a activities have to be considered during the product planning growing trend and a growing part of the Volvo Group’s business. phase. The Volvo Group’s experts within this area, therefore works In 2015, total Volvo Group sales of remanufactured components closely together with product developers to enable disassembly amounted to SEK 8.3 billion, an increase of close to 20% comworkers to extract the most material, and value, from our vehicles pared with 2014. at the end of their life. The Volvo Group has more than 50 years of experience and eight remanufacturing centers worldwide handling used compoTriple win nents from our whole range of products. The ﬁrst center opened In the last couple of years Volvo Group North America have in 1960 in Flen, Sweden. Other centers are located in France, marketed remanufactured components for the aftermarket. It is Japan, Brazil, US and China. In 2015 a new center in Bangalore, called the “The Triple Win” because: India, was inaugurated. The center will play an important role in • Customers can buy a high quality part for a signiﬁcantly lower price the aftermarket offer for Volvo branded trucks, buses and con• Volvo Group can increase sales struction equipment in the Indian market. Remanufacturing is also contributing from a societal perspec• The reduced number of new components and quality-assured tive as it is more labor intensive than new production and demands reused components deliver environmental beneﬁts. high-skilled employees. The project focuses on powertrain components and contains a Remanufactured components are offered to Volvo Group cusmix of remanufactured components from suppliers and from tomers worldwide. Through exchange, engines, gearboxes, exhaust Volvo operations internally. ﬁlters and rear axle transmissions can be renovated to the same condition as new parts, and our range continues to increase. Customers beneﬁt from the same quality and a full warranty, delivered at a lower price. Environmentally, remanufacturing minimizes the need for raw materials. It also signiﬁcantly reduces energy consumption and emissions. For example, a remanufactured engine saves up to 80% of the energy needed to build a new engine and dramatically cuts the emissions of nitrogen oxides and carbon dioxide. It also ensures that potentially dangerous residuals inside worn components are dealt with correctly. 46 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL REUSE & RECYCLING REMANUFACTURING IS A WIN FOR CUSTOMERS, VOLVO GROUP AND THE ENVIRONMENT T he Volvo Group’s different remanufacturing programs lower costs for our customers. At the same time all components are remanufactured to original speciﬁcations. The result is high performance, increased reliability and longer component life. 47 Entering phase two of our WWF Climate Savers partnership WWF is one of the world’s largest and most respected environmental organizations. Its Climate Savers Program involves multinational companies in the effort to reduce carbon emissions. Each company pledges to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions following an agreement made with WWF. 40 MILLION TONS IN REDUCTION OF CO2 EMISSIONS 48 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL WWF I n 2010, the Volvo Group became the world’s ﬁrst auto• Improving energy efﬁciency in production by implementing motive industry manufacturer approved by WWF to parenergy saving measures giving 150 GWh/year in savings. ticipate in its Climate Savers program. Between 2009 This corresponds to 8% of the energy use in Volvo Group’s proand 2014, the Volvo Group successfully managed to reduce: duction sites. • the total lifetime CO2 emissions from products sold dur• Reducing CO2 emissions per produced unit from the Volvo ing this period by more than 50 Mton, compared with vehiGroup freight transport by 20%. cles manufactured in 2008 • Developing truck prototypes with substantially lower fuel • CO2 emissions from our production plants by 0.5 million tons consumption compared with a corresponding truck today. (23%), compared with 2008. • Volvo CE will develop and demonstrate technologies with Other major achievements included: considerable efﬁciency improvements. • the Volvo Group developed three truck prototypes demonstrating • Starting up the so-called City Mobility concept in at least ﬁve various techniques to improve fuel efﬁciency cities. City Mobility is the collective term for an offering in which • Volvo CE demonstrated a new prototype with considerably Volvo Buses collaborates with cities and regions to ﬁnd the best improved fuel efﬁciency compared with existing models and most energy-efﬁcient public transport solution. One example is to plan for the infrastructure required for electric city • Volvo Buses expanded the number of ﬁeld tests with plug-in buses. hybrid buses. • Hosting the Construction Climate Challenge (CCC) that aims to In 2014, we renewed our commitment to Climate Savers and the create a dialogue with construction industry representatives, Volvo Group is still the only automotive manufacturer that is a academia and politicians and address mutual projects for member of the program. improvement. Our 2015–2020 program Results 2015 Having renewed our agreement for this unique strategic coopera• 3 Mton CO2 reduction in lifetime emissions from products. tion, we aim to accelerate progress. In addition to reducing emissions from our own products and production, the Volvo Group is commit• 45 GWh/year in energy saving from activities implemented ted to push the reduction of carbon emissions across our industry. during the year. This corresponds to 2.5% in energy savings. Our current commitment includes: The results are audited by independent experts and the agreed target must be more ambitious than the company would have set • A cumulative reduction of emissions from products and on its own. It must also signify that the company is leading production by at least 40 million tons of carbon dioxide by 2020 its sector in the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. compared with 2013. 49 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL VALUE CREATION CREATING ECONOMIC, SOCIAL A N D EN V IRON M EN TA L VA LU E The Volvo Group’s future success depends on our ability to deliver efﬁcient, innovative and sustainable transport solutions that are converted into positive ﬁnancial performance. Close collaboration with our key stakeholders enables us to create shared value over time. EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT Economic Our ﬁnancial capital consists of funds derived from net operating proﬁts, share capital, and credit and loan facilities from ﬁnancial institutions. We procure close to 2 billion components for use in automotive production. Steel is the manufactured VOLVO GROUP resource that we procure in greatest quantity. Social Our intellectual assets include our brands and patents, and our R&D organization, systems and processes. Our skilled, engaged, diverse workforce of almost 100,000 employees represents our human capital. Our relationships include long-term partnerships with labor representatives, academic and research Inputs 1 2 3 organizations, policy makers, development organizations and Non Governmental Organizations (NGOs) as well as local PRODUCT PURCHASING PRODUCTION communities in the countries where we operate. DEVELOPMENT Environmental Our production involves the use of various materials, including metals, such as iron, steel and aluminium. The additional materials are mainly plastic, rubber and electronics components. Our energy sources include renewable energy from wind and hydro generation. 50 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL VALUE CREATION GOVERNANCE Seizing opportunities and mitigating risks Achieving our vision is dependent on reaching our wanted positions, taking our core values into account and adhering to our Code of Conduct to perform business in a responsible way. To be aware of the risks and be able to mitigate and prevent Vision them through a clear governance structure, is also essential. Wanted position Core values Code of conduct RISKS Economic InvestOur reliable, quality products and services satisfy the needs of ments customers in the transport and infrastructure industry for fuel efﬁciency that reduces operating costs, and increases uptime. Strong sales coupled with strategic efﬁciencies enable us to deliver sustainable returns to ﬁnancial stakeholders and to reinvest in the development of improved products and services for customers. Our remanufacturing and recycling operations contribute towards the circular economy and reduce the need for raw materials. Social Our intellectual assets enable us to offer safer and economically efﬁcient products and services to our customers with lower environmental impact. Our products and services enable the safe 4 5 6 Outcomes and efﬁcient distribution of goods and movement of people. Investing in the health, safety, wellbeing and development of our employees results in qualitative output with low absence DISTRIBUTION PRODUCTS RE-USE and no fatal accidents. Our societal engagement activities AND SERVICE IN USE create shared value for our company and for society. Environmental We are actively reducing the environmental footprint of our global manufacturing, distribution and operations. Our products and services reduce the impacts of the transport and construction industry on the environment. Our leadership encourages more people and organizations to contribute towards environmental sustainability and thereby reduced costs. Stakeholders Through stakeholder dialogue we understand the internal and external expectations of the Volvo Group, and how we ensure that our business operations build value both for the company and for society. Our most important stakeholders are our customers, suppliers, investors, employees, trade unions and the local and global community where we operate. How we engage with and create value for our stakeholders is described in the shared value section on page 64. 51 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL SUSTAINABILITY CONTEXT APPROACHING SUSTAINABILITY TO C R E AT E P R O S P E R I T Y Building on responsible business behavior, creating shared value and delivering sustainable transport solutions requires cooperation with the world around us. A s the population in the world continues to grow along with This includes upholding the printhe desire to create prosperity, the need for accessibility ciples stated in our Code of Conand sustainable transport will increase. For us, sustainabilduct, which is based on the ity includes economic, environmental and social dimensions. norms of the UN Global Compact Our economic impact is totally dependent on our customers’ success. that we have signed in 2001. By focusing on our customers, we secure ﬁnancial health and the ability During 2016, I believe that our to invest in innovative development. Thereby, we create employment new brand-based truck organizaopportunities and long-term growth. tion will advance our market posiOur largest environmental impact comes downstream, from our prodtions. Through close cooperation ucts in use, and we therefore aim to deliver energy-efﬁcient transport with our customers we will further and infrastructure solutions, corresponding to customers’ needs. secure both economic and enviOur main social impact stems from offering safe transport solutions ronmental efﬁciency. that enable mobility and accessibility for people and goods – moving Our remanufacturing constitutes an increasing part of our business. It both our business and society forward. has great potential to tackle resource scarcity and create economic bene2015 was an exciting year from a sustainability perspective. The launch ﬁts for our customers. This service offering also contributes to social develof our electric buses to the ElectriCity project in Gothenburg was one opment by being more labor intensive and demanding high-skilled jobs. example of our leading position in electromobility and innovative public Within the UN High Level Advisory Group on Sustainable Transport, transport solutions. With 470,000 connected vehicles delivered by the we will present our plan for concrete actions for the transition towards a Volvo Group, the potential for optimization, both from an economic and sustainable transport industry by the end of 2016. environmental perspective, is enormous. In addition, we launched our Looking beyond 2016, I am convinced the Volvo Group has great societal engagement program aligned with our business strategies. By opportunities. In the next couple of years I believe that we will see even linking our societal activities with our core competences, we attain the more connected vehicles and machines and further autonomous soluhighest leverage in addressing the relevant social challenges of educations, offering completely new opportunities for our industry, the envition and skills development; trafﬁc and worksite safety, and environmenronment and society. tal sustainability. We have great assets in our employees, products and services, an We also faced some challenges during 2015. Reorganization and improved balance sheet and know-how. The mindset of contributing to lay-offs led to a continued negative trend in employee engagement, as our customers’ success is already there. The coming years will be about measured by our annual employee survey. Although it is ﬂattening out, connecting all of these dots to reach our full potential. I am excited to this is something we take very seriously and revitalizing our culture is a be part of this work. strategic priority. To conclude, sustainability is not a “nice to have” it is a “must have” In the EU, the Volvo Group and a number of other companies are still and it will be even clearer that it is an integrated part of how we do under investigation by the European Commission regarding a possible business in the Volvo Group. This combined Annual and Sustainability breach of EU antitrust rules prior to January 2011. Report is one way of showing it. I hope you like it. Our reputation of being a trustworthy company does not come for free, we need to continuously work in an ethical and responsible way Martin Lundstedt and have an open and transparent dialogue with all our stakeholders. CEO T he Volvo Group’s approach to Corporate Social ResponThe pyramid reﬂects our strategic framework and supports our sibility (CSR) and sustainability, focuses on conducting business vision, wanted position, strategic program and responsibusiness in a responsible manner, taking stakeholders’ ble business practices. perspectives into account, creating value for our stakeholders and society, and contributing to sustainable transport Sustainable transport solutions and sustainable development. Delivering sustainable transport and infrastructure solutions corresponding to our customers’ needs, is the ultimate goal of our Volvo Group CSR and sustainability model CSR and sustainability commitment. We progress towards this Our CSR and sustainability model, shown on the next page, is through leadership, innovation and research, and the development based on the United Nations Global Compact principles, other and commercialization of pioneering products and services that internationally recognized norms of responsible behavior and conare driven by quality, safety and environmental care. sultation with internal and external stakeholders. 52 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL SUSTAINABILITY CONTEXT Global perspective As well as reﬂecting the Volvo Group’s business priorities and value chain, our CSR and sustainability approach aims to address SUSTAINABLE issues in our external, global environment. TRANSPORT Rethinking the future Following analysis of the latest global megatrends and industry challenges, on page 18 and 19, we updated our list of key areas for the Volvo Group in 2015, on page 54. SHARED VALUE We also linked these to the United Nations’ Sustainable DevelMoving society and our business forward opment Goals (SDGs) and targets that were agreed in 2015. Our response to the SDGs RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOR The Volvo Group has chosen to focus on the SDGs most relevant Increasing trust, growing stronger for our business and where we can contribute the most. That way we can get the highest leverage for us as a business and for the world around us. The Volvo Group will try to contribute to all SDGs in our activities, but our focus will be on: Shared value The Volvo Group moves our business forward by meeting the • Goal 3 – Good health and well-being and the target to halve needs of customers in selected segments of the commercial vehithe number of global deaths and injuries from road trafﬁc accicles and the construction equipment industry, and supporting dents by 2020. their value creation. Working with cultural values and investing in • Goal 9 – Industry, innovation and infrastructure with particular skills development, safety programs and environmental sustainaemphasis on the targets to develop qualitative, reliable, sustainbility, we help to move society forward today, while securing busiable and resilient infrastructure. ness opportunities for the future. • Goal 11 – Sustainable cities and communities and the target to provide access to safe, affordable, accessible and sustainaResponsible behavior ble transport systems for all, by 2020, notably by expanding Conducting business in a responsible manner across our operapublic transport. tions and value chain is essential for maintaining and enhancing • Goal 13 – Climate action by taking urgent action to combat the Volvo Group’s reputation as a trustworthy global company. climate change and its impacts. Responsibility and sustainability are embedded in our corporate culture, values, Code of Conduct, policies and training. Every Innovation, technology and enhanced modern logistics services employee is expected to adhere to this. will be important for progressing on all goals and the Volvo Group competencies will contribute to this. On the next page we present some of the Volvo Group solutions to contribute to the SDGs and address the challenges. Good health and wellbeing Halve the number of global deaths and injuries from road trafﬁc accidents by 2020. 17 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Adopted by United Nations General Assembly in September 2015. Innovation and infrastructure Sustainable cities and Build resilient infrastructure, communities Protect the planet promote inclusive and sustainable Make cities and human Take urgent action to combat industrialization and foster settlements inclusive, safe, climate change and its impacts. innovation. resilient and sustainable. 53 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL SUSTAINABILITY DRIVERS AMBITIONS FOR S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y By making the connection between global trends, the challenges that affect our industry and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, the impact of our activities will bring far-reaching beneﬁts. T he Volvo Group is committed to contributing to ﬁve trends inﬂuencing our business. As part of our CSR and sustainable development. Our main contribution sustainability approach, we have also taken the United Nations comes from delivering safe and environmentally Sustainable Development Goals into account. enhanced products and services that support economic growth, increase access and thereby Updating our sustainability ambitions greater prosperity. We also take the way we develop, In 2015, our sustainability ambitions were reviewed and updated. source, produce, distribute and recycle our goods into account. Based on internal and external stakeholder dialogue, six focus We see our global strength and local presence as unique opporareas have been identiﬁed and targeted. These ambitions cover tunities to deliver transport and infrastructure solutions that meet the whole sustainability area from a social, economic and environthe needs of our customers while simultaneously addressing mental perspective with the aim to drive prosperity through transglobal sustainability challenges. port solutions. The ambitions also have different time frames. The short-term target is for the coming three to ﬁve years, the longThe Volvo Group’s approach term refers to ﬁve to 10 years. Outcomes are measured yearly. We continually analyze megatrends and regional variations to Going forward we will continue our work on relevant measureassess their impact on our Group and seek new business opporments for each ambition to facilitate follow-up and continued tunities, see page 18. During 2015, we reviewed and updated the development. TRENDS CHALLENGES AND UN SUSTAINABLE EXAMPLES OF VOLVO GROUP OPPORTUNITIES DEVELOPMENT GOALS SOLUTIONS Greenhouse gas (13) Take urgent action to combat climate change  Energy-efﬁcient vehicles and drivelines 1 Climate change and resource scarcity emissions, fossil fuel dependency and the and its impact.  Drivelines run on alternative and renewable fuels  Electric vehicles earth’s ﬁnite natural  Carbon neutral productions capital  Life Cycle Analysis  Remanufacturing Transport and (11) Sustainable cities and communities (9) Build  ElectriCity 2 Urbanization infrastructure need for 9 billion people by 2050 resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster  Bus Rapid Transit  City Mobility innovation. SUSTAINABILITY 80–100 billion (9.1) Develop quality, reliable, sustainable and resil All Group brands offer integrated transport AMBI3 Connectivity and digitalization connected devices by 2020 ient infrastructure, including regional and transborder infrastructure, to support economic developinformation systems based on wireless communication technologies TIONS ment and human well-being, with a focus on  470,000 Volvo Group connected vehicles affordable and equitable access for all. 1.2 M trafﬁc fatalities and (3.6) By 2020, halve the number of global deaths  Platooning 4 Autonomous vehicles and safety develop50 M injuries each year and injuries from road trafﬁc accidents.  Passive and active safety features on our vehicles  Campaigns and education to increase trafﬁc ments safety awareness  Driver training programs Public conﬁdence and (11.6) By 2030, reduce the adverse per capita  Legal compliance 5 Evolving trade and regulatory environment corporate reputation in the automotive industry environmental impact of cities, including by paying special attention to air quality and municipal and  Clear governance to secure adherence to country speciﬁc regulations other waste management.  Laboratory and on-the-road testing to ensure compliance with emissions legislation 54 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL SUSTAINABILITY AMBITIONS CONSOLIDATING OUR S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y A M B I T I O N S Our customers’ closest business partner Reducing our industrial environmental footprint • Long-term: Be the leader in brand image and customer satisfac• Long-term: All our production facilities to be carbon neutral tion within each product’s competitive set by delivering pioneer• Medium/short-term: 8% energy saving for production sites and ing products and services for the transport and infrastructure reducing CO2 emissions from Volvo Group freight transport by industries. 20% 2020. 100% of all major production plants ISO 14001 • Medium/short-term: Among the top in brand image and cuscertiﬁed. tomer satisfaction surveys for our main products within each • Results 2015: 5 production sites out of 66 are carbon neutral, competitive set in relevant markets*. 45 GWh/year in energy saving achieved and, approximately • Results 2015: Brand image surveys show a good position for 10%*** reduction of emissions from freight transport. 98% of our main products within their competitive set in our main marour major production plants were ISO 14001 certiﬁed by end of kets. Market shares for our main products in our main segments 2015. have been stable or had minor declines during 2015. ** * Data from 2014 compared to 2013 in relation to net sales, including inbound and transport to customers. 2015 data available in May 2016. *Deﬁnition of main products and markets is based on sales volumes. Proven innovators of energy-efﬁcient transport Recognized for creating business value by using CSR as and infrastructure solutions a tool for innovative and sustainable solutions • Long-term: Number one in energy-efﬁciency transport and • Long-term: Known for being a trustworthy company and for our infrastructure solutions. ability to integrate CSR and sustainability into our daily opera• Medium/short-term: Reduce total lifetime CO2 emissions of the tions and create shared value for our business and society. Group’s products by a cumulative saving of 40 M tons by 2020 • Medium/short-term: All white-collar employees to participate in compared to base year 2013. Code of Conduct training, anti-corruption and competition law • Results 2015: 3 Mton reduced total lifetime CO2 emissions of e-learning. 100% of Automotive Supplier spend in high risk the Group’s products. markets CSR assessed. 80% of the Volvo Group’s societal engagement initiatives linked to the MSF Program****. 20% of initiatives designed for speciﬁc needs. Leading supplier of vehicle safety solutions for our • Results 2015: 48% of white-collar employees participated in customers and a safe workplace for our employees Code of Conduct training, 76% in anti-corruption and 90% in • Long-term: Our ambition is zero accidents for our employees competition law training. 92% of automotive supplier spend in and our customers with our products. high-risk markets were assessed. The number of activities • Medium/short-term: Number one in safety image for our main linked to the focus areas in the MSF program, was 45% out of products in our main markets. Zero fatalities related to Volvo all CSR activities. Group operations. * *** MSF, Moving Society Forward program with areas; education and skills • Results 2015: Volvo brand is number one in safety image in our development; trafﬁc and work site safety; and environmental sustainability. main markets. Zero fatalities related to Volvo Group operations. Be the most admired employer in our industry • Long-term: To be in line with high-performing companies for employee engagement and performance excellence index** as measured in the Volvo Group Attitude Survey (VGAS). • Medium/short-term: Engaging people and driving business performance by revitalizing the Volvo Group culture. • Results 2015: VGAS results for employee engagement show a slight decline from 72% 2014 to 71% 2015. The Volvo Group is above the global norm but not in line with high-performing companies. The performance excellence index fell one percentage point to 73% compared to 2014. ** Performance excellence index indicates whether the Volvo Group has the right structures and processes to support customers. 55 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL OUR MATERIAL ISSUES MATERIALITY PROCESS TO S E T F O C U S The sustainability materiality process aims to identify the matters that stakeholders view as most important for engaging with the Volvo Group and for the Group’s ability to create value over both the short and the long term. O ur materiality assessment addresses the Customer satisfaction most important for engagement economic, social and environmental issues and value creation of most importance for our business and for For the third consecutive year, customer satisfaction was ranked our stakeholders. Based on previous years’ number one in the overall scoring ahead of intelligent technology. processes we take the Global Reporting Intelligent technology was introduced as a new topic in 2015, Initiative (GRI) G4 reporting principles into combining and replacing the topics previously known as innovaaccount. We started by evaluating external and internal aspects tion and transport system efﬁciency. Like last year, emissions in a workshop to decide on the most material topics. We received from our products received the third highest ranking. external input on these topics, both quantitative from our materiOur material issues have been ranked and visualized in the ality survey and qualitative from stakeholder dialogue. Our extermatrix below. We have used this matrix as a base to determine our nal stakeholders represented all our key stakeholder groups, our reporting priorities. Greater detail is given to those topics that are different segments and our most important geographical areas. both of highest importance to our stakeholders and most likely to Input from internal colleagues focused on business success have a signiﬁcant impact on the Volvo Group’s ability to create value. issues and the likelihood of impacts occuring. The internal colleagues represented different functions, segments, brands and geographies. For further information about our materiality process, including stakeholder engagement, please refer to the GRI supplement to this Annual Report, available mid-March 2016 at volvogroup.com/responsibility IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS Human rights Legal compliance Customer Product safety Business ethics satisfaction and security and integrity Intelligent Energy efﬁciency technology (products) Emissions (products) Environmental impacts (operations) Supply chain Skilled workforce Product use and Financial health end of life Workplace health, safety & wellbeing Diversity and inclusion Leadership and knowledge Societal engagement IMPORTANCE TO COMPANY 56 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL OUR MATERIAL ISSUES SUSTAINABLE CREATING SHARED RESPONSIBLE TRANSPORT SOLUTIONS VALUE BEHAVIOR Intelligent technology Customer satisfaction Legal compliance Intelligent technology means investing in For us customer satisfaction means Succeeding in legal compliance includes pioneering research and development for building long-term brand loyalty and continuous development of corporate innovative technology, transport and serbusiness partnerships by understanding governance, policies and practices to vice solutions to contribute to efﬁcient customer needs, delivering the right ensure adherence and compliance with transport systems. This includes investing products and services, and taking a total all applicable laws, regulations and in connectivity, automation, safety and lifecycle approach to support customer directives. data protection as well as adaptation of proﬁtability through quality, fuel efﬁciency, Our embedded compliance program, products and services to reduce congesuptime, and aftermarket services. together with training in anti-corruption tion and improve the economic, social and competition law, are examples of and environmental dimensions of urban Financial health activities in this area. mobility, distribution and infrastructure. Financial health is the prerequisite for doing business and for creating longBusiness ethics and integrity Emissions (products) term value for our shareholders. We are Business ethics and integrity is about Emissions related to our products involves maximizing long-term growth and value by creating a responsible culture and being developing cleaner transport solutions reinvesting in our business, prioritizing aware of risks in order to maintain our designed to reduce consumption of fossil opportunities, optimizing cost structures reputation as a trustworthy company. fuels and lower emissions of CO2, NO x, and creating sustainable competitive The starting point being Volvo Group particulate matter, and noise. positions for all our products and services. culture values, leadership, transparency This year’s analysis shows an and our Code of Conduct. increased focus for this area together Skilled workforce Our new Game of Conduct course is with an increased interest for environSkilled workforce involves ensuring the an example of an activity in this area. mentally enhanced products as well as optimal workforce composition, attracting expectations of more regulations. and developing people with required Supply chain skills and competences as well as Creating long-term business relations Energy-efﬁciency (products) retaining talent and developing the talent with our suppliers is important for cost Energy efﬁcient products originate from pipeline to remain competitive. efﬁciency and quality assurance and for a developing leaner and smarter solutions socially and environmentally responsible designed to reduce energy consumption, supply chain. For the Volvo Group this operational costs and environmental means CSR assessments, supporting impacts. local procurement and securing delivery Energy efﬁciency decreased someof our own plans. what in importance compared to last year’s survey. One explanation for this may be lower fuel prices. For deﬁnitions of all 2015 material topics, see the GRI supplement to this report, available mid-March at volvogroup.com/responsibility. 57 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT SOLUTIONS TOWARDS SUSTAINABLE TR ANSPORT SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT SHARED VALUE Our ambition to become the world leader in sustainable transport solutions is based RESPONSIBLE RESPO RESPONSIBL NSIBLE BEHAVIOR NSIBLE BEHAVIOR on our understanding of our customers’ needs, the expected increased need for transportation and the technological challenges and opportunities in the world around us. We take a solutions-based approach to deliver cleaner, safer and smarter products and services. H alf the world’s population already lives in cities and urbanization continues at high pace in SOLUTIONS APPROACH developing economies. Globally, 1.2 million Our solutions-based approach applies to all our people die every year in road trafﬁc accidents key focus to areas in developing future sustainable and 50 million sustain injuries. We acknowledge that transport is part of transport solutions: the problem today, but the Volvo Group believes that we can lead • Cleaner and leaner – CO2 and fuel efﬁciency the way and deliver sustainable, future-focused solutions that • Safer – Safety, automation and driver environment effectively address our impacts. For the Volvo Group, sustainable • Smarter – Complete transport solution transport solutions support economic productivity, reduce environmental impacts and contribute to societal development. Sustainable transport solutions are created at the intersection of the three areas shown in the ﬁgure below. New business model for future solutions SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT SOLUTIONS Our products and services are one piece of the transport and infrastructure puzzle. To maximize the long-term environmental, social and business beneﬁts, we need to consider the bigger picEconomic dimension ture and understand how our products and services are, and can The right product or service be, integrated into society. Instead of offering single products or Environmental dimension in order to contribute services, we deliver complete transport and site solutions with to high productivity added customer value. in the transport Social dimension The image, transport technologies in context, shows how our system work starts with the desired outcome, instead of focusing solely on the drivetrain or the vehicle. Enhancing customer productivity Energy and concentrating on efﬁcient delivery of the mission is the goal. efﬁcient transport Safe and secure We can reduce customer downtime with intelligent, connected solutions with very transport systems systems for efﬁcient trafﬁc and freight scheduling. This is suplow emissions of for people and goods ported by vehicle-to-vehicle and vehicle-to-infrastructure techCO2 , PM, NOx and noise nology that reduces accidents, congestion and improves trafﬁc ﬂows at the same time satisfying the customer’s overall needs. The same mindset is applied when developing truck, bus and construction equipment solutions. TRANSPORT TECHNOLOGIES IN CONTEXT Investing in innovation Our main investment in innovation is of course related to our own research and development activities within our operations but 4 MISSION Efﬁciency there are additional ways to push development forward. Founded in 1997, Volvo Group Venture Capital is an investment TRAFFIC company owned by the Volvo Group. Its ambition is to be a leading 3 Efﬁciency corporate investor in sustainable transport solutions. Each investment should have a positive return in itself while also contributing COMPLETE VEHICLE to the proﬁtable growth and competitiveness of the Volvo Group. 2 Efﬁciency cy Recent investments includes Cargomatics, a software platform that enables local truck drivers to get offers for cargo to unutilized DRIVETRAIN capacity on their trucks in real time and Lytx, a program that uses 1 Efﬁciency in-vehicle video technology to capture data on driving behavior. 58 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT SOLUTIONS GO STRAIGHT INSTEAD OF AROUND T he new Volvo 7900 Electric is so much more than an electric bus. It’s an enabler, a tool that gives cities and municipalities totally new possibilities to develop their public transport – and entire cities. The new Volvo 7900 Electric can literally run everywhere. Silent and clean, with no climate emissions, it can go where people actually want to go. The shorter way, the better way. Each year, the Volvo Research and Educational Foundations In 2014, the Volvo Group’s CEO, was appointed co-chairman of (VREF) make major investments in dedicated research projects the United Nations (UN) High-level Advisory Group on Sustainable supporting the development of sustainable transport systems in Transport for three years. The group is appointed by UN Secrelarge urban areas worldwide. We also devote extensive resources tary-General Ban Ki-Moon and is tasked with delivering actionable to trafﬁc safety research, partnering with key industry players, recommendations to accelerate implementation of sustainable universities and governments for greater efﬁciency. transport solutions. The basic principle behind our Academic Partner Program During the 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference, (APP) is long-term strategic collaboration with leading universiCOP 21, our President and CEO Martin Lundstedt chaired a ties in areas of mutual interest. The program is an efﬁcient way to meeting with the Advisory Group on Sustainable Transport. The develop and implement long-term research and innovation agenconclusion from the meeting was mutual agreement that bold das and to enhance employer attractiveness with leading univerinnovation is needed together with partnership among governsities. This collaboration with universities is key for the Volvo ments, civil society and the private sector. Group to keep driving innovation in the area of transport soluThe Volvo Group Sustainability Forum aims to stimulate greater tions. Presently, the Volvo Group has, within the APP framework, collaboration between companies, governments, civil society and an exclusive partnership with 12 universities in 6 countries. An the scientiﬁc community to accelerate action and decisions example of the APP collaboration is the Robot-based Autonotowards sustainable development. Our 2015 forum brought mous Refuse handling (ROAR) project, see page 62. together more than 300 international leaders and stakeholders – including many of our academic and research partners – to Sustainability leadership explore how business can contribute to sustainable development In 2010, the Volvo Group was the world’s ﬁrst automotive manuand help mitigate climate change. facturer to be approved by WWF to participate in their Climate Savers program. In 2014 we committed to even more challenging targets in the new 2015–2020 commitment. 59 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT SOLUTIONS CLEANER AND LEANER T he Volvo Group has a leading position in hybrid technolVehicle solutions to reduce fuel consumption ogy and electromobility. Volvo Buses has sold more Our commitment to fuel and energy efﬁciency does not stop at than 2,300 hybrid buses in over 20 countries. The ﬁrst the driveline. To improve even more, it is essential to look at the Volvo Electric Hybrid went into commercial operation in whole vehicle combination. For a number of years, Volvo Trucks Hamburg in December 2014, followed by Stockholm in 2015. has been actively involved in the development of High Capacity In June 2015, bus route 55 opened in Gothenburg, with three Transport vehicles (HCT). One of the aims is to develop a modular completely electric buses and seven electric hybrid buses. The system for forest transport. Compared to standard 60-ton combibuses run on renewable electricity and are energy efﬁcient, and nations, the high-capacity 90-ton combinations have achieved a silent. The three electric buses are completely emissions-free. 22% reduction in fuel consumption and CO2 emissions, while the Route 55 is a result of ElectriCity, a collaborative project between 74-ton combinations have reduced CO2 by 10% to 15% per ton-km. academia, industry and the public sector aimed at developing, Another aim is to test trucks that are longer and heavier than demonstrating and evaluating new sustainable public transport those generally available in Europe today. So far, the vehicle comsystems for the future. bination shows 20–25 % reduction in fuel consumption, comIn December 2015, it was decided that Volvo hybrids will be pared to standard combinations and that volume and load distriintroduced in Mumbai, India. The hybrids will be manufactured in bution may play a more signiﬁcant role than weight restriction. our facility in Bangalore, India. Solutions for off-road heavy-duty vehicles Electric trucks Continued development of new drivetrain and hydraulic system Renault Trucks has developed two all-electric vehicles: the Maxity solutions shows considerable potential for further optimization of Electric operating on a hydrogen fuel cell and the Renault Trucks fuel efﬁciency and productivity in construction equipment such D all-electric. These two truck models are currently being tested as articulated haulers, wheel loaders and excavators. Various under actual operating conditions. technical solutions such as electro-hydraulics, continuous variaSince February 2015, Renault Trucks and the French Post ble transmissions and hybrid approaches, including grid plug-in Ofﬁce have been operating a Renault Maxity Electric truck powpossibilities, may yield signiﬁcant energy efﬁciency contributions. ered by a hydrogen fuel cell which doubles the vehicle’s operating In these cases, potential reduction ranges from 20% to more than range, extending it to 200 km. This fuel cell solution makes it 50%. The functions of the machine, especially the electronically possible to overcome two of the major limitations which have so controlled functions, offer great potential for optimizing the far hampered the development of electrically-powered vehicles: machine itself, its operation path and the efﬁciency with which its their operating range and recharging time, since the time taken to components are used. refuel a vehicle with hydrogen is comparable to that of a vehicle running on diesel fuel. ELECTROMOBILITY FOR CLEANER ENVIRONMENT Concrete solutions to decrease CO2 emissions are already underway. One example is the Renault Trucks D all-electric vehicle. 60 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT SOLUTIONS SAFER R oad trafﬁc and work site safety are both global chalSelf-driving safety lenges and material areas for the Volvo Group to The Volvo Group has participated in a number of projects to anaaddress. We cannot achieve sustainable economic or lyze the advantages of platooning, with a lead truck followed by social growth if regions are crippled by congestion or one or more trucks or passenger cars. Platooning technology failing to stem the rising number of fatalities and injuries in trafﬁc. enables close-following vehicles to be controlled automatically in The Volvo Group’s ambition is for zero accidents involving our order to generate improved energy efﬁciency while ensuring highvehicles or equipment. We focus on both active and passive est levels of safety. The main goals with platooning are to reduce safety features: CO2 emissions and to develop solutions that increase productivity. • Active safety features and technology, such as vehicle stability, This can be achieved through fuel consumption savings, of emergency braking and visibility support, aim to prevent or between 8 to 15%, and reduced congestion through more efﬁmitigate the consequences of crashes. cient use of the road network. Automated vehicles also push the boundaries for automotive • Passive safety components, including airbags and body protection safety. Safety is a pre-requisite for automated driving, and some in the cab, aim to protect the occupants in the event of a crash. automated vehicle applications may signiﬁcantly help to reduce Safety studies from our Volvo Accident Research Team show that the risk of some of today’s most common accident types. more than 90% of all trafﬁc accidents involve human factors. Loss of concentration on the road, resulting from fatigue or inatProactive safety strategy tention, is one of the most common causes. Volvo Buses new AEBS (Automatic Emergency Brake System), based on technology from Volvo Trucks, is a good example of the Driver assistance systems Volvo Group’s proactive strategy to road safety and efﬁciency. Over the years, the Volvo Group has pioneered a variety of driver With the new technology the Volvo Group is already fulﬁlling the assistance systems, including Driver Alert Support and Lane safety requirements due for 2018 in the EU. Changing Support, that enhance awareness and alert the driver before a situation turns critical. The Collision Warning with EmerIncreasing safety through awareness and training gency Brake system is another sophisticated system developed We run trafﬁc and site safety programs for drivers and operators by the Group, which offers market leading emergency braking all over the world, including: capabilities. • The TransFORM program in Brazil has been running since Volvo Trucks is piloting technology that substantially enhances 1998 and has been replicated in Peru. the driver’s perception of the area around the truck. This type of technology may help dramatically reduce the risk of accidents • Driver training programs run jointly with Eicher in India have caused by limited ﬁeld of vision. Vehicles may in the future be able trained more than 159,000 drivers. to detect road users in complex road environments and act when • Operator training run by Volvo Construction Equipment in India the driver fails to. trained close to 2,000 operators in 2015 and the total trained since the start 2007 is above 10,200. • Volvo Driver Academy is a demo training project initiated in China for drivers to drive more safely and efﬁciently. IMPROVED DRIVER VISIBILITY Volvo Trucks is piloting new technology which enhances the driver’s perception of the area around the truck. 61 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT SOLUTIONS SMARTER T he transport industry is being driven by rapidly developing trends in smart services, administration, connectivity and personalization (see below). The Volvo Group is presently active in a variety of programs that address these trends using smart technology, integrated transport systems, advanced engineering, and pioneering vehicle combinations. The combination of telematics, advanced IT solutions and communication technology providing real-time trafﬁc information, remote monitoring and communication between vehicles and the infrastructure, offers major opportunities for increasing safety and reducing congestion and environmental impacts. ROBOT SUPPORTING Smarter solutions in urban areas We are actively involved in a number of initiatives to deliver REFUSE TRUCK smarter public transport solutions in urban areas. There are currently around 250 Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) sysWithin the Volvo Group we foresee a future with tems globally and we supply products and services to more than more automation. The ROAR-project provides a way 30, including Bogota’s Trans-Milenio BRT system, the biggest in to stretch the imagination and test new concepts to the world. Volvo Buses is also supplying buses to BRT systems in shape transport solutions for tomorrow. Brazil, Chile, Mexico, India, South Africa and Sweden. The Volvo Buses’ City Mobility program brings together key stakeholders to develop and implement integrated and innovative sustainable transport pilot projects that are suited to each individual city. It is being deployed in several cities including Gothenburg, Refuse truck driver supported by robot Stockholm, Hamburg, Montréal, Shanghai and Curitiba. During The Volvo Group is currently working on a joint initiative within the 2015, agreements on cooperation were signed with Mexico City. Academic Partner Program (APP) together with Chalmers UniVolvo Bus Zone Management is a service that enables compliversity of Technology and Mälardalen University in Sweden, Penn ance with restrictions in various kinds of sensitive areas. The State University in the United States, as well as the waste recytechnology automatically regulates how the bus operates in specling company Renova. The initiative aims to develop a robot that ciﬁc zones along the route. GPS is used to determine exactly interacts with the refuse truck and its driver to accomplish the where along the route the bus should run on electricity or diesel, work. The project is called ROAR, for Robot-based Autonomous and also how fast it may drive in the various zones. The technology Refuse handling, and the goal is to introduce a robot that, with the contributes to a cleaner, safer and quieter urban environment. help of instructions from a truck’s operating system, can collect refuse bins in a neighbourhood, bring them to a refuse truck and empty them. All of this occurs under the supervision of the refuse truck’s driver, who can thereby avoid heavy lifting. FOUR SMART TRENDS IN THE TRANSPORT INDUSTRY: Smart services workshop since the truck will be able to pulse and issue an alert and even activate In addition to predicting faults, truck manhandle most of this itself, such as bookautopilot if something happens to the ufacturers will, in another few years be ing a service and downloading and updatdriver. able to better understand why faults ing its own on-board software. occur in the ﬁrst place – before they Personalization occur. The vehicle will also be able to recConnected devices The more information the truck manufactify minor faults on its own and issue an In the future all the products around us, turer has about whom is behind the wheel alert and book its own service before a such as watches, jackets and cycle heland who owns the truck, the easier it problem arises. mets, will be able to communicate directly becomes to individually tailor the truck to with one another as long as the connecmatch speciﬁc driving styles and transLess administration tion adds value. Tomorrow’s wristwatch, port assignments. In the future, service will involve far less for example, will not just show the time, it administration for the haulage ﬁrm and will also be able to monitor the driver’s 62 From T oday there are about 175,000 online-connected Volvo trucks on Europe’s roads. A number of them vehicle to can already today send information about when they need maintenance and some of the necessary service work can even be administrated remotely. This, however, is just the beginning. business “In the coming few years, for instance, the truck will be able to monitor its own health in real time, promoting easier and quicker service which leads to higher productivity for all concerned – drivers, workshops and haulage ﬁrms,” says Hayder Wokil, Market partner & Product Performance Manager at Volvo Trucks. In the future the truck will also make workshop administration easier by booking its own service as and when necessary, booking the appropriate mechanics for the relevant jobs and advance– how ordering the necessary parts for delivery to the workshop. Repairs will be able to be performed wherever the truck happens to be and will be carried out at an appropriate time in its working schedule. “Service will be synchronized with the truck’s operating timetomorrow’s table and will be booked at the nearest workshop at a time when the vehicle would in any case not be in operation, for instance at night or when the driver has to take a legislated break. Via online connectivity the truck will also be able to carry out simple selfintelligent repairs remotely,” relates Hayder Wokil. Tomorrow’s truck will also enable more ﬂexibility. As the connectivity potential for trucks continues developing, vehicles will be able to be speciﬁed to suit each individual assignment, which in trucks work turn promotes more efﬁcient operation. “The next generation of trucks will be increasingly personalised and will for example be able to be tailored to match the operator’s needs and driving style. It will also be able to update its own conﬁguration to suit speciﬁc transport assignments,” explains Hayder Wokil. An important prerequisite to harness the beneﬁts of connectivPersonalized, predictive and always ity is collecting large amounts of data. This is already happening today, but in the future it will mean that trucks can communicate driveable. Tomorrow’s intelligent not only with other road users and trucks but also portable items such as bicycle helmets. This means the reduced risk of accidents truck is more similar to a smartand fewer unplanned stops. “Thanks to this connection, the truck in the future will, on its phone on wheels than a traditional own, be able to read the trafﬁc situation and select the most efﬁcient route, in trafﬁc jams or roadworks for example,” says Per vehicle. Adamsson, Director of Strategy and Business Development at Volvo Group Telematics. However, even if much of the technology for realizing tomorrow’s truck already exists today, it may take some time before the next-generation scenario becomes reality. “The biggest challenge lies in sifting through the massive amount of data we collect from our vehicles. The infrastructure for connectivity throughout the world also needs to be further developed before we can transform next-generation vision into every“ Within a few years this day reality,” says Hayder Wokil. is going to revolutionize productivity in the transport industry,” says Hayder Wokil, Market & Product Performance Manager at Volvo Trucks. 63 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL SHARED VALUE CREATING SHARED VA L U E SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT SHARED VALUE SHARED VALUE Creating shared value with our stakeholders and society plays an important part in RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOR the continued success of the Volvo Group. Engaging with stakeholders enables us to better understand and meet their expectations. C reating shared value is about moving both our VALUE BY STAKEHOLDER GROUP, SEK M 2015 2014 business and society forward. It involves everyTo suppliers – Purchases of goods and services 210,598 199,484 day business practices, such as ﬁnancial manTo employees – Salaries and remuneration1 40,458 37,533 agement, but also strategic initiatives on a more longer term, including societal engageTo society – Social costs1 8,995 8,118 ment activities. We create economic value for To society – Pension costs1 4,340 4,133 our company and shareholders by delivering transport and infraTo society – Income taxes paid 3,110 3,304 structure solutions that contribute to our customers’ success. To creditors – Interest paid 1,683 1,846 We create value for suppliers through the purchase of goods and To the Volvo Group – Investments in tangible assets 6,561 7,093 services. We support our customers’ value creation through To shareholders – Dividend 6,0932 6,090 efﬁcient products and world-class services. 1 For further information, please see note 27 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. Our trucks, buses, engines, construction equipments and ser2 According to the Board’s proposal. vices literally keep society moving every day, with essential food distribution, public transport, infrastructure and power supplies. Our support services keep thousands of customers on the road, We engage through our daily work and processes, as well as contributing to productivity and growth. And our marine engines dedicated stakeholder platforms. We also arrange strategic events power commercial transport and leisure activities on water. and initiatives, such as the Volvo Group Sustainability Forum, that We remain competitive, sustainable and proﬁtable by investing bring together stakeholders from different groups. in talent and our employees’ professional development. We also invite stakeholders to participate in our materiality We contribute to society through taxes and social security payprocess, see the GRI supplement for full details of our stakements. We create added value for society by aligning our CSR holder engagement, available mid-March 2016 at volvogroup. programs with our business resources and opportunities. com/responsibility. Stakeholder engagement Customers The Volvo Group has identiﬁed key stakeholder groups right along In 2015, we delivered 207,475 trucks from our wholly-owned our value chain – from suppliers to customers and society. truck operations and 8,825 buses, 44,718 units of construction ENGAGING WITH STAKEHOLDERS The Volvo Group understands the importance of having an open dialogue with stakeholders to create shared value and deliver on our targets. 64 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL SHARED VALUE equipment, 17,413 marine engines and 15,295 industrial engines In order to run our daily business and secure long-term ﬁnanfrom our Group operations. These products and services support cial health the Volvo Group is dependent on obtaining ﬁnancing our customers’ proﬁtability by enabling them to meet their cusfrom both shareholders and debt providers. To support mutual tomers’ needs. We engage with our customers in a variety of ways trust and understanding, we engage with shareholders, investors to understand how we are progressing towards our ambition of and analysts through meetings and dialogue. becoming our customers’ closest business partner and delivering customer satisfaction, see below. Employees In 2015, we paid SEK 40.5 billion in salaries and remuneration to Suppliers our employees. Our business success depends on our ability to In 2015, our procurement of goods and services from around attract and retain a skilled workforce. We offer a wide range of 43,000 suppliers amounted to SEK 210.6 billion. We build longopportunities for employees, and union representatives, to develop, term partnership with our suppliers to ensure cost efﬁciency, give feedback and share ideas, see pages 68 and 73. quality and adherence to our CSR and environmental requirements. We engage through online platforms and meetings as well Society as ethical assessments and training, see page 30. Local, national and international authorities; non-governmental organizations (NGOs); business partners; potential employees; Capital market academia and the general public are among our diverse stakeIn 2015, we distributed SEK 6,090 M in dividends to our shareholders in society. holders and SEK 1,683 M in interest paid to our debt providers. In 2015 the Volvo Group paid SEK 8,995 M in social costs, SEK 4,340 M in pension costs and SEK 3,110 M in income taxes. CUSTOMER SATISFACTION W e operate from the viewpoint that organizations From this year’s materiality survey, interviews with customers and that capture customers’ needs best and translate extracts from selected customer satisfaction surveys, we can them into tailored products and services will be conclude that our customers most value fuel efﬁciency, long-term the leaders in any market or segment. Studies partnership and uptime. See our case studies on pages 12 to 16. show that it is ﬁve times more costly to ﬁnd a new customer than We take a structured approach to measuring and managing it is to retain an existing one. That is why keeping customers satcustomer satisfaction, as shown below. All our businesses and isﬁed is vital for business success. brands have strategic targets by market. The data from various For the third consecutive year, customer satisfaction received global image and benchmark surveys is used to produce a brand the highest ranking in our materiality assessment. Our deﬁnition KPI dashboard that informs and supports continuous improveof customer satisfaction is understanding customer needs, delivment work. ering the right products and services, and taking a total lifecycle approach to support customer proﬁtability through quality, fuel efﬁciency, uptime, and aftermarket services. We strive towards this with enhanced customer relationships, long-term brand loySTRUCTURED APPROACH alty and business partnerships. Volvo Group Brands The Volvo Group provides products and services for many difBusiness Dimensions Surveys ferent segments and customer needs. The strength and breadth of our portfolio enables us to meet the individual purchasing Strategic Brand image & behaviors, needs and expectations of customers operating in GLOBAL Benchmarking diverse segments, environments and various conditions. Understanding customer needs Tactical SALES REGIONS Customer satisfaction & We track customers satisfaction and brand image perception Market/Country Benchmarking through surveys worldwide. Performance is integrated in our KPI reporting and is used to increase our understanding of our cusOperational tomers’ needs. Research and studies are done by leading interDEALER Dealer & national organizations and interviews are carried out with deciWorkshop Workshop sion makers among Volvo Group customers and non-customers. 65 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL SHARED VALUE Brand image surveys are an important input at all levels, but • The Renault Range T won Irish Truck of the Year 2016. especially at strategic and tactical levels with regard to competi• Renault Trucks was also voted Best Supplier of the Year 2015 tor information. Among others, the brand image surveys measure by the Fraikin Group, an industrial and commercial vehicle perceptions of the Group’s brands against key competitors on renter. aspects including quality, safety and environmental care. We also • UD Trucks won the “WOW Product – GIIAS 2015” with UD ask customers about various brand attributes that drive purQuester at the GIAKINDO Indonesia International Auto Show. chases and overall opinion, such as customer care, uptime, fuel efﬁciency, driver productivity and innovation. • In November, Volvo Penta’s revolutionary Forward Drive (FWD) At an operational level, dealers also receive more speciﬁc inforwas honored at the Berlin Boat Show with the Best of Boats mation from our customer satisfaction surveys. This data is used Special Award. Earlier in the year Boating Industry, a US boating as input for KPIs and for following up and improving daily work business magazine, selected FWD as one of the top products of routines. the year. FWD also won the Innovation Award at Miami International Boat Show. Market and customer feedback • Volvo Penta in China received an Excellent Supplier Award from According to the latest image and benchmark surveys conducted Kohler Power Systems. in different regions globally on behalf of our brands the Volvo • European Coach and Bus Week in Kortrijk, the Netherlands, brand occupies a leading position, or is among the best, in terms awarded Volvo Buses ﬁrst prize in both Safety and Innovation of quality, safety and environmental care, in all global markets and categories for the Volvo Dynamic Steering system. for all our business areas. • The ElectriCity partnership, where Volvo is one of the main parAwards – indicators of satisfaction ticipants, was recognized by the European Association for External awards are also a useful indicator of satisfaction and Renewable Energy, Eurosolar, for being the best example for thereby an important sales tool. Below are some of the awards 2015 of sustainable public transport using renewable energy. presented to the Volvo Group during the year. • The SDLG LG6460E excavator was named one of China’s best • TU-Automotive, an organization focused on connected vehicle construction products by the China National Construction technology assigned the 2015 Commercial Vehicle Maker of Machinery Association. the Year Award to Mack Trucks for its telematic solutions (see • Volvo CE China was awarded the “National Customer Satisfacopposite). tion Products” for its large excavators by China Quality Associa• As part of “The Best Commercial Vehicles 2015”, in Stuttgart, tion. Germany, Volvo Trucks received ﬁve awards for the Volvo FH/ • VFS Poland was awarded “Financial Product of the Year 2015” FH16 and Volvo FM. for the “Try & Buy” and “Try & Go” innovative lease products by • Volvo FH won the Truck of the Year title in Poland as well as in the Central Chapter of the National Certiﬁcation Bureau. the Czech Republic and Slovakia. • VFS China was awarded “Institutional Excellence Award” by the • Volvo Trucks also received Europe’s Quality Innovation of the People’s Bank of China for exceeding customer and regulators’ Year Award for its new transmission, I-Shift Dual Clutch. expectations through a focus on continuous improvement. 66 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL SHARED VALUE 2015 COMMERCIAL VEHICLE MAKER OF THE YEAR T U-Automotive, a leading organization focused on the connected vehicle technology segment, recognized Mack’s ongoing commitment to offering state-of-the-art uptime and telematics solutions with the 2015 Commercial Vehicle Maker of the Year Award. Mack received the award for Mack GuardDog Connect, its integrated telematics solution, and Mack Fleet Management Services. 67 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL SHARED VALUE SKILLED WORKFORCE B y the end of 2015, the Volvo Group had 88,464 permanent employees and 11,037 temporary employees and consultants, compared to 92,828 permanent employees and 11,750 temporary employees and consultants at the end of 2014. The reduction of 5,078 people is a consequence of the Group-wide structural cost reduction program announced in autumn 2013, and ﬁnalized during 2015. Attracting the right talent Being an employer of choice involves participation at student fairs at the top engineering and business universities. We collaborate with target groups of students through study visits at Volvo and on-campus company activities. The Group also runs the 12-month Volvo Group International Graduate Program with the aim of recruiting the right competence to develop future key talent. Our Academic Partner Program (APP) is a highly exclusive proSKILLS TO PERFORM gram for selected universities working in areas that support the A skilled workforce is necessary to reach long-term Volvo Group’s long-term plan. We have APP partners in Sweden, success. In order to outperform our competitors, we France, the US, China, India and Japan. APP includes two kinds of partnerships: Preferred Research Partners and Preferred Talneed people with the right competences across all of ent Partners. our businesses. Personal business plan to ensure progress All employees are expected to have a personal business plan that translates our corporate strategic objectives into individual objectives and contributions. It includes business-related and compeVolvo Group University tence development targets, and provides essential feedback for Every year we allocate around half a million training days to our both short and long-term individual development. Employees employees and retail organizations worldwide. The Volvo Group review their plan annually together with their manager to ensure University is now established as our center of further education mutual understanding of roles and expectations. and learning activities to efﬁciently support our strategy in all major competence areas in the Group. The University enhances Survey to measure engagement and performance the consistency and quality of the training we offer and ensures The annual Volvo Group Attitude Survey (VGAS) is a tool towards that the training outcome support business operations. higher commitment and a higher performing organization, by raising employee engagement. Developing high-performing leaders In this survey the Volvo Group measures itself against an internaTalent review at the Volvo Group is a key tool in developing and tional database of approximately 15 million employees from over managing talent. It is the formal review of performance and 80 countries used by over 400 companies. Our target for 2015 was potential across the pool of leaders, including succession planto be one of the world’s top 25% companies. Our results remain ning for the leadership teams. above the global norm, but our target was not achieved. The VGAS The Leadership Pipeline framework is developed within the 2015 shows slightly lower employee engagement compared to last Volvo Group to support our present leaders as well as our potenyear (71% versus 72%) and compared to high-performing organitial leaders prepare for future roles. This is well supported by our zations, which are following an upward trend. The performance leadership programs and other learning offers, for example menexcellence index (PEI), which indicates whether the Volvo Group torship. has the right structures and processes to support customers, fell During 2015, 67 mentees and 63 mentors participated in the one percentage point to 73%. The 2015 leadership effectiveness Volvo Group Female Mentoring Program aimed at developing index stayed at 70%. leaders by sharing knowledge and experience. Targeted action plans are being implemented in order to increase engagement and performance levels. Harmonized job evaluation In 2015 the roll-out of global, common job evaluation methodology continued. 85% of white collar positions across all the businesses are now evaluated using a common methodology. Based on this, locally-competitive pay structures have been set up for our 15 biggest countries, using a harmonized methodology but linked to local market data. 68 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL SHARED VALUE SOCIETAL ENGAGEMENT E ngaging with the communities where we live and operate is natural for the Volvo Group in order to be a good corporate citizen. Our approach involves driving and participating in CSR initiatives, establishing strategic partnerships and supporting work following natural disasters. We also encourage our employees to participate in employee volunteering programs. In addition to our global efforts, we have dedicated employees in our main countries, to coordinate our CSR GLOBAL ROAD SAFETY ambitions. • Interactive trafﬁc safety training for children Moving Society Forward • Training kits made available for anyone to use Our Moving Society Forward program is based on the “Creating • A challenge to all 100,000 employees Shared Value” principle, further described in the diagram below. www.volvogroup.com/stoplookwave In order to maximize the shared value created, the program is directly connected to Volvo Group’s vision, business and expert capabilities. Our program speciﬁcally aims to: • Remove obstacles to future business success, turning threats into opportunities that mitigate risks Employee volunteering • Engage in activities with both business and societal beneﬁts Employees are welcome to participate and volunteer in different • Utilize the Volvo Group’s unique assets and knowledge local and global societal engagement initiatives. During 2015 on-site volunteering in our vocational training • Encourage employee involvement. schools in Africa was piloted as part of our Moving Society The highest potential for mutual beneﬁt is where Volvo Group’s Forward program. Three employees from our the Group’s truck business signiﬁcantly interacts with the society. The focus areas manufacturing were selected to spend two months in Ethiopia, selected for our Moving Society Forward program are: Zambia and Morocco respectively. • Education and Skills Development Volvo Step – industrial production training • Trafﬁc and Worksite Safety During the autumn 2015 another round of the Volvo Step started, • Environmental Sustainability. a vocational training for unemployed youth aged 18 to 22. The In 2015 the number of activities linked to the focus areas in our program is offered to 100 young people and takes place at 11 Moving Society Forward program was 45% out of all CSR activiVolvo sites in Sweden. It aims to secure long-term access to ties compared to 39% 2014. skilled employees and improve young peoples’ chances in the labor market. In total 1,055 people have completed the training Stop, Look, Wave and of these 70% had jobs and 10% had chosen to continue The Volvo Group conducts a wide range of trafﬁc safety camstudies when surveyed six months after ﬁnishing the program. paigns focusing on professional drivers as well as school children and local communities. Our training programs are run in the Disaster relief majority of the countries where we operate. In May 2015 we initiVolvo Group has a disaster relief fund that is approved by AB Volvo ated a global program called “Stop, Look, Wave”. We encouraged Board of Directors. This fund is used to support the work related to our 100,000 employees to get involved in promoting safety global natural disasters or catastrophes by providing our products awareness sessions for children in their immediate environment, or money to the most relevant organization related to the disaster. with the help of specially developed training kits. We simultaneDuring 2015, the Volvo Group donated for example SEK 5 M to ously launched a campaign with the International Road Transport UNHCR, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, to support Union (IRU). The campaign is directed at drivers to encourage their work in providing refugees with emergency relief items such them to always be aware of vulnerable road users and do their as shelter, food, water and medical care. utmost to drive safely. And, of course, to wave back to children who wave at them. In 2015, we reached out to more than 50,000 SHARED VALUE children with this campaign and it will continue in 2016. Vocational training For the Volvo Group, creating During 2015, we continued our work to establish vocational training shared value involves schools for mechanics, drivers and operators of trucks, buses and Societal Business moving both our business construction equipment, mainly in Africa and South East Asia. In challenges opportunities and society forward. We total, training will be provided for around 4,500 young people enaShared enhance our competitivebling them to be employed within the transport industry and enavalue ness while simultaneously bling Volvo Group customers to ﬁnd skilled drivers, operators and advancing the economic, after market personnel. At the end of 2015, vocational schools had environmental and social conditions of the societies in been established in Ethiopia and initiated in Morocco and Zambia. Volvo Group’s which we operate. unique assets and expertise 69 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BEHAVIOR ACTIVELY EARNING TRUST SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT SHARED VALUE The Volvo Group aims to increase trust and gain long-term strength by managing RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOR and mitigating risks and behaving in a responsible manner across our entire operations and value chain. T o become a world leader in sustainable transport solutions, we must not only act in compliance with RESPONSIBILITY all laws and regulations, but see them as minimum THROUGH: requirements. As a responsible company, the Volvo Group must put ethics and integrity into practice Implementing our Code of Conduct and bringing our throughout our organization and across the whole core values and corporate culture to life. value chain. This is described in the value chain section on page 24 and forward. The most material aspects of responsible business behavior for the Volvo Group and our stakeholders are: • Legal compliance The Global Compact • Business ethics and integrity In 2001, the Volvo Group signed the Global • Human rights. Compact, the UN’s initiative on socially Workplace health, safety and wellbeing and diversity and incluresponsible business practices. sion are also important. ETHICS AND INTEGRITY F or us, business ethics and integrity involve risk awareemployees have completed ness and transparency regarding our work with antithe web-based training. In 48 corruption, competition law, tax strategies, political 2016, we will launch the neutrality and the risk of human rights abuse. Game of Conduct as our new We act as a responsible business by implementing the princie-learning tool. The target is ples of our Code of Conduct and by bringing our corporate core for 90% of all white-collar % values and our corporate culture to life. employees to complete the training in 2016. The Game COMPLETED Mandatory Code of Conduct will be available in 14 lanTRAINING The Volvo Group Code of Conduct is a mandatory Group-wide guages and it will be followed policy for appropriate ethical business behavior and responsibility by team discussions on ethitowards our stakeholders. Its content is based on international cal dilemmas. It will be possible for blue-collar employees to play norms, including the United Nation’s (UN) Global Compact and The Game of Conduct on mobile devices. the OECD’s guidelines for multinational companies. To increase awareness and knowledge about the Group’s The Code has been adopted by the AB Volvo Board of Direcresponsible behavior among external stakeholders, it will also tors and is publicly available on www.volvogroup.com/responsibilbe available outside the Volvo Group at www.volvogroup.com/ ity. The Volvo Group Code of Conduct is complemented by around gameofconduct 20 other policies that describe in more detail how to address the code’s minimum standards. Complying with the Code of Conduct Adherence to the Code of Conduct is monitored through manGamiﬁcation to increase awareness agement control systems, internal controls, audits and the annual During 2015 the Volvo Group Code of Conduct training was availemployee survey. able as an e-learning course and a workshop with open discusAll employees are expected and encouraged to report sussions. It was adapted for speciﬁc target groups, such as purchasers pected violations to their superiors. If reporting to superiors is not and new managers. Since November 2012, 48% of white-collar feasible or possible, a whistleblower procedure is available, which 70 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BEHAVIOR gives employees access to the Head of Corporate Audit and the Quality, safety and environmental care opportunity to remain anonymous. The Volvo Group does not tolOur core values, as deﬁned on page 21, are key to support the erate retaliation against a person for making complaints of susdevelopment of sustainable transport solutions. Our policies state pected improper behavior in good faith. that the Volvo brand shall be a leader in the areas of quality, safety In total, 55 reports were logged in 2015 including 22 incident and environmental care. reports sent by management. All cases were addressed, investigated and reported to the Audit Committee of the AB Volvo Board Volvo Group culture values of Directors. In total two whistleblower cases and 8 management During 2015, extensive work has been carried out relating to the reports were substantiated as of February 3rd, 2016. Volvo Group culture. Interviews and analysis have been conducted The most common report categories were personnel manageas a strong basis for our new CEO to focus the culture around ment and conﬂict of interest. The Volvo Group is planning to some selected values that support the long-term direction and enhance the whistleblower procedure in 2016 by offering reporters vision for the Volvo Group. Implementation of this work will start a secure web-based reporting mechanism. during 2016. TAXES T he Volvo Group’s policy is to comply with the tax laws Country basis (CBCR) have and regulations of each country in which it operates. been developed. The Volvo 28 Where tax laws do not give clear guidance, prudence Group will report in full compliand transparency are our guiding principles. Given the ance with these new standrole of taxes as a way to fund public welfare we regard corporate ards and is well advanced in tax compliance not purely as a question of legal compliance, but developing reporting tools to % also a matter of responsible business behavior. A fundamental accommodate these new objective of our tax policy is to ensure compliance with these prinrequirements as they are curAVERAGE ciples throughout the Group, and at the same time ensure tax efﬁciency through tax-conscious management of the operations. rently being implemented into local legislation. TAX RATE The average corporate tax Tax reporting in accordance with new regulations rate of the Volvo Group for The Volvo Group reports taxes in accordance with the laws and regthe last ﬁve years is approximately 28%, whereof SEK 11 billion or ulations in each country where we operate. As part of the OECD 58% of current taxes relates to emerging markets as deﬁned by the project on Base Erosion and Proﬁt Shifting (BEPS), new international IMF. The Volvo Group is not engaged in any aggressive tax planstandards for reporting corporate income tax on a Country-byning activities and does not operate through structures in tax havens. LEGAL COMPLIANCE Compliance with anti-trust and anti-corruption Training in compliance As set out in our Code of Conduct, the Volvo Group is committed Training is a central compo90 to complying with the anti-trust (competition) and anti-corruption nent of the Group’s complilaws in all jurisdictions where we conduct business. It says further ance programs. In 2015, that we promise to compete in a fair manner and with integrity and more than 10,200 employees not to participate in or endorse any corrupt practices. These prinreceived face-to-face train% ciples of compliance are implemented through the Volvo Group ing. E-learning on legal comCompliance Policy and dedicated compliance programs. pliance topics is required on COMPLETED a rolling basis and in 2015, E-LEARNING Updated due diligence process for business partners our competition law e-learnOur programs consist of a number of elements, including policies ing was completed by more and guidelines, a comprehensive range of e-learning and tailored than 42,800 employees. This represents more than 90% of all face-to-face training, counseling and support, as well as auditing white-collar employees. and review. The Volvo Group whistleblower procedures also apply In addition, the Volvo Group implemented its “embedding” to our compliance programs. project. The purpose of the project is to integrate compliance and In 2015, the Volvo Group updated the process for anti-corrupawareness into all business activities and decisions, so that tion due diligence assessments of business partners. The aim is compliance becomes an even stronger part of the Volvo Group to enhance the existing processes designed to prevent bribery by culture. The project involves focused training of management third parties carrying out business on behalf of the Volvo Group. groups at all levels, support to managers in integrating compliThe system includes the use of external tools, and applies to ance into the activities of their teams and follow-up to ensure full existing and new business partners. engagement. 71 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BEHAVIOR CSR GOVERNANCE T he Corporate Governance Report is detailed later in this Implementation of principles in Code of Conduct report, on page 168. The structures we have in place for The Volvo Group CSR Committee supports and develops the CSR and sustainability governance enable rapid and efﬁGroup’s CSR work. This committee focuses on work related to cient decisions and adjustments, when necessary. We responsible business practice and the implementation of the prinaim to involve all employees and clarify how each individual contribciples in our Code of Conduct into daily operations. The CSR utes towards our targets. Committee is chaired the Volvo Group’s Senior Vice President, Corporate Social Responsibility Management. The committee’s New corporate function members include CSR managers from across the Group who repFollowing the Volvo Group’s structural reorganization, taking resent different relevant processes for the implementation of the effect on 1 January 2015, the responsibility for the two corporate principles in our Code of Conduct with the support of their own functions, Corporate Communication and Corporate Sustainability CSR networks. & Public Affairs, was merged into the new corporate function of Corporate Communication & Sustainability Affairs. Network for efﬁcient social engagement Henry Sténson was appointed Executive Vice President CorDuring 2015, the CSR country manager network started the porate Communication & Sustainability Affairs and member of the implementation of an effective societal engagement program, Volvo Group Executive Team. Corporate Communication & SusMoving Society Forward. The members of this group coordinate tainability Affairs is responsible for: CSR activities in their respective countries and share experiences • Strategies, direction and following up on performance of their work in the Volvo Group’s Moving Society Forward program. • Supporting and developing the Volvo Group’s businesses in areas related to CSR and sustainability, public affairs and relevant emerging issues. MANAGING HUMAN RIGHTS T he Volvo Group is a company with a global reach, and as such, we have operations, suppliers, customers and MOST IMPORTANT HUMAN other business partners in countries with higher risks of RIGHTS ISSUES human rights abuses. We have embarked on the journey to implement the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Labor rights of business partners’ Rights. Speciﬁc policies guide our work such as our Code of Conduct, our Health and Safety Policy and our Responsible Supply 1 employees 2 Chain Directive. The Volvo Group has deﬁned our salient human Rights of people in communities rights issues as labor rights of business partners’ employees; near operations in our value chain rights of people in communities near operations in our value chain and right to life, liberty, security and health. We are increasingly developing and integrating tools to assess and manage human rights in all our main processes. During 2016 we will initiate human 3 Right to life, liberty, security and health rights due diligence for our own organization. Labor rights of business partners’ employees The Volvo Group’s Code of Conduct sets out our minimum standards for respecting human rights and labor practices. We encourRights of people in communities near age all partners to share and apply these standards, regardless of operations in our value chain country or business. Our responsible sourcing program, page 30, All people have the right to an adequate standard of living and to and customer CSR assessment process, page 38, are two tools ownership of land and property. For people living in certain comwe work with to ensure that human rights are respected in our munities near operations in our value chain, we see risks of these value chain. Where human rights issues are identiﬁed, the Group rights not being properly respected. We have policies and procebelieves that we can have more impact by cooperating with partdures to reduce the negative environmental impact and ambitions ners and applying inﬂuence from the inside, than by abstaining to increase the positive social impact from our operations. We from business and remaining on the outside. encourage our business partners to do the same. 72 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BEHAVIOR Right to life, liberty, security and health making bodies. We manufacture commercial products used to Mitigating the risk of accidents or harm to all employees within build and maintain communities around the world, and such prodour facilities is an important part of our approach to health, safety ucts are sold openly and without restrictions. Our products are and wellbeing, see page 74. We encourage our business partners to resold on the second-hand market and may be used for purposes provide a safe and healthy work environment for their employees. we did not intend, including causing harm to people. Any misuse To minimize risks of traffic accidents, the Volvo Group has focused of our products for destructive purposes, is regrettable, but such on safety and quality since 1927, read more on page 27 and 61. The practices are exceptional and beyond our direct control. For our Volvo Group works hard to reduce emissions from our production sales of military products, on top of following all legal and export facilities to minimize harm to people, read more on page 34. control regulations, we have a directive for military sales to certain Wherever we do business, we adhere to local laws and reguladestinations, including human rights considerations. tions as well as international laws and regulations, including ­boycotts and sanctions agreed by inter-governmental decision-­ LABOR RELATIONS L abor relations topics are included in the Volvo Group Code Collaborating to find of Conduct covering all employees and consultants. ­solutions There are several dialogue platforms for our employees: In response to economic condiLESS THAN • AB Volvo Board: there are three ordinary members of employee representatives on the AB Volvo Board of Directors and two deputies appointed by employee organizations. tions and sales volumes, we made 3,400 redundancies among regular Volvo Group employees globally 0.25% OF WORKING • Volvo European Works Council (EWC) meets once a year focusing during 2015. Comp­ ulsory redunon European issues and sharing best practices. In 2015 there were dancies accounted for less than DAYS LOST 13 formal information and consultation meetings with the EWC. 4% of the total regular headcount. • Volvo Global Works Council (GWC) includes union representaEmployees’ representatives and tives from the existing EWC and from wholly-owned Volvo Group relevant government authorities are always notified about major companies in countries outside Europe with more than 500 regchanges in our organization in accordance with our Code of Conular employees. In 2015, over 50 representatives represented duct and legal requirements. Labor organizations are informed via 25 different countries. formal forums and are also represented in board meetings. • Volvo Global Dialogue (VGD) gives employee representatives The Volvo Group enters into consultation and negotiations with from the GWC a yearly opportunity to meet with senior Group trade unions and/or works councils about changes that affect Management. The 2015 VGD gathered 45 representatives from their members. During 2015, 105 consultations were held with 20 different countries on the theme “2015 – The Year of Transtrade unions and 126 consultations with works councils over formation”. organizational changes (e.g. restructuring, outsourcing, layoffs). In the spirit of the Volvo Group culture and in accordance with Supporting freedom of association our Code of Conduct, we work to find reasonable solutions for The Volvo Group respects the right of all employees to join an employees who are laid off. This includes internal mobility forums, association to represent their interests as employees, to organize which support the establishment of new enterprises, and outand to bargain collectively or individually. An employee’s right to placement support. refrain from joining a union is equally respected. In addition the Volvo Group often works closely together with The Group now reports on collective bargaining agreements in local agencies or governmental offices to support affected 24 countries, up from 16 in 2014. The latest study covered nearly employees. 95% of all regular employees. Overall, 71% of regular employees in these countries were covered by collective bargaining agreements, and we estimate that more than 43% of regular employees were members of an independent trade union. During 2015, less than approximately 0.25% of available working days were lost through walkouts or strikes within the Volvo Group. These strikes were mainly related to our Brazil salary negotiations due to the difficult economical environment and also to some extent to our French social plan negotiations. All issues were resolved through close communication and partnership with our employee representatives. 73 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BEHAVIOR DEVELOPING HEALTH, SAFETY AND WELLBEING S afety is one of Volvo’s core values and our ambition is increase awareness and zero accidents for our employees and our customers reduce accidents during with our products. The Volvo Group has a strong focus on health and safety in the workplace and we believe loading and unloading. This best practice is now part of ACCIDENT DECREASE BY performance and engagement are strongly linked to wellbeing. a global safety directive to During 2015, we launched an updated Health and Safety Policy based on the belief that accidents, near misses and work-related illnesses can be prevented. The new policy sets out where minimum standards, training, awareness and upstream integration in our product and working processes should be applied. be launched in 2016. Measuring for improvement In 2015, our Lost Time Acci13% dent Rate (LTAR) was 1.38 Health, safety and wellbeing to improve efﬁciency covering 91% of employees. This was in line with the target of Health and safety is also important when it comes to working 1.3 for 2015 and an improvement of 13% compared to the LTAR more efﬁciently. For example setting ergonomic targets was part rate 2014 at 1.6. of the transfer of activities to increase efﬁciency in cab and vehicle This year there were no fatal accidents compared to three in 2014. assembly in Europe. On engine and axle assembly lines in Ghent, In 2015 over 29 of our production sites were OSHAS 18001Belgium, the number of workstations with very good ergonomic certiﬁed. To ensure that our health and safety culture is visible in conditions increased from 10% to 90%. our workshops and in employees’ behavior, we follow up through Mental health is included in our policy and a global plan has OSHAS 18001, Volvo Production System and health and safety been launched to increase awareness and work more proactively audits. in this area. In 2015 we achieved zero accidents at 13 plants the same as The Volvo Group Health and Safety Award 2015 was given to 2014. There are economic as well as social beneﬁts of being the Logistics Services Distribution Center in Ghent for implementaccident free and one example is our production plant in Linyi, ing a preventive and simple way of working with the truck driver to China, which has been accident free for 7 years. BENEFITING FROM DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION D iversity is a key factor in business performance and GENDER DIVERSITY OF THE VOLVO GROUP WORKFORCE work is coordinated on a global scale. Our long-term % 2015 2014 target is for all levels and operations of the Group’s Share of women 18 18 employee and management pool to reﬂect the diverShare of women, presidents sity of the world in which we do business. and other senior executives 21 21 Building better business with diversity and inclusion Our second Diversity and Inclusion Week was celebrated across the Volvo Group in September 2015 with a focus on Building Better Business. Employees and managers at all levels expressed how diversity and inclusion improves performance. The Group • The Inclusiveness Index is based on how employees judge their Executive Team (GET) is responsible for making Diversity and workplace to be inclusive. The Inclusiveness Index was stable in Inclusive Leadership (DIL), part of business as usual. The target to 2015, but not at the desired level. train all managers down to CEO-3 level in DIL by the end of 2015 We also measure gender balance in total and at senior managewas not fully met (72% trained). The program continues with a ment level: revised goal to train all managers by the end of 2017. • The Gender Balance Indicator shows that women accounted for 18% of the Volvo Group’s global workforce, at the end of 2015. Room for improvement This was at the same level as 2014. The share of women among We use two key performance indicators to measure diversity, the presidents and senior executives was also ﬂat compared to the Balanced Team Indicator and the Inclusiveness Index: previous year, at 21%. • The Balanced Team Indicator is a quantitative measure covering For more information about diversity in the Volvo Group according nationality, gender, age and experience across different Volvo to region, gender etc., see the GRI G4 supplement, available in Group entities. The result for 2015 show a need for improvemid-March 2016 at www.volvogroup.com/responsibility ment in terms of diversity in the GET, especially with regard to nationality. In the level below the GET, average diversity scores increased slightly. 74 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BEHAVIOR CELEBRATING DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION T he Volvo Group Diversity and Inclusion week was celebrated all over the world in September. This is a team from our parts factory in Ghent, Belgium, taking part in the celebrations. 75 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2015 GLOBAL STRENGTH IN A CHANGING W O R L D Since the streamlining towards commercial vehicles was initiated more than ten years ago, the Volvo Group has grown into the world’s second largest manufacturer of heavy-duty trucks and one of the largest manufacturers of buses and construction equipment and is today also a leading manufacturer of heavy-duty diesel engines and marine and industrial engines. In 2015, market conditions varied around the world. Distribution of net sales by market 2015 NORTH AMERICA RICA Europe, 39% • Net sales: SEK 101,952 52 M (76,258) North America, 33% • Share of net sales: 33% 3% (27) • Number of employees: 15,534 (15,217) South America, 5% • Share of Group employees: 18% (16) Asia, 17% • Largest markets: The U.S., Canada and Mexico. Other markets, 6% • The heavy-duty truck market grew by 12% but weakened towards the end of the year. • Record deliveries of Volvo trucks. • Continued success for the Group’s captive engines and Market development, heavy-duty gearboxes, which are delivered in a growing number of trucks. trucks, Thousands • Improved proﬁtability in the truck business. • The construction equipment market grew, primarly driven by 1,000 compact machines. 800 600 China 400 N. America Europe 30 India 200 Japan Brazil 11 12 13 14 15 SOUTH AMERICA 242 222 240 228 270 Europe 30 216 250 236 270 302 N. America • Net sales: SEK 16,725 M (26,958)) 111 87 104 93 42 Brazil • Share of net sales: 5% (10) 25 32 34 42 44 Japan • Number of employees: 5,380 (6,353) 53) 237 195 132 155 210 India • Share of Group employees: 6% (7)) 882 636 774 744 551 China • e and Argentina. Largest markets: Brazil, Peru, Chile Argentina rg • Demand in the important Brazilian truck market declined further, Market development, construction mainly as a consequence of the weak economy. The heavy-duty equipment, Thousands truck market was down 55%. • Other South American markets held up better. 400 • New Volvo FH and Volvo FM rolled out. • The South American construction equipment market continued 300 to be negatively affected by the downturn in the global mining industry and declined by 36% as of November. 200 N. America Asia (excl. China) Europe 100 China S. America 11 12 13 14 15 131 126 122 130 124 Europe 127 158 160 178 182 N. America 47 50 52 45 30 S. America 399 252 261 215 112 China 145 164 166 163 157 Asia (excl. China) 76 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2015 GLOBAL STRENGTH The Group’s ﬁve largest markets The United States • France United Kingdom • Japan Canada EUROPE • Net sales: SEK 120,413 M (106,176) • Share of net sales: 39% (38) • Number of employees: 48,074 (50,833) • Share of Group employees: 54% (55) • Largest markets: France, the UK, Germany, Sweden and Norway. ASIA • Registrations of heavy-duty trucks in Europe increased by • Net sales: SEK 53,470 M (52,07 (52,076) 19% with a rebound in many markets. • Share of net sales: 17% (18) • Good development in the aftermarket. • Number of employees: 17,046 (17,793) • Market share slightly down for Volvo and slightly up for • Share of Group employees: 19% (19) Renault Trucks. • Largest markets: Japan, China, South Korea, Turkey and India. • The construction equipment market declined by 6% as of November. • Continued decline in the important Chinese market for construction equipment, which went down by a further 48%. • Mixed development in the truck markets with India growing, Japan and other developed markets being relatively stable and China and Southeast Asia declining. • Acquisition of 45% of the Chinese company Dongfeng Commercial Vehicles completed in January 2015. OTHER MARKETS (Africa and Oceania) • Net sales: SEK 19,955 M (21,481) • Share of net sales: 6% (7) • Number of employees: 2,430 (2,626) • Share of Group employees: 3% (3) • Largest markets: Australia, South Africa, Algeria, Morocco and Egypt. • Demand in Australia continued to be negatively impacted by the downturn in the mining industry. • Turmoil in Northern Africa and low demand for commodities affecting demand in the region. • The South African market declined as a consequence of slow economic growth. 77 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2015 SIGNIFICANT EVENTS PUBLISHED IN QUARTERLY REPORTS DURING 2 015 2015 was characterized by mixed market conditions, continued internal measures to increase efﬁciency and reduce costs as well as acquisitions and divestments. Completion of the acquisition of 45% of Dongfeng Commercial Vehicles 45 On January 5, 2015 AB Volvo announced that it had completed the acquisition of 45% of the Chinese truck manufacturer Dongfeng Commercial Vehicles Co., Ltd (DFCV). The purchase consideration amounted to RMB 5.5 billion. DFCV includes most of Dongfeng’s operations in heavyand medium-duty commercial % vehicles. The transaction strengthens the Volvo Group’s position in China while the Group will become one of the world’s largest OWNERSHIP manufacturers of both mediumand heavy-duty trucks. IN DFCV Volvo sold holding in the listed Indian company Eicher Motors Limited On March 4, 2015 the Volvo Group announced that it had sold 1,270,000 shares in the listed Indian automotive manufacturer, Matti Alahuhta, James W. Grifﬁth, Kathryn V. Marinello, Hanne Eicher Motors Limited, for an amount totaling approximately SEK de Mora, Anders Nyrén, Carl-Henric Svanberg, Olof Persson and 2.5 billion. The sale generated a capital gain of SEK 2,471 M, Lars Westerberg were reelected as members of the Board. Marwhich impacted operating income in the Trucks segment in the tina Merz and Eckhard Cordes were elected as new members of ﬁrst quarter of 2015. The divestment of shares has no effect on the Board. Carl-Henric Svanberg was reelected as Chairman of ownership or the development of the longstanding joint venture, the Board. VE Commercial Vehicles. A remuneration policy for senior executives was adopted in accordance with the Board of Directors’ motion. Annual General Meeting of AB Volvo The Annual General Meeting of AB Volvo held on April 1, 2015, Volvo sold remaining holding in Eicher Motors Limited approved the Board of Directors’ motions that a dividend of SEK On June 4, 2015 the Volvo Group sold its remaining holding in the 3.00 per share be paid to the company’s shareholders. listed Indian automotive manufacturer, Eicher Motors Limited. The sale corresponded to 1,005,610 shares with a total value of VOLVO GROUP PRESS RELEASES 2015 THE FIRST QUARTER THE SECOND QUARTER 05/01/2015 Volvo completes the acquisition of 45% of Dongfeng Commer01/04/2015 Technology award for dual clutch for trucks 01/04/2015 cial Vehicles 22/01/2015 Invitation to press and analyst conference in StockAnnual General Meeting of AB Volvo 22/04/2015 Volvo Group – the ﬁrst holm 30/01/2015 New number of votes in AB Volvo 05/02/2015 Volvo quarter 2015 22/04/2015 New date for press and analyst conference coverGroup – the fourth quarter 2014 16/02/2015 Volvo scholarship for research ing the report for the ﬁrst quarter 2015 22/04/2015 Martin Lundstedt on why we travel the way we do 19/02/2015 Truck deliveries in January 2015 appointed President and CEO of the Volvo Group 29/04/2015 Young cancer 25/02/2015 Martina Merz and Eckhard Cordes proposed as new Board memresearcher receives Assar Gabrielsson award for research into antioxidants bers of AB Volvo 26/02/2015 Annual General Meeting of AB Volvo 29/04/2015 Annual Report of Volvo Treasury AB (publ) 11/05/2015 Press 04/03/2015 Volvo sells holding in the listed Indian company Eicher Motors conference and emission-free bus trip 21/05/2015 Truck deliveries in April Limited 11/03/2015 AB Volvo publishes 2014 Annual Report 19/03/2015 2015 01/06/2015 Volvo continues to invest in attracting young people to the Truck deliveries in February 2015 21/03/2015 Volvo to train service techniindustry 04/06/2015 Volvo sells remaining holding in the listed Indian comcians in Zambia 25/03/2015 AB Volvo publishes its sustainability report for pany Eicher Motors Limited 15/06/2015 Electric bus route 55 launched in 2014 31/03/2015 New number of votes in AB Volvo Gothenburg 18/06/2015 Truck deliveries in May 2015 30/06/2015 New number of votes in AB Volvo 30/06/2015 Volvo Group Celebrates Inauguration of New Central Distribution Center in Mississippi, USA 78 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2015 SIGNIFICANT EVENTS approximately SEK 2.2 billion. The sale generated a capital gain EVENTS AFTER BALANCE SHEET DATE of SEK 2,137 M, which impacted operating income in the Trucks On January 27, 2016 changes to Volvo’s Group Executive Board segment in the second quarter of 2015. and truck organization with clearer commercial accountability were announced. The Volvo Group will effective March 1, 2016 New CEO of the Volvo Group introduce a brand-based organization with clearer commercial On October 22, 2015 Martin Lundstedt, 47, assumed the position accountability for the Group’s various truck brands. Four separate of President and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of the Volvo Group. His units will be created: Volvo Trucks, UD Trucks, Renault Trucks and most recent role was as President and CEO of the Scania Group. Mack Trucks, each with proﬁt and loss responsibility for their The decision to appoint Martin Lundstedt as the new President respective business. Volvo Group will comprise ten business and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer was taken in April by the Board of areas: Volvo Trucks, UD Trucks, Mack Trucks, Renault Trucks, Directors of AB Volvo. Value Truck & JV:s, Volvo Construction Equipment, Volvo Buses, Volvo Penta, Governmental Sales and Volvo Financial Services. Volvo wins arbitration case Volvo’s Group Executive Board will be changed to include repreThe Volvo Group won a case in the Arbitration Tribunal relating to sentatives from some of the Group’s business areas. defective components. The deliveries were made several years ago and the problem was corrected in the production process many More information is available at www.volvogroup.com years ago. The outcome had a positive impact of SEK 809 M on the Volvo Group’s operating income in the fourth quarter 2015. Divestment of IT business and outsourcing of IT infrastructure operations The Volvo Group announced on October 20, the intention to divest its external IT business and to outsource IT infrastructure operations to HCL Technologies. On February 16, 2016 a ﬁnal agreement was signed. The transaction is expected to be implemented on March 31, 2016 and will provide both cost savings and a capital gain of approximately SEK 900 M. THE THIRD QUARTER THE FOURTH QUARTER 03/07/2015 Invitation to the Volvo Group report on the ﬁrst six months 2015 01/10/2015 ElectriCity’s campaign featuring Zara Larsson and Seinabo Sey 09/07/2015 First students to graduate from Volvo’s vocational training school reaches 2.5 million views 09/10/2015 Invitation to press and analyst conferin Ethiopia 17/07/2015 Volvo Group – the second quarter 2015 31/07/2015 ence in Stockholm 20/10/2015 Volvo intends to divest external IT business New number of votes in AB Volvo 20/08/2015 Truck deliveries in July 2015 and outsource IT infrastructure operations to HCL Technologies 21/10/2015 27/08/2015 Semi-Annual Report of Volvo Treasury AB (publ) 10/09/2015 Atmospheric detective receives Volvo Environment Prize award for 2015 The Volvo Group qualiﬁes for the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index (DJSI) 23/10/2015 Volvo Group – the third quarter 2015 10/11/2015 Volvo wins 11/09/2015 Future changes to Volvo Group’s management 16/09/2015 arbitration case concerning defective components 19/11/2015 Truck deliverRefuse truck driver is supported by robot 17/09/2015 Truck deliveries in ies in October 2015 17/12/2015 Truck deliveries in November 2015 August 2015 22/09/2015 One of Sweden’s hottest artists performs surprise 18/12/2015 Upcoming changes to Volvo Group’s Management 30/12/2015 gig to promote new electric bus route 24/09/2015 Zara Larsson performs New number of votes in AB Volvo new song in a video recorded on Gothenburg’s electric bus route 26/09/2015 Electric buses can save millions of kronor for society and the environment 30/09/2015 New number of votes in AB Volvo 79 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE IMPROVED UNDERLYING P R O F I TA B I L I T Y For the Volvo Group 2015 was a year with improved underlying proﬁtability despite unchanged volumes. INCOME STATEMENTS VOLVO GROUP Industrial Operations Customer Finance Eliminations Volvo Group SEK M 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Note Net sales 6, 7 303,582 275,999 11,199 10,111 –2,265 –3,162 312,515 282,948 Cost of sales –236,311 –217,251 –6,607 –5,923 2,265 3,162 –240,653 –220,012 Gross income 67,271 58,748 4,591 4,188 – – 71,862 62,937 Research and development expenses –15,368 –16,656 – – – – –15,368 –16,656 Selling expenses –25,857 –25,778 –1,837 –1,670 – – –27,694 –27,448 Administrative expenses –5,728 –5,367 –41 –41 – – –5,769 –5,408 Other operating income and expenses Note 8 –3,473 –6,931 –706 –766 – – –4,179 –7,697 Income from investments in joint ventures Note and associated companies 5, 6 –143 46 – – – – –143 46 Income/loss from other investments Note 5 4,610 49 –2 1 – – 4,609 50 Operating income 21,312 4,111 2,006 1,712 – – 23,318 5,824 Interest income and similar credits 257 328 – – – – 257 328 Interest expenses and similar charges –2,366 –1,994 0 – – – –2,366 –1,994 Other ﬁnancial income and expenses Note 9 –792 931 0 – – – –792 931 Income after ﬁnancial items 18,411 3,377 2,006 1,712 – – 20,418 5,089 Income taxes Note 10 –4,687 –2,287 –633 –568 – – –5,320 –2,854 Income for the period 13,725 1,091 1,373 1,145 – – 15,099 2,235 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent company 15,058 2,099 Minority interests Note 11 41 136 15,099 2,235 Basic earnings per share, SEK Note 19 7.42 1.03 Diluted earnings per share, SEK Note 19 7.41 1.03 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME SEK M 2015 2014 Income for the period 15,099 2,235 Items that will not be reclassiﬁed to income statement: Remeasurements of deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans 2,783 –2,833 Items that may be reclassiﬁed subsequently to income statement: Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations –2,481 5,998 Share of OCI related to joint ventures and associated companies 24 198 Accumulated translation difference reversed to income 45 33 Available-for-sale investments –3,837 3,067 Change in cash ﬂow hedge reserve Note 19 –32 24 Other comprehensive income, net of income taxes –3,498 6,487 Total comprehensive income for the period 11,601 8,722 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent company 11,527 8,334 Minority interests 74 388 11,601 8,722 80 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE VOLVO GROUP Net sales Out of the Volvo Group total sale the Vehicle portion made up Net sales increased by 10.4% explained predominantly by positive 75% which is a slight increase compared to 2014. currency impact mainly related to the appreciation of the USD towards SEK. Excluding the currency impact there were slightly Operating income increased sales for Trucks where the increased volumes in primarOperating income increased by SEK 17.5 billion (300%) compared ily North America and Western Europe was to great extent offset with prior year out of which approximately SEK 8.9 billion came by the sharp decline in South America following the continued from improved gross income which primarily is explained by posiweak market in primarily Brazil and in Africa explained by lower tive currency impact where the Volvo Group could leverage from demand from the commodity driven economies and political the weakening SEK towards most of the major currencies with the turbulence. Construction Equipment sales declined signiﬁcantly Volvo Group’s sizeable manufacturing footprint in Sweden. Addiexplained by the overall weak demand for construction equipment tionally a positive product mix for Construction Equipment and although with a better product mix with higher portion sale of bigBuses also contributed positively to the gross income while Penta ger machines. The volume decrease was explained by signiﬁcant contributed predominantly due to increased volumes. The lower decrease in China following the economic slowdown in Brazil due utilization of the industrial system for Construction Equipment in to the economic weakness and Russia explained by both the geogeneral and in South America for the whole Volvo Group had negpolitical situation and sharp decline in commodity prices. Furtherative impact on the gross income. more sales volume in North America also saw a decline explained In addition to the positive contribution from the improved gross by product exits for Volvo branded motor graders and backhoe income lower R&D expenses of SEK 1.3 billion as a result of genloaders. Buses and Volvo Penta sales excluding currency showed erally lower expense level but also higher capitalization in 2015 solid increase explained by better market and product mix for had a positive impact on operating income. Furthermore the Buses and increased volumes for Volvo Penta. underlying reductions in selling and administration costs was not Net sales by business area, SEK M 2015 2014 % Operating margin, % 2015 2014 Trucks 213,978 190,904 12 Trucks 9.1 2.2 Construction Equipment 51,008 52,855 –3 Construction Equipment 4.0 1.2 Buses 23,580 18,645 26 Buses 3.6 0.5 Volvo Penta 9,406 7,790 21 Volvo Penta 11.5 9.3 Corporate Functions, Industrial Operations 7.0 1.5 Group Functions & Other 8,346 8,162 2 Volvo Group 7.5 2.1 Eliminations –2,736 –2,356 – Industrial Operations1 303,582 275,999 10 Change in operating income, Customer Finance 11,199 10,111 11 SEK bn Change Reclassiﬁcations and eliminations –2,265 –3,162 – (excluding curCurrency Volvo Group 312,515 282,948 10 rency) impact Total 1 Adjusted for acquired and divested units and changes in currency rates, Operating income 2014 5.8 net sales was unchanged. Change in gross income Industrial Operations 1.1 7.4 8.5 Change in gross income Customer Finance 0.4 0.0 0.4 Operating income/loss by business area, Higher credit losses1 –0.1 –0.1 –0.2 SEK M 2015 2014 Change in group structure 0.0 0.0 0.0 Trucks 19,517 4,157 Higher capitalization of development cost 0.9 0.0 0.9 Construction Equipment 2,044 652 Lower research and development Buses 860 92 expenditures 1.0 –0.6 0.4 Volvo Penta 1,086 724 Higher selling and administrative expenses 0.8 –1.5 –0.7 Corporate Functions, Group Functions & Other –2,189 –1,689 Sale of shares in Eicher Motors Limited 4.6 0.0 4.6 Eliminations –6 176 Provision related to EU antitrust Industrial Operations 21,312 4,111 investigation 2014 3.8 0.0 3.8 Provision related to engine emission case Customer Finance 2,006 1,712 in the U.S 2014 0.4 0.0 0.4 Volvo Group 23,318 5,824 Favourable outcome in arbitration case 0.8 0.0 0.8 Divestment of real estate –0.4 0.0 –0.4 Net sales, SEK bn Operating income, Restructuring and efﬁciency program 0.2 0.0 0.2 SEK M Volvo proﬁt sharing program –0.5 0.0 –0.5 Other –0.6 –0.1 –0.7 2014 2015 Operating income 2015 23,3 1 The higher credit losses are related to Industrial Operations. –2,258 Q4 11 12 13 14 15 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 310 300 273 283 313 2,269 3,563 2,250 6,837 7,317 4,653 4,511 81 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE enough to offset the currency headwind leading to a net cost Income taxes increase of SEK 0.7 billion. The operating income was also posiThe tax expense for the year amounted to SEK 5.3 billion (2.9) tively impacted by the sale of the shares in Eicher Motors Limited corresponding to a tax rate of 26% (56). The tax rate was with approximately SEK 4.6 billion and the comparable ﬁgures impacted by both the non-taxable capital gain from the divestincludes the provision for EU-litigation of SEK 3.8 billion. Credit ment of shares in Eicher Motors Limited of SEK 4.6 billion which provision in Volvo CE in China of SEK 0.7 billion (0.7) was recogwas offset by the revaluation of deferred tax assets in Japan of nized during the year. Additionally positive outcome of an arbitraSEK –1.1 billion. The tax rate in 2014 was impacted by the nontion case and gain on sale of properties had a positive impact of deductible provision for EU antitrust litigation. approximately SEK 1 billion in the current year, in line with last year’s capital gain on properties. Operating income also included Income for the period and earnings per share SEK 2.3 billion (2.6) related to restructuring costs. The income for the period amounted to SEK 15,099 M (2,235), corresponding to diluted earnings per share of SEK 7.41 (1.03). Net ﬁnancial items The return on shareholders’ equity was 18.4% (2.8%). Compared to previous year, net interest expense increased due to higher interest rates on outstanding debt. Impact of exchange rates on operating income Net interest expense for the Volvo Group amounted to SEK 2.1 Operating income for 2015 in Industrial Operations was positively billion (1.7). impacted by approximately SEK 5.1 billion mainly as a consequence Other ﬁnancial income and expense were negatively impacted of the depreciation of the SEK against most of the key Volvo Group in an amount of SEK 0.5 billion from realized result and unrealized currencies. The currency impact was primarily related to the net revaluation of derivatives related to hedging, compared to a posiﬂows in foreign currency. tive impact of SEK 1.1 billion in the previous year. Transaction exposure from operating net ﬂows1 Read more in Note 9 Other ﬁnancial income and expenses. SEK bn Key operating ratios, % 20 Industrial Operations 2015 2014 10 Gross margin 22.2 21.3 0 Research and development expenses as percentage of net sales 5.1 6.0 –10 Selling expenses as percentage of net sales 8.5 9.3 –20 Administrative expenses as percentage of net sales 1.9 1.9 –30 Operating margin 7.0 1.5 –40 USD GBP NOK CAD ZAR BRL EUR KRW SEK Other 19 9 4 5 4 –1 –2 –8 –39 9 16 6 4 3 3 3 –4 –9 –33 11 Net sales by market area, SEK M 2015 2014 % Currency ﬂow 2015 Currency ﬂow 2014 Western Europe 99,944 86,011 16 Eastern Europe 17,402 17,826 –2 1 The graph above represents the transaction exposure from commercial operating net cash ﬂows in foreign currency in Industrial Operations, expressed as North America 97,971 73,358 34 net surpluses or deﬁcits in key currencies. The deﬁcit in SEK and KRW is South America 15,611 25,837 –40 mainly an effect of expenses for manufacturing plants in Sweden and Korea, Asia 52,923 51,717 2 but limited external revenues in those currencies. The EUR deﬁcit on the Other markets 19,731 21,249 –7 other hand, is the net of signiﬁcant gross volumes of sales and purchases Total Industrial Operations 303,582 275,999 10 made by many entities around the globe in EUR. The surplus in USD is mainly generated from external sales within the US and emerging markets. Read more in Note 4 Goals and policies in ﬁnancial risk management Impact of exchange rates on operating income regarding Industrial Operations transaction exposure from operating net Compared with preceding year, SEK M ﬂows as well as currency effects on sales and operating income. Industrial Operations Net sales1 27,045 Cost of sales –19,658 Research and development expenses Research and development expenses –634 Selling and administrative expenses –1,520 Research and development Other –115 expenses, SEK bn Total effect of changes in exchange rates on operating income 5,119 Research and development 1 The Volvo Group sales are reported at monthly average rates. expenses, % of Industrial Operations’ net sales 11 12 13 14 15 13.3 14.6 15.1 16.7 15.4 4.4 5.0 5.7 6.0 5.1 82 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL POSITION STRENGTHENED FINANCIAL POSITION Net ﬁnancial debt in the Volvo Group’s Industrial Operations decreased by SEK 13.1 billion during 2015 and equals to 17.6% of shareholders’ equity at December 31. D uring 2015 net ﬁnancial debt, excluding The Group’s intangible assets amounted to SEK 36.4 billion as provisions for post-employment beneﬁts in of December 31, 2015. Investments in research and development Industrial Operations, decreased by SEK 10.3 amounted to SEK 2.3 billion (1.4), resulting in a net value of capibillion, resulting in a net ﬁnancial asset positalized development costs of SEK 11.7 billion at the end of the tion of SEK 0.3 billion on December 31, 2015. year. Compared to prior year, capitalization increased while the This was equal to 0.5% of shareholders’ equity. amortization correspond to 2014 years level. The Volvo Group’s Including provisions for postemployment beneﬁts, the Industrial total goodwill amounted to SEK 22.1 billion as of December 31, Operations net ﬁnancial debt amounted to SEK 13.2 billion which 2015, an increase by SEK 0.6 billion compared to year-end 2014. was equal to 17.6% of shareholders’ equity. The decrease was The goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis. mainly explained by a positive operating cash-ﬂow of SEK 18,3 billion, the disposal of shares in the listed Indian company Eicher Read more in Note 12 Intangible assets regarding the impairment Motors Limited, remeasurements of the deﬁned beneﬁt pension test on goodwill. obligation by SEK 3.5 billion offset by the acquisition of 45% of Dongfeng Commercial Vehicles by SEK 7.0 billion and dividend Tangible assets decreased by SEK 0.3 billion during 2015. paid to the AB Volvo shareholders by SEK 6.1 billion. The decrease The value of inventories decreased by SEK 1.1 billion during of the deﬁned beneﬁt pension obligations was an effect of an 2015. The decrease is mainly related to ﬁnished products within increase in the discount rate, mainly in Sweden. Trucks and Construction Equipment. As of December 31, 2015 assets amounting to SEK 3,314 M Read more in Note 5 regarding Volvo Group’s investments in joint and liabilities amounting to SEK 573 M are classiﬁed as assets ventures, associated companies and other shares and participations. held for sale. This mainly pertains to the planned divestment of the North American used truck business, Arrow Truck Sales. The Read more in Note 20 Provisions for post-employment beneﬁts. assets and liabilities held for sale also includes the planned divestment of the external IT business and outsourcing of Volvo The Volvo Group’s liquid funds, i.e. cash and cash equivalents Group’s own IT infrastructure planned to be divested as of March and marketable securities combined amounted to SEK 24.4 bil31, 2016. lion at December 31, 2015. In addition to this granted but unutilized credit facilities amounted to SEK 39.7 billion. Cash and cash Read more in Note 3 regarding assets and liabilities held for sale. equivalents as of December 31, 2015 include SEK 0.8 (0.2) billion that is not available to use by the Volvo Group and SEK 5.4 (6.1) The net value of assets and liabilities related to pensions and billion where other limitations exists. similar obligations amounted to SEK 13.6 billion as of December 31, 2015, a decrease of SEK 3.0 billion compared to year-end Read more in Note 18 Marketable securities and liquid funds. 2014. In 2015 the Volvo Group recognized a positive remeasurement effect impacting the pension obligation amounting to SEK Read more in Note 22 Liabilities regarding the maturity structure on 3.5 billion, mainly driven by higher discount rates in Sweden and Volvo Group’s credit facilities. to less extent by review of all pension assumptions for the SwedTotal assets in the Volvo Group amounted to SEK 374.2 billion ish plan. On the asset side a negative remeasurement effect as of December 31, 2015, a decrease of SEK 8.7 billion since amounting to SEK 0.2 billion was recognized. In total the remeasDecember 31, 2014. Negative currency effects from revaluation urement amounted to SEK 3.3 billion whereof positive SEK 3.5 of foreign subsidiaries by SEK 5.2 billion have decreased total billion was recognized through other comprehensive income and assets offset by increased customer-ﬁnancing receivables due to negative SEK 0.2 billion through the income statement since perportfolio growth in the Customer Finance Operations. During the taining to post-employment beneﬁt other than pension. year the Volvo Groups ﬁnancial assets have been impacted by the Read more in Note 20 Provisions for post-employment beneﬁts. disposal of shares in the listed Indian company Eicher Motors limited and by the acquisition of 45% of shares in Dongfeng ComAs of December 31, 2015 the shareholders’ equity for the mercial Vehicles Co., Ltd. Volvo Group amounted to SEK 85.6 billion compared to SEK 80.0 billion at year-end 2014. The equity ratio was 22.9% compared to Read more in Note 5 regarding Volvo Group’s investments in joint ventures, associated companies and other shares and participations. 20.9% on December 31, 2014. At the same date the equity ratio in the Industrial operations amounted to 28.6% (25.7). 83 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL POSITION BALANCE SHEET VOLVO GROUP – ASSETS Industrial Operations Customer Finance Eliminations Volvo Group Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 SEK M 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Assets Non-current assets Intangible assets Note 12 36,314 37,010 102 105 – – 36,416 37,115 Tangible assets Note 13 Property, plant and equipment 53,271 54,821 64 94 – – 53,335 54,915 Investment property 283 266 – – – – 283 266 Assets under operating leases 20,616 19,484 18,253 17,872 –6,338 –6,138 32,531 31,218 Financial assets Investments in joint ventures and associated companies Note 5 11,148 4,821 – – – – 11,148 4,821 Other shares and participations Note 5 893 5,004 8 13 – – 902 5,017 Non-current customer ﬁnancing receivables Note 15 3 1,205 52,163 51,380 –1,204 –1,254 50,962 51,331 Prepaid pensions Note 20 34 126 – – – – 34 126 Non-current interest-bearing receivables Note 16 1,138 1,041 500 22 –487 378 1,150 1,441 Other non-current receivables Note 16 3,271 3,528 140 150 –143 –165 3,268 3,513 Deferred tax assets Note 10 12,582 15,022 868 809 – – 13,450 15,831 Total non-current assets 139,552 142,328 72,098 70,445 –8,172 –7,179 203,478 205,594 Current assets Inventories Note 17 44,194 45,364 196 169 – – 44,390 45,533 Current receivables Customer-ﬁnancing receivables Note 15 9 623 52,404 48,063 –792 –850 51,621 47,836 Tax assets 1,537 2,918 624 496 – – 2,161 3,414 Interest-bearing receivables Note 16 2,600 1,736 14 345 –827 –968 1,788 1,113 Internal funding1 7,963 4,374 – – –7,963 –4,374 – – Accounts receivable Note 16 28,577 30,495 525 400 – – 29,101 30,895 Other receivables Note 16 14,259 13,950 1,327 1,984 –1,667 –1,265 13,920 14,669 Non interest-bearing assets held for sale Note 3 3,314 288 – – – – 3,314 288 Interest-bearing assets held for sale Note 3 – – – – – – – – Marketable securities Note 18 3,344 6,927 – 385 – – 3,344 7,312 Cash and cash equivalents Note 18 17,866 24,178 3,651 2,470 –469 –406 21,048 26,242 Total current assets 123,664 130,853 58,741 54,312 –11,717 –7,863 170,687 177,302 Total assets 263,216 273,181 130,839 124,757 –19,890 –15,042 374,165 382,896 1 Internal funding is internal lending from Industrial Operations to Customer Finance. Change in net ﬁnancial position, Net ﬁnancial position, Industrial Operations, SEK bn Industrial Operations, SEK bn 2015 2014 2014 2015 Net ﬁnancial position at Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 beginning of period –26.4 –32.1 –34.5 –37.8 –37.4 –26.4 –37.4 –26.1 –29.8 –13.2 Cash ﬂow from operating activities 26.7 14.3 Investments in ﬁxed assets –9.1 –9.1 Disposals 0.7 1.1 Operating cash ﬂow 18.3 6.4 Investments and divestments of shares, net –2.0 0.1 Acquired and divested operations, net 0.4 7.7 Capital injections to/from Customer Finance Operations 0.1 0.7 Currency effect 0.4 –0.5 Dividend paid to AB Volvo shareholders –6.1 –6.1 Remeasurements of deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans 3.5 –3.6 Pension payments and costs, net –0.6 0.7 Other changes –0.9 0.2 Total change 13.1 5.7 Net ﬁnancial position at end of period –13.2 –26.4 84 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL POSITION BALANCE SHEET VOLVO GROUP – SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Industrial Operations Customer Finance Eliminations Volvo Group Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 SEK M 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Equity and liabilities Equity attributable to the equity holder of the Parent Company Note 19 73,350 68,382 10,460 9,943 – – 83,810 78,325 Minority interests Note 11 1,801 1,723 – – – – 1,801 1,723 Total equity 75,151 70,105 10,460 9,943 – – 85,610 80,048 Non-current provisions Provisions for postemployment beneﬁts Note 20 13,621 16,580 53 103 – – 13,673 16,683 Provisions for deferred taxes Note 10 546 201 2,949 2,595 – – 3,495 2,796 Other provisions Note 21 9,286 12,463 214 231 35 46 9,536 12,740 Total non-current provisions 23,453 29,244 3,216 2,929 35 46 26,704 32,219 Non-current liabilities Note 22 Bond loans 47,776 68,877 – – – – 47,776 68,877 Other loans 17,123 27,395 11,581 13,013 –1,204 –1,254 27,500 39,154 Internal funding1 –42,442 –59,955 42,712 42,997 –270 16,958 – – Other liabilities 20,359 17,549 733 607 –4,554 –4,424 16,538 13,732 Total non-current liabilities 42,816 53,866 55,026 56,617 –6,028 11,280 91,814 121,763 Current provisions Note 21 14,104 12,390 67 76 6 7 14,176 12,473 Current liabilities Note 22 Loans 50,339 32,130 8,480 9,266 –1,488 –1,443 57,331 39,953 Internal funding1 –40,234 –20,267 49,013 42,002 –8,780 –21,735 – – Non interest-bearing liabilities held for sale Note 3 573 130 – – – – 573 130 Trade payables 55,250 56,351 398 296 – – 55,648 56,647 Tax liabilities 1,113 2,558 209 135 – – 1,322 2,693 Other liabilities Note 22 40,652 36,674 3,970 3,493 –3,635 –3,197 40,986 36,970 Total current liabilities 107,693 107,576 62,071 55,192 –13,902 –26,375 155,860 136,393 Total equity and liabilities 263,216 273,181 130,839 124,757 –19,890 –15,042 374,165 382,896 1 Internal funding is internal lending from Industrial Operations to Customer Finance. Net ﬁnancial position, SEK M Industrial Operations Volvo Group Dec 31 2015 Dec 31 2014 Dec 31 2015 Dec 31 2014 Non-current interest-bearing assets Non-current customer-ﬁnancing receivables – – 50,962 51,331 Non-current interest-bearing receivables 1,138 1,041 1,150 1,441 Current interest-bearing assets Customer-ﬁnancing receivables – – 51,621 47,836 Interest-bearing receivables 2,600 1,736 1,788 1,113 Internal funding 7,963 4,374 – – Marketable securities 3,344 6,927 3,344 7,312 Cash and cash equivalents 17,866 24,178 21,048 26,242 Total interest-bearing ﬁnancial assets 32,911 38,256 129,913 135,275 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities Bond loans –47,776 –68,877 –47,776 –68,877 Other loans –17,123 –27,395 –27,500 –39,154 Internal funding 42,442 59,955 – – Current interest-bearing liabilities Loans –50,339 –32,130 –57,331 –39,953 Internal funding 40,234 20,267 – – Total interest-bearing ﬁnancial liabilities –32,562 –48,180 –132,607 –147,984 Net ﬁnancial position excl. postemployment beneﬁts 349 –9,924 –2,693 –12,709 Provision for post-employment beneﬁts, net –13,586 –16,454 –13,639 –16,557 Net ﬁnancial position incl. postemployment beneﬁts –13,237 –26,378 –16,332 –29,266 85 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2015 CASH FLOW STATEMENT STRONG OPERATING C A S H F LO W During 2015, operating cash ﬂow in the Industrial Operations amounted to a positive SEK 18.3 billion (6.4). T he cash ﬂow within Industrial Operations was posInvestments and divestments of shares itively affected by an operating income of SEK The acquisition of 45% of shares in Dongfeng Commercial Vehi21.3 billion. In addition, the cash ﬂow has been cles Co., Ltd, (DFCV) in China was completed in the beginning of positively impacted by higher depreciations than January 2015. investments in an amount of SEK 3.5 billion. This Part of the shares in the listed Indian automotive manufacturer, was offset by an increase in working capital of Eicher Motors Limited was sold on March 4, 2015. The remaining SEK 2.0 billion mainly as an effect of increased inventories and holding of shares in the listed company was sold on June 4, 2015. decreased trade payables. In total investments and divestments of shares, net in 2015 Financial items and paid income taxes had a SEK 4.1 billion had a negative impact on cash ﬂow of SEK 2.0 billion (0.1). negative effect on the cash ﬂow within Industrial Operations, mainly through payments of interests and income tax. Read more in Note 5 regarding Investments in joint venture, associated Operating cash ﬂow within Customer Finance was negative companies and other shares and participations. SEK 5.9 billion (5.3), mainly due to increased customer-ﬁnancing receivables and investment in leasing vehicles. Acquired and divested operations The Volvo Group has not made any acquisitions or divestments Investments during 2015, which solely or jointly have had a signiﬁcant impact The Industrial Operations’ investments in ﬁxed assets and capitalon the Volvo Group’s ﬁnancial statements. ized research and development during 2015 amounted to SEK In total acquired and divested operations in 2015 had a positive 8.8 billion (8.6). impact on cash ﬂow of SEK 0.4 billion (7,4). In Group Trucks investments in ﬁxed assets and capitalized R&D amounted to SEK 6.3 billion (5.7). The investments were mainly Read more in Note 3 regarding Acquisitions and divestments of shares in subsidiaries. related to industrial efﬁciency measures in our plants, with the continuation of the European optimization program as well as rationalFinancing and dividend izations in our US plants, primarily a more streamlined assembly Net borrowings decreased cash and cash equivalents by SEK 13.2 process implemented in the engine plant in Hagerstown. billion during 2015. In 2014 the corresponding item increased Investments in optimization of the global services footprints as cash and cash eqivalents by SEK 6,7 billion. well as investments in Köping have also increased, in order to increase capacity for the Volvo Group’s automated manual transRead more in Note 29 Cash ﬂow regarding movements during the mission. Capital expenditures were also related to investments to year on the net borrowings. comply with new emission regulations in US and Japan, with both product development activities and required adaptations in the During the year dividend of SEK 6.1 billion, corresponding to SEK plants. 3.00 per share, was paid to the shareholders of AB Volvo. The investments in dealer networks and workshops were mainly done in Europe and Japan, primarily for upgrade and Change in cash and cash equivalents replacements. The Volvo Group’s cash and cash equivalents decreased by SEK Investments in Construction Equipment amounted to SEK 1.1 5.2 billion during the year and amounted to SEK 21.0 billion at billion (1.3). The product related investments during the year conDecember 31, 2015. tinued and were mainly related to adaptions to the Tier 4 Final/ Stage IV, the latest emissions regulations in North America and Read more in Note 29 Cash ﬂow regarding principles for preparing Europe. There were also investments in the plants related to prodthe cash ﬂow statement. uct renewals and required adaptions mainly in Asia and Europe. The investments in Volvo Buses were SEK 0.3 billion (0.3), and Read more in Note 18 regarding the accounting policy for Marketable in Volvo Penta SEK 0.3 billion (0.3). securities and liquid funds. Total investments in leasing assets during 2015 amounted to SEK 0.3 billion (0.5). The investment level for property, plant and equipment during 2015 was lower than previous years. During 2016, investments in property, plant and equipment are expected to be on the same level as in 2015. The optimization of the industrial and logistic footprint, dealer investments and product related tooling will continue to be the main areas. 86 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2015 CASH FLOW STATEMENT CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENTS Industrial operations Customer Finance Eliminations Volvo Group Total SEK M 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Operating activities Operating income 21,313 4,103 2,006 1,712 2 8 23,321 5,823 Depreciation tangible assets Note 13 6,431 6,701 13 15 – – 6,443 6,716 Amortization intangible assets Note 12 3,314 3,503 31 31 – – 3,344 3,534 Depreciation leasing vehicles Note 13 2,830 2,470 4,190 3,211 0 –1 7,020 5,680 Other non-cash items Note 29 –1,083 5,288 796 888 –165 –35 –452 6,141 Total change in working capital whereof –1,979 –3,272 –7,485 –4,772 315 –6,059 –9,149 –14,103 Change in accounts receivable 642 1,346 –126 –133 –2 – 514 1,213 Change in customer-ﬁnancing receivables 140 –144 –8,346 –4,740 –108 –5,756 –8,313 –10,640 Change in inventories –2,234 –1,594 –90 –28 0 – –2,324 –1,622 Change in trade payables –1,210 –995 114 65 –2 131 –1,098 –799 Other changes in working capital 683 –1,884 963 64 427 –435 2,073 –2,255 Interest and similar items received 374 317 – – 1 – 375 317 Interest and similar items paid –1,665 –1,879 – – –18 33 –1,683 –1,846 Other ﬁnancial items –252 –221 – – – – –252 –221 Income taxes paid –2,573 –2,680 –531 –624 –5 – –3,110 –3,304 Cash ﬂow from operating activities 26,709 14,331 –981 461 129 –6,055 25,858 8,737 Investing activities Investments in tangible assets –6,539 –7,079 –22 –14 – – –6,561 –7,093 Investments in intangible assets –2,241 –1,523 –16 –18 – – –2,257 –1,541 Investment in leasing vehicles –328 –470 –10,201 –9,645 – – –10,529 –10,115 Disposals of ﬁxed assets and leasing vehicles 668 1,090 5,356 3,949 –4 –1 6,020 5,038 Operating cash ﬂow 18,270 6,349 –5,865 –5,267 126 –6,056 12,531 –4,973 Investments and divestments of shares, net Note 5, 29 –1,984 69 Acquired and divested operations, net Note 3, 29 408 7,398 Interest-bearing receivables incl marketable securities 3,552 –4,808 Cash ﬂow after net investments 14,507 –2,314 Financing activities Change in loans, net Note 29 –13,247 6,686 Dividend to AB Volvo’s shareholders –6,090 –6,084 Other 14 –57 Change in cash and cash equivalents excl. translation differences –4,815 –1,769 Translation difference on cash and cash equivalents –378 1,044 Change in cash and cash equivalents –5,194 –725 Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year Note 18 26,242 26,968 Cash and cash equivalents, end of year Note 18 21,048 26,242 Operating cash ﬂow, Industrial Operations, SEK bn Capital expenditures, Industrial Operations Self-ﬁnancing ratio, Industrial Operations % 2014 2015 Capitalized development costs, SEK bn Property, plant and equipment, SEK bn Capital expenditures, % of net sales 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 4.1 5.1 3.7 1.4 2.2 210 72 112 180 316 8.5 9.5 8.5 7.2 6.5 Cash-ﬂow from operating activities 4.1 4.9 4.6 3.1 2.9 divided by net investments in ﬁxed Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 assets and leasing assets. –9.0 4.0 0.9 10.6 –1.7 8.6 –3.3 14.7 87 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2015 TRUCKS IMPROVED PROFITABILITY O N F L AT VO L U M E S During 2015 market conditions varied signiﬁcantly between different parts of the world. Volvo Group’s deliveries of trucks increased by 2% compared to 2014. Share of Group net sales, 68% (67) D emand continued to good in North America for The truck operation’s product offer stretches from heavy-duty most of the year as a result of the economy trucks for long-haulage and construction work to light-duty trucks developing well. The European market also for distribution. The offering also includes maintenance and repair services, ﬁnancing and leasing. showed good growth while South America’s Position on world market Volvo Group is the world’s second largest market, Brazil, declined sharply as a largest manufacturer of heavy-duty trucks. consequence of the economy slipping into Brands Volvo, UD, Renault Trucks, Mack, Eicher and Dongfeng recession. The Japanese market was stable. The Indian heavyTrucks. duty truck market continued the positive development that started Number of regular employees 54,668 (58,067) in 2014. The Chinese market, on the other hand, declined for the second year in a row. Varying market conditions During 2015 registrations in Europe increased by 19% to 270,000 all low business conﬁdence. The heavy-duty market forecast for (227,612) heavy-duty trucks as a consequence of increased Brazil in 2016 is 35,000 trucks. freight activity, resulting in good capacity utilization and good cusThe total mediumand heavy-duty truck market in India tomer proﬁtability, as well as a need for ﬂeet renewal. The total increased by 28% to 278,139 vehicles in 2015 and is forecasted to market for heavy-duty trucks in Europe is forecasted to a level of increase to 315,000 vehicles in 2016 based on good business 280,000 trucks in 2016, based on the expectation of continued conﬁdence and increased economic activity. economic recovery in Europe. The Chinese total market for mediumand heavy-duty trucks The total North American retail market for heavy-duty trucks declined by 24% to 751,130 vehicles in 2015 primarily as a conseincreased by 12% to 301,740 vehicles in 2015 as a result of ﬂeet quence of lower demand in the construction segment. The market renewal and ﬂeet expansion combined with good customer proﬁtais forecasted to be at about 750,000 trucks also in 2016. bility thanks to good freight environment, low fuel prices and low In Japan, demand remained healthy. Registrations of mediuminterest rates. Demand weakened during the fourth quarter with a and heavy-duty trucks increased by 1% to 89,644 vehicles in 2015 correction mainly in the long-haul segment. The heavy-duty truck and the market forecast is 90,000 trucks for 2016. market forecast for 2016 is 260,000 vehicles as freight activity In general the Volvo Group maintained its strong positions in the weakened towards the end of the year and the need for ﬂeet main markets even though the market shares declined somewhat. expansion and renewal will be lower in 2016. In Europe the combined market share for heavy-duty trucks In 2015, the Brazilian market declined by 55% to 41,603 vehicles amounted to 23.8% (24.4) and in North America it amounted to as a consequence of the contracting economy combined with over19.6% (20.1). In Brazil the market share in heavy-duty trucks CONTINUED CAPTIVE COMPONENT GROWTH IN NORTH AMERICA In addition to helping Volvo and Mack deliver the optimized performance and fuel efﬁciency demanded by customers and regulators, proprietary powertrains represent an important ongoing source of revenue for the Volvo Group and its dealers. Increased service business has led dealers to invest in more service bays, which supports customers’ uptime and strengthens America in 2007 when Volvo’s I-Shift became ame brand perception and loyalty. While Mack has always offered proprietary the ﬁrst integrated solution to enter the market market,t, engines, the push for increased Volvo power penetration is more recent. and many in the industry thought the market et would From representing only about a third of Volvo sales a decade ago, Volvo remain committed to manual gear boxes. But penetration engines powered 92% of the trucks sold in 2015. The impact of the Group’s of the I-Shift has skyrocketed – to the point that in 2015 it represented automated manual transmission has been even more impressive, and it 85% of Volvo trucks sold. The Mack brand has experienced similarly rapid could be argued that in this area, Volvo innovation has changed an entire growth with its mDRIVE transmission, which in 2015 represented 73% of market. Automated manual transmissions were mostly absent from North highway vehicle sales, only ﬁve years after its introduction. 88 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2015 TRUCKS PAYLOAD AND Renault Trucks new range contributes to SAFETY RENAULT NAULT strengthening the brand and is a foundation to recapture market position. The TRUCKS Renault Trucks T Tanker is one example T TANKER – it has been developed to meet stringent demands in terms of payload and safety. amounted to 20.1% (21.3) while it was 18.9% (19.4) in Japan. In Excluding restructuring charges, the capital gain, the arbitraIndia the market share for Eicher amounted to 33.5% (32.6) in the tion case and the provision, the improvement in underlying proﬁtmedium-duty segment and to 3.7% (3.6) in the heavy-duty segability compared to 2014 was mainly a result of a favorable ment. In China Dongfeng Trucks had a market share of 13.8% (14.4) currency development, higher sales of new vehicles and spare in the heavy-duty segment and 18.9% (17.2) in the medium-duty parts and services as well as lower operating expenses. Favorable segment. earnings development in North America and Europe was partly offset by signiﬁcantly lower earnings in Brazil. Orders and deliveries Changes in currency exchange rates had a positive impact on In 2015, a total of 207,475 trucks where delivered from the operating income of SEK 3,401 M compared with 2014. Group’s wholly-owned operations, an increase of 2% compared with 203,124 trucks in 2014. Deliveries increased in Europe and Enhanced features on trucks North America while they were ﬂat in Asia and declined in South Among product news were Volvo Trucks automatic all-wheel drive America and Other markets. for improved drivability and economy. The new feature Automatic Order intake to the Group’s wholly-owned operations declined by Traction Control activates the drive on the front axle automatically 10% to 198,057 (219,791) trucks with an increase in Europe, ﬂat when in motion, if the truck risks getting stuck. The driver enjoys order intake in Asia and decreases in North America, South improved maneuverability, and the owner beneﬁts from lower fuel America and Other markets. consumption and less wear and tear on the truck. Volvo Trucks also introduced Tandem Axle Lift, which makes it Improved proﬁtability possible to disengage and raise the second driven axle. This gives In 2015, net sales in the truck operations increased by 12% to better road grip and up to 4% lower fuel consumption when the SEK 213,978 M (190,904). Adjusted for changes in exchange truck is driven without a load. The new function is designed for rates, net sales increased by 2%. heavy duty transports with loads being carried one way and empty Operating income excluding restructuring charges increased return trips, for instance when hauling timber or in construction to SEK 21,549 M (5,622), while the operating margin excluding and bulk cargo operations. restructuring charges was 10.1% (2.9). Restructuring charges Volvo Trucks also continued to improve productivity within conamounted to SEK 2,032 M (1,464). Earnings included capital struction by releasing another ﬁve new features, including Volvo gains from sales of shares in Eicher Motors Limited amounting to Dynamic Steering for dual front axles and increased front axle SEK 4,608 M and SEK 772 M from a favorable outcome in an loads. This further highlights Volvo Trucks’ special attention to the arbitration case. In 2014, operating income was negatively construction segment. impacted by a provision of SEK 3,790 M related to the EU antitrust investigation. NET SALES BY MARKET DELIVERIES BY MARKET SEK M 2015 2014 Number of trucks 2015 2014 Europe 83,767 72,757 Europe 86,448 72,458 North America 73,017 53,696 North America 64,507 57,714 South America 11,624 19,669 South America 11,069 23,741 Asia 31,589 29,264 Asia 31,979 32,399 Other markets 13,982 15,518 Other markets 13,472 16,812 Total 213,978 190,904 Total 207,475 203,124 Non-consolidated operations VE Commercial Vehicles (Eicher) 35,751 30,375 Dongvo (Hangzhou) Truck Company (UD) 105 107 Dongfeng Commercial Vehicle Company 113,931 – 89 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2015 TRUCKS In March Volvo Trucks in North America introduced a rugged Net sales, SEK bn Operating income* and operating margin* version of the Volvo I-Shift automated manual transmission for 21,549 severe-duty applications. The new I-Shift version is designed for 214.0 onand off-road work in construction and other applications requiring frequent shifting. Advancing its commitment to maximizing customer uptime, Volvo Trucks in North America also expanded its Volvo Remote Diagnostics service to monitor critical fault codes on the Volvo I-Shift automated manual transmission. 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 The expansion of the all-new Renault Trucks range continued. 198.9 189.2 178.5 190.9 214.0 18,227 12,219 6,824 5,622 21,549 SEK M Renault Trucks added to its range of distribution vehicles by 9.2 6.5 3.8 2.9 10.1 % *Excl. restructuring charges equipping the D WIDE with an 11 liter engine. Other new products were the Renault Trucks T Tanker, a speciﬁc solution for customers carrying hazardous materials, perishable goods and chemical products. Restructuring completed In the truck business a number of activities have been carried out in order to increase efﬁciency and reduce structural costs in the sales and service organziation as well as within product developThe UD Quon range has ment and manufacturing. one key ambition: to deliver In 2015, the structural optimization of the truck manufacturing maximum transport efﬁciency. in Europe was completed with the move of the cab assembly operations from Umeå to Gothenburg, Sweden. Among other measures in the industrial system was the implementation of a more streamlined assembly process in the engine plant in Hagerstown, USA. MARKET SHARES, HEAVY-DUTY TRUCKS, % 14 15 Europe China* Medium-duty Japan North America trucks 11.9 12.2 8.2 7.4 16.6 15.7 7.8 8.1 14.4 13.8 17.2 18.9 18.8 18.3 0.6 0.6 Brazil Medium-duty trucks India* 21.3 20.1 South Africa Australia 3.6 3.7 32.6 33.5 * Volvo Group holds 45.6% in VECV, which produces Eicher 14.5 13.3 2.1 0.8 10.1 9.9 13.5 14.9 9.2 9.3 1.9 2.1 trucks, and 45% in DFCV, which produces Dongfeng trucks. 90 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD A GLOBAL AVSNITT OF DIRECTORS’ GROUP 2015 REPORT 2015 TRUCKS VOLVO FMX AUTOMATIC TRACTION CONTROL A ll the traction the driver needs. But only when needed. When driving in challenging terrain, one may need a truck with all-wheel drive, to avoid the risk of getting stuck in the mud. That is why Volvo FMX is available in a range of driven-frontaxle conﬁgurations. All of them come with the all-new Automatic Traction Control as standard. It is a revolutionary feature, previously only available for Volvo Construction Equipment, making the truck easier to manoeuvre while saving fuel and unnecessary wear. 91 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2015 CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT SHARE AND MARGIN GAINS D E S P I T E M A R K E T U N C E R TA I N T Y A continued deterioration in Chinese demand was partially offset by growth in European and North American markets. Continued efﬁciency measures and a focus on more proﬁtable larger Share of Group net sales, machines have helped protect earnings and capture share in important segments. 16% (19) W ith a history dating back over 180 years Volvo CE manufactures a range of equipment for construction Volvo Construction Equipment (Volvo applications and related industries. The offering also includes CE) is one of the longest established maintenance and repair services, ﬁnancing and leasing. Position on world market Volvo CE is the world’s leading global producer of products and sermanufacturer of rigid and articulated haulers and one of the vices for the construction, extraction, world’s leading manufacturers of wheel loaders, excavators, road waste processing, forestry and materidevelopment machines and compact construction equipment. als handling sectors. Principal equipment includes excavators, Brands Volvo, SDLG (Lingong) and Terex Trucks. wheel loaders and haulers, as well as road machinery such as Number of regular employees 13,889 (14,901) pavers and compactors. A wide range of services are also offered, centred on the three themes of machine uptime, fuel efﬁciency and increased productivity. Marketed under the Volvo, SDLG and Terex Trucks brands, the company’s products and services are sold and supported via a global network of over 125 Volvo-owned and independent dealers. favorable currencies and a favorable product mix and net sales decreased by 3% to SEK 51,008 M, compared to SEK 52,855 M Stable performance despite China fall and tough in 2014. Adjusted for changes in exchange rates, net sales conditions in global markets decreased by 15%. 2015 was marked by the extreme decline in the Chinese market, Despite the lower volumes, Volvo CE demonstrated stable which continued its sharp contraction, falling a further 48% comoperating margins and market share gains in the segments for pared to 2014. Despite growth in several European markets, the larger machines. Operating income excluding restructuring continent as a whole was also down, driven mainly by falls in Ruscharges of amounted to SEK 2,090 M (1,231). Restructuring sia and France. Similarly, slow economic development in Brazil charges were SEK 46 M (579). The operating margin excluding weighed heavily on South American sales. North America, meanrestructuring charges amounted to 4.1%, up from 2.3% in 2014. while, saw continued growth, albeit at a slowing pace. Changes in currency exchange rates had a positive impact on This continued weak demand impacted Volvo CE during 2015, operating income of SEK 1,188 M compared with 2014. with deliveries of machines totalling 44,718 units, a fall of 27% Order intake during 2015 totalled 45,142 units, a fall of 25% compared to 2014. This reduced production was partly offset by compared to 2014. VOLVO EC250E OFFERS BEST-IN-CLASS EFFICIENCY CY The EC250E crawler excavator builds on the strong reputation of the previous D-Series model with reduced emissions and fuel consumption, as well as enhanced d power and productivity. Volvo CE’s latest 25-ton crawler excavator, the EC250E, is ﬁtted with an advanced Tier 4 Final/Stage IV Volvo D6 engine that meets strict emissions legislation across North America and regulated European marketsarkets – without compromising on power. The fully optimized hydraulics sysystem and ECO mode deliver the precise amount of power required to complete the task in hand, while the auto engine shutdown feature e helps further reduce fuel consumption and emissions by automati-cally switching off after the excavator has been inactive for a pre-set set amount of time. 92 A GLOBAL GROUP 2015 AVSNITT ENGINEERED FOR UPTIME I nnovation does not have to mean greater complexity; it also includes making machine maintenance simpler for customers. Volvo CE puts a strong focus on machine reliability – the products are designed and built for reduced wear and long service intervals. Machines will always need service and maintenance and today Volvo CE customers can manage service plans and wear parts via the CareTrack telematics system. Volvo CE’s vision for the future is zero unplanned stops: a world without machine breakdowns, where machines predict and plan their own maintenance – making unexpected repairs a thing of the past. 93 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2015 CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT Products and distribution Net sales, SEK bn Operating income* and operating margin* Volvo CE continued to strengthen its range throughout 2015, with the launch of several important new products and services. Among the new machines introduced were the DD25 and DD105 51.0 compactors, the EC18D compact excavator, the EW160E wheeled excavator and the L90H wheel loader. Shipments also began in July of G-Series wheel loaders that feature Z-bar linkages, mid2,090 sized wheel loaders that are tailored to the needs of markets such as Middle East, Africa and Russia. It was no less busy at Terex 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 63.5 63.6 53.4 52.9 51.0 6,812 5,667 2,592 1,231 2,090 SEK M Trucks and SDLG, with both brands strengthening their global 10.7 8.9 4.9 2.3 4.1 % distribution networks throughout 2015. *Excl. restructuring charges Adjusting the cost base In a bid to adapt to lower volumes driven by the declining global market a series of cost reducing measures were introduced during 2015. Improved efﬁciency remained in focus, with the company completing the orderly shutdown of Volvo-branded grader, backhoe and milling lines that was announced at the end of 2014. This was joined by changes to sales and operations planning that reduces the need for dealers to hold large inventories and cuts delivery times to customers, thanks to a pre-build program for popular machines. An accelerated internal efﬁciency program REACHING FURTHER was also initiated during 2015, focusing on industrial sites and Lift higher and reach further with Volvo CE’s identifying improvement areas that offer the largest ﬁnancial savpurpose-built, high-lift L180H HL wheel ings in the short term. loader designed for log handling. Product and market proﬁtability in focus Cost savings formed just part of a wider objective of transforming Volvo CE in to a world class, high performing company. A new governance structure was introduced that creates roadmaps that help each product and market excel, while at the same time prioritizing resources. Total proﬁtability was also in focus, with a new sales approach allowing Volvo CE to successfully participate in deals that may have seemed unattractive in the past. This policy led to an additional 2,000 machines and a 1.8 percentage point market share increase in the important large machine segment. NET SALES BY MARKET DELIVERIES BY MARKET SEK M 2015 2014 Number of machines 2015 2014 Europe 17,732 17,215 Europe 12,539 14,174 North America 11,843 10,784 North America 5,710 7,127 South America 2,207 3,234 South America 2,036 3,669 Asia 16,424 18,458 Asia 22,339 33,648 Other markets 2,802 3,164 Other markets 2,094 2,699 Total 51,008 52,855 Total deliveries 44,718 61,317 Of which: Volvo 30,296 36,755 SDLG 14,267 24,445 Of which in China 11,311 19,964 94 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2015 BUSES IMPROVED P R O F I TA B I L I T Y Volvo Buses is spearheading innovative vehicles systems that accelerate the transition towards sustainable public transport solutions. A global leader, its product range includes city buses, intercity buses and coaches, as well as complete transport systems, ﬁnancing, ﬂeet and trafﬁc Share of Group net sales, management services. 7% (6) T he ﬁrst Volvo bus rolled out of the factory in Sweden The product range includes complete buses and bus chassis for in 1928. Today production facilities are situated city, intercity and coach trafﬁc. The company has a total offering globally in Europe, North America, South America that, in addition to buses, includes a global service network, efﬁcient spare parts handling, service and repair contracts, and Asia. Volvo Buses’ safe and efﬁcient transport ﬁnancial services and trafﬁc information systems. The offer also solutions are sold and supported in 85 countries by comprises complete transport systems for electromobility over 1,500 dealerships and workshops worldwide. including charging infrastructure. Position on world market Volvo Buses is one of the world’s Electriﬁcation powers up largest producers of buses. With the introduction of the Volvo 7900 Electric in 2015, Volvo Brands Volvo, Prevost, Nova Bus, Sunwin Bus and UD Bus. Buses now offers a complete range of electriﬁed buses. With Number of regular employees 7,270 (6,900) hybrid, electric hybrid and electric buses available, customers can now cover all aspects of sustainable city mobility. The product portfolio is one of three cornerstones in Volvo Buses’ electromobility strategy. This strategy also includes offering of complete systems with batteries and charging infrastructure, together with The year also saw Volvo Buses’ ﬁve and eight liter Euro 6 engines partners ABB and Siemens, that can be paid per kilometer, along for city buses and intercity buses certiﬁed to run on Hydrogenated with open charging interfaces that enable customers to run buses Vegetable Oils (HVO), a renewable fuel that replaces regular diesel from other manufacturers as well in their transport system. and reduces CO2 emissions by up to 90%. HVO is also approved Operating extremely quietly, the exhaust-free Volvo 7900 Elecfor use in all Volvo Buses with Euro 5 engines, with no reduction in tric is about 80% more energy-efﬁcient than a corresponding dieservice interval. sel bus. The passenger-friendly electric concept buses run in regular trafﬁc in Gothenburg, Sweden along with the Volvo 7900 Serving customers Electric hybrids (diesel-electric hybrids), as part of the ElectriCity Volvo Buses enjoyed a number of sales successes during 2015, partnership. This is the third start of the 7900 Electric hybrid in including Singapore’s SBS Transit taking delivery of its 1,000th commercial service following Hamburg in 2014 and Stockholm in double decker bus and a breakthrough entry order for 150 high 2015. In the ﬁrst half of 2016 six Volvo 7900 Electric Hybrids will ﬂoor city buses to Egypt’s Alexandria Public Transport Authority start in regular trafﬁc in Luxembourg. Using Group technology, (APTA). Nova Bus will introduce an electric bus in the Montreal public transVolvo Buses also broke its record for the single biggest sales portation system early 2017. order in Sweden during 2015, with an order for 276 Volvo 8900 Sales of Volvo hybrid buses passed another milestone in 2015. buses. Added to this were 191 Volvo buses for Mexico City and Volvo Buses has sold over 2,300 units in over 20 countries since the unveiling of the new Volvo 9800 coach model for the Mexican their introduction in 2010. Among the newly added markets are market. Further north, Volvo celebrated the groundbreaking of its Denmark, France and Poland. Also, 28 articulated hybrid buses are new customer delivery center in Plattsburgh, New York, which will now transporting passengers in Budapest – the largest order ever serve its Nova Bus and Prevost brands. for the Volvo 7900 Articulated Hybrid. During 2015 Volvo Buses also took the ﬁrst steps in preparation for the forthcoming introducA proﬁtable year tion of the Volvo Hybrid City Bus in India. The buses are being In the global bus market Europe and Asia both showed signs of produced in India and will be introduced in trafﬁc in Mumbai. gradual recovery, and in North America the city, coach and commuter segments all showed growth. The development was not Steering in a more sustainable direction uniformly positive, however, with sales in Brazil and China negaIn 2015 Volvo Buses introduced Volvo Dynamic Steering in tively affected due to their slowing economies. several coach models. This breakthrough in driver working enviDespite market uncertainty in important markets Volvo Buses ronment compensates automatically for uneven road surfaces, presented a positive result for 2015. Buses reported an operating eliminates vibrations and ‘steering kick’, making driving easier. income excluding restructuring charges of SEK 882 M, compared Fewer manual steering wheel movements and less vibration to SEK 98 the previous year. Restructuring charges amounted to reduce stress on muscles and joints, meaning drivers feel more SEK 23 M (6). Operating margin excluding restructuring charges relaxed and able to remain focused and drive more safely. was 3.7% (0.5). Deliveries of buses numbered 8,825, compared 95 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2015 BUSES NEW BUS ROUTE WINS SUSTAINABILITY PRIZE The 55 electric bus route (ElectriCity) in Gothenburg has been awarded the European Solar Prize 2015 for being the best example of sustainable public transport operated using renewable energy. The Prize is awarded by the European Association for Renewable Energy, EUROSOLAR, to projects which aim, in an exemplary way, to raise public awareness about one of the most important challenges of our time: energy transition to a sustainable society. to 8,759 in 2014. Net sales amounted to 23,580 in 2015, an Net sales, SEK bn Operating income* and increase by 26% compared to previous year. Adjusted for curoperating margin* rency effect the increase in net sales was 15%. 23.6 Earnings for the full year were impacted by a favorable currency development, a good product and market mix and improved indus882 trial efﬁciency. Changes in currency exchange rates had a positive impact of SEK 547 M on operating income compared with 2014. Order intake for 2015 ended at 8,640 orders, an improvement 11 12 13 14 15 of 10% on 2014. 21.8 19.6 16.7 18.6 23.6 11 12 13 14 15 1,114 148 –190 98 882 SEK M Strategic focus delivers in 2015 5.1 0.8 –1.1 0.5 3.7 % Volvo Buses is delivering on its strategy. Despite a somewhat challenging bus market globally, Buses has secured its share in * Excl. restructuring charges key markets and increased its coverage in Asia. With the launch of the Volvo 9700 Electric the company also reinforced its position as the industry leader in the ﬁeld of electromobility. Volvo Buses shows improved efﬁciency in its operations, with reduced product cost and also a substantially improved parts and service penetration. The period was also mirrored by improvements in employee engagement. NET SALES BY MARKET DELIVERIES BY MARKET SEK M 2015 2014 Number of buses 2015 2014 Europe 7,284 6,139 Europe 2,431 2,221 North America 10,635 6,721 North America 2,398 1,590 South America 1,425 2,559 South America 1,415 2,985 Asia 2,557 1,892 Asia 1,656 1,242 Other markets 1,678 1,334 Other markets 925 721 Total 23,580 18,645 Total 8,825 8,759 Non-consolidated operations VE Commercial Vehicles 11,717 9,480 Shanghai Sunwin Bus Corporation 2,103 3,731 Dongfeng Commercial Vehicle Company 4,618 – 96 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2015 VOLVO PENTA STRONG PROFITABILITY AND INCRE ASED SALES Volvo Penta generates signiﬁcant synergies for the Volvo Group’s total volumes of diesel engines. Share of Group net sales, 3% (3) A pproximately 10% of total production in the Volvo Penta provides engines and power systems for leisure and Group’s European diesel engine plants and commercial boats, as well as for industrial applications such as more than half of the Group’s global volumes power generation and container trucks. Position on world market Volvo Penta is the world’s largest of 16-liter engines are delivered to Volvo Penproducer of diesel engines for leisure boats and a leading, ta’s customers. independent producer of industrial engines. Brands Volvo Penta Number of regular employees 1,470 (1,422) Industrial The Industrial business segment, accounting for about half of sales, is the part of Volvo Penta’s operation that generates the largest strategic engine volumes for the Volvo Group. Featuring unique performance, installation beneﬁts and minimized environmental footprint, Volvo Penta’s engines strengthen the competitiveness of a growing number of global customers. By leveraging reduce fuel consumption by 40% and, with lower rpm and maxithe strength of the Volvo Group’s combined service offering, Volvo mum revs, lower noise by up to six decibels. Penta is able to offer efﬁcient support in the form of global serThe latest engine range is compliant with several stages of vice and aftermarket services. emission legislation, including the most stringent Tier 4 Final. A big advantage of our off-road engine range to OEMs is that all engines share the same physical footprint – making designing Marine Leisure global product ranges much easier for OEMs. In 2015, Volvo To the greater public, Volvo Penta is best known for its leading marine Penta has continued to gain new customers based on the 5, 8, 11, drive systems – for both leisure and commercial boats. Over the dec13, and 16 liter off-road engines released throughout 2014. The ades, products such as the Aquamatic sterndrive, Duoprop and IPS latest engine range has helped to maintain a strong position in have given Volvo Penta a global reputation as an innovative engine the materials handling segment, as well as increase market supplier to most of the strongest brands in the leisure boat industry. shares in new segments, such as agriculture and forestry. In 2015, Volvo Penta IPS (Inboard Performance System) celePartnerships with OEMs in 2015 resulted in the delivery of brated its ten-year anniversary in the market. Since its launch in power solutions for market-leading applications, such as a new 12 2005, the popularity of IPS has grown considerably, and so too ton log stacker machine with hybrid hydraulics, which beneﬁts has the size of the yacht that the system can power – from 30 to from Volvo Penta’s power density and fuel efﬁciency. Within the 100 feet. During this year, IPS was installed in of the largest boats materials handling area, Volvo Penta, together with two partners to date – an Italian built yacht, measuring 94 feet. IPS has helped implemented an industry-leading transmission, using a combinato progressively strengthen Volvo Penta’s market leading position tion of hydrostatic and mechanical drives. The drivetrain can in Marine Leisure. NET SALES BY MARKET DELIVERIES PER SEGMENT SEK M 2015 2014 Number of units 2015 2014 Europe 4,462 3,779 Marine engines1 19,503 17,413 North America 2,161 1,584 Industrial engines 18,635 15,295 South America 365 386 Total 38,138 32,677 Asia 1,855 1,615 1 Excluding outboard engines. Other markets 562 425 Total 9,406 7,790 97 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2015 VOLVO PENTA VERSATILITY FOR WORLDLEADING APPLICATIONS Volvo Penta diesel engines are built to be versatile. They are characterised by high performance, reliability, fuel efﬁciency, and low emission levels. The engines are developed to satisfy the equipment builders’ demands. Low weight, compact designs, and easy installation make them perfect for numerous machine and equipment applications in several different industries. Forward Drive was launched during 2015 with strong market Net sales, SEK bn Operating income* and interest in North America and global recognition as a revolutionoperating margin* 1,102 ary innovation in the marine industry. Forward Drive’s patented design – combining a traditional sterndrive with forward-facing, 9.4 dual counter-rotation propellers and adjustable-trim drive – pulls the boat through the water rather than pushing it. Additionally, new gasoline engines were also launched – a 5.3 liter V8 line and a new 4.3 liter V6 – both with signiﬁcantly improved fuel economy and lower emissions. The winning combination of the Forward Drive and the new gasoline engines has been a key differentiator 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 for Volvo Penta in 2015. 8.4 7.6 7.6 7.8 9.4 825 549 626 729 1,102 SEK M As electronics make inroads into the marine industry, Volvo 9.8 7.2 8.3 9.4 11.7 % Penta is developing integrated features beyond the engine and *Excl. restructuring charges propulsion components alone. Under an Easy Boating concept, Volvo Penta is working toward “helm-to-prop” solutions with a strong focus on comfort and user-friendliness. Market Development The marine leisure market remained unchanged compared to preMarine Commercial vious years, but Volvo Penta’s market shares increased slightly. In the Marine Commercial segment, Volvo Penta focuses on optiThe marine commercial market lingered on low levels, but showed mizing uptime and total cost of ownership for the professional positive signs in certain sub-segments, such as offshore supply marine market, supplying power and propulsion systems from 50 and wind farming vessels. – 600 kw. The engines can be used for a wide variety of applicaThe fragmented market for industrial off-road engines showed tions, with a speciﬁc focus on high speed transportation of people mixed signs with certain sub-segments, such as mining and conand goods. Examples of applications include pilots, sea-rescue, struction, showing growth in Europe and North America. The marferries, coast guard and off-shore wind farm supply vessels. In the kets in Brazil, Russia, and China continued to decline. Especially Marine Commercial segment, Volvo Penta leverages its IPS confor China, the outlook is negative due to general economic develcept, which provides unique environmental and maneuverability opment. features as well as signiﬁcantly reduced fuel consumption. The market for industrial power generation engines showed a In 2015, the ﬁrst quadruple installation of IPS was successfully positive growth rate with a stable development in North America implemented in commercial boats – seven, 26 meter crew transand the export-oriented European market. fer catamarans used for offshore wind farming. An updated version of the D16 marine diesel was released with Positive sales and earnings trend features that offer customers greater beneﬁts and increased versaVolvo Penta’s net sales increased by 21% to SEK 9,406 M comtility. This includes the new generation of Volvo Penta’s proprietary pared with SEK 7,790 M in 2014. Adjusted for changes in monitoring and control system, Electronic Vessel Control (EVC). exchange rates, net sales increased by 13%. Operating income The Marine Commercial business is project based and Volvo excluding restructuring charges amounted to SEK 1,102 M (729). Penta works in close cooperation with ship yards, designers and Restructuring charges amounted to SEK 16 M (5). The operating operators to ensure that the propulsion system in each case satmargin excluding restructuring charges was 11.7% (9.4). Earnings isﬁes the demands of the operator. Developing our total offer is were positively impacted primarily by a good volume development the focus, with the ambition to exceed our customers’ expectaand positive product mix. Changes in currency exchange rates tions. Recent examples of this include providing extended coveralso had a positive impact on operating income in an amount of age and the ability to deliver replacement engines with speed to SEK 319 M. customers that experience a break-down. Volvo Penta’s marine customers have access to one of the world’s strongest service support organizations comprising approximately 4,000 dealerships worldwide. 98 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2015 VOLVO FINANCIAL SERVICES STRONG GROWTH, PROFITABILITY AND PORTFOLIO PERFORMANCE Volvo Financial Services (VFS) offers competitive ﬁnancial solutions which strengthen long-term relationships with Volvo Group customers and dealers. As the number one provider of ﬁnancial solutions for Volvo Group product sales, VFS consistently delivers Share of Group net sales, 3% (3) value to customers and builds loyalty to the Volvo Group brands through our ease of doing business and our knowledge and expertise of the industry. V FS ﬁnancial solutions are offered with the sales VFS conducts customer ﬁnancing in 44 countries in the world. of Volvo Group vehicles and equipment, and are Position on world market Volvo Financial Services operates available with other service and aftermarket exclusively to support the sales of vehicles and equipment which are produced by the Volvo Group. In doing so, VFS enhances the products such as service contracts, repair and competitiveness of Volvo Group products and helps secure loyalty maintenance contracts, and insurance, etc. to the Volvo Group brands. through seamless integration at the point-ofNumber of regular employees 1,340 (1,339) sale with Volvo Group dealers. This approach delivers a convenient one stop-shopping experience for the customer. To ensure successful business execution, VFS continued its focus on 1) Strengthening customer and dealer partnerships throughout the product lifecycle, 2) Capturing proﬁtable growth opportunities, 3) Driving operational excellence in support of integrated point-of-sale customer offerings, 4) Attracting, developing VFS achieved its best operational efﬁciency in its history. Scalaand retaining high-performing employees, and 5) Optimizing ble business platforms and higher service levels delivered signiﬁshareholder return on equity. cant operating leverage for VFS by enabling growth without comVFS’ mission is to be the best captive in industry. To achieve mensurate cost increases. this mission, VFS aims to be the provider of choice, the employer of choice, and to deliver strong shareholder value. In 2016, a conStrong portfolio performance tinued focus will be on delivering dealer and customer value by During 2015, managed assets in VFS grew to record levels. Overworking with our product companies to deliver superior products. all, customer overdues, repossessions, inventories, and write off Ease of doing business, outstanding service levels, building relalevels remained low and supported strong proﬁtability. tionships, and unsurpassed expertise in our industries are at the North America continued to perform extremely well while the forefront of achieving this value. majority of our European markets also returned to good levels during 2015. Downturns in Brazil, China and Russia negatively Strong proﬁtability impacted portfolio performance during the year, but activities to Despite growing competition and liquidity in our markets, execudrive sales and deliver proﬁtability were executed very well. tion of our commercial strategy resulted in record new business volume levels and strong portfolio growth. This growth, along with Customer ﬁnance operations pricing controls, cost controls and risk management contributed The Customer Finance operations recorded strong levels of new to record proﬁtability levels for customer ﬁnance. During 2015, business volume during the year despite weak demand in Brazil and the other BRIC markets. Total new ﬁnancing volume in 2015 amounted to SEK 54.8 billion (54.7). Excluding the BRIC markets, the new business volume increased by 3.9% compared to 2014, PENETRATION RATE*, % adjusted for changes in exchange rates, driven primarily by strong performance in North America. Financing penetration was stable in served markets, but overall penetration was lower than the prior year mainly due to changes in market delivery mix. In total, 49,038 new Volvo Group vehicles and machines (54,819) were ﬁnanced during the year. In the markets where ﬁnancing is offered, the average penetration rate was 25% (28). 30 28 23 19 23 20 27 22 39 41 11 10 The net credit portfolio of SEK 122,606 M (117,101) increased Volvo Renault Mack Buses Volvo UD Trucks Trucks Trucks CE Trucks by 6.5% on a currency adjusted basis when compared to 2014 and reached a new year-end high. The funding of the credit port14 15 folio is matched in terms of maturity, interest rates and currencies * Share of unit sales ﬁnanced by Volvo Financial Services in relation to total number in accordance with Volvo Group policy. For further information, of units sold by the Volvo Group in markets where ﬁnancial services are offered. see note 4 to the Consolidated ﬁnancial statements. 99 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2015 VOLVO FINANCIAL SERVICES Operating income excluding restructuring charges amounted to Operating income*, SEK M Return on shareholders’ equity, % SEK 2,006 M compared to SEK 1,717 M in the previous year and the return on shareholders’ equity was 13.4% (12.5). The equity 2,006 13.4 ratio at the end of the year was 8.0% (8.0). Improvements in gross income and lower credit provisions along with good cost control are the drivers of the overall increase in proﬁtability. During the year, credit provision expenses amounted to SEK 817 M (858) while write-offs of SEK 491 M (715) were recorded. The write-off ratio for 2015 was 0.39% (0.66). At the end of 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 December 31, 2015, credit reserves were 1.41% (1.33) of the 969 1,496 1,522 1,717 2,006 7.3 12.5 12.1 12.5 13.4 credit portfolio. *Excl. restructuring charges Distribution of credit portfolio Volvo Trucks, 48% Volvo CE, 21% Renault Trucks, 9% Mack Trucks, 15% Buses, 5% UD Trucks, 2% KEY RATIOS, CUSTOMER FINANCE1 INCOME STATEMENT CUSTOMER FINANCE, SEK M 2015 2014 2015 2014 Number of ﬁnanced units 49,038 54,819 Finance and lease income 11,199 10,111 New ﬁnancing volume, SEK billion 54,8 54,7 Finance and lease expenses –6,607 –5,923 Credit portfolio net, SEK billion 123 117 Gross income 4,591 4,188 Credit provisions expenses SEK M 817 858 Selling and administrative expenses –1,878 –1,711 Operating income, excl. restructuring Credit provision expenses –817 –858 charges SEK M 2,006 1,717 Other operating income and expenses 109 98 Credit reserves, % of credit portfolio 1.41 1.33 Operating income 2,006 1,717* Return on shareholders’ equity, % 13.4 12.5 Total penetration rate, % 25 28 Income taxes –633 –568 Income for the period 1,373 1,149 Return on Equity, % 13.4 12.5 * Excl. restructuring charges. 100 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL TARGETS Since 2012 the ﬁnancial targets for the Volvo Group comprises growth and proﬁtability of the Group’s various operations measured IMPROVEMENTS FROM and benchmarked annually against competitors. This creates a clear picture of how the operations are developing compared to the indusL AST YEAR try. Information on how the comparison with competitors is made is available under the heading Investors on www.volvogroup.com. INDUSTRIAL OPERATIONS TRUCKS AND BUSES Target Comparison group Preliminary outcome* The annual organic sales growth for the truck Daimler, Iveco, MAN, Navistar, Paccar, The organic sales increased by 3.4% for the and bus operations shall be equal to or exceed Scania and Sinotruk.* Volvo Group’s truck and bus operations and was a weighted-average for comparable competitors. above the weighted average of 1.7% for * Daimler’s, Iveco’s, MAN’s and Navistar’s ﬁgthe competitors. Each year, the operating margin for the truck ures are based on rolling four quarters as of the and bus operations shall be ranked among the third quarter of 2015 and Sinotruk’s ﬁgures are The operating margin of 7.7% for the Group’s top two companies when benchmarked against based on rolling four quarters as of the second truck and bus operations was ranked number relevant competitors. quarter of 2015. three in comparison with the competitors. CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT AND VOLVO PENTA Target Comparison group Preliminary outcome* The annual organic sales growth for the Brunswick, Caterpillar, CNH Industrial, The organic sales decreased by 11.8% for the construction equipment operations and Volvo Cummins, Deere, Hitachi, Komatsu and Volvo Group’s construction equipment operaPenta, shall be equal to or exceed a weightedTerex.* tions and Volvo Penta which was more than the average for comparable competitors. weighted average of a decrease of 3.8% for the competitors. Each year, the operating margin for the construction equipment operations and Volvo The operating margin of 4.4% for the Volvo Penta, shall be ranked among the top two Group’s construction equipment operations companies when benchmarked against relevant * Deere’s and Terex’s ﬁgures are based on rolling and Volvo Penta was ranked number ﬁve in competitors. four quarters as of the third quarter of 2015. comparison with the competitors. INDUSTRIAL OPERATIONS Target and outcome On January 1, 2013, new accounting Net ﬁnancial debt as a percentage The Industrial Operations’ net ﬁnancial debt, rules for employee beneﬁts came into of shareholders’ equity, % Net debt excluding pension obligations, shall be below effect. As a consequence, AB Volvo’s 80 35% of shareholders’ equity under normal Board of Directors decided to exclude Target below: conditions. At the end of 2015, the Volvo Group pension obligations from the target. The 60 had a ﬁnancial net cash position of 0.5% of new target of 35% corresponds to the 40 40% 35% shareholders’ equity compared with a ﬁnancial previous ﬁnancial target of 40% in which 20 net debt position of 14.2% at the end of 2014. pension obligations were included. 0 Net cash –20 11 12 13 14 15 25.2 29.3 29.0 14.2 –0.5 CUSTOMER FINANCE OPERATIONS Target and outcome Return on shareholders’ equity, % The target for Customer Finance is a return on shareholders’ equity of 12–15% and an equity ratio not less than 8%. The return on shareholders’ equity for 2015 amounted to Target: 12−15% 13.4% (12.5). At year end 2015 the equity ratio was 8.0% (8.0). 15 10 5 0 11 12 13 14 15 7.3 12.5 12.1 12.5 13.4 101 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT BALANCING THE REQUIREMENTS OF D I F F E R E N T S TA K E H O L D E R S The objectives of the ﬁnancial management in the Volvo Group is to assure shareholders long-term attractive and stable total return, and debt providers the ﬁnancial strength and ﬂexibility to secure proceeds and repayment. Volvo Group liquidity position, December 31, 2015 A long-term competitive business requires access to capital to be able to invest. The SEK bn ﬁnancial management secures that the capi80 tal is used in the best possible way through 64.1 well-deﬁned ratios and objectives for the 60 Industrial Operations as well as for the Cus39.7 40 tomer Finance Operations. The objectives on net sales growth and operating margins for the Industrial Operations and return on 20 24.4 equity for the Customer Finance Operations are intended to 0 secure the return requirements from shareholders. The restricCash and cash equivalents Revolving credit tions on net debt to equity for the Industrial Operations and equity and marketable securities facilities ratio for the Customer Finance Operations are to secure ﬁnancial stability and ﬂexibility for debt providers. programs on all major debt capital markets in the world. Besides Steering principles to ensure ﬁnancial ﬂexibility over the the access to capital markets around the world, the Volvo Group business cycle uses different instruments, such as bilateral bank funding, corpoTo ensure ﬁnancial stability and ﬂexibility throughout the business rate bonds and certiﬁcates, hybrid bonds, agency funding as well cycle the Volvo Group holds a strong liquidity position. Besides as securitization of assets in the Customer Finance portfolio. An cash and marketable securities the liquidity position is built up of increasingly important part of the treasury work is also to manage committed credit facilities. The funding and lending is in local curincreased funding needs in new growth markets for the Group. rency and the customer ﬁnance portfolio is matched both from an interest and a liquidity risk perspective, in accordance with the A strong and stable credit rating is important Volvo Group policy. For further information, please see note 4 to Being a large issuer with a growing customer ﬁnancing business, the Consolidated ﬁnancial statements. it is critical to have a strong and stable credit rating. The level of the credit rating is not only important for debt investors but also Diversiﬁed funding sources give ﬂexibility and support for a number of other stakeholders when it comes to creating the global presence long-term relationships. A strong credit rating has a positive The Volvo Group has centralized the portfolio management of all effect on the ability to attract and ﬁnance customers’ purchases ﬁnancial assets and liabilities, funding operations and cash manof the Group’s products and on the trust from suppliers. It also agement through the internal bank, Volvo Treasury. The liability gives access to more funding sources and lower cost of funds. portfolio is separated into two portfolios, one for Industrial OperThe Volvo Group has contractual relations with two global ations and one for Customer Finance, to correspond to the needs Credit Rating Agencies (CRA’s) for solicited credit ratings; Standin the different operations. ard & Poors’ Rating Services (S&P) and Moody’s Investors SerVolvo Treasury is increasing the possibility to access capital vice (Moody’s). Both S&P and Moody’s changed their negative markets at all times through diversiﬁed funding sources. Furtheroutlook to stable during 2015. S&P’s long-term credit rating is more, the Volvo Group’s global presence is supported by bond BBB, stable and Moody’s rating is Baa2, stable. GEOGRAPHICALLY DIVERSIFIED MARKET PROGRAMS CREDIT RATING, FEBRUARY 22, 2016 Short-term Long-term Moody’s (Corporate Rating) P-2 Baa2, stable CAD SEK S&P (Corporate Rating) A2 BBB, stable CNY DBRS (Canada) – BBB, (high) USD EUR JPY R&I (Japan) a-1 A, stable CNH BRL AUD 102 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2015 CHANGES IN CONSOLIDATED SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY Shareholders’ equity attributable to equity holders of the Parent Company Share Other Translation Retained Minority Total SEK M capital reserves 1 reserve earnings Total interests equity Balance at December 31, 2013 2,554 1,037 –4,440 76,881 76,032 1,333 77,365 Income for the period – – – 2,099 2,099 136 2,235 Other comprehensive income Translation differences on foreign operations – – 5,746 – 5,746 252 5,998 Share of OCI related to Joint Ventures and associated companies – – 198 – 198 – 198 Accumulated translation differences reversed to income – – 33 – 33 – 33 Available-for-sale investments: Note 5, 19 Gains/losses at valuation to fair value – 3,067 – – 3,067 – 3,067 Change in cash ﬂow hedge reserve Note 19 – 24 – – 24 – 24 Remeasurements of deﬁned beneﬁt plans Note 20 – – – –2,833 –2,833 – –2,833 Other comprehensive income for the period – 3,091 5,977 –2,833 6,235 252 6,487 Total income for the period – 3,091 5,977 –734 8,334 388 8,722 Transactions with shareholders Dividends to shareholders – – – –6,084 –6,084 – –6,084 Transactions with minority interests – – – – – – – Share based payments Note 27 – – – 60 60 – 60 Changes in minority interests – – – – – – – Other changes – – – –17 –17 2 –15 Transactions with shareholders – – – –6,041 –6,041 2 –6,039 Balance at December 31, 2014 2,554 4,128 1,537 70,106 78,325 1,723 80,048 Income for the period – – – 15,058 15,058 41 15,099 Other comprehensive income Translation differences on foreign operations – – –2,515 – –2,515 33 –2,481 Share of OCI related to Joint Ventures and associated companies – – – 24 24 – 24 Accumulated translation differences reversed to income – – 45 – 45 – 45 Available-for-sale investments: Note 5, 19 Gains/losses at valuation to fair value – –3,837 – – –3,837 – –3,837 Change in cash ﬂow hedge reserve Note 19 – –32 – – –32 – –32 Remeasurements of deﬁned beneﬁt plans Note 20 – – – 2,783 2,783 – 2,783 Other comprehensive income for the period – –3,869 –2,470 2,807 –3,533 33 –3,498 Total income for the period – –3,869 –2,470 17,865 11,527 74 11,601 Transactions with shareholders Dividends to shareholders – – – –6,090 –6,090 – –6,090 Transactions with minority interests – – – – – – – Share based payments Note 27 – – – 65 65 – 65 Changes in minority interests – – – – – – – Other changes – – – –17 –17 4 –14 Transactions with shareholders – – – –6,041 –6,041 4 –6,037 Balance at December 31, 2015 2,554 259 –933 81,930 83,810 1,801 85,610 1 For speciﬁcation of other reserves, refer to Note 19. 103 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2015 THE SHARE ONE OF THE MOST TRADED S H A R E S I N S TO C K H O L M Many of the world’s leading stock markets had a volatile development in 2015 and ended the year lower than they started. The price of the Volvo B share decreased by 7% during the year. T he Volvo share is listed on the stock exchange the largest owner followed by Cevian Capital, Norges Bank Nasdaq Stockholm, Sweden. One A share carries Investment Management, SHB and Alecta, when measured as one vote at Annual General Meetings and one B share of voting rights. share carries one tenth of a vote. Dividends are the same for both classes of shares. The A share Dividend is traded under the ticker code Volvo A and the B The Board proposes a dividend of SEK 3.00 per share for the share under Volvo B. ﬁnancial year of 2015, which would mean that a total of SEK The Volvo share is included in a large number of indexes that 6.093 M would be transferred to AB Volvo’s shareholders. For the are compiled by Dow Jones, FTSE, S&P and Nasdaq Nordic. preceding year a dividend of SEK 3.00 per share was paid out. The Volvo share price declined Communication with shareholders In general, the leading stock exchanges fell back during 2015. Dialogue with the shareholders is important for Volvo. In addition However, on Nasdaq Stockholm, the broad OMXSPI index rose by to the Annual General Meeting and a number of larger activities 7% (12) during the year. aimed at professional investors, private shareholders and stock On Nasdaq Stockholm the share price for the Volvo A share market analysts, the relationship between Volvo and the stock decreased by 5%, and at year-end the price for the Volvo A share market is maintained through such events as press and telephone was SEK 80.95 (85.40). The lowest price paid was SEK 76.35 on conferences in conjunction with the publication of interim reports, September 29, and the highest price paid was SEK 120.50 on meetings with retail shareholders’ associations, investor meetings April 27. and visits, as well as road shows in Europe, North America and The share price for the Volvo B share decreased by 7% and at Asia. year-end the price was SEK 79.10 (84.70). The lowest price paid On the website www.volvogroup.com it is possible to access was SEK 75.90 on December 14 and the highest price paid was ﬁnancial reports, search for information concerning the share, SEK 120.50 on April 27. insider trading in Volvo shares and statistics for truck deliveries. It In 2015, a total of 2.1 billion (2.1) Volvo shares at a value of SEK is also possible to access information concerning the Group’s 203 billion (192) were traded on Nasdaq Stockholm, correspondgovernance, including information about the Annual General ing to a daily average of 8.4 million shares (8.7). The Volvo share Meeting, the Board of Directors, Group Management and other was the fourth most traded share on Nasdaq Stockholm in 2015. areas that are regulated in the “Swedish Code of Corporate GovAt year-end, Volvo’s market capitalization totalled SEK 169 billion ernance.” The website also offers the possibility to subscribe to (181). information from Volvo. According to Fidessa, the trading on Nasdaq Stockholm accounted for 49% (48) of the turnover in the Volvo B share, Bats Chi-X Europe accounted for 36%, Boat for 6% and LSE Group for 5%. Share conversion option In accordance with a resolution on the AGM on April 6, 2011, the Articles of Association have been amended to include a converEARNINGS AND DIVIDEND PER SHARE, SEK sion clause, stipulating that series A shares may be converted into series B shares, after a request sent to the Board. During 2015 a total of 7,633,140 A shares were converted to B shares, representing 1.5% of the outstanding A shares at the end of 2014. Further information on the procedure is available on the Volvo Group’s web site: www.volvogroup.com 11 12 13 14 15 8.75 5.61 1.76 1.03 7.41 3.00 3.00 3.00 3.00 3.001 Ownership changes During the year Industrivärden decreased its holding of B shares Diluted earnings Dividend per share per share and increased the holding of A shares. Cevian Capital increased its holding of both A and B shares. At year end, Industrivärden was 1 Proposed by the Board of Directors. 104 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2015 THE SHARE PRICE TREND, VOLVO SERIES B SHARES, 2010–2015, SEK The largest shareholders in 180 AB Volvo, December 31, 20151 Voting Capital, rights, % % Industrivärden 22.3 7.1 Cevian Capital 14.8 8.4 150 Norges Bank Investment Management 6.1 5.6 SHB 2 5.8 1.9 Alecta 4.5 3.9 120 1 Adjusted for shares owned by AB Volvo, which carry no voting rights at the AGM. AB Volvo held 20,728,135 class A shares and 76,975,610 class B shares comprising in total 4.6% of the number of registered 90 shares on December 31, 2015. 2 Comprises shares held by SHB, SHB Pension Fund, SHB Employee Fund, SHB Source: SIX Pensionskassa and Oktogonen. 60 11 12 13 14 15 Share capital, December 31, 2015 Volvo B OMX Stockholm PI Index OMX Stockholm Industrial Goods & Services Registered number of shares1 2,128,420,220 of which, Series A shares2 505,481,960 PRICE TREND, VOLVO SERIES B SHARES, 2015, SEK of which, Series B shares3 1,622,938,260 130 Quota value, SEK 1.20 Share capital, SEK M 2,554 Number of shareholders 234,989 115 Private persons 221,050 Legal entities 13,939 For further details on the Volvo share, see note 19. 100 1 The number of outstanding shares was 2,030,716,475 on December 31, 2015. 2 Series A shares carry one vote each. 3 Series B shares carry one tenth of a vote each. 85 Source: SIX 70 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Volvo B OMX Stockholm PI Index OMX Stockholm Industrial Goods & Services OWNERSHIP BY COUNTRY1 OWNERSHIP CATEGORIES1 Sweden 59% United Kingdom 16% More details on the Non-Swedish owners 41% Volvo share and Volvo’s The U.S. 14% Luxembourg 3% Other Swedish insitutions 34% holding of treasury Belgium 1% Swedish private shareholders 12% shares are provided in Switzerland 1% Swedish mutual funds 13% note 19 to the ﬁnancial Others 6% statements and in the Eleven-year summary. 1 Share of capital, registered shares. 1 Share of capital, registered shares. The employees' ownership of shares in Volvo through pension foundations is insigniﬁcant. 105 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2015 THE SHARE DOW JONES SUSTAINABILITY INDEX The Volvo Group is among the The Volvo Group was also acknowledged for improvements top 300 companies included related to human capital development, social reporting and tax in the DJSI World. Volvo strategy. Other important areas are the positive trend in product Group received particularly stewardship and customer relationship management. Approxigood ratings for antitrust polmately 3,400 of the largest companies in the world are invited to icy, climate strategy and corparticipate in the assessment for qualiﬁcation in the DJSI indices. porate citizenship program. The Index ranks the world’s leading The annual review is based on analysis of the various companies’ companies in terms of their sustainability efforts. The included business ethics, environmental achievements and social perforcompanies across all industries have a common denominator; mance which impact the companies’ long-term ﬁnancial perforthey outperform their peers in numerous sustainability metrics. mance. Shareholder value – Long-term value creation SEK 1,000 invested in Volvo B shares on December 30, 1982, was worth SEK 58,780 at the end of 2015. The Volvo Group strives to create long-term value for its shareholders. The Volvo Group’s origins can be traced to 1927, when the ﬁrst serial produced Volvo car rolled out of the factory in Göteborg, SEK 1,000 Sweden. The ﬁrst serial produced truck saw the light of day in 1928 and was an immediate success. In 1935, AB Volvo was listed on the Stockholm Stock Exchange. 1982 SEK 58,780 The graph shows the total return for the Volvo B share, measured as the share price development with all dividends re-invested, since December 30, 1982, which is as far back as the comparison index, SIX Return Index, stretches. SIX Return Index measures the total return for the Stockholm Stock Exchange as whole. The graph shows that SEK 1,000 invested in the Volvo B-share in 1982 had grown to SEK 58,780 at the end of 2015, under the condition that all dividends have been reinvested in Volvo B 2015 shares. ACCUMULATED TOTAL RETURN OF THE VOLVO B SHARE % 8,000 6,000 +5,778% 4,000 2,000 0 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 Volvo B Total return (including reinvested dividends) SIX Return Index (including reinvested dividends) Source: SIX 106 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2015 RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES MANAGED R I S K-TA K I N G All business operations involve risks – managed risk-taking is a condition of maintaining a sustained favorable proﬁtability. R isks may be due to events in the world and can The commercial vehicles industry is cyclical affect a given industry or market and can have The Volvo Group’s markets undergo signiﬁcant changes in demand an impact on the Volvo Group’s objectives. as the general economic environment ﬂuctuates. Investments in At the Volvo Group, work is carried out daily infrastructure, major industrial projects, mining and housing conto identify, assess and respond to risks – in struction all impact the Group’s operations as its products are some cases the Group can inﬂuence the likelicentral to these sectors. Adverse changes in the economic condihood that a risk-related event will occur. In cases in which such tions for the Volvo Group’s customers may also impact existing events are beyond the Group’s control, the Group strives to miniorder books through cancellations of previously placed orders. mize the consequences. The cyclical demand for the Group’s products makes the ﬁnancial AB Volvo has, for a number of years, worked with enterprise risk result of the operations dependable on the Group’s ability to react management (ERM), which is a systematic and structured proquickly to changes in demand, in particular to the ability to adapt cess to identify, understand, aggregate, report and mitigate the production levels and operating expenses. risks that might threaten the Group’s objectives. The goal of ERM is to improve business performance and optiIntense competition mize the costs of managing risk; i.e. protecting and enhancing the Continued consolidation in the industry is expected to create fewer Volvo Group’s enterprise value. ERM contributes to meeting the but stronger competitors. The major competitors are Daimler, Iveco, high standards of corporate governance expected from the MAN, Navistar, Paccar, Scania, Sinotruk, Brunswick, Caterpillar, Group’s stakeholders and is looked upon as an integral part of CNH, Cummins, Deere, Hitachi, Komatsu and Terex. In recent years, good corporate governance as reﬂected in the Swedish Corponew competitors have emerged in Asia, particularly in China. These rate Governance Code. new competitors are mainly active in their domestic markets, but are The risks to which the Volvo Group are exposed are classiﬁed expected to increase their presence in other parts of the world. into four main categories: • Strategic risks – such as the cyclical nature of the commerExtensive government regulation cial vehicles business, intense competition, political risks, also Regulations regarding exhaust emission levels, noise, safety and connected to the internal events on the long term horizon like levels of pollutants from production plants are extensive within the strategies and long term planning. industry. • Operational risks – such as product related events, market Most of the regulatory challenges regarding products relate to reception of new products, reliance on suppliers, supply chain reduced engine emissions. The Volvo Group is a leading company management, operation of production sites and risks related to in the commercial vehicle industry and one of the world’s largest human capital. producers of heavy-duty diesel engines. The product development capacity within the Volvo Group is well consolidated to be • Compliance risks – such as government regulations, comable to focus resources for research and development to meet plaints and legal actions by customers and other third parties. tougher emission regulations. Future product regulations are well • Financial risks – such as ﬁnancial reporting, currency ﬂuctuknown, and the product development strategy is well tuned to the ations, interest rate ﬂuctuations, market value of shares or simintroduction of new regulations. ilar instruments, credit risk and liquidity risk. Local protectionism leading to changes to local content requirements can put the Volvo Group at a disadvantage compared to local competitors, cause increased sourcing costs or STRATEGIC RISKS require Volvo to make signiﬁcant investments not necessary from an operational point of view. For a large global company such as Volvo Group, navigating through the political, economic and societal trends is important and crucial Geopolitical uncertainty to deﬁne our place in the global context of markets and competitors. Volvo is active in more than 190 countries and political instability, From a Volvo Group perspective, there are a number of trends armed conﬂicts and civil unrest may impact Volvo’s ability to trade and challenges driving our work to develop and deliver sustainable in affected areas. Rapid change in inﬂation, devaluations or regutransport and infrastructure solutions today and tomorrow. lations can sustain Volvo signiﬁcant losses, impairment of assets or costs due to underutilized assets. 107 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2015 RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES OPERATIONAL RISKS position as an attractive employer. Every year a Group-wide survey is conducted, and according to the survey the share of Operational risks are risks found in Volvo Group’s everyday busisatisﬁed employees has been on a high level in recent years, ness activities. although it declined in 2014 and 2015. Product development The Volvo Group’s long-term proﬁtability depends on its ability to COMPLIANCE RISKS successfully launch and market its new products. Product life cycles continue to shorten, putting increased focus on the sucIn its operations Volvo Group is obliged to follow a number of laws cess of the Group’s product development. and regulations and has made the conscious decision to comply with a number of global standards. Also the corporate reputation Prices may change for being a company that has legal compliance, business ethics, The prices of commercial vehicles have, at times, changed conintegrity and corporate social responsibility is high on the agenda, siderably in certain markets over a short period. This instability is combined with the core values of quality, environment and safety caused by several factors, such as short-term variations in set as internal demands on the business. These requirements are demand, shortages of certain components, uncertainty regarding implemented by Group-wide policies. underlying economic conditions, changes in import regulations, excess inventory and increased competition. Overcapacity within Intangible assets the industry can occur if there is a lack of demand, potentially AB Volvo owns or otherwise has rights to patents and brands that leading to increased price pressure. refer to the products the company manufactures and markets. These have been acquired over a number of years and are valuaResidual value commitments ble to the operations of the Volvo Group. AB Volvo does not conWhen selling products the Volvo Group at times enters into residsider that any of the Group’s operations are heavily dependent on ual value commitments. At the time of the sale the evolution of the any single patent or group of patents. AB Volvo and Volvo Car used commercial vehicle market and equipment market may be Corporation jointly own the Volvo brand through Volvo Trademark uncertain, potentially leading to too high commitments, impacting Holding AB. AB Volvo has the exclusive right to use the Volvo the future proﬁtability. name and trademark for its products and services. Similarly, Volvo Car Corporation has the exclusive right to use the Volvo name and Reliance on suppliers trademark for its products and services. The Volvo Group purchases raw materials, parts and components The Volvo Group’s rights to use the Renault brand are restricted to from numerous external suppliers. A signiﬁcant part of the the truck operations only and are regulated by a license from Renault Group’s requirements for raw materials and supplies is ﬁlled by s.a.s., which owns the Renault brand. The amount paid during 2015 single-source suppliers. The effects of delivery interruptions vary to Renault s.a.s. for license fees amounted to SEK 6.4 M (6.0). depending on the item or component. Certain items and components are standard throughout the industry, whereas others are Complaints and legal actions internally developed and require unique tools that are time-conThe Volvo Group could be the target of complaints and legal suming to replace. The Volvo Group’s costs for raw materials and actions initiated by customers, employees and other third parties components can vary signiﬁcantly over a business cycle. Cost alleging health, environmental, safety or business related issues, variations may be caused by changes in world market prices for or failure to comply with applicable legislation and regulations. raw materials or by an inability of our suppliers to deliver. Information about legal proceedings involving entities within the An increase in demand could potentially result in delivery disturVolvo Group are found in note 21 Other Provisions and in note 24 bances due to suppliers’ ﬁnancial instability or shortage of resources. Contingent Liabilities. Even if such disputes are resolved sucUncertainty regarding customers’ access to the ﬁnancing of prodcessfully, without having adverse ﬁnancial consequences, they ucts in emerging markets might have a negative impact on demand. could negatively impact the Group’s reputation and take up resources that could be used for other purposes. Operation of plants For Volvo Group the industrial system is crucial in providing customContractual conditions related to takeover bids ers with the right products at the right time. It is a large operation Some of AB Volvo’s long term loan agreements contain conditions with tools and human beings having to interact in an efﬁcient and stipulating the right for a bondholder to request repayment in advance timely manner and also handle ﬂexibility. Interruptions or inefﬁcienunder certain conditions following a change of the control of the comcies in the system can negatively impact the Group’s proﬁtability. pany. In AB Volvo’s opinion it has been necessary to accept those Here risk management is crucial to foresee and prevent possible conditions in order to receive ﬁnancing on otherwise acceptable stops in production, injuries on personnel, right handling of materials terms. Provisions stipulating that an agreement can be changed or and chemicals, etc. There are a large number of instructions on how terminated if the control of the company is changed are also included to do different tasks to avoid implications, as well as audits and in some of the agreements whereby Renault Trucks’ has been given assessments performed to secure that the instructions are followed. the right to sell Renault s.a.s.’ and Nissan Motor Co. Ltd’s light-duty trucks as well as in some of the Group’s purchasing agreements. Risk related to human capital A decisive factor for the realization of the Volvo Group’s vision is our employees and their knowledge and competence. Future development depends on the company’s ability to maintain its 108 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2015 RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Environmental customers within Construction Equipment. Secondly, the customer The Volvo Group takes pride in being a leader in the area of enviﬁnance activity in Volvo Financial Services manages a signiﬁcant ronmental care. The Volvo Group could be at risk for complaints credit portfolio, equivalent to SEK 123 billion at year-end 2015. The and legal actions initiated by customers, employees and other portfolio is largely secured by the title to the ﬁnanced commercial third parties alleging environmental related issues. Environmental vehicles and equipment. However, in the case of customer default, legislation is fast changing and there are increased demands in the value of the repossessed commercial vehicles and equipment many areas, for instance chemical management as well as on may not necessarily cover the outstanding ﬁnanced amount. Lastly, emission standards for the vehicles themselves. The Group a part of the Group’s credit risk is related to the investment of the invests a great deal of resources to adhere to different legislation ﬁnancial assets of the Group. The majority has been invested in throughout the entire value chain. Recent developments in interinterest-bearing securities issued by Swedish real estate ﬁnancing national standards in environmental and quality management are institutions or deposited with the Group’s core banks. further emphasizing the need for risk management in these areas. Even if potential issues in these areas are resolved and handled Liquidity risk without adverse ﬁnancial impacts they could have a negative The Volvo Group strives to have a sound preparedness by always impact on Group reputation and diverting resources that would having liquid funds and committed facilities to cover the Group’s have come to better use in the Group’s development. expected liquidity needs for a period of 12–18 months in a scenario with no access to capital markets. FINANCIAL RISKS Market risk from investments in shares or similar instruments The Volvo Group is exposed to various types of ﬁnancial risks. The Volvo Group has invested in listed shares with a direct expoGroup-wide policies, which are updated and decided upon annusure to the capital markets. The majority of this exposure is relatally, form the basis of each Group company’s management of ing to the investments in Deutz AG and Inner Mongolia North these risks. The objectives of the Group’s policies for manageHauler Joint Stock Co., Ltd. Please see note 5 for further informament of ﬁnancial risks are to optimize the Group’s capital costs by tion. Furthermore, the Volvo Group is indirectly exposed to market utilizing economies of scale, to minimize negative effects on risks from shares and other similar instruments as a result of capincome as a result of changes in currency or interest rates, to ital in independent pension plans with asset management with optimize risk exposure and to clarify areas of responsibility. Moniexposure to these types of instruments. Please see note 20 for toring and control that established policies are adhered to is confurther information. tinuously conducted. Information about key aspects of the Group’s system for internal controls in conjunction with the ﬁnancial Impairment reporting is provided in the Corporate Governance Report on The Volvo Group veriﬁes annually, or more frequently if necessary, page 168. Most of the Volvo Group’s ﬁnancial transactions are the goodwill value and other intangible assets upon indication for carried out through the in-house bank, Volvo Treasury, which conpossible impairment. The size of the overvalue differs between the ducts its operations within established risk mandates and limits. business areas and they are, to a varying degree, sensitive to Customer credit risks are mainly managed by the different busichanges in the business environment. Instability in the business ness areas. The nature of the various ﬁnancial risks and objecrecovery and volatility in interest and currency rates may lead to tives and the policies for the management of these risks are indications of impairment. For further information on intangible described in detail in notes 4 and 30. Various aspects of ﬁnancial assets, see note 12. risk are described brieﬂy in the following paragraphs. Interest-related risk Interest-related risk includes risks that changes in interest rates will impact the Group’s income and cash ﬂow (cash-ﬂow risks) or the fair value of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities (price risks). Currency-related risk More than 90% of the net sales of the Volvo Group are generated in countries other than Sweden. A majority of the Group’s costs also stems from other countries than Sweden. To reduce currency exposure, the Volvo Group strives to have manufacturing located in the major markets. However, changes in exchange rates have a Further information direct impact on the Volvo Group’s operating income, balance Note 27 Personnel contains information concerning rules sheet and cash ﬂow, as well as an indirect impact on Volvo’s comon severance payments applicable for the Group Executive petitiveness, which over time affects the Group’s earnings. Team and certain other senior executives. Note 4 and 30 contain information regarding ﬁnancial risks as Credit-related risk well as goals and policies in ﬁnancial risk management. There are three main areas of credit risks for the Volvo Group. Further risk information is provided in note 24. Firstly, within its Industrial Operations the Group sells products with Information about licensable facilities in Sweden is provided open credits to customers and issues credit guarantees for cuson page 33. tomers’ commercial vehicles and equipment. The majority of the outstanding credit guarantees at year-end relates to Chinese retail 109 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Income statements Balance sheet Cash ﬂow statement Changes in consolidated Page 80 Page 83 Page 86 shareholders’ equity Page 103 NOTES page Note The Volvo Group page Note Parent Company page Notes to ﬁnancial statements 111 1 Accounting policies 111 1 Accounting policies 162 Parent Company AB Volvo 158 2 Key sources of estimation uncertainty 113 2 Intra-Group transactions 162 Proposed policy for remuneration 188 3 Acquisitions and divestments of shares in 114 3 Administrative expenses 162 to senior executives subsidiaries 4 Other operating income 162 Proposed disposition of 189 4 Goals and policies in ﬁnancial 116 and expenses unappropriated earnings risk management 5 Income from investments 163 Audit report for AB Volvo 190 5 Investments in joint ventures, associated com122 in Group companies panies and other shares and participations Eleven-year summary 191 6 Income from investments 163 6 Segment reporting 125 in joint ventures and associated companies 7 Revenue 126 7 Income from other investments 163 8 Other operating income and expenses 127 8 Interest expenses 163 9 Other ﬁnancial income and expenses 127 9 Other ﬁnancial income 163 and expenses 10 Income taxes 128 10 Allocations 163 11 Minority interests 129 11 Income taxes 163 12 Intangible assets 130 12 Intangible and tangible assets 164 13 Tangible assets 132 13 Investments in shares 164 14 Leasing 134 and participations 15 Customer-ﬁnancing receivables 135 14 Other receivables 166 16 Receivables 136 15 Untaxed reserves 166 17 Inventories 137 16 Provisions for post166 18 Marketable securities and liquid funds 138 employment beneﬁts 19 Equity and number of shares 138 17 Other provisions 167 20 Provisions for post-employment beneﬁts 139 18 Non-current liabilities 167 21 Other provisions 144 19 Other liabilities 167 22 Liabilities 146 20 Contingent liabilities 167 23 Assets pledged 147 21 Cash ﬂow 167 24 Contingent liabilities 148 25 Transactions with related parties 149 26 Government grants 149 27 Personnel 150 Amounts in SEK M unless otherwise 28 Fees to the auditors 153 speciﬁed. The amounts within parenthe29 Cash ﬂow 153 ses refer to the preceding year, 2014. 30 Financial instruments 154 110 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 NOTES Notes to Financial Statements Amounts in SEK M unless otherwise speciﬁed. The amounts within parentheses refer to the preceding year, 2014. NOTE 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES The consolidated ﬁnancial statements for AB Volvo and its subsidiaries How should the Volvo Group’s accounting policies be read? have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting The Volvo Group describes the accounting policies in conjunction Standards (IFRS) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board with each note in the aim of providing enhanced understanding of each (IASB), as adopted by the EU. This Annual Report is prepared in accordaccounting area. The Volvo Group focuses on describing the accounting ance with IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements and with the Swedchoices made within the framework of the prevailing IFRS policy and avoids ish Annual Accounts Act. In addition, RFR 1 Supplementary Rules for repeating the actual text of the standard, unless the Volvo Group considers Groups, has been applied, which is issued by the Swedish Financial it particularly important to the understanding of the note’s content. The folReporting Board. lowing symbols I/S and B/S show which amounts in the notes that can be found in the income statement or balance sheet. The total amount in tables and statements might not always summarize as there are rounding differences. The aim is to have each line item corresponding to the source and it might therefore be rounding differences in the total. Refer to the table below to see the note in which each accounting policy is listed and for the relevant and material IFRS standard. Accounting principle Note IFRS-standard Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued 3, Acquisitions and divestments of shares in subsidiaries IFRS 5, IFRS 13 operations Business combinations 3, Acquisitions and divestments of shares in subsidiaries IFRS 3 Joint ventures 5, Investments in joint ventures, associated companies and IFRS 11, IAS 28, IFRS 12 other shares and participations Associated companies 5, Investments in joint ventures, associated companies and IAS 28, IFRS 12 other shares and participations Operating segments 6, Segment reporting IFRS 8 Revenue 7, Revenue IAS 17, IAS 18 Shares and participations 5, Investments in joint ventures, associated companies IAS 28, IAS 32, IAS 36, IAS 39, IFRS 7, and other shares and participations IFRS 13 Financial income and expenses 9, Other ﬁnancial income and expenses IAS 39 Income taxes 10, Income taxes IAS 12 Minority interests 11, Minority interests IFRS 10, IFRS 12 Research and development expenses 12, Intangible assets IAS 36, IAS 38, IAS 23 Goodwill 12, Intangible assets IAS 36, IAS 38 Tangible assets 13, Tangible assets IAS 16, IAS 36, IAS 40, IFRS 13, IAS 23 Leasing 14, Leasing IAS 17 Customer-ﬁnancing receivables 15, Customer-ﬁnancing receivables IAS 17, IAS 18, IAS 32, IAS 39, IFRS 7, IFRS 13 Inventories 17, Inventories IAS 2 Earnings per share 19, Equity and number of shares IAS 33 Pensions and similar obligations 20, Provisions for post-employment beneﬁts IAS 19 Provisions for residual value risks 21, Other provisions IAS 17, IAS 18, IAS 37 Warranty expenses 21, Other provisions IAS 37 Restructuring costs 21, Other provisions IAS 37, IAS 19 Liabilities 22, Liabilities IAS 32, IAS 37, IAS 39, IFRS 7, IFRS 13 Contingent liabilities 24, Contingent liabilities IAS 37 Transactions with related parties 25, Transactions with related parties IAS 24 Government grants 26, Government grants IAS 20 Share-based payments 27, Personnel IFRS 2 Cash-ﬂow statement 29, Cash ﬂow IAS 7 Financial instruments 4, Goals and policies in ﬁnancial risk management IAS 32, IAS 39, IFRS 7, IFRS 13 16, Receivables 18, Marketable securities and liquid funds 30, Financial instruments 111 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 NOTES Consolidated ﬁnancial statements New accounting policies for 2015 There are no new accounting principles and interpretations that came into Principles for consolidation effect as of January 1, 2015 that signiﬁcantly effects the Volvo Group’s The consolidated ﬁnancial statements comprise the parent company, subﬁnancial statements. sidiaries, joint ventures and associated companies. Intra-group transactions as well as gains on transactions with joint ventures and associated New accounting policies for 2016 and later companies are eliminated in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. A number of accounting standards and interpretations have been pubRead more in note 5 about deﬁnitions of subsidiaries, joint ventures, and lished, but have not yet become effective. associated companies. IFRS 9 Financial instruments Translation to Swedish kronor when consolidating companies have other IFRS 9 is divided in three parts: Classiﬁcation and Measurement, Imfunctional currencies pairment and Hedge Accounting, and will replace the current IAS 39 The functional currency of each Volvo Group company is determined Financial instruments: recognition and measurement. The Volvo Group is based on the currency in which the company primarily generates and currently assessing the effect of IFRS 9 and are expecting the greatest expends cash, normally the currency of the country where the company is impact from the transition to the new expected credit loss model, however located. AB Volvo’s and the Volvo Group’s presentation currency is SEK. In the impact is not yet quantiﬁable. The mandatory effective date is January preparing the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, items in the income 1, 2018, with earlier application allowed. statements of foreign subsidiaries (except for subsidiaries in hyperinﬂationary economies) are translated to SEK using monthly average exchange IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers rates. Balance-sheet items are translated into SEK using exchange rates IFRS 15 represent a new framework for recognising revenue with addiat year-end (closing rate). Exchange differences are recognized in other tional disclosure requirements. The framework establishes principles comprehensive income and accumulated in equity. about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash The accumulated translation differences related to a certain subsidiary, ﬂow arising from an entity’s contracts with customers. IFRS 15 will replace joint venture or associated company are reversed to the income statement current IAS 11 Construction contracts and IAS 18 Revenue. The Volvo as a part of the gain/loss arising from disposal of such a company or Group is assessing the impact of the IFRS 15 and monitors any staterepayment of capital contribution from such a company. ments from the IASB and FASB Joint transition resource group for revenue recognition as well as amendments to the standard. Areas in focus Receivables and liabilities in foreign currency for the Volvo Group are for example accounting for repurchase commitReceivables and liabilities in currencies other than the functional currency ments and service contracts, where the guidance in IFRS 15 is more of the reporting entity (foreign currencies) are translated to the functional explicit than under IAS 18. The mandatory effective date is January 1, currency using the closing rate. Translation differences on operating 2018, with earlier application allowed. assets and liabilities are recognized in operating income, while translation differences arising in ﬁnancial assets and liabilities are recognized in IFRS 16 Leases ﬁnancial income and expenses. Interest-bearing ﬁnancial assets and liaIFRS 16 Leases was published in January 2016 and are replacing the bilities are deﬁned as items included in the net ﬁnancial position of the former IAS 17 Leases and the related interpretations IFRIC 4, SIC-15 and Volvo Group (see Deﬁnitions at the end of this report). Exchange rate SIC-27. The accounting for lessors will in all material aspects be differences on loans and other ﬁnancial instruments in foreign currency, unchanged, however the accounting for lessees will change. There will no which are used to hedge net assets in foreign subsidiaries and associated longer be a distinction between operating and ﬁnance lease, all leases companies, are offset against translation differences in the shareholders’ will be recognized on the balance sheet except for short-term leases and equity of the respective companies. Exchange-rate gains and losses on those of minor value. The model reﬂects that, at the start of a lease, the assets and liabilities in foreign currencies, both on payments during the lessee obtains the right to use an asset for a period of time and has an year and on measurements at year-end, impact proﬁt or loss in the year in obligation to pay for that right. The standard is effective for annual periods which they are incurred. beginning on or after 1 January 2019. Early adoption is permitted. Volvo Group will assess the impact of IFRS 16, however it can already now be Read more in note 4 about currency exposure and currency risk management. concluded that the balance sheet for Volvo Group will increase. IFRS 9, IFRS 15 and IFRS 16 has not yet been adopted by the EU when The most important exchange rates applied in the consolidated ﬁnancial this Annual Report is published. statements are shown in the table. Other new or revised accounting standards are not considered to have a material impact on the Volvo Group’s ﬁnancial statements. Closing rate Exchange rates Average rate as of Dec 31 Country Currency 2015 2014 2015 2014 Australia AUD 6.3377 6.1801 6.0861 6.3746 Brazil BRL 2.5643 2.9202 2.1596 2.8903 Euro Zone EUR 9.3638 9.1059 9.1443 9.5248 Japan JPY 0.0697 0.0649 0.0694 0.0654 Canada CAD 6.6054 6.2122 6.0293 6.7231 China CNY 1.3424 1.1134 1.2868 1.2595 Norway NOK 1.0469 1.0904 0.9567 1.0526 Great Britain GBP 12.9042 11.2976 12.3848 12.1451 South Africa ZAR 0.6641 0.6320 0.5433 0.6722 South Korea KRW 0.0075 0.0065 0.0071 0.0071 United States USD 8.4370 6.8582 8.3537 7.8130 112 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 NOTES NOTE 2 KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY The Volvo Group’s most signiﬁcant accounting policies are described Source of estimation uncertainty Note together with the applicable note. Read more in Note 1, Accounting Policies for a speciﬁcation. The preparation of AB Volvo’s Consolidated Buy-back agreements and residual value Financial Statements requires the use of estimates and assumptions that guarantees 7, Revenue may affect the recognized amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of Deferred taxes 10, Income taxes the ﬁnancial statements. In addition, the recognized amounts of net sales Impairment of goodwill and other intangible and expenses during the periods presented are affected. In preparing these assets 12, Intangible assets ﬁnancial statements, management has made its best judgments of cerImpairment of tangible assets 13, Tangible assets tain amounts included in the ﬁnancial statements, materiality taken into Credit loss reserves 15, Customer-ﬁnancing receivables account. Actual results may differ from previously made estimates. In 16, Receivables accordance with IAS 1, the company is required to disclose the assumpInventory obsolescence 17, Inventories tions and other major sources of estimation uncertainties that, if actual Assumptions when calculating pensions and 20, Provisions for postresults differ, may have a material impact on the ﬁnancial statements. other post-employment beneﬁts employment beneﬁts Product warranty costs 21, Other provisions Legal proceedings 21, Other provisions ! The sources of uncertainty which has been identiﬁed by the Volvo Group and which are considered to fulﬁll these criteria are preResidual value risks 21, Other provisions sented in connection to the items considered to be affected. The table discloses where to ﬁnd these descriptions. 113 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 NOTES NOTE 3 ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTMENTS OF SHARES IN SUBSIDIARIES Business combinations during the period ACCOUNTING POLICY The Volvo Group has not made any acquisitions of subsidiaries during 2015. Recognition of business combinations Comparative ﬁgures for 2014 include the acquisition of the hauler manAll business combinations are recognized in accordance with the purufacturing business from Terex Inc. On May 30 2014, Volvo Group chase method. Volvo Group measures acquired identiﬁable assets, tangiacquired 100% of Terex Equipment LTD. The purchase price adjustment ble and intangible, and liabilities at fair value. Any surplus amount from the did not lead to any signiﬁcant impact on the Volvo Group’s ﬁnancial statepurchase price, possible minority interests and fair value of previously ments in 2015. held equity interests at the acquisition date compared to the Volvo Group’s The impact on the Volvo Group’s balance sheet and cash-ﬂow stateshare of acquired net assets is recognized as goodwill. Any deﬁcit amount, ment in connection with the acquisitions of subsidiaries and other busiknown as negative goodwill, is recognized in the income statement. ness units are speciﬁed in the following table: In step acquisitions, a business combination occurs only on the date control is achieved, which is also the time when goodwill is calculated. Acquisitions 2015 2014 Transactions with the minority are recognized as equity as long as control Intangible assets – 280 of the subsidiary is retained. For each business combination, the Volvo Group Property, plant and equipment – 124 decides whether the minority interest shall be valued at fair value or at the Assets under operating lease – – minority interest’s proportionate share of the net assets of the acquiree. All Shares and participations – 233 acquisition-related costs are expensed. Companies acquired during the Inventories – 385 year are consolidated as of the date of acquisition. Companies that have Current receivables – 436 been divested are included in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements up to Cash and cash equivalents – 67 and including the date of the divestment. Other assets – 7 Provisions – –84 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations Loans – –55 In a global group like the Volvo Group, processes are continuously ongoing Current liabilities – –368 regarding the sale of assets or groups of assets at minor values. When the Acquired net assets – 1,025 criteria for being classiﬁed as a non-current asset held for sale are fulﬁlled and the asset or group of assets are of signiﬁcant value, the asset or group Goodwill – 75 of assets, both current and non-current, and the related liabilities are recTotal – 1,100 ognized on a separate line in the balance sheet. The asset or group of Cash and cash equivalents paid – –1,170 assets are measured at the lower of it’s carrying amount and fair value Cash and cash equivalents according after deductions for selling expenses. The balance sheet items and the to acquisition analysis – 67 potential income effect resulting from the revaluation to fair value less sellEffect on Volvo Group cash and ing expenses are normally recognized in the segment Corporate functions, cash equivalents – –1,103 Group functions and Other, until the sale is completed and the result is Cash to be paid – 68 distributed to the relevant segments. Effect on Volvo Group net ﬁnancial position – –1,158 AB Volvo’s holding of shares in subsidiaries as of December 31, 2015 is disclosed in note 13 for the Parent Company. Signiﬁcant acquisitions, formations and divestments within the Group are listed below. 114 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 NOTES Divestments Assets and liabilities held for sale The Volvo Group has not made any divestments during 2015, which solely As of December 31, 2015, the Volvo Group recognized assets amounting or jointly have had a signiﬁcant impact on the Volvo Group’s ﬁnancial to SEK 3,314 M and liabilities amounting to SEK 573 M as assets and statements. Divestments in 2015 mainly pertained to planned divestliabilities held for sale. Those mainly pertain to the planned divestment of ments of activities within the efﬁciency program. This also includes the North American used truck business, Arrow Truck Sales. The assets divestments of operations with the main purpose to dispose ﬁxed assets. and liabilities held for sale also include the planned divestment of the As of January 2016 this is treated as disposal of ﬁxed assets. For clariﬁexternal IT business and outsourcing of Volvo Group’s own IT infrastruccation of effect in the cash ﬂow read more in Note 29 Cash ﬂow. ture. Translation differences on foreign operations of SEK 11 M were recComparative ﬁgures for 2014 include the divestiture of Volvo Rents and ognized in other comprehensive income. the divestment of commercial real estate. The adjusted purchase price For the comparative year 2014, the Volvo Group recognized assets related to Volvo Rents divestment did not have any signiﬁcant impact on amounting to SEK 288 M and liabilities amounting to SEK 130 M as the Volvo Group in 2015. The Volvo Group did not make any other divestassets and liabilities held for sale. Those mainly pertained to a planned ments during 2014, which solely or jointly had a signiﬁcant impact on the dealer divestment and divestment activities within the efﬁciency program Volvo Group’s ﬁnancial statements. which have been completed during 2015. Translation differences on forThe impact on the Volvo Group’s balance sheet and cash ﬂow stateeign operations of SEK 10 M were also recognized in other comprehenment in connection with the divestment of subsidiaries and other busisive income. ness units are speciﬁed in the following table: Assets and liabilities held for sale Dec 31, Dec 31, 2015 2014 Divestments 2015 2014 Tangible assets 815 173 Property, plant and equipment –219 –1,584 Inventories 519 21 Assets under operating lease – –5,475 Other current receivables 778 94 Inventories –209 –221 Other assets 1,202 – Other receivables –156 –340 Cash and cash equivalents –187 – B/S Total assets 3,314 288 Other provisions 13 –65 Trade payables 86 87 Other liabilities 479 206 Provisions 14 5 Divested net assets –279 –7,479 Other current liabilities 391 23 Goodwill –23 – Other liabilities 82 15 Total –302 –7,479 B/S Total liabilities 573 130 Additional purchase price – – Acquisitions and divestments after the end of the period Cash and cash equivalents received 595 8,501 Volvo Group has not made any acquisitions or divestments after the end Cash and cash equivalents, of the period that have had any signiﬁcant impact on the Volvo Group. divested companies –187 – Effect on Volvo Group cash and cash equivalents 408 8,501 Effect on Volvo Group net ﬁnancial position 498 8,868 115 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 NOTES NOTE 4 GOALS AND POLICIES IN FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT The Volvo Group’s global operations expose the Group to ﬁnancial risks in the form of interest rate risks, currency risks, credit risks, liquidity risks and other price risks. Work on ﬁnancial risks comprises an integrated element of the Volvo Group’s business. The Volvo Group strive to minimize these risks by optimizing the Group’s capital costs by utilizing economies of scale, minimize negative effects on income as a result of changes in currency or interest rates and to minimize risk exposure. All risks are managed pursuant to the Volvo Group’s established policies in these areas. Read more about accounting principles for ﬁnancial instruments in Note 30, Financial Instruments. Read more about management of capital on page 101 and page 102. USD FINANCIAL RISKS 8.7 INTEREST-RATE RISKS CURRENCY RISKS CREDIT RISKS LIQUIDITY RISKS OTHER PRICE RISKS COMMERCIAL CURRENCY CASH-FLOW RISKS COMMERCIAL CREDIT RISK COMMODITY RISK EXPOSURE FINANCIAL CURRENCY PRICE RISKS FINANCIAL CREDIT RISK EXPOSURE CURRENCY EXPOSURE FINANCIAL OF EQUITY COUNTERPARTY RISK BRL FINANCIAL RISKS 6.0 INTEREST-RATE RISKS CURRENCY RISKS CREDIT RISKS LIQUIDITY RISKS OTHER PRICE RISKS 2015, the degree of such matching was 99% (101) for the segment INTEREST-RATE RISKS A Customer Finance, which was in line with the Volvo Group’s policy. The centralized Treasury function has, for practical as well as business reaInterest-rate risk refers to the risk that changed interest-rate will affect sons, the mandate to mismatch the Customer Finance portfolio down to a the Volvo Group’s consolidated earnings and cash ﬂow (cash-ﬂow risks) or matching ratio of 80%. At year-end 2015, the matching ratio was 91% the fair value of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities (price risks). (110). Any gains or losses from the mismatch impact the segment Group functions and other within Industrial Operations. At year-end 2015, in addition to the assets in its Customer Finance Operations, the Volvo Group’s interest-bearing assets consisted primarily of cash, cash equivaPOLICY lents and liquid assets invested in short-term interest-bearing securities. The objective for the Volvo Group’s short-term interest-bearing securities Matching the interest-ﬁxing terms of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities is to achieve a return on these assets equivalent to a three-month ﬁxed reduces the exposure. Interest-rate swaps are used to change/inﬂuence term security. On December 31, 2015, the average interest on Industrial the interest-ﬁxing term for the Volvo Group’s ﬁnancial assets and liabiliOperations ﬁnancial assets was 0.6% (0.9). After taking derivatives into ties. Currency interest-rate swaps enable borrowing in foreign currencies account, outstanding loans had interest terms corresponding to a short from different markets without introducing currency risk. The Volvo Group term interest-rate ﬁxing term, between one to three months. The average has also standardized interest-rate forward contracts (futures) and FRAs interest on Industrial Operations ﬁnancial liabilities at year-end amounted (forward-rate agreements). Most of these contracts are used to hedge to 4.3% (3.8), including the Volvo Group’s credit costs. interest-rate levels for short-term borrowing or investments. Price risks C Exposure to price risks as a result of changed interest-rate refers to ﬁnanCash-ﬂow risks cial assets and liabilities with a longer interest-rate ﬁxing term (ﬁxed interThe effect of changed interest rate levels on future currency and interestest). rate ﬂows primarily pertains to the Volvo Group’s Customer Finance OperThe following table 4:1 shows the effect on earnings before taxes in ations and net ﬁnancial items. Customer Finance Operations measure the Industrial Operations net ﬁnancial position, excluding pensions and similar degree of matching interest rate ﬁxing on borrowing and lending. The obligations, if interest rates were to increase by 1 percentage point, (100 calculation of the matching degree excludes equity, which amounted to basis points) assuming an average interest-rate ﬁxed term of three months.* between 8 and 9% in the Customer Finance Operations. At year-end The impact on equity is earnings after tax. * The sensitivity analysis on interest rate risks is based on simpliﬁed assumptions. It is Read more in Note 20 Provisions for post-employment beneﬁts regarding not improbable for market interest rates to change by one percentage point (100 sensitivity analysis on the deﬁned beneﬁt obligations when changes in the applied basis points) on an annual basis. However, in reality, these rates often rise or decline assumptions for discount rate and inﬂations are made. at different points in time. The sensitivity analysis also assumes a parallel deferment of the return curve, and that the interest rates on assets and liabilities will be equally impacted by changes in market interest rates. Accordingly, the impact of real interestrate changes may differ from the analysis presented in table 4:1. 116 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 NOTES Risk net ﬁnanNet ﬁnancial Impact on earnings before Impact on Net ﬁnancial cial position position excl. tax if interest rate rises 1% position if SEK appreciates Dec 31, 2015 pensions against other currencies 10% A (Interest-rate risks) B (Currency risks) SEK M The Volvo Group’s SEK 2,485 22 – net assets in different JPY –14,935 –131 1,494 currencies (SEK bn) = RUB –1,303 –11 130 EUR 7,907 69 –791 CNY –41 0 4 USD 9,676 85 –968 SEK Other –3,440 –30 344 15.6 Total C 349 3 214 GBP 3.0 Read more about the Industrial Operations net ﬁnancial position on page 83. 4:1 EUR 21.1 JPY 2.9 KRW 3.0 CNY 11.4 INR 1.1 OTHER 11.0 FINANCIAL RISKS INTEREST-RATE RISKS CURRENCY RISKS VALUTARISKER CREDIT RISKS LIQUIDITY RISKS OTHER PRICE RISKS CURRENCY RISKS B POLICY The balance sheet may be affected by changes in different exchange The aim of the Volvo Group’s currency risk management is to secure cash rates. Currency risks in the Volvo Group’s operations are related to ﬂow from ﬁrm ﬂows through currency hedges pursuant to the established changes in the value of contracted and expected future payment ﬂows currency policy, and to minimize the exposure of ﬁnancial items in the Volvo (commercial currency exposure), changes in the value of loans and investGroup’s balance sheet. Below is a presentation on how this work is conments (ﬁnancial currency exposure) and changes in the value of assets ducted for commercial and ﬁnancial currency exposure, and for currency and liabilities in foreign subsidiaries (currency exposure of equity). exposure of equity. Volvo Group’s outstanding derivatives hedging commercial currency risks Dec 31, 2015 Market value Millions USD/SEK USD/KRW USD/CNY AUD/SEK GBP/SEK Due date 2016 477 124 9 17 126 Due date 2017 – – – 9 10 Total local currency 477 124 9 25 136 Average contract rate 8.48 1.17 6.41 5.84 12.57 Market value of outstanding forward contracts, SEK M 74 –6 –1 –3 31 95 4:2 117 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 NOTES Goals and policies in ﬁnancial risk management (cont.) Sensitivity analysistransactional exposure* Sensitivity analysis* The table 4:3 illustrates the impact on operating income if key currencies for Industrial Operations appreciate by 10% against all other currencies. Hedge accounting is not applied on derivatives hedging cash ﬂows in foreign curRisk currency Transaction exposure Impact on operating exposure 2015 from operating income if currency rency. As a consequence the impact on equity equals the impact on operating net ﬂows rate appreciates income before tax. against all other The deﬁcit in transaction exposure in SEK is mainly generated from currencies by 10% ﬂows in USD, GBP, CAD and EUR against SEK. SEK bn B (Currency risks) SEK –39.1 -3.9 Industrial Operations currency review KRW –8.0 –0.8 The tables 4:4 4:5 4:6 4:7 and 4:8 on the next page illustrate the EUR –2.4 –0.2 currency impact on sales and operating income in key currencies. The GBP 9.3 0.9 effect arises from translation during the consolidation of foreign currenUSD 18.9 1.9 cies and from commercial net ﬂows in foreign currency. 4:3 Read more about Industrial Operations transactional exposure in section Commercial currency exposure above. Commercial currency exposure Transaction exposure from commercial ﬂows Financial currency exposure The Volvo Group conducts manufacturing in 18 countries around the Loans and investments in the Volvo Group’s subsidiaries are performed globe and more than 90% of net sales are generated in countries other mainly in local currencies through Volvo Treasury, which minimizes indithan Sweden. Transaction exposure from commercial ﬂows in foreign vidual companies’ ﬁnancial currency exposure. Volvo Treasury uses varicurrency is generated from internal purchases and sales between manuous derivatives to facilitate lending and borrowing in different currencies facturing units and market companies and external sales and purchases without increasing the risk for the Volvo Group. The net ﬁnancial position in foreign currency around the globe. As the predominant parts of the of the Volvo Group is affected by currency ﬂuctuations since ﬁnancial operations in the Volvo Group are situated outside Sweden, the ﬂuctuaassets and liabilities are distributed among the Volvo Group companies tions in currency rates affecting the transaction ﬂows in foreign currency that conduct their operations using different currencies. are in many cases not against SEK. Industrial Operations transaction Table 4:1 discloses the impact on earnings before tax on Industrial exposure in key currencies is presented in table 4:5. The graph repreOperations net ﬁnancial position, excluding pensions and similar net obligasents the transaction exposure from commercial operating net cash ﬂows tions, if SEK were to strengthen by 10%. in foreign currency, expressed as net surpluses or deﬁcits in key currencies. The deﬁcit in SEK and KRW is mainly an effect of expenses for Currency exposure of equity manufacturing plants in Sweden and Korea, but limited external revenues The carrying amount of assets and liabilities in foreign subsidiaries are in those currencies. The EUR deﬁcit on the other hand, is the net of sigaffected by current exchange rates in conjunction with the translation of niﬁcant gross volumes of sales and purchases made by many entities assets and liabilities to SEK. To minimize currency exposure of equity, the around the globe in EUR. The surplus in USD is mainly generated from size of equity in foreign subsidiaries is continuously optimized with respect external sales to entities within the US and emerging markets. to commercial and legal conditions. Currency hedging of equity may occur The hedging of the Volvo Group’s commercial currency exposure is in cases where a foreign subsidiary is considered overcapitalized. Net decided centrally. The Volvo Group’s consolidated currency portfolio assets in foreign subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures exposure is the value of forecasted ﬂows in foreign currency. The Volvo amounted at year-end 2015 to SEK 68 billion (70). The need to undertake Group only hedge the part of the forecasted portfolio that is considered currency hedging relating to investments in associated companies, joint highly probable to occur, i.e. ﬁrm ﬂows, where the main parts will be realventures and other companies is assessed on a case-by-case basis. ized within six months. The Volvo Group uses forward contracts and curOn the map on page 116–117 the Volvo Group’s net assets in different rency options to hedge the portion of the value of forecasted future paycurrencies (SEK bn) are displayed. ment ﬂows in foreign currency. The hedged amount of ﬁrm ﬂows for all Read more in Note 30 Financial Instruments about Volvo Group’s policy periods fall within the framework of the Volvo Group’s currency policy. The choice on hedge accounting. table 4:2 shows outstanding forward and option contracts for the hedging of commercial currency risks. Translation exposure from the consolidation of operating income in foreign subsidiaries In conjunction with the translation of operating income in foreign subsidiaries, the Volvo Group’s earnings are impacted if currency rates change. The Volvo Group does not hedge this risk. The table 4:7 shows the translation effect when consolidating operating income for 2015 in foreign subsidiaries in key currencies for Industrial Operations. Read more in section currency exposure of equity below regarding currency hedging of equity. * The sensitivity analysis on currency rate risks is based on simpliﬁed assumptions. the same direction at any given time, so the actual effect of exchange-rate It is not improbable for the value in a currency rate to appreciate by 10% in relachanges may differ from the sensitivity analysis. Please refer to tables 4:1 4:3 tion to other currencies. In reality however, currencies usually do not change in 118 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 NOTES The Volvo Group’s currency review When the Volvo Group communicates the currency impact on operating income for Industrial operations, the following factors are included: Currency impact on operating income, Industrial Operations, SEK billion 2015 2014 Change Net ﬂows in foreign currency 4.3 Gains and losses on hedging contracts –0.0 –0.0 0.0 Unrealized gains and losses on receivables and liabilities in foreign currency –0.4 –0.2 –0.3 Currency effect from devaluation in Argentina and Venezuela –0.3 0.0 –0.3 Translation effect on operating income in foreign subsidiaries 1.3 Total currency impact on operating income 5.1 Currency impact on Net ﬂows in foreign currency is detailed in table 4:6 and Translation effect on operating income in foreign subsidiaries is detailed in table 4:7 in key currencies. 4:4 Transaction exposure from operating net ﬂows in 2015 and 2014 Currency effect from Net ﬂows in foreign currency 2015 versus 2014 SEK bn SEK bn 20 4.0 10 3.5 3.0 0 2.5 –10 2.0 1.5 –20 1.0 –30 0.5 0.0 –40 –0.5 USD GBP CAD ZAR NOK BRL EUR KRW SEK Other 19 9 5 4 4 –1 –2 –8 –39 9 –1.0 16 6 3 3 4 3 –4 –9 –33 11 USD GBP CAD BRL ZAR EUR KRW Other 3.4 1.1 0.4 0.3 0.2 –0.2 –1.0 0 Currency ﬂow 2015 Currency ﬂow 2014 Changes in currency rates compared to 2014 (Total SEK 4.3 bn). The graph above represents the transaction exposure from commercial Currency effect on operating income from Net ﬂows in foreign operating net cash ﬂows in foreign currency, expressed as net surpluses or currency in Industrial Operations is presented in the graph above. deﬁcits in key currencies. For further information read more in the section Commercial currency exposure. 4:6 4:5 Translation effect on operating income in foreign subsidiaries in 2015 versus 2014 Currency effect on Net sales in 2015 versus 2014 SEK bn SEK bn 2.0 18 15 1.5 12 1.0 9 6 0.5 3 0 0 –3 BRL JPY EUR GBP USD Other –0.5 –1.3 1.1 2.0 2.2 18.6 4.3 CNY BRL GBP EUR KRW USD Other –0.2 –0.2 –0.1 0.0 0.3 1.6 –0.1 Changes in currency rates compared to 2014 (Total SEK 27.0 bn). Changes in currency rates compared to 2014 (Total SEK 1.3 bn). Currency effect on Net sales from inﬂows in foreign currency and Translation effect when consolidating operating income in foreign translation effect when consolidating Net sales in foreign subsidiaries subsidiaries for Industrial Operations is presented in the graph above. for Industrial Operations is presented in the graph above. 4:7 4:8 119 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 NOTES Goals and policies in ﬁnancial risk management (cont.) FINANCIAL RISKS INTEREST-RATE RISKS CURRENCY RISKS CREDIT RISKS LIQUIDITY RISKS OTHER PRICE RISKS Financial credit risk CREDIT RISKS The Volvo Group’s ﬁnancial assets are largely managed by Volvo Treasury and invested in the money and capital markets. All investments must meet Credit risks are deﬁned as the risk that the Volvo Group does not receive the requirements of low credit risk and high liquidity. According to the Volvo payment for recognized accounts receivable and customer-ﬁnancing Group’s credit policy, counterparties for investments and derivative transreceivables (commercial credit risk), that the Volvo Group’s investments actions should have a rating better or equivalent to A from one of the are unable to be realized (ﬁnancial credit risk) and that potential proﬁt is well-established credit rating institutions. not realized due to the counterparty not fulﬁlling its part of the contract Liquid funds and marketable securities amounted as of December 31, when using derivative instruments (ﬁnancial counterparty risk). 2015 to approximately SEK 24 billion (34). Read more in Note 18 about Marketable securities and liquid funds within the Volvo Group. POLICY Financial counterparty risk The objective of the Volvo Group Credit Policy is to deﬁne and measure The use of derivatives involves a counterparty risk, in that a potential gain the credit exposure and control the risk of losses deriving from credits to will not be realized if the counterparty fails to fulﬁll its part of the contract. customers, credits to suppliers, counterparty risks and Customer Dealer To reduce the exposure, the Volvo Group enters into master netting Financing activities. agreements (primarily so called ISDA agreements) with all counterparts eligible for derivative transactions. The netting agreements provide the possibility for assets and liabilities to be set off under certain circumCommercial credit risk stances, such as in the case of the counterpart’s insolvency. These netThe Volvo Group’s credit granting is steered by Group-wide policies and ting agreements have no effect on proﬁt, loss or the position of the Volvo customer-classiﬁcation rules. The credit portfolio should contain a distriGroup, since derivative transactions are accounted for on a gross basis, bution among different customer categories and industries. The credit with the exception of derivatives with positive value amounting to SEK risks are managed through active credit monitoring, follow-up routines 0.6 billion, netted against a fair value of a loan negative 0.6 billion, related and, where applicable, product repossession. Moreover, regular monitorto hedge accounting. Read more in Note 30, Financial Instrument in footing ensures that the necessary allowances are made for incurred losses note 2, under the table on page 155. Counterparty risk exposure for derivon doubtful receivables. In Notes 15 and 16, ageing analysis are preatives is also limited through weekly cash transfers corresponding to the sented of customer-ﬁnancing receivables overdue and accounts receivavalue change of open contracts. The Volvo Group’s gross exposure from bles overdue in relation to the reserves made. positive derivatives, amounting to SEK 3,238 M (3,909) is reduced by The customer-ﬁnancing receivables in the Volvo Group’s Customer 53% (60%) to SEK 1,531 M (1,582) by netting agreements and cash Finance Operations amounted at December 31, 2015 to approximately deposits, so called CSA agreements. The Volvo Group is actively working net SEK 103 billion (99). The credit risk of this portfolio is distributed over with limits per counterpart in order to reduce risk for high net amounts a large number of retail customers and dealers. Collaterals are provided in towards individual counterparts. the form of the ﬁnanced products. In the credit granting the Volvo Group Read more about the Volvo Group’s gross exposure from positive derivatives strives for a balance between risk exposure and expected return. per type of instrument in Note 30. Read more about Volvo’s credit risk in Note 15 Customer-ﬁnancing receivables. The Volvo Group’s accounts receivables amounted as of December 31, 2015 to approximately net SEK 29 billion (31). 120 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 NOTES FINANCIAL RISKS INTEREST-RATE RISKS CURRENCY RISKS CREDIT RISKS LIQUIDITY RISKS OTHER PRICE RISKS The predominant part of expected future cash-ﬂows that expires within LIQUIDITY RISKS 2016 and 2017 is an effect of the Volvo Group’s normal business cycle, with shorter duration in the Customer Finance portfolio compared to Liquidity risk is deﬁned as the risk that the Volvo Group would be unable Industrial Operations. to ﬁnance or reﬁnance its assets or fulﬁll its payment obligations. A hybrid bond was issued in 2014 amounting to EUR 1.5 billion in order to further strengthen the Volvo Group’s balance sheet and prolong the maturity structure of the debt portfolio. The hybrid bond is classiﬁed as a loan with duration of 61.6 years, subordinated to all other ﬁnancial liabiliPOLICY ties currently outstanding. The Volvo Group assures itself of sound ﬁnancial preparedness by always Read more about contractual term analysis of the Volvo Group’s future payments from non-annullable ﬁnancial and operational lease contracts in having liquid funds and committed facilities to cover the Volvo Group’s Note 14. expected liquidity needs for a period of 12–18 months in a scenario with no access to capital markets. Future cash-ﬂow including derivatives related to non-current and current ﬁnancial liabilities The Volvo Group’s liquid funds, i.e. cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities combined, amounted to SEK 24.4 billion on December 31, 2015. In addition to this, granted but unutilized credit facilities amounted 0 to SEK 39.7 billion. The liquidity preparedness is therefore sufﬁcient to –10 cover the expected liquidity needs for the Volvo Group for more than 18 –20 months in a scenario with no access to capital markets. –30 The adjacent graph 4:9 discloses expected future cash ﬂows including derivatives related to ﬁnancial liabilities. Capital ﬂow refers to expected –40 payments of loans and derivatives, see note 22. Expected interest ﬂow –50 refers to the future interest payments on loans and derivatives based on –60 interest rates expected by the market. The interest ﬂow is recognized –70 within cash ﬂow from operating activities. 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 or later In addition to derivatives included in capital ﬂow in the adjacent graph –57.3 –35.6 –9.2 –12.4 –1.6 –0.1 –16.4 Capital ﬂow, SEK bn 4:9 there are also derivatives related to ﬁnancial liabilities recognized as –3.7 –2.6 –1.6 –1.2 –0.8 –0.4 –0.9 Interest ﬂow, SEK bn assets, which are expected to give a future capital ﬂow of SEK 1.4 billion and a future interest ﬂow of SEK 1.6 billion. 4:9 FINANCIAL RISKS INTEREST-RATE RISKS CURRENCY RISKS CREDIT RISKS LIQUIDITY RISKS OTHER PRICE RISKS OTHER PRICE RISKS POLICY Commodity risks Changes in commodity prices are included in the product cost calculation. Commodity risks refer to the risk that changed commodity prices will Increased commodity prices are therefore reﬂected in the sales price of affect the consolidated earnings within the Volvo Group. Procurement of the Volvo Group’s ﬁnal products. Purchasing agreements with commodity commodities such as steel, precious metals and electricity are made on a suppliers may also be long-term in nature or structured in a way that short regular basis where prices are set in the global markets. term volatility in commodity prices have less direct effect on Volvo Group’s cost base. Financial hedging is performed in order to reduce short-term volatility of electricity cost in Sweden. 121 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 NOTES NOTE 5 INVESTMENTS IN JOINT VENTURES, ASSOCIATED COMPANIES AND OTHER SHARES AND PARTICIPATIONS ACCOUNTING POLICY practical reasons, some of the associated companies are included in the Subsidiaries consolidated ﬁnancial statements with a certain time lag, normally one The Volvo Group has production facilities in 18 countries and sales of prodquarter. Dividends from joint ventures and associated companies are not ucts in more than 190 markets which means that the Volvo Group has included in the consolidated income. In the consolidated balance sheet, subsidiaries in many parts of the world. A subsidiary is deﬁned as an entity investments in joint ventures and associated companies are affected by the that is controlled by the Volvo Group. A subsidiary is controlled by a parent Volvo Group’s share of the company’s net income, less depreciation of company when it has power over the investee, exposure, or rights, to variasurplus values and dividends received. Investments in joint ventures and ble returns from its involvement with the investee and the ability to use its associated companies are also affected by Volvo Group’s share of the power over the investee to affect the amount of the investor’s return. Most company’s other comprehensive income and by the translation difference of the Volvo Group’s subsidiaries are owned to 100% by the Volvo Group from translating the company’s equity in the Volvo Group. and are therefore considered to be controlled by the Volvo Group. For some When applying the equity method, including recognizing the associsubsidiaries there are restrictions on the Volvo Group’s ability to access or ate’s or joint venture’s losses, additional impairment losses might be recuse cash from these subsidiaries. ognized given any indication of impairment. A signiﬁcant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the shares is an indication of impairment. Read more in Note 18 Marketable securities and liquid funds about cash Investments accounted for in accordance with the equity method cannot that is not available for use, or where other limitations exists, in Note 11 Minorbe of a negative carrying value and therefore losses are not provided for ity interests, in Note 13 Investments in shares and participations for the parent if the holding is of a negative amount. Additional losses are provided for to company about composition of the Volvo Group. the extent that the Volvo Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint venture or of the associated Joint ventures company. Joint ventures are companies over which the Volvo Group has controlling inﬂuence together with one or more external parties. Joint ventures are Other shares and participations recognized by applying equity method accounting. The investment in VE Holding of shares that do not provide the Volvo Group with signiﬁcant inCommercial Vehicles Ltd., (VECV) is of a business related nature and ﬂuence, which generally means that Volvo Group’s holding of shares coraims at strengthening the Volvo Group’s position in India. The other two responds to less than 20% of the votes, are recognized as other shares joint ventures owned by the Volvo Group are also of business related and participations. For listed shares, the carrying amount is equivalent to the nature. market value. Unlisted shares and participations, for which a fair value cannot reasonably be determined, are measured at acquisition cost less any Associated companies impairment. Associated companies are companies in which the Volvo Group has a Any change in value is recognized directly in other comprehensive signiﬁcant inﬂuence. A strong indication of such inﬂuence is when the income, unless the decline is signiﬁcant or prolonged. Then the impairGroup’s holdings equal at least 20% but less than 50% of the voting ment is recognized in the income statement. The cumulative gain or loss rights. Holdings in associated companies are recognized in accordance recognized in other comprehensive income is recycled in the income with the equity method. Deutz AG is a German manufacturer and is a statement on the sale of the asset. strategic supplier to the Volvo Group of medium-duty engines. The investEarned or paid interest attributable to these assets is recognized in the ment in Deutz AG is of a business related nature and aims at expanding income statement as part of net ﬁnancial items in accordance with the our commercial co-operation in medium-duty engines. effective interest method. Dividends received attributable to these assets In the beginning of January 2015 Volvo Group completed the acquisiare recognized in the income statement as Income from other investments. tion of 45% of the Chinese automotive manufacturer Dongfeng Commercial Vehicles Co., Ltd (DFCV). The purchase consideration amounted to SEK 7.0 billion. The ownership is classiﬁed as an associated company and Joint ventures consolidated with the equity method. It is included in the Trucks segment. The Volvo Group’s investments in joint ventures are listed below. The acquisition signiﬁcantly strengthens the Volvo Group’s position in medium-duty and heavy-duty trucks. Shares in joint ventures Dec 31, 2015 Dec 31, 2014 Holding percentage Holding percentage Equity method The Volvo Group’s share of income in companies recognized according to Shanghai Sunwin Bus Corp., China 50.0 50.0 the equity method is included in the consolidated income statement under DONGVO Truck Co., Ltd. (DVT) China 50.0 50.0 Income/loss from investments in joint ventures and associated compaVE Commercial Vehicles, Ltd., India1 45.6 45.6 nies, less, where appropriate, depreciation of surplus values and the effect of applying different accounting policies. Income from companies recog1 VE Commercial Vehicles Ltd., is considered to be a joint venture as Volvo Group nized in accordance with the equity method is included in operating income and Eicher Motors Ltd have signed an agreement which states that common agreement is needed for important matters related to the governance of VECV. since the Volvo Group’s investments are of business related nature. For 122 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 NOTES The following tables present summarized ﬁnancial information for the Volvo Group’s joint ventures: Summarized income statements 2015 2014 VE Commercial Vehicles, Other joint VE Commercial Other joint Ltd. ventures Total Vehicles, Ltd. ventures Total Net sales 9,212 1,586 10,798 6,208 2,622 8,830 Operating income 1 311 –577 –266 82 –134 –52 Interest income and similar credits 22 3 25 26 2 28 Interest expense and similar charges –13 –88 –101 –13 –71 –84 Other ﬁnancial income and expenses 6 –2 4 –1 –3 –4 Income taxes –81 –34 –116 4 23 27 Income for the period2 243 –698 –454 98 –183 –85 Other comprehensive income3 – – – – – – Total comprehensive income 243 –698 –454 98 –183 –85 1 Depreciation and amortization of SEK 372 M (303) are included within operating income whereof VECV SEK 338 M (273). 2 Income for the period in joint ventures includes depreciation of surplus values. 3 Including the Volvo Group’s share of OCI related to joint ventures. Translation differences from translating joint ventures equity in the Volvo Group are excluded as of 2015. Comparative ﬁgures are restated accordingly. Summarized balance sheets Dec 31, 2015 Dec 31, 2014 VE Commercial Other joint VE Commercial Other joint Vehicles, Ltd. ventures Total Vehicles, Ltd. ventures Total Non-current assets 4,556 483 5,039 5,083 553 5,636 Marketable securities, cash and cash equivalents 727 382 1,108 519 189 708 Other current assets 2,842 1,898 4,740 2,245 2,264 4,509 Total assets 8,124 2,762 10,887 7,847 3,006 10,853 Equity1 4,848 –4022 4,446 4,754 266 5,020 Non-current ﬁnancial liabilities 8 2 10 7 0 7 Other non-current liabilities 272 128 400 721 30 751 Current ﬁnancial liabilities 1,695 2,845 4,540 1,115 1,445 2,560 Other current liabilities 1,302 189 1,491 1,250 1,265 2,515 Total equity and liabilities 8,124 2,762 10,887 7,847 3,006 10,853 1 Including the translation differences from translating joint ventures equity in the Volvo Group. 2 In compliance with the accounting policy additional provisions have been accounted for during the ﬁnancial year to the extent that the Volvo Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations. Investments in joint ventures Percentage Dec 31, 2015 Dec 31, 2014 holding Carrying value Carrying value VE Commercial Vehicles., Ltd., India 45.6 2,211 2,377 Other holdings in joint ventures – 0 100 B/S Investments in joint ventures 2,211 2,477 Net ﬁnancial position for the joint ventures (excluding post-employment beneﬁts) amounted to negative SEK 514 M (negative 744) as of December 31, 2015. As of December 31, 2015, Volvo Group’s share of contingent liabilities in its joint ventures amounted to SEK 157 M (106). Dividend received from VE Commercial Vehicles., Ltd, amounted to SEK 46 M (36). 123 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 NOTES Associated companies The following tables present summarized ﬁnancial information for the Volvo Group’s associated companies: Summarized income 2015 2014 statements Other associated Other associated DFCV Deutz AG companies Total DFCV Deutz AG companies Total Net sales 33,606 12,089 5,630 51,324 – 10,411 4,038 14,450 Operating income –930 84 181 –664 – 220 207 427 Income for the period1 –613 179 97 –338 – 110 156 266 Other comprehensive income2 – 24 – 24 – –34 – –34 Total comprehensive income –613 203 97 –313 – 76 156 232 1 Income for the period in associated companies include depreciation of surplus values. 2 Including the Volvo Group’s share of OCI related to associated companies. Translation differences from translating associated companies’ equity in the Volvo Group are excluded. Summarized balance sheets Dec 31, 2015 Dec 31, 2014 Other associated Other associated DFCV1 Deutz AG2 companies Total DFCV1 Deutz AG2 companies Total Non-current assets 18,107 7,002 2,264 27,373 – 6,847 1,707 8,554 Current assets 20,131 4,435 4,960 29,527 – 5,305 2,027 7,332 Total assets 38,238 11,437 7,225 56,900 – 12,152 3,734 15,886 Equity 15,265 5,902 2,7673 23,934 – 5,446 1,035 6,481 Non-current liabilities 2,264 2,865 738 5,867 – 3,325 1,146 4,471 Current liabilities 20,709 2,670 3,720 27,099 – 3,381 1,553 4,934 Total equity and liabilities 38,238 11,437 7,225 56,900 – 12,152 3,734 15,886 1 DFCV was acquired during 2015. No dividend was received during ﬁnancial year 2015. 2 Deutz AG’s equity share is recognized in the Volvo Group with a time lag of one quarter. Dividends of SEK 20 M (0) was received from Deutz AG. 3 Financial statements of Inner Mongolia North Hauler Jont Stock Co, Ltd., China has been included for the ﬁrst time in 2015. Investments in associated companies Percentage Dec 31, 2015 Dec 31, 2014 holding Carrying value Carrying value Dongfeng Commercial Vehicles Co., Ltd (DFCV) China 45.0 6,581 – Deutz AG, Germany 1 25.0 1,475 1,393 Other holdings in associated companies 2 883 951 B/S Investments in associated companies 8,939 2,344 1 The market value of investments in Deutz AG amounted to SEK 1,021 M (1,236) as of December 31, 2015. The market value has ﬂuctuated throughout the year, even above carrying value. There was no signiﬁcant or prolonged decline in market value and therefore no indication of impairment during 2015 according to the accounting principle applied. 2 Other holdings include the investment of Inner Mongolia North Hauler Jont Stock Co, Ltd., China. Income/loss from investments in joint Other shares and participations ventures and associated companies 2015 2014 During the year the Volvo Group sold the total holding in the listed Indian automotive manufacturer, Eicher Motors limited. The sale generated a Income/loss joint ventures capital gain of SEK 4.6 billion. The carrying amount of the Volvo Group’s VECV 115 45 holding of shares and participations in other companies as of December Other joint ventures –87 –64 31, 2015, is disclosed in the table below. Subtotal 28 –19 Read more in Note 30 Financial Instruments regarding ﬁnancial assets Income/loss associated companies classiﬁed as available for sale. DFCV –276 – Deutz AG 45 32 Holding of shares Dec 31, Dec 31, Other companies 48 50 2015 2014 in listed companies Subtotal –183 82 Percentage Carrying Carrying holding value value Revaluation, write-down and gain on divestment of shares associated companies Eicher Motors Ltd., India – – 4,228 Other companies 12 –17 Holdings in Japanese companies – 348 290 Subtotal 12 –17 Holdings in other listed companies – 160 25 Holding of shares in listed companies 507 4,543 I/S Income/loss from investments in joint ventures and associated companies1 –143 46 Holding of shares in non-listed companies 394 474 1 Income/loss from investments in joint ventures include Volvo Group’s share of B/S Other shares and participations 902 5,017 depreciation of surplus values of SEK 35 M (29) and associated companies include depreciation of surplus values of SEK 71 M (9). 124 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 NOTES NOTE 6 SEGMENT REPORTING Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal As from January 1, 2015 the Trucks operations is structured according to reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker. The chief opera functional approach, whereby the entire Trucks business is managed as ating decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and one single business area consisting of 3 different functional organizations: assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identiﬁed as Group Trucks Sales, Group Trucks Operations and Group Trucks Technology. the Group Executive Team that makes strategic decisions. The internal The Volvo Group has shared operations in both Trucks and Corporate reporting is provided based on the Group’s different business areas which functions, Group functions and Other incl. eliminations. Purchasing, are Trucks, Construction Equipment, Buses, Volvo Penta, Governmental powertrain, logistics and parts operations are part of the Trucks segment. Sales and Customer Finance. Volvo Rents, which was a separate business Volvo IT and Volvo Real Estate are treated as business support functions area, was divested on January 31, 2014. The Volvo Group is per 31 and included in Corporate functions, Group functions and Other incl. elimDecember 2015 thereby organized in six business areas. inations. The cost of these operations is shared between the different Each business area, except for Governmental Sales, is seen as a sepabusiness areas based on utilization according to the principles of the rate segment. Governmental Sales is part of the Corporate functions, ﬁnancial framework set by the Volvo Group. Group functions and Other incl. eliminations segment. As from March 1, 2016, the Volvo Group has a new organizational structure (see page 79 in this report and page 181 in the Corporate Governance report). The business will continue to be divided in six segments under the new organization during 2016. Corporate functions, Group Construction functions & Industrial Customer EliminaVolvo 2015 Trucks Equipment Buses Volvo Penta Other incl. elim. Operations Finance tions Group Net sales, external customers 212,060 50,717 22,818 9,137 7,145 301,878 10,636 – 312,515 Net sales, internal 1,918 291 762 269 –1,535 1,704 562 –2,265 – I/S Net sales 213,978 51,008 23,580 9,406 5,610 303,582 11,199 –2,265 312,515 Expenses –194,320 –48,957 –22,643 –8,320 –7,886 –282,127 –9,193 2,265 –289,054 I/S Income from investments in joint ventures and associated companies –141 –7 –77 0 82 –143 – – –143 I/S Operating income 19,517 2,044 860 1,086 –2,194 21,312 2,006 – 23,318 I/S Interest income and similar credits 257 – – 257 I/S Interest expense and similar charges –2,366 0 – –2,366 I/S Other ﬁnancial income and expense –792 0 – –792 I/S Income after ﬁnancial items 18,411 2,006 – 20,418 Other segment information Depreciation, amortization and impairment –10,441 –1,986 –360 –281 494 –12,574 –4,233 – –16,807 Restructuring costs –2,034 –52 –23 –21 –216 –2,346 – – –2,346 Gains/losses from divestments 61 2 – – 278 341 – – 341 Investments in ﬁxed assets 6,707 1,112 259 277 817 9,173 10,239 – 19,412 B/S Investments in joint ventures and associated companies (the equity method) 9,024 277 122 30 1,695 11,148 – – 11,148 B/S Assets held for sale 3,314 – – 3,314 B/S Liabilities held for sale –573 – – –573 125 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 NOTES Corporate functions, Group Construction functions & Other Industrial Customer EliminaVolvo 2014 Trucks Equipment Buses Volvo Penta incl. elim. Operations Finance tions Group Net sales, external customers 188,079 52,641 18,159 7,541 6,906 273,327 9,623 – 282,948 Net sales, internal 2,825 215 486 249 –1,101 2,674 488 –3,162 – I/S Net sales 190,904 52,855 18,645 7,790 5,805 275,999 10,111 –3,162 282,948 Expenses –186,777 –52,211 –18,544 –7,067 –7,333 –271,934 –8,399 3,162 –277,170 I/S Income from investments in joint ventures and associated companies 31 7 –8 2 14 46 – – 46 I/S Operating income 4,157 652 92 724 –1,514 4,111 1,712 – 5,824 I/S Interest income and similar credits 328 – – 328 I/S Interest expense and similar charges –1,994 – – –1,994 I/S Other ﬁnancial income and expense 931 – – 931 I/S Income after ﬁnancial items 3,377 1,712 – 5,089 Other segment information Depreciation, amortization and impairment –10,499 –2,017 –343 –267 453 –12,673 –3,257 – –15,930 Restructuring costs –1,465 –582 –9 –5 –504 –2,564 –7 – –2,571 Gains/losses from divestments 23 8 15 – 956 1,002 21 – 1,023 Investments in ﬁxed assets 6,500 1,335 290 308 1,084 9,518 9,677 – 19,195 B/S Investments in joint ventures and associated companies (the equity method) 2,583 250 220 30 1,739 4,821 – – 4,821 B/S Assets held for sale 288 – – 288 B/S Liabilities held for sale –130 – – –130 Internal sales between segments are generally made at standard cost of sales, including calculated interest and product improvement expenses. Reporting by market Net sales 2015 2014 Non-current assets1 2015 2014 NOTE 7 REVENUE Europe 120,413 106,176 72,738 76,016 of which Sweden 9,142 8,042 22,998 25,452 ACCOUNTING POLICY of which France 23,114 20,733 18,195 19,885 North America 101,952 76,258 23,379 21,317 The Volvo Group’s recognized net sales pertain mainly to revenues from of which USA 84,035 60,810 20,562 18,034 sales of goods and services. Net sales are, if the occasion arises, reduced South America 16,725 26,958 2,319 2,896 by the value of rebates granted and by returns. of which Brazil 8,608 19,260 1,909 2,434 Revenue from the sale of goods is recognized when signiﬁcant risks Asia 53,470 52,076 23,155 22,198 and rewards of ownership have been transferred to external parties, norof which China 8,574 12,374 2,460 2,678 mally when the goods are delivered to the customer. of which Japan 15,119 14,382 15,041 13,876 However, if the sale of goods is combined with a buy-back agreement Other markets 19,955 21,481 974 1,087 or a residual value guarantee, the transaction is recognized as an operatI/S B/S Total 312,515 282,948 122,565 123,515 ing lease transaction if signiﬁcant risks in regard to the goods are retained in Volvo Group. Revenue is then recognized over the period of the residual 1 Non-current assets include intangible and tangible assets. value commitment. If the residual value risk commitment is not signiﬁcant or the sale was made to an independent party before Volvo Group is comThe reporting of net sales by market is based on where the delivery of the mitted to the residual value risk the revenue is recognized at the time of goods or services took place. sale and a provision is made to reﬂect the estimated residual value risk. Read more in Note 21 Other provisions, for a description of residual value risks. 126 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 NOTES If sale is in combination with a commitment from the customer to buy a new 3 Restructuring costs related mainly to the Volvo Group wide efﬁciency program Volvo product in connection to a buy-back option, revenue is recognized at which impacted the Group with an amount of SEK 2,333 M (2,569). 4 Including SEK 376 M (523) of the provision for expected credit losses for Volvo the time of the sale. CE in China of SEK 747 M (660). SEK 349 M (83) was reported as change in Revenue from the sale of workshop services is recognized when the serallowance for doubtful receivables, and SEK 22 M (54) was reported within vice is provided. gross income. Interest income in conjunction with ﬁnance leasing or instalment conRead more about gains/losses on divestment of Group companies in Note 3 tracts are recognized during the underlying contract period. Acquisitions and divestments of shares in subsidiaries. Revenue for maintenance contracts are recognized in line with the allocation of associated costs over the contract period. Read more regarding the company’s management of credit risk and credit Interest income is recognized on a continuous basis and dividend income reserves in Note 4 Goals and policies in ﬁnancial risk management. when the right to receive dividend is obtained. Read more about damages and litigations in Note 21 Other provisions and Note 24 Contingent liabilities. ! SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY Read more about the efﬁciency program on page 23. Buy-back agreements and residual value guarantees In certain cases, Volvo Group enters into a buy-back agreement or residual value guarantee after having sold the product to an independent party or in combination with an undertaking from the customer to purchase a new product in the event of a buy-back. In such cases, there may be a question of judgement regarding whether or not signiﬁcant risks and NOTE 9 OTHER FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer. If it is determined that such an assessment is incorrect, the Volvo Group’s recognized revenue and income for the period will decline and instead be distributed ACCOUNTING POLICY over several reporting periods. Unrealized gains and losses on derivatives used to hedge interest rate Read more in Note 21, Other provisions, for a description of residual value risks. exposure and unrealized and realized gains and losses used to hedge future cash ﬂow exposure in foreign currency are recognized in other Vehicle and Service & Aftermarket ﬁnancial income and expenses. Hedge accounting is not applied on those The Volvo Group’s product range is divided into Vehicle and Service & derivatives. Aftermarket. The sale of new vehicles, machinery and engines comprise Read more in Note 1 about the accounting policy for receivables and liabiliVehicle as well as the sale of used vehicles and machines, trailers, superties in foreign currency. structures and special vehicles. Service & Aftermarket are deﬁned as the sale of maintenance service and other aftermarket products. Read more in Note 30 Financial Instruments regarding the accounting During 2015, the Services & Aftermarket business represented approxpolicy for ﬁnancial assets at fair value through the income statement. imately 25% (26) of the Volvo Group’s net sales. Read more in Note 6 regarding net sales by product and market. Other ﬁnancial income and expense 2015 2014 Gains and losses on derivatives used to hedge interest rate exposure –28 447 NOTE 8 OTHER OPERATING INCOME AND EXPENSES Gains and losses on derivatives used to hedge foreign cash ﬂow exposure Financial instruments at fair value –426 640 through proﬁt or loss –454 1,087 Changes in provisions for doubtful accounts receivable and customerExchange rate gains and losses on ﬁnancial assets ﬁnancing receivables are recognized in Other operating income and expenses. and liabilities –89 89 Financial income and expenses related to taxes 1 63 Other operating income and expense 2015 2014 Costs for Treasury function, credit facilities, etc –250 –308 I/S Total1 –792 931 Gains/losses on divestment of Group companies1 341 1,023 Change in allowances and write-offs for The unrealized loss from derivatives used to hedge interest rate exposure doubtful customer-ﬁnancing receivables –817 –858 were mainly related to the Customer Finance portfolio and Industrial Change in allowances and write-offs for Operations debt portfolio. The unrealized and realized losses from derivaother doubtful receivables –549 –355 tives used to hedge future cash ﬂow exposure in foreign currency were Damages and litigations2 471 –4,420 mainly related to derivatives used to hedge future ﬁrm cash ﬂows of SEK Restructuring costs3 –2,346 –2,571 545 M (neg 438), offset by a gain related to the hedging of the cash ﬂow Volvo proﬁt sharing program –455 – of the acquisition of Dongfeng Commercial vehicles by SEK 119 M (1,078). Other income and expenses4 –824 –516 I/S Total –4,179 –7,697 1 Other ﬁnancial income and expense attributable to ﬁnancial instruments amounted to neg SEK 543 M (1,176) and is included in the table presenting 1 2014 included the result from divestment of commercial real estate and the gains, losses interest income and expenses related to ﬁnancial instruments in Volvo Rents closure of accounts. note 30 Financial Instruments. 2 Including SEK 809 M from the favorable outcome in an arbitration case. 2014 including provision related to the EU antitrust investigation of SEK 3,790 M and the provision related to the engine emission case in the U.S of SEK 422 M. 127 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 NOTES NOTE 10 INCOME TAXES Speciﬁcation of income tax rate Swedish corporate income tax rate Difference in tax rate in various countries 2015, % 22 3 2014, % 22 8 Other non-taxable income –6 –12 Other non-deductible expenses 1 27 ACCOUNTING POLICY Current taxes attributable to prior years –1 –4 Remeasurement of deferred tax assets 6 10 Income tax for the period includes current and deferred taxes. Current Other differences 1 5 taxes are calculated on the basis of the tax regulations prevailing in the Income tax rate for the Volvo Group1 26 56 countries where the Group companies have operations. Deferred taxes are recognized on differences that arise between the 1 The income tax rate for the Volvo Group, as of December 31 2015, was mainly a taxable value and carrying value of assets and liabilities as well as on taxresult of the non-taxable capital gain from the divestment of shares in Eicher Motors Ltd of SEK 4,608 M which gave rise to a permanent tax difference of SEK 1,014 M. loss carryforwards. Furthermore deferred taxes are recognized to the The positive effect from the capital gain was partly offset by the impact of the valuaextent it is probable that they will be utilized against taxable income. tion allowance and the revaluation of deferred tax assets in Japan of SEK –1,107 M Deferred tax liabilities on temporary differences on participations in as a result of changed corporate tax rate, stricter conditions for utilization of tax-loss subsidiaries and associated companies are recognized in the balance carryforwards and review of business performance. sheet except when the Volvo Group control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference related to accumulated undistributed earnings Speciﬁcation of deferred tax assets Dec 31, Dec 31, and it is probable that a reversal will not be done in the foreseeable future. and tax liabilities 2015 2014 Tax laws in Sweden and certain other countries allow companies to defer Deferred tax assets: payment of taxes through allocations to untaxed reserves. However, in the Unused tax-loss carryforwards 3,724 5,911 consolidated ﬁnancial statements untaxed reserves are reclassiﬁed to deferred tax liability and equity. In the consolidated income statements a Other unused tax credits 192 152 provision to, or reversal of, untaxed reserves is split between deferred Intercompany proﬁt in inventories 1,339 1,299 taxes and net income for the year. Allowance for inventory obsolescence 639 615 Provisions have been made for estimated tax charges that are probable Valuation allowance for doubtful receivables 1,211 802 as a result of identiﬁed tax risks. Tax processes are evaluated on a regular Provisions for warranties 4,111 3,726 basis and provisions are made for possible outcome when it is probable that Provisions for residual value risks 247 249 the Volvo Group will have to pay more taxes and when it is possible to make Provisions for post-employment beneﬁts 4,408 4,974 a reasonably assessment of the possible outcome. Tax claims for which no Provisions for restructuring measures 262 223 provision is deemed necessary are generally recognized as contingent liaMarket value of derivative instruments 25 27 bilities. Land 1,160 1,226 Other deductible temporary differences 4,930 4,936 Read more about contingent liabilities in Note 24. Deferred tax assets before deduction for valuation allowance 22,248 24,140 Valuation allowance –1,181 –336 Deferred tax assets after deduction ! SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY for valuation allowance 21,067 23,804 Netting of deferred tax assets/liabilities –7,617 –7,973 The Volvo Group recognizes valuation allowances for deferred tax assets where management does not expect such assets to be realized based B/S Deferred tax assets, net 13,450 15,831 upon current forecasts. In the event that actual results differ from these Deferred tax liabilities: estimates or adjustments are made to future periods in these estimates, Accelerated depreciation on property, changes in the valuation allowance may be required. This could have sigplant and equipment 2,163 2,156 niﬁcant impact on the ﬁnancial position and the income for the period. Accelerated depreciation on leasing assets 3,174 2,836 The Volvo Group has substantial tax-loss carryforwards that are LIFO valuation of inventories 557 558 assessed as being probable to be utilized due to sufﬁcient income generCapitalized product and software development 2,384 2,472 ated in the coming years. The base for this assessment is possibilities to Adjustment to fair value at corporate offset tax assets and tax liabilities and that a signiﬁcant part of tax-loss acquisitions/divestitures 30 34 carryforwards is related to countries with long or indeﬁnite periods of Untaxed reserves 87 84 utilization. Ensuring the probability of utilization is based upon business Provisions for post-employment beneﬁts 69 39 plans when relevant. Other taxable temporary differences 2,648 2,590 Deferred tax liabilities 11,112 10,769 Netting of deferred tax assets/liabilities –7,617 –7,973 Income taxes were distributed as follows: B/S Deferred tax liabilities, net 3,495 2,796 Distribution of Income taxes 2015 2014 Deferred tax assets/liabilities, net1 9,955 13,035 Current taxes relating to the period –3,207 –3,383 Adjustment of current taxes for prior periods 197 198 1 The deferred tax assets and liabilities above are partially recognized in the balance sheet on a net basis after taking into account offsetting possibilities. Deferred Deferred taxes originated or reversed during the tax assets and liabilities have been measured at the tax rates that are expected period –965 362 to apply during the period when the asset is realized or the liability is settled, Remeasurements of deferred tax assets –1,345 –31 according to the tax rates and tax regulations that have been resolved or enacted at I/S Total income taxes –5,320 –2,854 the balance-sheet date. The Swedish corporate income tax rate amounted to 22% in 2015. The table at the top of the next column discloses the principal reasons for the difference between this rate and the Volvo Group’s income tax rate, based on income after ﬁnancial items. 128 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 NOTES As of December 31, 2015, net of the total valuation allowance, deferred tax assets of SEK 21,067 M (23,804) were recognized in the Volvo Group’s balance sheet. The Volvo Group’s gross unused tax-loss carryforwards amounted to NOTE 11 MINORITY INTERESTS SEK 11,979 M (21,310) pertaining to a deferred tax asset of SEK 3,724 M (5,911) recognized in the balance sheet. After deduction for valuation ACCOUNTING POLICY allowance deferred tax assets attributable to unused tax-loss carryforwards amounted to SEK 2,673 M (5,638) of which SEK 5 M (2,081) Minority interests are interest attributable to non-controlling shareholders. pertains to Sweden, SEK 1,346 M (1,568) to France and SEK 405 M Minority interests are presented in the equity, separately from the equity (1,115) to Japan. of the owners of the parent company. At business combinations minority As of December 31, 2015 the total valuation allowance amounted to interests are valued either at fair value or at the minority’s proportionate SEK 1,181 M (336). Most of the reserve, SEK 1,051 M (273), consists of share of the acquiree’s net assets. Minority interests are assigned the unused tax-loss carryforwards mainly related to Japan. minority shareholder’s portion of the equity of the subsidiary. Changes in a The gross unused tax-loss carryforwards expire according to the table parent’s ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of below: control are accounted for as equity transactions. Due date, unused tax-loss Dec 31, Dec 31, carryforwards gross 2015 2014 The Volvo Group has a few non-wholly owned subsidiaries of which one of after 1 year 68 45 the subsidiaries is considered to have a signiﬁcant minority interest. after 2 years 584 173 Shandong Lingong Construction Machinery Co., (Lingong), in China has a after 3 years 857 479 minority interest holding amounting to 30% share and voting rights in the after 4 years 335 1,013 company. During the year, the proﬁt allocated to the minority interest of after 5 years 2,206 305 Lingong amounted to 34 (139) and the accumulated minority interest at after 6 years or more 1 7,929 19,295 the end of December 31, 2015, amounted to 1,752 (1,683). Total 11,979 21,310 The following table presents summarized ﬁnancial information for Shandong Lingong Construction Machinery Co., Lingong: 1 Tax-loss carryforwards with long or indeﬁnite periods of utilization were mainly related to Japan and France. Tax-loss carryforwards with indeﬁnite periods of utilization amounted to SEK 4,994 M (16,364) which corresponds to 42% (77) Summarized income statement 2015 2014 of the total tax-losses carryforward. Net sales 5,297 7,324 Operating income 116 559 Changes in deferred tax Income for the period 113 464 assets/liabilities, net 2015 2014 Other comprehensive income1 115 829 Opening balance 13,035 10,760 Total comprehensive income 229 1,293 Deferred taxes recognised in the year’s income –2,310 331 Dividends paid to minority interest – – Recognised in Other comprehensive income, changes attributable to: Remeasurements of deﬁned-beneﬁt plans –725 853 Summarized balance sheet Dec 31, Dec 31, 2015 2014 Cash ﬂow hedge reserve 9 6 Available-for-sale reserve –17 4 Non-current assets 1,693 1,633 Translation differences and other changes –37 1,081 Marketable securities, cash and cash equivalents 2,236 2,584 Deferred tax assets/liabilities, net, Current assets 5,636 7,117 as of December 31 9,955 13,035 Total assets 9,565 11,334 Non-current liabilities 167 187 The cumulative amount of undistributed earnings in foreign subsidiaries, which the Volvo Group currently intends to indeﬁnitely reinvest outside of Current liabilities 3,558 5,536 Sweden and which no deferred income tax have been accounted for, Total liabilities 3,725 5,723 amounted to SEK 23 billion (24) at year end. As of 2015 undistributed Equity attributable to the Volvo Group’s shareholders 4,088 3,928 earnings pertaining to countries where the dividends are not taxable are Minority interests 1,752 1,683 excluded. 1 Includes translation differences from translating company equity in the Volvo Read more in Note 4 for Goals and policies in ﬁnancial risk management Group. about how the Volvo Group handles equity currency risk. 129 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 NOTES NOTE 12 INTANGIBLE ASSETS impairment for any goodwill value however none of the business areas ACCOUNTING POLICY would be impaired as a result of this test. The operating parameters applied in the valuation are based on management’s strategy and could indicate Volvo Group applies the cost method for recognition of intangible assets. higher value than historical performance for individual Business Areas. Borrowing costs are included in the cost of assets that are expected to Furthermore the Volvo Group is operating in a cyclical industry where take more than twelve months to complete for their intended use or sale. performance could vary over time. When participating in industrial projects in partnership with other comThe surplus values differ between the business areas and are to a panies the Volvo Group in certain cases pays an entrance fee to particivarying degree sensitive to changes in the assumptions described above. pate. These entrance fees are capitalized as intangible assets. Therefore, the Volvo Group continuously follows the performance of the business areas whose surplus value is dependent on the fulﬁllment of the Research and development expenses Volvo Group’s assessments. Instability in the recovery of the market and Expenditures for the development of new products, production systems volatility in interest and currency rates may lead to indications of a need for and software are recognized as intangible assets if such expenditures, impairment. The most important factors for the future operations of the with a high degree of certainty, will result in future ﬁnancial beneﬁts for Volvo Group are described in the Volvo Group business area section, as the company. The cost for such intangible assets is amortized over the well as in the Risk management section. estimated useful life of the assets. The rules require stringent criteria to be met for these development Amortization and impairment expenditures to be recognized as assets. For example, it must be possible Amortization is made on a straight-line basis based on the cost of the to prove the technical functionality of a new product or software prior to assets, adjusted in appropriate cases by impairments, and estimated useits development being recognized as an asset. In normal cases, this means ful lives. Amortization is recognized in the respective function to which it that expenditures are capitalized only during the industrialization phase of belongs, meaning that amortization of product development is part of the a product development project. Other research and development expenses research and development expenses in the income statement. Impairare recognized in the income statement as incurred. ment tests for amortizable assets are performed if there are indications of The Volvo Group has developed a process for conducting product develimpairment at the balance sheet date. opment projects named the DVP Project Handbook (DVP-PH). The DVP-PH has six phases focused on separate parts of the project. Every Amortization periods phase starts and ends with a reconciliation point, known as a gate, for which the criteria must be met for the project’s decision-making commitTrademarks 20 years tee to open the gate and allow the project to progress to the next phase. Distribution networks 10 years During the industrialization phase, the industrial system is prepared for Product and software development 3 to 8 years serial production and the product is launched. Goodwill Goodwill is recognized as an intangible asset with indeﬁnite useful life. For non-depreciable assets such as goodwill, impairment tests are performed annually, as well as if there are indications of impairments during the year, by calculating the asset’s recovery value. If the calculated recov! SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY ery value is less than the carrying value, the asset is written down to its Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets recovery value. Intangible assets other than goodwill are amortized and depreciated over The Volvo Group’s valuation model is based on a discounted cash-ﬂow their useful lives. Useful lives are based on estimates of the period in which model, with a forecast period of four years. Valuation is performed on the assets will generate revenue. If, at the date of the ﬁnancial statements, cash-generating units, identiﬁed as the Volvo Group’s business areas. any indication exists that an intangible non-current asset has been impaired, Each business area is fully integrated ensuring maximum synergy, hence the recoverable amount of the asset is calculated. The recoverable amount no independent cash-ﬂows exists on a lower level. is the higher of the asset’s net selling price and its value in use, estimated Goodwill is allocated to these cash-generating units based on expected with reference to management’s projections of future cash ﬂows. If the recovfuture beneﬁt from the combination. The valuation is based on a business erable amount of the asset is less than the carrying amount, an impairment plan which is an integral part of the Volvo Group’s ﬁnancial planning prois recognized and the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to the cess and represents management’s best estimate of the development of recoverable amount. Determination of the recoverable amount is based the Group’s operations. Assumption of 2% (2) long-term market growth upon management’s projections of future cash ﬂows, which are generally beyond the forecast period and the Group’s expected performance in this based on internal business plans or forecasts. While management believes environment is a basis for the valuation. In the model, the Volvo Group is that estimates of future cash ﬂows are reasonable, different assumptions expected to maintain stable capital efﬁciency over time. Other parameters regarding such cash ﬂows could materially affect valuations. The need for considered in the calculation are operating income, mix of products and impairment of goodwill is determined on an annual basis, or more freservices, expenses and level of capital expenditures. Measurements are quently if required through calculation of the value of the asset. Such an based on nominal values and applies a general rate of inﬂation applicable impairment review will require management to determine the fair value of for the main markets where the Volvo Group operates. The Volvo Group the Volvo Group’s cash generating units, on the basis of projected cash uses a discounting factor measured at 12% (12) before tax for 2015. ﬂows and internal business plans and forecasts. Surplus values differ In 2015, the value of Volvo Group’s operations exceeded the carrying between the business areas and they are, to a varying degree, sensitive to amount of goodwill for all business areas, thus no impairment was recogchanges in assumptions and the business environment. The Volvo Group nized. The Volvo Group has also tested whether a negative adjustment of has performed similar impairment reviews since 2002. No need for one percentage point to the aforementioned parameters would result in impairment losses was required for the period 2002 until 2015. 130 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 NOTES Intangible assets, acquisition costs Capitalized product and Other intangible Total intangible Goodwill software development assets1 assets Opening balance 2014 21,412 34,535 5,628 61,575 Investments – 1,390 151 1,541 Sales/scrapping – –81 –28 –109 Acquired and divested operations4 –1,382 79 200 –1,103 Translation differences 1,488 1,790 411 3,689 Reclassiﬁcations and others –24 –5 6 –23 Acquisition cost as of Dec 31, 2014 21,494 37,708 6,368 65,570 Investments – 2,247 10 2,257 Sales/scrapping – –47 –89 –136 Acquired and divested operations4 –24 –3 0 –27 Translation differences 170 266 105 541 Reclassiﬁcation at divestment – – –47 –47 Reclassiﬁcations and other 448 –38 1,184 1,594 Acquisition cost as of Dec 31, 2015 22,088 40,133 7,531 69,752 Accumulated amortization and impairment Capitalized product and Other intangible Total intangible Goodwill software development assets1 assets Opening balance 2014 1,458 20,754 2,775 24,987 Amortization – 3,138 335 3,473 Impairment3 – 60 0 60 Sales/scrapping – –53 –20 –73 Acquired and divested operations4 –1,458 – –2 –1,460 Translation differences – 1,299 186 1,485 Reclassiﬁcations and other – –17 – –17 Accumulated amortization and impairment as of Dec 31, 2014 – 25,181 3,274 28,455 Amortization – 2,954 366 3,320 Impairment3 – 24 0 24 Sales/scrapping – –48 –86 –134 Acquired and divested operations4 – –2 – –2 Translation differences – 362 31 393 Reclassiﬁcation at divestment – – –46 –46 Reclassiﬁcations and other – –40 1,366 1,326 Accumulated amortization and impairment as of Dec 31, 2015 – 28,431 4,905 33,336 2 B/S Net value in balance sheet as of December 31, 2014 21,494 12,527 3,094 37,115 B/S Net value in balance sheet as of December 31, 20152 22,088 11,702 2,626 36,416 1 Other intangible assets mainly consist of entrance fees, trademarks and distribution networks. 2 Costs less accumulated amortization and impairments. 3 Impairment 2014 of SEK 36 M in product development relates to restructuring activities. 4 Read more in Note 3, Acquisitions and divestments of shares in subsidiaries, for a description of acquired and divested operations. Goodwill per Business Area Dec 31, Dec 31, 2015 2014 Trucks 12,101 11,515 Construction Equipment 8,475 8,392 Buses 992 1,053 Other business areas 519 534 Total goodwill value 22,088 21,494 131 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 NOTES NOTE 13 TANGIBLE ASSETS Depreciation periods ACCOUNTING POLICY Type-speciﬁc tools 3 to 8 years Operating leases, Rental ﬂeet 3 to 5 years The Volvo Group applies the cost method for measurement of tangible Sales with residual value commitments 3 to 5 years assets. Borrowing costs are included in the acquisition value of assets Machinery 5 to 20 years that are expected to take more than 12 months to complete for their Buildings and investment properties 20 to 50 years intended use or sale. Land improvements 20 years Investment properties are properties owned for the purpose of obtaining rental income and appreciation in value. Investment properties are recognized at cost. For disclosure purposes, information regarding the estimated fair value of investment properties is based on an internal discounted cash ﬂow projection. The required return is based on current property market conditions for comparable properties in comparable ! SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY locations. The applied valuation method is classiﬁed as level 3 as per the fair value hierarchy in IFRS 13 and there have not been any changes in Impairment of tangible assets valuation method during the year. If, at the balance-sheet date, there is any indication that a tangible asset Investment properties are classiﬁed as buildings. Land contain land and has been impaired, the recoverable amount of the asset should be estiland improvements. Machinery is machinery, type-bound tools and other mated. The recoverable amount is the higher of the asset’s net selling equipment. Ongoing projects are assets under construction and advanced price and its value in use, estimated with reference to management’s propayments. Operating leases are assets under operating leases that do not jections of future cash ﬂows. If the recoverable amount of the asset is less occur from rental business or sales with residual value commitments. than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognized and the carryRental ﬂeet is assets under operating lease used in a ﬂeet for rental busiing amount of the asset is reduced to the recoverable amount. Determinaness. Sales with residual value commitment is sales that are applying the tion of the recoverable amount is based upon management’s projections operating lease model. of future cash ﬂows, which are generally made by use of internal business plans or forecasts. While management believes that estimates of future Depreciation and impairment cash ﬂows are reasonable, different assumptions regarding such cash Property, plant and equipment are depreciated over their useful lives. ﬂows could materially affect valuations. Useful lives are based on estimates of the period over which the assets will generate revenue. Land is not depreciated. Depreciation is recognized on a straight-line basis based on the cost of the assets, adjusted in appropriate cases by impairments, and estimated useful lives. Depreciation is recognized in the respective function to which it belongs. Impairment tests for depreciable non-current assets are performed if there are indications of impairment at the balance-sheet date. Tangible assets, Sales w. Acquisition cost residual value Total Ongoing Operating Rental committangible Buildings Land Machinery3 projects leases ﬂeet ments assets Opening balance 2014 30,875 11,164 71,099 4,776 21,366 1,064 13,293 153,637 Investments 796 186 1,592 4,966 10,087 29 –1 17,655 Sales/scrapping –954 –232 –4,767 –61 –6,704 –109 –1 –12,828 Acquired and divested operations 6 –1,179 –380 –537 –41 – –6,781 – –8,918 Translation differences 1,723 786 3,735 108 2,406 137 1,327 10,222 Reclassiﬁed at divestment 1,088 200 801 46 – 6,781 –18 8,898 Reclassiﬁcations and other 1,604 –42 4,108 –5,604 –123 441 188 572 Acquisition costs as of Dec 31, 2014 33,953 11,682 76,031 4,190 27,031 1,562 14,789 169,238 Investments 764 57 2,057 3,746 10,435 – – 17,060 Sales/scrapping –532 –182 –3,699 –20 –9,023 – – –13,456 Acquired and divested operations 6 –281 –66 –64 –10 – –4 – –424 Translation differences –142 199 –343 31 30 –146 –238 –608 Reclassiﬁed at divestment –176 –202 –967 –37 – –290 18 –1,653 Reclassiﬁcations and other 1,248 34 1,779 –3,598 –1,897 2,424 347 337 Acquisition costs as of Dec 31, 2015 34,835 11,522 74,795 4,303 26,578 3,545 14,917 170,494 132 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 NOTES Tangible assets, Sales w. Accumulated depreciation residual value Total Ongoing Operating Rental committangible 3 Buildings Land Machinery projects leases ﬂeet ments assets Opening balance 2014 15,428 1,124 49,129 – 6,469 330 3,252 75,732 Depreciation 1,168 77 4,804 – 3,478 341 1,988 11,856 Impairment4 140 318 197 11 3 – –130 540 Sales/scrapping –689 –49 –4,430 – –2,666 –43 – –7,878 Acquired and divested operations 6 –622 –36 –20 – – –1,306 – –1,984 Translation differences 928 66 2,795 – 657 28 457 4,932 Reclassiﬁed at divestment 459 14 219 – – 1,224 –10 1,906 Reclassiﬁcations and other 10 –367 0 – –137 –166 –1,605 –2,266 Accumulated depreciation as of Dec 31, 2014 16,822 1,147 52,694 11 7,803 409 3,952 82,839 Depreciation 1,310 85 5,008 – 4,386 470 2,289 13,548 Impairment4 25 26 –10 – – – –124 –84 Sales/scrapping –391 –26 –3,523 – –3,536 – 0 –7,476 Acquired and divested operations 6 –147 – –56 – – –1 – –203 Translation differences 103 6 99 – –41 –37 –121 10 Reclassiﬁed at divestment –133 –21 –717 – – –132 10 –994 Reclassiﬁcations and other –243 –20 –214 – –727 113 –2,203 –3,294 Accumulated depreciation as of Dec 31, 2015 17,347 1,198 53,281 11 7,884 821 3,802 84,345 B/S Net value in balance sheet as of Dec 31, 20142, 5 17,131 10,535 23,337 4,179 19,228 1,153 10,837 86,399 B/S Net value in balance sheet as of Dec 31, 20152, 5 17,488 10,324 21,514 4,292 18,693 2,724 11,114 86,149 1 Including capitalized borrowing costs of SEK 0 M (160). 2 Acquisition costs less accumulated depreciation, amortization and impairments. 3 Machinery and equipment pertains mainly to production related assets. 4 Impairments 2014 were mainly related to restructuring activities of SEK 459 M, whereof buildings SEK 140 M, land SEK 319 M. 5 Of which investment property SEK 283 M (266) and property, plant and equipment SEK 53,335 M (54,915). 6 Read more in Note 3, Acquisitions and divestments of shares in subsidiaries, for a description of acquired and divested operations. Reclassiﬁcations and other mainly consist of assets within sales with assets moved from inventory to rental ﬂeet during the time the product is residual value commitments related to legal sales transactions, where revused in the rental business. When the product is de-ﬂeeted it is reclassienue is deferred and accounted for as operating lease revenue. Assets ﬁed back to inventory from rental ﬂeet. classiﬁed as inventory will, when the operating lease model is applied for revenue recognition, be reclassiﬁed from inventory to sales with residual Investment properties value commitments, when the legal sales transaction occurs. If the prodThe acquisition value of investment properties at year-end amounted to uct is returned after the lease period, there will be a reclassiﬁcation from SEK 692 M (600). Capital expenditures during 2015 amounted to SEK sales with residual value commitments back to inventory. When a buy6 M (3). Accumulated depreciation amounted to SEK 409 M (335) at back agreement has expired, but the related product is not returned, the year-end, of which SEK 26 M (23) refers to 2015. The estimated fair value cost and the accumulated depreciation are reversed in reclassiﬁcation of investment properties amounted to SEK 1.0 billion (0.7) at year-end. and other, within the line item sales with residual value commitments. 97% (97) of the area available for lease were leased out during the year. Most reclassiﬁcations within tangible assets relate to construction in proOperating income for the year was affected by SEK 97 M (78) in rental gress, which are reclassiﬁed to the respective category within property, income from investment properties and of SEK 19 M (13) in direct costs. plant and equipment. Most reclassiﬁcations within rental ﬂeet relate to 133 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 NOTES NOTE 14 LEASING Volvo Group as a lessee ACCOUNTING POLICY As of December 31, 2015, future rental payments (minimum leasing fees) related to non-cancellable leases amounted to SEK 5,140 M (5,524). Volvo Group as the lessor Leasing contracts are deﬁned in two categories, operating and ﬁnance Future rental payments Finance Operating leases, depending on the contract’s ﬁnancial implications. Operating leases leases lease contracts are recognized as non-current assets in Assets under 2016 81 1,277 operating leases as Operating leases, Rental ﬂeet and Sales with residual 2017–2020 245 2,205 value commitments. Income from operating lease is recognized equally 2021 or later 298 1,035 distributed over the leasing period. Straight-line depreciation is applied to Total 624 4,516 these assets in accordance with the terms of the undertaking and the depreciation amount is adjusted to correspond to the estimated realizable value when the undertaking expires. Assessed impairments are charged Rental expenses 2015 2014 to the income statement. The product’s assessed realizable value at expiFinance leases: ration of the undertaking is reviewed continuously on an individual basis. Contingent rents –5 –6 Finance lease agreements are recognized as either non-current or curOperating leases: rent receivables in the Customer Finance Operations. Payments from Contingent rents –34 –31 ﬁnance lease contracts are distributed between interest income and Rental payments –1,447 –1,563 amortization of the receivable in the Customer Finance Operations. Sublease payments 5 8 Total –1,481 –1,592 Volvo Group as the lessee As for lessors, leases are divided into operating and ﬁnance lease. Finance lease are those cases when risks and rewards related to ownerCarrying amount of assets subject Dec 31, Dec 31, ship are substantially held by the Volvo Group. Volvo Group recognizes the to ﬁnancial leases 2015 2014 asset and related obligation in the balance sheet at the lower of the leased Acquisition value asset’s fair value or the present value of minimum lease payments. Future Buildings 413 419 lease fee commitments are recognized as obligations. The lease asset is Land 78 80 depreciated in accordance with the Volvo Group’s policy for the respective Machinery 689 667 non-current asset. The lease payments made are allocated between Assets under operating lease and rental ﬂeet1 545 835 amortization and interest expenses. If the lease contract is considered to Total 1,725 2,001 be an operating lease, lease payments are charged to proﬁt or loss over the lease contract period. Accumulated depreciation: Buildings –96 –77 Land –3 –1 Volvo Group as the lessor Machinery –353 –292 As of December 31, 2015, future rental income from non-cancellable Assets under operating lease and rental ﬂeet1 –213 –329 ﬁnance and operating leases (minimum lease fees excluding sales with Total –666 –700 residual value commitments) amounted to SEK 56,226 M (58,392). Carrying amount in the balance sheet: Buildings 317 342 Future rental income Finance Operating leases leases Land 75 79 Machinery 336 375 2016 14,321 7,160 Assets under operating lease and rental ﬂeet1 332 506 2017–2020 21,920 11,385 Total 1,059 1,301 2021 or later 1,137 303 Total 37,378 18,848 1 Refer to assets leased by the Volvo Group as ﬁnance lease which are later leased to customers as operating lease. Allowance for uncollectible future rental income –551 Unearned rental income –2,554 Present value of future rental income related to non-cancellable leases 34,273 Read more about ﬁnance lease, in Note 15 Customer-ﬁnancing receivables. 134 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 NOTES NOTE 15 CUSTOMER-FINANCING RECEIVABLES ACCOUNTING POLICY Non-current customer-ﬁnancing Interest income on the customer-ﬁnancing receivables is recognized receivables maturities within Net sales. Changes to the credit loss reserves are recognized in SEK M Other operating income and expense. ! SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 or later Credit loss reserves 21,803 15,173 8,929 3,645 1,412 The assessment of credit loss reserves on customer-ﬁnancing receiva15:2 bles is dependent on estimates including assumptions regarding past dues, repossession rates and the recovery rate on the underlying collaterals. The impairment requirement is primarily evaluated for each respective asset. If, based on objective grounds, it cannot be determined that one or Current customer-ﬁnancing Dec 31, Dec 31, more assets are subject to an impairment loss, the assets are grouped in receivables 2015 2014 units based, for example, on similar credit risks to evaluate the impairment Installment credits 16,053 14,611 loss requirement collectively. This is in order to cover credit losses incurred Financial leasing 12,948 14,617 but not yet individually identiﬁed in a larger population. Individually Dealer ﬁnancing 21,989 17,562 impaired assets or assets impaired during previous periods are not Other receivables 631 1,046 included when grouping assets for collective assessment. If the condiB/S Current customer ﬁnancing tions that gave rise to the recognition of an impairment loss later prove to receivables 51,621 47,836 no longer be valid the impairment loss is reversed in the income statement as long as the carrying amount does not exceed the amortized cost at the The effective interest rate for current customer-ﬁnancing receivtime of the reversal. ables amounted to 4.74% (5.31) as of December 31, 2015. As of December 31, 2015, the total credit loss reserves in the Customer Finance segment amounted to 1.41% (1.33) of the total credit port15:3 folio in the segment. This reserve ratio, which is used as an important measure for the Customer Finance segment, includes operating leases and inventory, whereas this note speciﬁes the balance sheet item CusCredit risk in customer-ﬁnancing Dec 31, Dec 31, tomer Finance receivables for the Volvo Group and thereby excludes receivables 2015 2014 operating leases and inventory as they are recognized elsewhere in the Customer-ﬁnancing receivables gross 104,096 100,616 balance sheet. Valuation allowance for doubtful customer-ﬁnancing receivables –1,514 –1,450 Read more in Note 4 for a description of the credit risk, interest and currency risks and in Note 30 for further information regarding customer-ﬁnancing Whereof speciﬁc reserve –365 –364 receivables. Whereof other reserve –1,149 –1,086 Customer-ﬁnancing receivables, net of allowance 102,583 99,166 15:4 Non-current customer-ﬁnancing Dec 31, Dec 31, receivables 2015 2014 Change of valuation allowance for doubtInstallment credits 29,580 28,055 ful customer-ﬁnancing receivables 2015 2014 Financial leasing 21,325 21,820 Other receivables 57 1,455 Opening balance 1,450 1,179 B/S Non-current customerNew valuation allowance charged to income 745 1,081 ﬁnancing receivables 50,962 51,331 Reversal of valuation allowance charged to income –56 –161 Utilization of valuation allowance related to The effective interest rate for non-current customer-ﬁnancing actual losses –549 –752 receivables amounted to 4.65% (4.96) as of December 31, 2015. Translation differences –76 103 Valuation allowance for doubtful customer15:1 ﬁnancing receivables as of December 31 1,514 1,450 15:5 135 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 NOTES Overdues in relation to speciﬁc reserves Dec 31, 2015 Dec 31, 2014 for customer-ﬁnancing receivables Not due 1–30 31–90 >90 Total Not due 1–30 31–90 >90 Total Overdue amount – 477 268 292 1,037 – 468 323 232 1,023 Valuation allowance for doubtful customer-ﬁnancing receivables, speciﬁc reserve –94 –57 –90 –124 –365 –116 –105 –57 –86 –364 Customer-ﬁnancing receivables, net book value –94 420 178 168 672 –116 363 266 146 659 15:6 The table above presents overdue payments within the customer-ﬁnancyet identiﬁed customer-ﬁnancing receivables overdue, there were addiing operations in relation to speciﬁc reserves. It is not unusual for a receivtional reserves of 1,149 (1,086), included in table 15:4. The remaining able to be settled a couple of days after its due date, which impacts the exposure was secured by liens on the ﬁnanced equipment and, in certain age interval of 1–30 days. Valuation allowance presented within the intercircumstances, other credit enhancements such as personal guarantees, val not due, is mainly an effect of recognition of impairment on portions of credit insurance, liens on other property owned by the borrower etc. contracts that have not yet been invoiced. Collaterals taken in possession that meet the criteria for recognition in The total contractual amount to which the overdue payments pertain the Balance sheet amounted to SEK 162 M (137) as of December 31, are presented in the table below. In order to provide for occurred but not 2015. Customer-ﬁnancing receivables Dec 31, 2015 Dec 31, 2014 total exposure Not due 1–30 31–90 >90 Total Not due 1–30 31–90 >90 Total Customer ﬁnancing receivables 94,126 7,764 1,962 245 104,096 89,931 8,012 2,410 263 100,616 15:7 Concentration of credit risk Geographic market, percentage Customer concentration of customer-ﬁnancing portfolio (%). The ten largest customers in Customer Finance account for 8.5% (7.0) of the total asset portfolio. The rest of the portfolio is pertinent to a large number of customers. Hence the credit risk is spread across many markets and customers. Europe, 39.3% North America, 43.4% Concentration by geographical market Asia, 7.1% The adjacent table discloses the concentration of the customer-ﬁnancing South America, 10.2% portfolio divided into geographical markets. Read more in Note 4 about goals and policies in ﬁnancial risk management and description of credit risks. 15:8 Read more about Volvo Financial Services’ development during the year in the Board of Directors’ Report on Volvo Financial Services. NOTE 16 RECEIVABLES ACCOUNTING POLICY ! SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY Receivables are recognized at amortized cost. Changes to the credit loss Credit loss reserves reserves as well as any interest and gain or loss upon divestment of An allowance for account receivables is recognized as soon as it is probreceivables are recognized in Other operating income and expense. able that a credit loss has incurred, that is when there has been an event that has triggered the customer’s inability to pay. As of December 31, Refer to Note 30 Financial Instruments in section Derecognition of ﬁnancial 2015, the total credit loss reserves for account receivables amounted to assets, for receivables subject to cash enhancement activities. 4.02% (2.63) of total account receivables. Refer to Note 4 regarding credit risk. 136 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 NOTES Non-current receivables Dec 31, Dec 31, Credit risks in accounts receivable 2015 2014 Other interest-bearing loans to external parties 1 739 602 Change of valuation allowance for doubtful accounts receivable 2015 2014 Other receivables 2,644 2,826 Outstanding interest and currency risk derivatives 2 1,034 1,526 Opening balance 834 606 Non-current receivables 4,418 4,954 New valuation allowance charged to income 695 415 Reversal of valuation allowance charged 1 Non-current part of Other interest bearing receivables in table Carrying to income –250 –123 amounts and fair values in Note 30. 2 Non-current part of Outstanding interest and currency risk derivatives in table Utilization of valuation allowance related Carrying amounts and fair values in Note 30. to actual losses –34 –65 Acquired and divested operations 0 –23 Current receivables Dec 31, Dec 31, Translation differences –34 60 2015 2014 Reclassiﬁcations, etc 8 –36 Other interest-bearing receivables 1 743 374 Valuation allowance for doubtful accounts receivables as of December 31 1,219 834 Other interest-bearing ﬁnancial receivables 61 61 Accounts receivable 29,101 30,895 Refer to Note 8 Other operating income and expenses, for information Prepaid expenses and accrued income 2,906 2,854 regarding credit provisions for Volvo CE in China. VAT receivables 3,789 3,676 Outstanding interest and currency risk derivatives 2 1,588 1,351 Refer to Note 15 for information regarding credit risk in customer ﬁnancing Other receivables 6,615 7,463 receivables. Outstanding raw materials derivatives 5 3 Refer to Note 30 for information regarding goals and policies for ﬁnancial Current receivables, after deduction of valuation instruments. allowances for doubtful accounts receivable 44,809 46,677 1 Current part of Other interest bearing receivables in table Carrying amounts and fair values in Note 30. 2 Current part of Outstanding interest and currency risk derivatives in table Carrying amounts and fair values in Note 30. Age analysis of portfolio value Dec 31, 2015 Dec 31, 2014 – Accounts receivable Not Due 1–30 31–90 >90 Total Not Due 1–30 31–90 >90 Total Accounts receivable gross 26,798 1,102 656 1,765 30,320 28,572 1,311 578 1,268 31,728 Provision for doubtful accounts receivable –381 –16 –108 –714 –1,219 –123 –35 –25 –650 –834 Accounts receivable net 26,417 1,086 548 1,051 29,101 28,449 1,275 553 617 30,895 NOTE 17 INVENTORIES Inventory Dec 31, Dec 31, ACCOUNTING POLICY 2015 2014 Finished products 27,496 28,368 Inventories are recognized at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Production materials, etc. 16,894 17,165 The cost is established using the ﬁrst-in, ﬁrst-out principle (FIFO) and is based on the standard cost method, including costs for all direct manuB/S Inventory 44,390 45,533 facturing expenses and the attributable share of capacity and other manufacturing-related costs. The standard costs are tested regularly and Inventories recognized as cost of sold products during the period amounted adjustments are made based on current conditions. Costs for research to SEK 216,778 M (199,872). and development, selling, administration and ﬁnancial expenses are not included. Net realizable value is calculated as the selling price less costs Increase (decrease) in allowance attributable to the sale. for inventory obsolescence 2015 2014 Opening balance 3,394 2,641 Increase in allowance for inventory obsolescence ! SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY charged to income Scrapping 675 –435 734 –395 Inventory obsolescence Translation differences –29 259 If the net realizable value is lower than cost, a valuation allowance is Reclassiﬁcations etc. 20 154 established for inventory obsolescence. The total inventory value, net of Allowance for inventory obsolescence inventory obsolescence allowance, was SEK 44,390 M (45,533) as of as of December 31 3,624 3,394 December 31, 2015. 137 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 NOTES NOTE 18 MARKETABLE SECURITIES AND LIQUID FUNDS Cash and cash equivalents Dec 31, Dec 31, ACCOUNTING POLICY 2015 2014 Cash in banks 18,474 25,627 Cash and Cash equivalents include high liquid interest-bearing securities Bank certiﬁcates 674 340 that are considered easily convertible to cash including marketable secuTime deposits in banks 1,900 276 rities, with a date of maturity within three months at the time for investment. Interest bearing securities that fail to meet this deﬁnition are recogB/S Cash and cash equivalents 21,048 26,242 nized as marketable securities. Cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2015, include SEK 0.8 billion (0.2) that is not available for use by the Volvo Group and SEK 5.4 Marketable securities Dec 31, Dec 31, billion (6.1) where other limitations exist, mainly liquid funds in countries 2015 2014 where exchange controls or other legal restrictions apply. Therefore it is not Government securities 1,586 789 possible to immediately use the liquid funds in other parts of the Volvo Banks and ﬁnancial institutions 1,090 5,037 Group, however normally there is no limitation for use for the Volvo Group’s Real estate ﬁnancial institutions 668 1,485 operation in the respective country. B/S Marketable securities 3,344 7,312 NOTE 19 EQUITY AND NUMBER OF SHARES Information regarding Dec 31, Dec 31, ACCOUNTING POLICY number of shares 2015 2014 Earnings per share before dilution is calculated as income for the period, Own Series A shares 20,728,135 20,728,135 attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholders, divided by the Parent Own Series B shares 76,975,610 78,353,598 Company’s average number of shares outstanding for the ﬁscal year. Total own shares 97,703,745 99,081,733 Diluted earnings per share is calculated as income for the period attributOwn shares in % of total able to the Parent Company’s shareholders divided by the average numregistered shares 4.59 4.66 ber of shares outstanding plus the average number of shares that would be issued as an effect of ongoing share-based incentive programs. If durOutstanding Series A shares 484,753,825 492,386,965 ing the year there were potential shares redeemed or expired during the Outstanding Series B shares 1,545,962,650 1,536,951,522 period, these are also included in the average number of shares used to Total outstanding shares 2,030,716,475 2,029,338,487 calculate the earnings per share after dilution. Total registered Series A shares 505,481,960 513,115,100 Total registered Series B shares 1,622,938,260 1,615,305,120 The share capital of the Parent Company is divided into two series of Total registered shares 2,128,420,220 2,128,420,220 shares, A and B. Both series carry the same rights, except that each Average number of Series A share carries the right to one vote and each Series B share caroutstanding shares 2,030,116,663 2,028,414,477 ries the right to one tenth of a vote. The shares’ quota value is SEK 1.20. Cash dividend 2015, decided by the Annual General Meeting 2014, was SEK 3.00 (3.00) per share or totally SEK 6,089.8 M (6,084.4). During 2015 AB Volvo transferred, free of consideration, 1,377,988 treasury B-shares, with a total quota value of 1,653,585.60 SEK, to participants in the long-term share-based incentive program for Group and senior executives in the Volvo Group, as accelerated allotment. The transferred treasury shares represent an insigniﬁcant portion of the share capital of AB Volvo. During 2015 AB Volvo converted a total of 7,633,140 Series A shares to Series B shares. Unrestricted equity in the Parent Company as of December 31, 2015 amounted to SEK 31,115 M (28,395). Read more in Note 27 about the Volvo Group share-based incentive program. 138 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 NOTES Information regarding shares 2015 2014 Change in other reserves AvailableHedge for-sale Number of outstanding shares, reserve reserve Total December 31, in millions 2,031 2,029 Opening balance 2015 –16 4,144 4,128 Average number of shares before dilution in millions 2,030 2,028 Other changes –32 – –32 Average number of shares Fair value adjustments regarding after dilution in millions 2,032 2,031 holdings in Japanese companies – 25 25 Average share price, SEK 96.57 89.54 Fair value adjustments regarding Eicher Motors Ltd. – –3,995 –3,995 Net income attributable to Parent Fair value adjustments regarding Company shareholders 15,058 2,099 other companies – 133 133 Basic earnings per share, SEK 7.42 1.03 Balance as of December 31, 2015 –48 307 259 Diluted earnings per share, SEK 7.41 1.03 The Volvo Group’s accumulated amount of exchange difference recognized in equity relating to assets held for sale amounted to SEK 11 M (10). NOTE 20 PROVISIONS FOR POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS The Volvo Group’s post-employment beneﬁts, such as pensions, healthcare and other beneﬁts are mainly settled by means of regular payments to independent authorities or bodies that assume pension obligations and ! SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY administer pensions through deﬁned-contribution plans. Assumptions when calculating pensions and other The remaining post-employment beneﬁts are deﬁned-beneﬁt plans; post-employment beneﬁts that is, the obligations remain within the Volvo Group or are secured by Provisions and costs for post-employment beneﬁts, mainly pensions and proprietary pension foundations. The Volvo Group’s deﬁned-beneﬁt plans health-care beneﬁts, are dependent on assumptions used by actuaries relate mainly to subsidiaries in the U.S. and comprise both pensions and when calculating such amounts. The appropriate assumptions and actuother beneﬁts, such as healthcare. Other large-scale deﬁned-beneﬁt arial calculations are made separately for the respective countries of the plans apply to white-collar employees in Sweden (mainly through the Volvo Group’s operations which result in obligations for post-employment Swedish ITP pension plan) and employees in France and Great Britain. beneﬁts. The assumptions include discount rates, health care cost trends rates, inﬂation, salary growth, retirement rates, mortality rates and other factors. Health care cost trend assumptions are based on historical cost ACCOUNTING POLICY data, the near-term outlook and an assessment of likely long-term trends. Inﬂation assumptions are based on an evaluation of external market indiActuarial calculations shall be made for all deﬁned-beneﬁt plans in order cators. The salary growth assumptions reﬂect the historical trend, the to determine the present value of obligation for beneﬁts vested by its near-term outlook and assumed inﬂation. Retirement and mortality rates current and former employees. The actuarial calculations are prepared are based primarily on ofﬁcially available mortality statistics. The actuarial annually and are based upon actuarial assumptions that are determined assumptions are reviewed annually by the Volvo Group and modiﬁed when at the balance-sheet date each year. Changes in the present value of deemed appropriate. obligations due to revised actuarial assumptions and experience adjustments constitute remeasurements. Provisions for post-employment beneﬁts in the Volvo Group’s balance The following tables disclose information about deﬁned-beneﬁt plans. sheet correspond to the present value of obligations at year-end, less fair The Volvo Group recognizes the difference between the obligations and value of plan assets. Discount rate is used when calculating the net interthe plan assets in the balance sheet. The disclosures refer to assumptions est income or expense on the net deﬁned beneﬁt liability (asset). All applied for actuarial calculations, recognized costs during the ﬁnancial changes in the net deﬁned liability (asset) are recognized when they year and the value of obligations and plan assets at year-end. The tables occur. Service cost and net interest income or expense are recognized in also include a reconciliation of obligations and plan assets during the year. the income statement, while remeasurements such as actuarial gains and losses are recognized in other comprehensive income. Special payroll tax is included in the pension liability. Special payroll tax is applicable for Summary of provision for Dec 31, Dec 31, pension plans in Sweden and Belgium. post–employment beneﬁts 2015 2014 For deﬁned contribution plans, premiums are recognized in the income Obligations –49,038 –50,948 statement as incurred according to function. Fair value of plan assets 35,400 34,391 Net provision for post-employment beneﬁts –13,638 –16,557 139 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 NOTES Sweden USA The main deﬁned beneﬁt plan in Sweden is the ITP2 plan and it is based In the US, the Volvo Group has tax-qualiﬁed pension plans, post-retireon ﬁnal salary. The plan is semi-closed, meaning that only new employees ment medical plans and non-qualiﬁed pension plans. The tax-qualiﬁed born before 1979 have the possibility to choose the ITP2 solution. The pension plans are funded while the other plans are generally unfunded. Volvo Group’s pension foundation in Sweden was formed in 1996 to The Volvo Group’s subsidiaries in the United States mainly secure their secure obligations relating to retirement pensions for white-collar workers pension obligations through transfer of funds to pension plans. At the end in Sweden in accordance with the ITP plan. Plan assets amounting to SEK of 2015, the total value of pension obligations secured by pension plans 2,456 M were contributed to the foundation at its formation, correspondof this type amounted to SEK 17,386 M (16,238). At the same point in ing to the value of the pension obligations at that time. Since its formation, time, the total value of the plan assets in these plans amounted to SEK net contributions of SEK 3,167 M, whereof SEK 216 M during 2015, have 15,774 M (15,215), of which 48% (54) was invested in equity instruments. been made to the foundation. The plan assets in the Volvo Group’s SwedThe regulations for securing pension obligations stipulate certain miniish pension foundation are invested in Swedish and foreign stocks and mum levels concerning the ratio between the value of the plan assets and mutual funds, and in interest-bearing securities, in accordance with a disthe value of the obligations. During 2015, the Volvo Group contributed tribution that is determined by the foundation’s Board of Directors. As of SEK 397 M (736) to the American pension plans. December 31, 2015, the fair value of the foundation’s plan assets amounted to SEK 10,249 M (9,490), of which 47% (49) was invested in France equity instruments. At the same date, retirement pension obligations In France, the Volvo Group has two types of deﬁned beneﬁt plans, Indemattributable to the ITP plan amounted to SEK 12,915 M (15,369). nité de Fin de Carrière (IFC) and jubilee award plan. The plans are Swedish companies can secure new pension obligations through unfunded. The retirement indemnities plan is compulsory in France. The balance-sheet provisions or pension-fund contributions. Furthermore, a beneﬁts are based on the Collective Bargaining Agreement applicable in credit insurance policy must be taken out for the value of the obligations. the company, on the employee’s seniority at retirement date and on the In addition to beneﬁts relating to retirement pensions, the ITP plan also ﬁnal pay. The beneﬁt payment is due only if employees are working for the includes, for example, a collective family pension, which the Volvo Group company when they retire. The jubilee awards plan is an internal agreeﬁnances through an insurance policy with the Alecta insurance company. ment. The beneﬁt is based on the employee’s seniority career at 20, 30, According to an interpretation from the Swedish Financial Reporting 35 and 40 years. As of December 31, 2015 the total value of pension Board, this is a multi-employer deﬁned-beneﬁt plan. For ﬁscal year 2015, obligations amounted to SEK 2,574 M (2,849). the Volvo Group did not have access to information from Alecta that would have enabled this plan to be recognized as a deﬁned-beneﬁt plan. AccordGreat Britain ingly, the plan has been recognized as a deﬁned-contribution plan. The The Volvo Group has ﬁve deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans in Great Britain. Volvo Group estimates it will pay premiums of about SEK 297 M to Alecta The plans are funded. The deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans provides benein 2016. The collective consolidation level measures the apportionable ﬁts which are linked to each member’s ﬁnal pay at the earlier of their date assets in relation to the insurance commitment. According to Alecta’s of leaving or retirement. All plans are closed to new entrants and two of consolidation policy for deﬁned-beneﬁt pension insurance, the collective the plans are closed to future accrual. Members of the plan also have the consolidation level is normally allowed to vary between 125% and 155%. option to commute an amount of their pension beneﬁt as cash at retireAlecta’s consolidation ratio amounts to 153% (143). If the consolidation ment as permitted by UK legislation. level falls short or exceeds the normal interval one measure may be to The pension funds are set up as separate legal entities, which are govincrease the contract price for new subscription and expanding existing erned by trustees who are responsible for the governance of the plan. The beneﬁts or introduce premium reductions. trustee boards are composed of representatives from the employer, the The Volvo Group’s share of the total saving premiums for ITP2 in Alecta employees and independent trustees. The strategic allocation of plan assets as at December 31, 2015 amounted to 0.29% (0.47) and the share of the must comply with the investment guidelines agreed by the trustees of the total number of active policy holders amounted to 1.82% (1.85). respective schemes. If a net surplus is recognized in the balance sheet when During 2015 the Volvo Group reviewed all the assumptions regarding the pension scheme runs-off the Volvo Goup has an unconditional right to the Swedish pension plan where the consequence was a lower pension the surplus of that plan or plans. obligation, excluding any variation in the discount rate, and a future lower At the end of 2015, the total value of pension obligations secured by service cost in the income statement. pension plans amounted to SEK 6,820 M (6,671). The total value of the plan All employees in Sweden beneﬁt from a jubilee awards plan according assets in these plans amounted to SEK 6,847 M (6,772). to which they receive a certain number of shares after they have rendered During 2015, the Volvo Group has made extra contributions to the pen25, 35 and 45 years of services. This plan is accounted for as a sharesion plans in Great Britain in the amount of SEK 107 M (98). based payments. Read more in Note 27 Personnel about accounting policy on share-based payments. 140 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 NOTES Assumptions applied for actuarial Dec 31, Dec 31, Pension costs 2015 2014 calculations, % 2015 2014 Current year service costs 1,681 1,298 Sweden Interest costs 1,532 1,479 Discount rate1 3.50 2.75 Interest income –1,208 –1,180 Expected salary increase 2.90 3.00 Past service costs 122 58 Inﬂation 1.50 1.50 Gain/loss on settlements –129 –54 Pension costs for the period, United States deﬁned-beneﬁt plans 1,999 1,601 Discount rate1 2 3.00–4.40 2.50–4.30 Expected salary increase 2.70–3.50 2.70–3.50 Pension costs for deﬁned-contribution plans 2,340 2,530 Inﬂation 2.20 2.50 Total pension costs for the period 4,339 4,131 France Costs for the period, post–employment Discount rate1 1.50–2.20 1.50–2.00 beneﬁts other than pensions 2015 2014 Expected salary increase 2.50–3.00 2.50–3.00 Current year service costs 121 56 Inﬂation 1.50 1.50 Interest costs 147 141 Great Britain Interest income –3 –2 Discount rate1 3.50–3.80 3.50–3.75 Past service costs – –37 Expected salary increases 3.50–3.60 3.60–3.70 Gain/loss on settlements –185 – Inﬂation 3.10 3.00 Remeasurements 248 –55 Total costs for the period, post–employment 1 The discount rate for each country is determined by reference to market yields on beneﬁts other than pensions 328 103 high-quality corporate bonds. In countries where there is no functioning market in such bonds, the market yields on government bonds are used. The discount rate for the Swedish pension obligation is determined by extrapolating current market rates along the yield curve of mortgage bonds. 2 For all plans except two the discount rate used is within the range 3.70–4.40% (3.60–4.30). Sweden US France Great Britain US Pensions Pensions Pensions Pensions Other beneﬁts Average duration of the obligation, years 21.6 10.5 14.8 17.7 10.2 The analysis below presents the sensitivity on the deﬁned beneﬁt this is not probable, and changes in some of the assumptions may be obligations when changes in the applied assumptions for discount rate correlated. Depending on local regulations, facts and circumstances in and inﬂation are made. The sensitivity analysis is based on a change in the separate countries the sensitivity effect on the obligation differs for an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. In practice, the respective assumptions. Sensitivity analysis 2015 − Effect on obligation, SEK M + If discount rate increases 0.5% If discount rate decreases 0.5% Sweden Pensions –1,344 1,537 US Pensions –918 1,013 France Pensions –176 190 Great Britain Pensions –561 648 US Other beneﬁts –169 185 Other plants –273 310 If inﬂation decreases 0.5% If inﬂation increases 0.5% Sweden Pensions –1,344 1,537 US Pensions 0 0 France Pensions –4 4 Great Britain Pensions –385 393 US Other beneﬁts –16 18 Other plants –165 188 141 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 NOTES Obligations in deﬁned-beneﬁt plans Great US Sweden US France Britain Other Other Pensions Pensions Pensions Pensions beneﬁts plans Total Obligations opening balance 2014 11,333 13,686 2,356 5,315 3,181 4,082 39,953 Acquisitions, divestments and other changes 1 1 – – 44 151 197 Current year service costs 500 344 89 52 47 322 1,354 Interest costs 446 589 81 239 134 130 1,619 Past service costs 85 3 – – –32 –35 21 Settlements – – –54 – – –37 –91 Employee contributions – – – 12 – 4 16 Remeasurements: – Effect of changes in demographic assumptions – –257 – –23 –176 –59 –515 – Effect of changes in ﬁnancial assumptions 3,781 597 372 586 35 462 5,833 – Effect of experience adjustments 62 114 19 –3 –125 111 178 Exchange rate translation – 2,846 156 724 633 307 4,666 Beneﬁts paid –377 –1,082 –170 –231 –225 –198 –2,283 Obligations as of December 31, 2014 15,831 16,841 2,849 6,671 3,516 5,241 50,948 of which Funded deﬁned-beneﬁt plans 15,396 16,238 10 6,671 26 3,683 42,024 Acquisitions, divestments and other changes – – – – – –59 –59 Current year service costs 772 402 92 57 109 370 1,802 Interest costs 430 681 55 257 137 120 1,680 Past service costs 84 19 – – – 20 124 Settlements 160 – –20 – –184 –416 –461 Employee contributions –2 – – 14 – 4 16 Remeasurements: – Effect of changes in demographic assumptions –166 335 – 11 39 –43 176 – Effect of changes in ﬁnancial assumptions –2,707 –265 –79 –36 –111 11 –3,186 – Effect of experience adjustments –663 59 –87 –8 229 –27 –496 Exchange rate translation – 1,174 –112 128 241 –112 1,319 Beneﬁts paid –436 –1,199 –122 –273 –304 –488 –2,824 Obligations as of December 31, 2015 13,302 18,048 2,574 6,820 3,673 4,621 49,038 of which Funded deﬁned-beneﬁt plans 12,938 17,386 10 6,820 24 3,190 40,367 Fair value of plan assets in funded plans Great Sweden US France Britain US Other Other Pensions Pensions Pensions Pensions beneﬁts plans Total Plan assets opening balance 2014 8,229 11,916 7 5,274 23 2,204 27,653 Acquisitions, divestments and other changes – – – – –2 164 162 Interest income 329 527 – 240 1 85 1,182 Remeasurements 636 512 – 656 –3 67 1,868 Employer contributions 318 736 2 98 – 258 1,412 Employee contributions – – – 12 – 3 15 Exchange rate translation – 2,549 – 723 7 167 3,446 Beneﬁts paid –1 –1,025 –1 –231 – –89 –1,347 Plan assets as of December 31, 2014 9,511 15,215 8 6,772 26 2,859 34,391 Acquisitions, divestments and other changes –2 – – – – –105 –107 Interest income 261 621 – 263 1 65 1,211 Settlements – – – – –309 –309 Remeasurements 285 –391 – –167 –5 30 –247 Employer contributions 216 397 1 107 – 230 950 Employee contributions – – – 14 – 4 18 Exchange rate translation – 1,071 – 132 2 –96 1,110 Beneﬁts paid –1 –1,139 – –273 – –202 –1,615 Plan assets as of December 31, 2015 10,270 15,774 9 6,847 23 2,477 35,400 142 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 NOTES Net provisions for post-employment beneﬁts Great US Sweden US France Britain Other Other Pensions Pensions Pensions Pensions beneﬁts plans Total Net provision for post-employment beneﬁts as of December 31, 2014 –6,320 –1,626 –2,841 101 –3,490 –2,381 –16,557 of which reported as: B/S Prepaid pensions – – – 101 17 8 126 B/S Provisions for post-employment beneﬁts –6,320 –1,626 –2,841 – –3,507 –2,389 –16,683 Net provisions for post-employment beneﬁts as of December 31, 2015 –3,032 –2,274 –2,565 27 –3,650 –2,144 –13,638 of which reported as: B/S Prepaid pensions – – – 27 – 8 34 B/S Provisions for post-employment beneﬁts –3,032 –2,274 –2,565 – –3,650 –2,151 –13,673 Investment strategy and risk management Plan assets by category as of December 31, 2014 The Volvo Group manages the allocation and investment of pension plan assets with the purpose of meeting the long term objectives. The main Cash and cash equivalents, 216 (1%) objectives are to meet present and future beneﬁt obligations, provide sufEquity instruments, Volvo, 359 (1%) ﬁcient liquidity to meet such payment requirements and to provide a total Equity instruments, other, 14,191 (41%) return that maximizes the ratio of the plan assets in relation to the plan Debt instruments, 13,398 (39%) liabilities by maximizing return on the assets at an appropriate level of risk. Real estate, 900 (3%) The ﬁnal investment decision often resides with the local trustee, but the investment policy for all plans ensures that the risks in the investment Investments funds, 3,558 (10%) portfolios are well diversiﬁed. The risks related to pension obligations, e.g. Assets held by insurance company, 1,195 (3%) longevity and inﬂation, as well as buy out premiums and matching strateOther assets, 574 (2%) gies are monitored on an ongoing basis in order to limit the Volvo Group’s exposure. In the last couple of years, some of the deﬁned beneﬁt plans have been Plan assets by category as of December 31, 2015 closed to new entrants and replaced by deﬁned contribution plans in Cash and cash equivalents, 589 (2%) order to reduce risk for the Volvo Group. In Sweden the minimum funding target is decided by PRI PensionsEquity instruments, Volvo, 316 (1%) garanti, this is mandatory in order to stay in the system and get insurance Equity instruments, other, 13,259 (37%) for the pension liability. The minimum contribution is decided by the comDebt instruments,13,069 (37%) pany and should equal at least the pension beneﬁts expected to be earned Real estate, 1,977 (6%) during the coming year. Investments funds, 4,805 (14%) In the United States the minimum funding target is decided by the comAssets held by insurance company, 814 (2%) pany in order to avoid penalties, keep ﬂexibility and avoid extensive ﬁling Other assets, 572 (2%) with the IRS and participants. The minimum contribution should equal at least the beneﬁts expected to be earned during the coming year plus one-seventh of the underfunding. In Great Britain there are no minimum funding requirements. For each plan there is a contribution plan, which is well deﬁned, in place to bring the Actual return on plan assets amounted to SEK 964 M (3,050). schemes to full funding within a reasonable time frame. The contribution plans are to be approved by regulators. Fair value of plan assets Dec 31, Dec 31, In 2016 the Volvo Group estimates to transfer an amount of SEK 1–2 with a quoted market price 2015 2014 billion to pension plans. Cash and cash equivalents 579 194 Equity instruments 13,574 14,550 Debt instruments 13,069 13,398 Real estate 1,653 590 Derivatives –4 –59 Investments funds 3,440 2,880 Assets held by insurance company – – Other assets 573 623 Total 32,883 32,176 143 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 NOTES NOTE 21 OTHER PROVISIONS ACCOUNTING POLICY value at the end of the commitment. The estimated net realizable value of the products at the end of the commitment is monitored individually on a continuProvisions are recognized when a legal or constructive obligation exists as a ing basis. A decline in prices for used trucks and construction equipments may result of a past event and it is probable that an outﬂow of resources will be negatively affect the Volvo Group’s operating income. High inventories in the required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated. truck industry and the construction equipment industry and low demand may have a negative impact on the prices of new and used trucks and construction Provisions for residual value risks equipments. In monitoring estimated net realizable value of each product Residual value risks are attributable to operating lease contracts or sales transunder a residual value commitment, management makes considerations of actions combined with buy-back agreements or residual value guarantees. current price-level of the used product model, value of options, mileage, conResidual value risks are the risks that the Volvo Group in the future would have to dition, future price deterioration due to expected change of market conditions, dispose used products at a loss if the price development of these products is alternative distribution channels, inventory lead-time, repair and reconditioning worse than what was expected when the contracts were entered. Provisions for costs, handling costs and indirect costs associated with the sale of used prodresidual value risks are made on a continuing basis based upon estimations of the ucts. Additional depreciations and estimated impairment losses are immediused products’ future net realizable values. The estimations of future net realizaately recognized in the income statement. ble values are made with consideration to current prices, expected future price The residual value commitment agreed with the customer is recognized as development, expected inventory turnover period and expected direct and indicurrent and non-current residual value liabilities. For contracts which have rect selling expenses. If the residual value risks pertain to products that are recbeen ﬁnanced by Customer Finance the residual value liability is being elimiognized as tangible assets in the Volvo Group’s balance sheet, these risks are nated on Group level and instead recognized as ﬁnance liability both in the reﬂected by depreciation or write-down of the carrying value of these assets. If Customer Finance and Group Balance Sheet. the residual value risks pertain to products, which are not recognized as assets in the Volvo Group’s balance sheet, these risks are reﬂected under provisions. Read more in Note 22 Liabilities about residual value liabilities. Read more in Note 7 Revenue. If the residual value risk commitment is not signiﬁcant, independent from the sale transaction or in combination with a commitment from the customer to buy a new Provision for product warranty product in connection to a buy-back option, the asset is not recognized on the Estimated provision for product warranties are recognized when the products balance-sheet. Instead, the risk that the Volvo Group would have to dispose the are sold. The provision includes both expected contractual warranties and so used products at a loss is reported as a residual value provision. called technical goodwill warranties and is determined based on historical staTo the extent the residual value exposure does not meet the deﬁnition of a tistics considering known quality improvements, costs for remedy of defaults provision, the gross exposure is reported as a contingent liability. For contracts etc. Provision for campaigns in connection with speciﬁc quality problems are which have been ﬁnanced by Customer Finance the residual value commitrecognized when the campaign is decided. ment is recognized as ﬁnance liability, hence no contingent liabilities are recognized for these contracts. Provision for restructuring costs A provision for decided restructuring measures is recognized when a detailed Read more in Note 24 Contingent liabilities. plan for the implementation of the measures is complete and when this plan is Provision for product warranty communicated to those who are affected. A provision and costs for terminaWarranty provisions are estimated with consideration of historical claims station beneﬁts as a result of a voluntary termination program is recognized when tistics, the warranty period, the average time-lag between faults occurring and the employee accepts the offer. Restructuring costs can be reported as a claims to the company and anticipated changes in quality indexes. Estimated separate line item in the income statement if they relate to a major change of costs for product warranties are recognized as cost of sales when the prodthe Group structure. Normally restructuring costs are included in other operucts are sold. Estimated warranty costs include contractual warranty and ating income and expenses. goodwill warranty (warranty cover in excess of contractual warranty or campaigns which is accepted as a matter of policy or normal practice in order to maintain a good business relation with the customer). Differences between actual warranty claims and the estimated ﬁnal claims cost generally affect the recognized expense and provisions in future periods. Refunds from suppliers, ! SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY that decrease the Volvo Group’s warranty costs, are recognized to the extent these are considered to be certain. The uncertainties about the amount or timing of outﬂows vary for different kind of provisions. Regarding provisions for warranty, extended coverage, Provisions for extended coverage residual value risks and service contracts, the provisions are based on historiAn extended coverage is a product insurance sold to a customer to cover a cal statistics and estimated future costs, why the provided amount has a product according to speciﬁc conditions for an agreed period and/or content higher correlation with the outﬂow of resources. Regarding provisions for disin addition to the factory contractual warranty. The provision is intended to putes, like tax and legal disputes, the uncertainty is higher. cover the risk that the expected cost of providing services under the contract exceed the expected revenue. Residual value risks In the course of its operations, the Volvo Group is exposed to residual value Provisions in insurance operations risks through operating lease agreements and sales combined with repurVolvo Group has a captive insurance company and the provisions in insurance operchase agreements. Residual value commitments amounted to SEK 22,585 M ations consist of the claims reserve related to third party claims addressed to com(21,146) as of December 31, 2015. Residual value risks are reﬂected in differpanies within the Volvo Group. The claims reserve also includes a provision for ent ways in the Volvo Group’s consolidated ﬁnancial statements depending on unreported losses based on past experience. The unearned premium reserve is the extent to which the risk remains with the Volvo Group. reported as an accrued expense within other current liabilities. In cases where signiﬁcant risks pertaining to the product remain with the Volvo Group, the products, primarily trucks, are generally recognized in the Restructuring measures balance sheet as assets under operating leases. Depreciation of these prodThe provision for restructuring measures is mainly related to the efﬁciency ucts is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the commitment program. and the depreciable amount is adjusted to agree with estimated net realizable 144 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 NOTES Provision for service contracts compliance of diesel engines, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Service contracts offer the customer preventive maintenance according to an Colombia Circuit rendered a ruling on July 18, 2014, afﬁrming the District agreed service plan. The provision is intended to cover the risk that the expected Court’s ruling of 2012, ordering Volvo Powertrain to pay penalties and interest cost of providing services under the contract exceeds the expected revenue. of approximately USD 72 M. In the second quarter 2015, the Supreme Court of the United States announced that a review of the EPA case will not be Provision for ﬁnished products granted. Volvo Powertrain has paid the penalties and interest of approximately The provisions for ﬁnished products include provisions regarding commercial USD 72 M in the third quarter 2015. The cost has been fully provided for since commitments linked to the sales, for example dealer bonuses and rebates. The the third quarter 2014. item is reclassiﬁed to other liabilities as of December 31, 2015, since it is not In January 2011, the Volvo Group and a number of other companies in the considered to fulﬁl the deﬁnitions for provisions, and renamed to accrued truck industry became part of an investigation by the European Commission expenses for dealer bonuses and rebates. regarding a possible violation of EU antitrust rules. On November 20, 2014 the European Commission issued a Statement of Objections stating its preliminary Legal proceedings view that the Volvo Group and several other European Truck companies may Provisions for legal disputes are included within Other provisions in the table have violated the European Competition rules. After an evaluation of the Statebelow, except the provision related to the EU antitrust investigation and the ment of Objections, the Volvo Group decided to recognize a provision of EUR provision related to the engine emission case in the U.S, that are separately 400 M (SEK 3.7 billion as per December 31, 2015) which impacted the Volvo speciﬁed. Group’s operating income in the fourth quarter of 2014 negatively with the same The Volvo Group recognizes obligations as provisions or other liabilities only amount. The proceedings are still on-going and there are a number of uncertainin cases where Volvo has a present obligation from a past event, where a ties associated with the ﬁnal outcome of the European Commission’s investigaﬁnancial responsibility is probable and the Volvo Group can make a reliable tion as well as the amount of a potential ﬁne. The Volvo Group will re-assess the estimate of the amount. When these criteria are not met, a contingent liability size of the provision regularly following the development of the proceedings. may be recognized. The Volvo Group regularly reviews the development of signiﬁcant outstandRead more in Note 24 Contingent liabilities. ing legal disputes in which the Volvo Group companies are parties, both Provision for externally issued credit guarantees for Volvo CE in China regarding civil law and tax disputes, in order to assess the need for provisions The provision for externally issued credit guarantees decreased during 2015. and contingent liabilities in the ﬁnancial statements. Among the factors that the Volvo Group considers in making decisions on provisions and contingent Read more in Note 8 Other operating income and expenses and Note 24 liabilities are the nature of the dispute, the amount claimed, the progress of the case, the opinions or views of legal counsels and other advisers, experience in Contingent liabilities. similar cases, and any decision of the Volvo Group’s management as to how the Volvo Group intends to handle the dispute. The actual outcome of a legal Other provisions dispute may deviate from the expected outcome of the dispute. The difference Other provisions mainly includes provisions for income tax disputes, provisions between actual and expected outcome of a dispute might materially affect for indirect taxes, provisions for legal disputes, provisions for externally issued future ﬁnancial statements, with an adverse impact upon the Volvo Group’s credit guarantees and other provisions, unless separately speciﬁed and comoperating income, ﬁnancial position and liquidity. mented in the table and text. In the dispute between Volvo Powertrain Corporation and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regarding a Consent Decree on emission Carrying Acquired and Other Carrying Of which Of which value as of divested Translation reclassivalue as of due within due after Dec 31, 2014 Provisions Reversals Utilizations companies differences ﬁcations Dec 31, 2015 12 months 12 months Warranties 10,583 8,373 –933 –6,984 – 183 149 11,372 5,860 5,511 Provisions for extended coverage 788 768 –139 –629 – –18 277 1,047 441 606 Provisions in insurance operations 713 110 –62 –79 – 40 –24 697 – 697 Restructuring measures1 1,145 1,343 –166 –985 – –8 –32 1,297 1,206 91 Provisions for residual value risks 810 558 –142 –269 – 29 19 1,004 287 718 Provisions for service contracts 482 230 –83 –262 – –19 –23 324 162 162 Provisions for ﬁnished products2 2,352 6,177 –412 –5,050 – 46 –3,113 – – – Provision related to EU antitrust investigation 3,810 – – – – –152 – 3,658 3,658 – Provision related to engine emission case in the U.S 560 1 – –611 – 50 – – – – Provision for externally issued credit guarantees for Volvo CE 521 – –128 – – 15 – 408 408 – Other provisions 3,449 4,256 –626 –2,995 – –163 –16 3,905 2,154 1,751 B/S Total 25,213 21,816 –2,692 –17,865 – 3 –2,763 23,712 14,176 9,536 Long-term provisions as above are expected to be settled within 2 to 3 years. 1 The provision for the efﬁciency program included in restructuring measures amounted to SEK 1.2 (0.9) billion. Read more about restructuring costs in Note 8 Other operating income and expenses and in page 23. Read more about provisions for residual value risks in Note 24 Contingent liabilities. 2 The item was reclassiﬁed from provisions ﬁnished products to other liabilities as of December 31, 2015. Read more about accrued expenses for dealer bonuses and rebates in Note 22 Liabilities in the table Other current liabilities. 145 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 NOTES NOTE 22 LIABILITIES Non-current liabilities ACCOUNTING POLICY The tables below disclose the Volvo Group’s non-current liabilities in which the largest loans are listed by currency. Loans in subsidiaries are The hybrid bond issued in 2014 is classiﬁed as debt in the Volvo Group’s mainly in local currencies through Volvo Treasury. Volvo Treasury uses accounts as it constitutes a contractual obligation to make interest payvarious derivatives to facilitate lending and borrowing in different currenments to the holder of the instrument. cies without increasing Volvo Group’s risk. The terms and details of the hybrid bond are described later in this note. Read more in Note 4 about Goals and policies in ﬁnancial risk management and in Note 30 about Financial Instruments. Non-current liabilities Actual interest rate Effective interest rate Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, 2015, % Dec 31, 2015, % 2015 2014 Bond loans EUR 2007-2014/2017-2078 0.33–5.04 0.33–5.04 34,525 44,062 SEK 2007-2015/2017-2019 0.26–3.39 0.26–3.39 12,557 23,562 JPY 2014/2017 0.60 0.60 693 784 USD 2013/2016 – 469 B/S Total Bond loans1 47,776 68,877 Other loans USD 2008-2015/2017-2024 0.54–3.00 0.54–3.00 6,766 9,852 EUR 2007-2014/2017-2027 1.29–6.5 1.29–6.50 1,753 1,869 GBP 2002/2027 11.11 11.68 61 59 SEK 2007-2014/2017-2034 0.00 0.00 208 2,055 CAD 2015/2017 1.17–2.15 1.76–2.18 754 874 MXN 2014-2015/2017-2020 4.20–4.50 4.42–4.59 981 1,233 JPY 2009-2015/2017-2024 0.44–1.34 0.44–1.35 9,509 12,701 BRL 2010-2013/2019-2025 3.14–7.99 3.23–7.99 5,468 7,517 AUD 2015/2019 3.08 3.12 220 319 CNY 2012-2013/2017-2018 4.30–5.21 4.30–5.21 508 1,486 THB 2015/2017 2.46 2.49 348 – Other loans 340 653 Revaluation of outstanding derivatives to SEK 2 585 536 B/S Total Other loans1 27,500 39,154 Total Bond loans and Other loans3 75,275 108,031 Other liabilities Deferred leasing income 2,615 2,364 Residual value liabilities 4,939 4,586 Accrued expenses service contracts 7,256 5,498 Outstanding interest and currency risk derivatives2 181 275 Other non-current liabilities 1,529 1,004 Outstanding raw material derivatives 18 5 B/S Total Other liabilities 16,538 13,732 Total non-current liabilities 91,813 121,763 1 Of which loans raised to ﬁnance the credit portfolio of the Customer Finance Operations amounted to SEK 25,238 M (44,620) in Bond loans and SEK 29,263 M (28,348) in Other loans. 2 Read more in Note 30 Financial Instruments, table Carrying amounts and fair values. 3 Of the above non-current loans, SEK 5,926 M (4,478) were secured by assets pledged. Read more in Note 23 Assets pledged. 146 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 NOTES Maturity Not utilized Bank loans include current maturities of non-current loans SEK 6,066 M Bond loans and non-current credit (6,695). Other loans include current maturities of non-current loans, SEK Year other loans facilities1 32,753 M (22,458), and commercial papers, SEK 5,845 M (0). 2017 35,608 6,140 Non-interest-bearing current liabilities amounted to SEK 98,529 M 2018 9,171 10,973 (96,440), or 63% (71) of the Volvo Group’s total current liabilities 2019 12,392 – The table below presents the Volvo Group’s other current liabilities. 2020 1,643 21,032 Other current liabilities also includes trade payables of SEK 55,648 M 2021 96 – (56,647), current tax liabilities of SEK 1,322 M (2,693) and non-interest2022 or later 16,365 – bearing liabilities held for sale of SEK 573 M (130). Total1 75,275 38,145 Other current liabilities Dec 31, Dec 31, 1 Current not utilized credit facilities amounted to SEK 1,576 M (500). 2015 2014 Advances from customers 4,026 4,784 Read more in Note 15 table 15:2 Maturities of non-current receivables in the Customer Finance operations. Wages, salaries and withholding taxes 8,551 9,088 VAT liabilities 2,401 1,875 AB Volvo issued a hybrid bond in 2014, amounting to EUR 1.5 bn with a Accrued expenses for dealer bonuses and rebates1 3,696 – maturity of 61,6 years, in order to further strengthen the Volvo Group’s Other accrued expenses and prepaid income 12,728 11,029 balance sheet and prolong the maturity structure of the debt portfolio. Deferred leasing income 1,992 2,022 The predominant part of non-current loans that mature in 2017 is an Residual value liability 2,825 2,950 effect of the Volvo Group’s normal business cycle, with shorter duration in Other ﬁnancial liabilities 295 192 the Customer Finance portfolio compared to Industrial Operations. Other liabilities 4,287 4,682 Granted but not unutilized credit facilities consists of stand-by facilities Outstanding interest and currency risk derivatives2 134 331 for loans. A fee is charged for granted credit facilities, this is recognized in Outstanding raw material derivatives 50 18 proﬁt or loss within other ﬁnancial income and expenses. B/S Other current liabilities 40,986 36,970 Read more in Note 9 Other ﬁnancial income and expenses. 1 Read more in Note 21 Other provisions, section Provision for ﬁnished products Current liabilities 2 Read more in Note 30 Financial Instruments, regarding current part of Outstanding interest and currency risk derivatives included in table carrying Loans Dec 31, Dec 31, amounts and fair value. 2015 2014 Read more in Note 3 Acquisitions and divestments of shares in subsidiaries, Bank loans 14,495 13,705 table Assets and liabilities held for sale. Other loans 42,836 26,249 B/S Loans1, 2 57,331 39,953 Read more in Note 23 Assets pledged. 1 Of which loans raised to ﬁnance the Customer Finance credit portfolio amounted to SEK 48,786 M (29,672) and outstanding derivatives, at fair value, amounted to SEK 811 M (455). 2 Current loans amounting to SEK 3,299 M (2,862) were secured by assets pledged. NOTE 23 ASSETS PLEDGED Assets pledged Dec 31, Dec 31, Non-current and current loans of SEK 9,225 M (7,340) were secured by 2015 2014 assets pledged. Under the terms of asset-backed securitizations, SEK 9,064 M (7,088) Property, plant and equipment – mortgages 65 88 of securities have been issued tied to US-based loans, secured by cusAssets under operating leases – 209 tomer ﬁnancing-receivables, SEK 9,323 M (7,343), recognized on the Receivables 9,323 7,343 balance-sheet with trucks and construction equipment assets as collaterals, Cash, loans and marketable securities 40 40 whereof SEK 6,819 M (4,410) were signed in 2015. Total 9,428 7,680 Read more in Note 22 Liabilities. 147 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 NOTES NOTE 24 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Residual value guarantees amounted to SEK 3,195 M (2,850) and were ACCOUNTING POLICY attributable to sales transactions combined with buy back agreements or residual value guarantees for which assets are not recognized in the balContingent liabilities ance sheet. The recognized amount corresponds to the gross exposure A contingent liability is recognized for a possible obligation, for which it is and has not been reduced by the estimated net selling price of used prodnot yet conﬁrmed that a present obligation exists that could lead to an ucts taken as collaterals. To the extent the used products pertaining to outﬂow of resources. Alternatively a present obligation that does not meet those transactions are expected to be disposed at a loss, a provision for the deﬁnitions of a provision or a liability as it is not probable that an outresidual value is recognized. ﬂow of resources will be required to settle the obligation or when a sufﬁciently reliable estimate of the amount cannot be made. Read more about provision for residual value guarantees in note 21 Other provisions. Contingent liabilities Dec 31, Dec 31, Other contingent liabilities amounted to SEK 4,977 M (4,691) and 2015 2014 included for example bid and performance clauses and legal proceedings. Credit guarantees issued for customers and others 3,432 6,580 Tax claims 3,976 1,819 Legal proceedings Residual value guarantees 3,195 2,850 Volvo Group is subject to the below investigations by competition authorOther contingent liabilities 4,977 4,691 ities. Volvo Group is cooperating fully with the respective authority. Total contingent liabilities 15,580 15,940 In April 2011, the Volvo Group’s truck business in Korea and a number of other truck companies became the subject of an investigation by the Korean Fair Trade Commission. The Korean Fair Trade Commission has Total contingent liabilities at December 31, 2015, amounted to net SEK issued a decision, received by Volvo on December 19, 2013, imposing a 15,580 M (15,940) and included contingent assets of SEK 0 M (285). ﬁne in the amount of approximately SEK 121 M as of December 31, 2015. Volvo has appealed the decision and a contingent liability in a correspondCredit guarantees amounted to SEK 3,432 M (6,580). While decreasing ing amount has been disclosed. a major part is still related to the outstanding credit guarantees to ChiIn January 2011, the Volvo Group and a number of other companies in nese retail customers within Construction Equipment. The provision the truck industry became part of an investigation by the European Comrelated to the cost for expected future credit losses in China amounted to mission regarding a possible violation of EU antitrust rules. After the EuroSEK 408 M (521) at December 31, 2015. pean Commission had issued its Statement of Objections on November 20, 2014 the Volvo Group recognized a provision. Read more in Note 21 Other provisions regarding the provision for expected credit losses in China. Read more in Note 21 Other provisions regarding the estimation of the provision and the associated uncertainties. The recognized amount for credit guarantees corresponds to the gross exposure and has not been reduced by the value of counter guarantees In the dispute between Volvo Powertrain Corporation and the U.S. Envireceived or other collaterals such as the right to repossess the products ronmental Protection Agency (EPA), the Supreme Court of the United in cases where a legal offsetting right does not exist. The value of counter States announced in the second quarter 2015 that a review of the EPA guarantees and other collaterals reducing the exposure is dependent on case will not be granted. The cost has been fully provided for since 2014. the development of used products prices and on the possibility to repossess the products. Read more in Note 21 Other provisions regarding the estimation of the provision. Tax claims amounted to SEK 3,976 M (1,819) and pertained to charges against the Volvo Group for which the criteria for recognizing a provision The Volvo Group is also involved in a number of legal proceedings other were not met. Global companies such as the Volvo Group are occasionally than those described above. The Volvo Group’s assessment is that such involved in tax processes of varying scope and at various stages. Volvo other legal proceedings in aggregate are not likely to entail any risk of Group regularly assesses these tax processes. When it is probable that having a material effect on the Volvo Group’s ﬁnancial position. additional taxes must be paid and the outcome can be reasonably estimated, the required provision is made. During 2015 a contingent liability was recognized amounting to SEK 1.5 billion related to a transfer price audit in Brazil. 148 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 NOTES NOTE 25 TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES Transactions between AB Volvo and its subsidiaries, which are related parTransactions with joint ventures 2015 2014 ties to AB Volvo, have been eliminated in the Group and are not disclosed in this note. Sales to joint ventures 1,887 1,031 Purchase from joint ventures 769 394 Receivables from joint ventures, Dec 31 319 178 Transactions with associated companies 2015 2014 Liabilities to joint ventures, Dec 31 194 78 Sales to associated companies 2,448 2,129 Purchase from associated companies 2,258 2,320 The Volvo Group engages in transactions with its joint ventures. The transReceivables from associated companies, Dec 31 638 598 actions consist mainly of sales of vehicles and parts and purchase of engine Liabilities to associated companies, Dec 31 515 510 long blocks and services. Commercial terms and market prices apply for the supply of goods and services to/from joint ventures. The Volvo Group engages in transactions with some of its associated companies. The transactions consist mainly of sales of vehicles and parts Read more in Note 5 Investments in joint ventures, associated companies to dealers and importers and purchases of engines from Deutz AG. and other shares and participations Commercial terms and market prices apply for the supply of goods and services to/from associated companies. NOTE 26 GOVERNMENT GRANTS ACCOUNTING POLICY In 2015, government grants of SEK 495 M (445) were received, and SEK Government grants are ﬁnancial grants from governmental or suprana682 M (503) was recognized in the income statement. The amount tional bodies received by the Volvo Group in exchange for fulﬁllment of includes tax credits of SEK 280 M (255) related to product development, certain conditions. which were primarily received in France and in the United States. Other Governmental grants related to assets are presented in the balance sheet grants were mainly received from Swedish, Chinese and US governmental by deducting the grants in arriving at the carrying amount of the asset. organizations and from the European Commission. Governmental grants related to income are reported as a deferred income and recognized in the income statement over the periods necessary to match the related costs. If the costs incur before the grants have been received, but there is an agreement that grants will be received, grants are recognized in the income statement to compensate the relevant costs. 149 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 NOTES NOTE 27 PERSONNEL Fee paid to the Board of Directors ACCOUNTING POLICY According to a resolution adopted at the Annual General Meeting 2015, the fee to the Board of Directors appointed at the Annual General Meeting for the Share-based payments period until the close of the Annual General Meeting 2016 shall be paid as The Volvo Group has share-based incentive programs including both a follows: The Chairman of the Board should be awarded SEK 3,250,000 and cash-settled and an equity-settled part. The fair value of the equity-settled payeach of the other members SEK 950,000 with exception of the President and ments is determined at the grant date, recognized as an expense during the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of AB Volvo. In addition, SEK 300,000 should be vesting period and offset in equity. The fair value is based on the share price awarded to the chairman of the audit committee and SEK 150,000 to each of reduced by dividends connected with the share during the vesting period. the other members of the audit committee, and SEK 125,000 to the chairman Additional social costs are reported as a liability, revalued at each balance sheet of the remuneration committee and SEK 100,000 to each of the members of date in accordance with UFR 7, issued by the Swedish Financial Reporting Board. the remuneration committee. The cash-settled payment is revalued at each balance sheet date and is recognized as an expense during the vesting period and as a short term liability. An Terms of employment and remuneration to the CEO assessment whether the terms for allotment will be fulﬁlled is made continuously. During 2015 Olof Persson was President and CEO of the Volvo Group up to Based on such assessment, expense might be adjusted. April 21st. Martin Lundstedt has been appointed President and CEO of the Volvo Group and assumed his position on October 22nd. Jan Gurander, the Group Chief Financial Ofﬁcer, has been acting as President and CEO during Remuneration policy decided at the Annual General the interim period. Meeting in 2015 The Annual General Meeting of 2015 decided upon a policy on remuneration Fixed and variable salaries and other employment terms for the members of the Volvo Group Executive The President and CEO is entitled to a remuneration consisting of a ﬁxed Team. The decided principles can be summarized as follows: annual salary and a variable salary. During the ﬁnancial year 2015, the variable The guiding principle is that remuneration and other employment terms for salary is based on operating margin and six months moving cash ﬂow. The the Group Executive Team, shall be competitive to ensure that the Volvo Group variable salary amounts to a maximum of 75 percent of the ﬁxed annual salary. can attract and retain skilled persons to the Group Executive Team. The ﬁxed For the ﬁnancial year 2015 up to April 21st, Olof Persson received a ﬁxed salary shall be competitive and shall reﬂect the individual’s area of responsibilsalary of SEK 3,924,107 and a variable salary of SEK 2,207,299. The variable ity and performance. In addition to the ﬁxed salary a variable salary may be salary corresponded to 56.2 percent of the ﬁxed salary. Other beneﬁts, mainly paid. The variable salary may for the CEO amount to a maximum of 75 percent pertaining to car and housing, amounted to SEK 272,788 in 2015. Olof Persof the ﬁxed salary and for the other members of the Group Executive Team, a son was also participating in the long-term share-based incentive programs maximum of 60 percent of the ﬁxed salary. The variable salary shall be based decided by the Annual General Meetings 2011 and 2014. During the ﬁnancial on the fulﬁlment of improvement targets or certain ﬁnancial targets for the year 2015 up to April 21st, 43,534 shares granted under the 2011 program Volvo Group and/or the organizational unit where the member of Group Execcorresponding to a taxable value of SEK 4,103,950 have been allotted to Olof utive Team is employed. These targets are decided by the Board of AB Volvo Persson. Olof Persson has been determined to be a “good leaver” and is thereand can be related, for example, to operating income, operating margin and/or fore entitled to accumulated allotments of shares under the program compriscash ﬂow. The Board may under certain conditions decide to reclaim variable ing the years 2011 to 2013 and under the 2014 program. 43,367 shares salary already paid or to cancel or limit variable salary to be paid. granted under the 2012 program corresponding to a taxable value of SEK The Annual General Meeting can also decide on a share, or share-based, 4,251,727 have been allotted during the ﬁnancial year and an additional incentive program. At the Annual General Meeting 2011, as proposed by the 59,049 shares will be allotted to Olof Persson during 2016. Board of AB Volvo, it was decided to implement a long-term share-based During the ﬁnancial year 2015 from October 22nd, Martin Lundstedt incentive program for Group Executive Team members and other senior execreceived a ﬁxed salary of SEK 2,447,683 and a variable salary of SEK 945,958. utives in the Volvo Group consisting of three annual programs covering each The variable salary corresponded to 38.6 percent of the ﬁxed salary. Other of the ﬁnancial years 2011, 2012 and 2013. During 2015, a part of the shares beneﬁts, mainly pertaining to car and housing, amounted to SEK 37,312 in granted under the programs during 2011 and 2012 have been allotted to the 2015. Martin Lundstedt is also participating in the long-term share-based participants. At the Annual General Meeting 2014, as proposed by the Board incentive program decided by the Annual General Meetings 2014. Return on of AB Volvo, it was decided to implement a new long-term share-based incenequity for 2015 amounted to 18.4 percent, which result in an allotment to tive program for Group Executive Team members and other senior executives Martin Lundstedt of approximately 16,766 shares during 2018/2019 related in the Volvo Group consisting of three annual programs covering each of the to 2015 if all other program conditions are met (see further information under ﬁnancial years 2014, 2015 and 2016. Long-term incentive program below). The amount of taxable beneﬁt related to In addition to ﬁxed and variable salary, normally other customary beneﬁts, these shares is determined at the time of allotment. Martin Lundstedt also such as company car and company healthcare are provided. In individual received a ﬁxed one-off sign-on sum of SEK 5,000,000 for his appointment as cases, accommodation beneﬁts and other beneﬁts may be provided. President and CEO of the Volvo Group. The sum shall not entitle to any penDuring 2015 all Group Executive Team members were domiciled in Sweden. sion premiums. In addition to pension beneﬁts provided by law and collective bargain agreeJan Gurander, the Group Chief Financial Ofﬁcer, has been acting as Presiments, members of the Group Executive Team can be offered two different dent and CEO during the interim period between April 22nd and October 21st deﬁned-contribution plans with annual premiums whereby the amount of the and has therefore been entitled to a ﬁxed one-off salary adjustment sum of individual’s pensions comprises the premium paid and any return, without any SEK 3,000,000 out of which SEK 2,000,000 has been paid during the ﬁnanguaranteed level of pension. No deﬁned retirement date is set in the two plans cial year 2015. but premiums will be paid for the employee until his or her 65th birthday. With regard to notice of termination of employment for Group Executive Pensions Team members, the notiﬁcation period is 12 months if the company terminates The President and CEO of the Volvo Group is covered both by pension beneﬁts the employment and six months if the individual terminates the employment. In provided under collective bargain agreements and by the Volvo Management addition, the employee is entitled to a severance pay of 12 months’ salary if the Pension (VMP) and Volvo Executive Pension (VEP) plans. The retirement benemployment is terminated by the company. eﬁt under the Volvo executive pension plans is a deﬁned-contribution plan. The The board of AB Volvo may deviate from the remuneration policy if there are pensionable salary consists of the annual salary and a calculated variable salspeciﬁc reasons to do so in an individual case. ary component. The premium for the VMP is SEK 30,000 plus 20 percent of 150 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 NOTES the pensionable salary over 30 income base amounts and the premium for to the age of 65 years. The premium constitutes 10 percent of the pensionable VEP is 10 percent of pensionable salary. There are no commitments other than salary. As complement to the collective bargain agreement regarding occupathe payment of the premiums. In addition to the collective bargain agreement tional pension employees born before 1979 are covered by a deﬁned contributhe disability pension is 40% of pensionable salary between 30–50 income tion pension plan, Volvo Management Pension. The premium constitutes of base amounts. The right to disability pension is conditional to employment and SEK 30,000 plus 20 percent of the pensionable salary over 30 income base will cease upon termination of duty. amounts. The pensionable salary consists of twelve times the current monthly The President and CEO of AB Volvo is also covered by Volvo Företagspension, salary and the average of the variable salary for the previous ﬁve years. Pena deﬁned contribution plan for additional retirement beneﬁt. The premium is sion premiums for the Group Executive Team excluding CEO amounted to SEK negotiated each year. For 2015 the premium amounted to SEK 571 a month. 14,103,790 in 2015. Total pension premiums 2015 amounted to SEK 1,587,189 for Olof Persson for the period until April 21st, and amounted to SEK 722,287 for Martin LundVolvo Group’s total costs for remuneration and beneﬁts to the stedt for the period from October 22nd. Group Executive Team The total costs for remuneration and beneﬁts to the Group Executive Team Severance payments amounted to SEK 159 M (191) and pertained to ﬁxed salary, variable salary, Olof Persson was President and CEO of the Volvo group until April 21st, 2015. other beneﬁts, pensions and severance compensations. It also included social He has been entitled to twelve months’ notice of termination from AB Volvo fees on salaries and beneﬁts, special pension tax and additional costs for and receives under this period a total salary of SEK 12,613,200. Olof Persson other beneﬁts. The cost related to the long-term share-based incentive prois ﬁnally entitled to pension beneﬁts during his notice period Total pension gram is reﬂected over the vesting period and amounted to SEK 14 M (21) for premium during the notice period will amount to approximately SEK 4,761,567. 2015. The remuneration model of the Volvo Group is to a main part designed Olof Persson has also been entitled to a severance payment equivalent to to follow changes in the proﬁtability of the Group. twelve months’ salary amounting to SEK 12,613,200 that will be paid from the end of his notice period. In the event he gains employment during the severLong-term incentive programs ance period, severance pay is reduced with an amount equal to 100 percent of Long-term share-based incentive program 2011–2013 the income from the new employment. The Annual General Meeting held in 2011 approved a long-term share-based Martin Lundstedt has a 6 months notice of termination on his own initiative incentive program for up to 300 Group and senior executives and comprising and 12 months’ notice of termination from AB Volvo. If terminated by the comthe years 2011 to 2013. During 2015, a part of the shares granted under the pany, Martin Lundstedt is entitled to a severance payment equivalent to 12 programs during 2011 and 2012 have been allotted to the participants (see months’ salary. In the event he gains employment during the severance period, further information in the table Long term incentive program on the next page). severance pay is reduced with an amount equal to 100 percent of the income from the new employment. Long-term share-based incentive program 2014–2016 The Annual General Meeting held in 2014 approved a long-term share-based Remuneration to the Group Executive Team incentive program for up to 300 Group and senior executives and comprising Fixed and variable salaries the years 2014 to 2016. The LTI-program is proposed to be replaced by a new Members of Group Executive Team receive variable salaries in addition to ﬁxed program as from 2016 with the effect of terminating the program approved by salaries. Variable salaries are based on the fulﬁlment of certain improvement the Annual General Meeting in 2014 one year in advance (read more in “Protargets or ﬁnancial targets. The targets are decided by the Board of Directors posed Remuneration Policy”). in AB Volvo and can, for example, relate to operating income, operating margin The 2014 LTI-program consists of three annual programs for which the and/or cash ﬂow. During 2015, a variable salary, for Group Executive Team measurement periods are each of the respective ﬁnancial years. A prerequisite members excluding CEO, could amount to a maximum of 60 percent of the for participation in the program is that the participants invest a portion of their ﬁxed annual salary. salary in Volvo shares with a maximum of 15% of their salary for the Group For the ﬁnancial year 2015, ﬁxed salaries amounted to SEK 37,890,560 Executive Team members and a maximum of 10% of their salary for the other and variable salaries amounted to SEK 16,530,086 for Group Executive Team participants and retain these shares and continue to be employed by the Volvo members excluding the CEO. Group Executive Team comprised, excluding the Group for at least three years after the investment has been made. Under CEO, of 9 members at the beginning and at the end of the year. Other beneﬁts, special circumstances, it is possible to make exceptions to the requirement of mainly pertaining to car and housing, amounted to SEK 783,478 in 2015. continued employment (so called “good leaver” situations). The AB Volvo Group Executive Team members, excluding the CEO, also participate in the Board is, in the event of exceptional conditions, entitled to limit or omit allotlong-term share-based incentive programs decided by the Annual General ment of performance shares. In addition, if the Annual General meeting of AB Meetings 2011 and 2014. Return on equity for 2015 amounted to 18.4 perVolvo resolves that no dividend shall be paid to the shareholders for a speciﬁc cent, which result in an allotment of approximately 240,086 shares that they ﬁnancial year, no matching shares are allotted for the year in question. will receive during 2018/2019 related to 2015 if all other program conditions Shares are granted under the program during the respective ﬁnancial year. are met (see further information under Long-term incentive program below). At the end of the vesting period, the main rule is that the participants will be During 2015, 110,224 shares granted under the 2011 and 2012 programs allotted one matching share per invested share and, assuming that the Volvo corresponding to a taxable value of SEK 10,656,884 have been allotted to Group’s return on equity for the particular ﬁnancial year amounts to at least 10 Group Executive team members. percent in 2014, 11 percent in 2015 and 12 percent in 2016, a number of performance shares. Maximum allotment of performance shares corresponds Severance payments to seven shares for the CEO, six shares for other members of Group Executive The employment contracts for Group Executive Team members contain rules Team and ﬁve shares for other participants in the program for each invested governing severance payments when the company terminates the employshare, subject to return on equity reaching 25 percent in 2014, 26 percent in ment. During the ﬁnancial year 2015 the members of the Group Executive 2015 and 27 percent in 2016. Return on equity for 2015 amounted to 18.4 Team were all domiciled in Sweden. The termination period from the company percent, which means that the number of performance shares reached about is 12 months and 6 months at the initiative of the Group Executive Team mem59% of the maximum grant. Return on equity for 2014 amounted to 2.8 perbers. The rules provide that, when the company terminates the employment, an cent, i.e. no performance shares have been allotted for 2014. Allotments of employee is entitled to severance payment equivalent to twelve months’ salary. shares are made through Volvo owned, earlier re-purchased, Volvo shares. In the event the employee gains employment during the severance period, Participants in certain countries are offered a cash-settled version of the severance pay is reduced with an amount equal to 100 percent of the income incentive program. For participants in these countries, no investment is from the new employment. required by the participant and the program does not comprise an element of matching shares. Allotment of shares in this version is replaced by a cash Pensions allotment at the end of the vesting period. Other program conditions are similar Group Executive Team members are covered by a deﬁned-contribution plan, between the programs. Volvo Executive Pension plan with pension premium payments at the longest 151 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 NOTES Long-term incentive Shares granted conditional under the plan but not yet allotted (in thousand shares) program (equity-settled Beginning of Cancelled/ Allotments End of the Cost 2015 plan version) Vesting year the year Granted 2015 forfeited 2015 during 2015 year (SEK M) 1 Year 2011 incentive program 2014/2015 582 0 –4 –575 3 2.0 Year 2012 incentive program 2015/2016 1,098 0 –23 –763 313 22.4 Year 2013 incentive program 2016/2017 425 0 –9 –22 395 10.8 Year 2014 Incentive program 2017/2018 441 0 24 –19 446 13.2 Year 2015 incentive program 2018/2019 0 1,571 –29 0 1,543 35.3 Total 2,546 1,571 –40 –1,378 2,699 83.6 1 The fair value of the payments is determined based on the share price at the grant date reduced by the discounted value of expected dividends connected with the share during the vesting period. The cost for the program is recognized over the vesting period. The cost includes social security cost. The cost for the cash-settled version of the incentive program amounted 1,377,988 shares (1,238,755) have been allotted to participants, and an to SEK 6 M (8) including social security cost during 2015, and the total additional 175,399 shares (53,036) are allotted to participants when the liability amounted to SEK 6 M (14) as of December 31, 2015. employees leave the company. For the cash-settled plan, a total of SEK The allotment during the year 2015 mainly pertained to the shares 13 M (15) has been allotted during 2015. granted under the program during the years 2011 and 2012. In addition to The total cost for the 2015 incentive program over the vesting period that a number of program participants leaving the company are deter2015 to 2018/2019 is estimated to SEK 179 M including social security mined to be “good leavers” and are therefore entitled to accumulated cost. Actual cost will be impacted by changes in the share price. allotment of shares. During 2015, for the equity-settled plan, a total of Average number 2015 2014 Board members1 and other 2015 2014 of employees Number of of which Number of of which senior executives Number of which Number of which employees women, % employees women, % at yearwomen, at yearwomen, end % end % AB Volvo Sweden 322 50 303 48 AB Volvo Board members1 9 33 9 22 Subsidiaries CEO and other senior executives 10 30 16 19 Sweden 19,854 21 21,113 21 Western Europe Volvo Group (excl. Sweden) 22,146 15 23,390 16 Board members1 471 23 499 20 Eastern Europe 5,792 21 6,292 20 Presidents and other North America 15,427 19 14,767 19 senior executives 624 22 676 21 South America 6,074 15 6,718 14 1 Excluding deputy Board members. Asia 18,005 13 19,306 13 Other countries 2,573 16 2,735 15 Group total 90,193 18 94,625 17 Wages, salaries and other remunerations 2015 2014 Board and of which variable Other Board and of which variable Other SEK M Presidents1 salaries employees Presidents1 salaries employees AB Volvo 56.8 5.3 356 30.4 7.4 323.6 Subsidiaries 684.6 75.5 39,360.1 557.0 57.2 36,621.9 Group total 741.4 80.8 39,716.1 587.4 64.6 36,945.5 Wages, salaries and other remunerations and social costs 2015 2014 Wages, salaries Pension Wages, salaries SEK M remun Social costs costs remun Social costs Pension costs 2 AB Volvo 412.8 123.1 119.7 354.1 108.6 105.6 Subsidiaries 40,044.7 8,871.7 4,219.9 37,178.9 8,009.3 4,027.2 Group total3 40,457.5 8,994.8 4,339.6 37,532.9 8,117.9 4,132.8 1 Including current and former Board members, Presidents and Executive The cost for non-monetary beneﬁts in the Volvo Group amounted to SEK 3,007 M Vice Presidents. (2,405) of which SEK 80 M (46) to Board members and Presidents. 2 The Parent Company’s pension costs, pertaining to Board members and The cost for non-monetary beneﬁts in the Parent Company amounted to SEK Presidents are disclosed in Note 3 in the Parent Company. 14.4 M (17.3) of which SEK 1.5 M (2) to Board members and Presidents. 3 Of the Volvo Group’s pension costs, SEK 89 M (78) pertain to Board members and Presidents, including current and former Board members, Presidents and Executive Vice Presidents. The Volvo Group’s outstanding pension obligations to these individuals amount to SEK 600 M (448). 152 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 NOTES NOTE 28 FEES TO THE AUDITORS Fees to the auditors 2015 2014 The audit assignment involves review of the Annual report and ﬁnancial accounting and the administration by the Board and the President. PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Audit-related assignments mean quality assurance services required by – Audit fees 105 100 enactment, articles of association, regulations or agreement. The amount – Audit-related fees 5 4 includes the fee for reviewing the half-year report. Tax services include – Tax advisory services 13 14 both tax consultancy and tax compliance services. All other tasks are – Other fees 14 22 deﬁned as other. Total 137 140 Audit fees to others 3 2 Volvo Group Total 140 142 NOTE 29 CASH FLOW ACCOUNTING POLICY Acquired and divested shares and participations, net 2015 2014 Cash ﬂow analysis New issue of shares –5 –6 The cash ﬂow statement is prepared in accordance with the indirect Capital contribution 151 – method. The cash ﬂow statements of foreign Group companies are transAcquisitions –7,072 –21 lated at the average rate. Changes in Group structure, acquisitions and Divestments 4,900 96 divestments, are recognized net, excluding cash and cash equivalents, in Other 42 – the item Acquired and divested operations and are included in cash ﬂow Total cash ﬂow from acquired and divested from investing activities. shares and participations, net –1,984 69 Read more in Note 18 regarding the accounting policy for Marketable securiIn 2015 Volvo Group completed the acquisition of 45% of the shares in ties and liquid funds. Dongfeng Commercial Vehicles Co., Ltd, DFCV, in China. The purchase consideration amounted to approximately SEK 7.0 billion. As of January 1, 2016 a divestment of an operation with the main purpose During 2015 Volvo Group sold the holding of the shares in the listed to dispose ﬁxed assets will be included in the item disposal of ﬁxed assets Indian automotive manufacturer Eicher Motors Limited. The sale generand leasing vehicles. ated a gain of SEK 4.6 billion. Read more in Note 5 Investments in joint ventures, associated companies Other non-cash items 2015 2014 and other shares and participations Risk provisions and losses related to doubtful accounts receivable/customer-ﬁnancing receivables 1,376 1,223 Acquired and divested operations, net 2015 2014 Capital gains/losses on divested operations –293 –1,020 Acquired subsidiaries and other Unrealized exchange rate gains/losses on accounts business units – –1,103 receivable and payable 257 –367 Divested subsidiaries and other Unrealized exchange rate gains/losses on other business units 408 8,501 operating assets and liabilities 458 518 Total cash ﬂow from acquired and divested Provision for global proﬁt sharing program 450 – subsidiaries and other business units 408 7,398 Provision related to engine emission case in the U.S. – 422 Provision related to EU antitrust investigation – 3,790 Read more in Note 3 Acquisitions and divestments of shares in subsidiaries Provision for restructuring cost 1,120 708 regarding the effect on the Volvo Group’s net ﬁnancial position from the acquisitions and divestments. Gains/losses on sale of shares and participations –4,590 17 Credit losses in Volvo CE in China1 398 577 Other changes 372 273 Total Other items not affecting cash ﬂow –452 6,141 1 SEK 349 M (83) is included in risk provisions related to doubtful accounts receivables. Read more in Note 8 Other operating income and expenses about Credit losses in Volvo CE in China. 153 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 NOTES Changes in loans, net 2015 2014 Realized gains and losses on derivatives used to hedge future commercial cash ﬂows amounted to negative SEK 0.6 billion ( positive 1.0) and is New borrowings 127,059 180,066 included on line Other in the table Changes in loans, net, whereof SEK 0.1 Amortizations –132,437 –169,436 billion (1.2) was related to derivatives used to hedge the acquisition of Syndications –6,965 –4,661 Donfeng Commercial Vehicles. Changes in group composition 84 –280 Other –988 997 In 2015, the Volvo Group reduced its borrowings as a consequence of a Changes in loans, net –13,247 6,686 strong cash ﬂow. During 2015 bond loans and other loans in the Volvo Group decreased by Read more in Group performance regarding the Cash ﬂow for the Volvo SEK 15.4 billion whereof currency effects from revaluation of foreign subGroup on page 86. sidiaries decreased the total debt by SEK 2.7 billion. Syndications were Read more in Note 22 Liabilities regarding the Volvo Group’s Bond loans and performed in the Customer Finance Operations to an amount of SEK 7.0 other loans. billion (8.3). All syndications impacted cash ﬂow this year. In 2014 syndications of SEK 3.7 billion were made that had no cash ﬂow impact. Both currency effects and syndications with no impact on the cash ﬂow have been adjusted on changes in loans, net in the cash ﬂow. NOTE 30 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS ACCOUNTING POLICY from ﬂuctuations in the fair values of the ﬁnancial instruments are recogPurchases and sales of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities are recognized on nized in Other ﬁnancial income and expense. The Volvo Group intends to the transaction date. Transaction expenses are included in the asset’s fair hold these derivatives to maturity, which is why, over time, the market valvalue, except in cases in which the change in value is recognized in the uation will be offset as a consequence of the interest-rate ﬁxing on borincome statement. The transaction costs that arise in conjunction with the rowing and lending for the Customer Finance Operations, and thus not admission of ﬁnancial liabilities are amortized over the term of the loan as affect operating income or cash ﬂow. a ﬁnancial cost. Financial instruments used for hedging currency risks arising from A ﬁnancial asset is derecognized in the balance sheet when all signiﬁfuture ﬁrm commercial cash ﬂows are also recognized under this catecant risks and beneﬁts linked to the asset have been transferred to a third gory. Unrealized and realized gains and losses are recognized in Other party. ﬁnancial income and expenses to be able to net all internal ﬂows before The fair value of assets is determined based on valid market prices, entering into external derivatives, except for gains and losses from derivwhen available. If market prices are unavailable, the fair value is deteratives hedging currency risks of future cash ﬂows for speciﬁc orders. mined for each asset using various measurement techniques. where the classiﬁcation in the income statement is decided on case by Financial instruments are classiﬁed based on the degree that market case, according to the Volvo Group currency policy. In 2015 gains and values have been utilized when measuring fair value. All ﬁnancial instrulosses from derivatives hedging currency risks for speciﬁc orders have ments measured at fair value held by Volvo Group are classiﬁed as level 2 been recognized in Other ﬁnancial income and expenses. with the exception of shares and participations, which are classiﬁed as level 1 for listed instruments and level 3 for not listed instruments and Read more in Note 9 about the effect in the income statement from revaluation of the derivatives. level 3 for call options based on the Black & Scholes option pricing formula. The valuation of level 2 instruments is based on market conditions The Volvo Group only applies hedge accounting on a few speciﬁc hedging using quoted market data existing at each balance sheet date. The basis relationships. Refer to section on Hedge accounting in this note for the for the interest is the zero-coupon-curve in each currency which is used Volvo Group’s policy choice on hedge accounting. to calculate the present value of all the estimated future cash ﬂows. The fair value of forward exchange contracts is discounted to balance sheet Loan receivables and other receivables date based on the forward rates for each currency as per balance sheet Included in this category are accounts receivable, customer-ﬁnance receivdate. ables and other interest bearing receivables. Read more in Note 5 about valuation policy for other shares and Read more in Note 15 for accounting policy on customer-ﬁnance receivables. participations. Read more in Note 16 for accounting policy on accounts receivable and other Financial assets at fair value through the income statement interest-bearing receivables. All of the Volvo Group’s ﬁnancial assets that are recognized at fair value through the income statement are classiﬁed as held for trading. As preAssets available for sale sented in the table on next page, these instruments are derivatives, used This category includes assets available for sale and assets that have not for hedging interest, currency and raw material prices, and marketable been classiﬁed in any of the other category. For the Volvo Group this catsecurities (further presented in note 18). egory contains holding of shares in listed and non-listed companies. Derivatives used for hedging interest rate exposure in the Customer Finance portfolio as well as for the ﬁnancing of activities in Industrial Read more in Note 5 about other shares and participations. Operations are included in this category. Unrealized gains and losses 154 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 NOTES Information regarding carrying amounts and fair values In the table below, carrying amounts are compared with fair values for all of the Volvo Group’s ﬁnancial instruments. Carrying amounts and fair values on Financial Instruments Dec 31, 2015 Dec 31, 2014 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair SEK M value value value value Assets Financial assets at fair value through the income statement The Volvo Group’s outstanding interest and currency risk derivatives4 Note 16 2,622 2,622 2,877 2,877 The Volvo Group's outstanding raw material derivatives Note 16 6 6 3 3 Other derivatives5 564 564 564 564 B/S Marketable securities Note 18 3,344 3,344 7,312 7,312 6,536 6,536 10,756 10,756 Loans receivable and other receivables B/S Accounts receivable Note 16 29,101 – 30,895 – Customer ﬁnancing receivables1 Note 15 102,583 – 99,166 – Other interest-bearing receivables Note 16 1,482 – 976 – 133,166 – 131,037 – Financial assets available for sale Holding of shares in listed companies Note 5 507 507 4,543 4,543 Holding of shares in non-listed companies Note 5 396 – 474 – 904 507 5,017 4,543 B/S Cash and cash equivalents Note 18 21,048 21,048 26,242 26,242 Liabilities Note 22 Financial liabilities at fair value through the income statement The Volvo Group’s outstanding interest and currency risks derivatives2 1,711 1,711 1,597 1,597 The Volvo Group’s outstanding raw material derivatives 68 68 23 23 1,779 1,779 1,620 1,620 Financial liabilities valued at amortized cost3 Long term bond loans and other loans 74,691 78,576 107,495 112,564 Short term bank loans and other loans 56,521 56,056 39,498 39,488 131,211 134,632 146,993 152,052 B/S Trade Payables 55,648 – 56,647 – 1 Volvo does not estimate the risk premium for the customer ﬁnancing receivables 4 The Volvo Group’s gross exposure from positive derivatives amounted to SEK and chooses therefore not to disclose fair value for this category. 3,237 M (3,909). The exposure is the sum of positive derivatives reported as 2 Includes a fair value of a loan related to hedge accounting amounting to SEK assets to an amount of SEK 2,622 M (2,877) and positive derivatives of SEK neg 611 M (neg 1,022), netted against derivatives used to hedge the risk 616 M (1,032) reported as a liability, netted against a negative fair value of a amounting to SEK 616 M (1,032). For further information see section hedge loan. Refer to footnote 2. The gross exposure is reduced by 53% (60%) by netaccounting below. Refer to footnote 4. ting agreements and cash deposits to SEK 1,531 M (1,582). 3 In the Volvo Group consolidated ﬁnancial position, ﬁnancial liabilities include 5. The input data used in the valuation model for calculating the fair value has not loan-related derivatives amounting to SEK –1,395 M (–991). The credit risk is changed during 2015. included in the fair value of loans. Read more in Note 4 about Goals and policies in ﬁnancial risk management. 155 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 NOTES Derecognition of ﬁnancial assets The Volvo Group’s maximum exposure to loss is considered being the The Volvo Group is involved in cash enhancement activities such as factoring total recourse relating to transferred assets that are part of the reported and discounting. Financial assets that have been transferred are included credit guarantees, i.e. the total amount Volvo Group would have to pay in in full or in part in the reported assets of the Volvo Group dependent on case of default of the customers. The likelihood for all customers being in the risk and rewards related to the asset that have been transferred to the default at the same time is considered to be unlikely. The gross exposure recipient. In accordance with IAS 39, Financial Instruments, Recognition for the Volvo Group amounted to SEK 3.4 billion (6.6) related to credit and Measurement, an evaluation is performed to establish whether, subguarantees issued for customers and others which is part of the Volvo stantially, all the risks and rewards have been transferred to an external Group’s contingent liabilities. This amount has not been reduced by the party. Where the Volvo Group concludes this is not the case, the portion value of counter guarantees received or other collaterals such as the right of the ﬁnancial assets corresponding to the Volvo Group’s continuous to repossess the product. involvement is recognized. When all the risk and rewards are not considered to be transferred the amount is kept on the balance sheet. TransRead more in Note 21 regarding Other provisions ferred ﬁnancial asset that does not fulﬁll the requirements for derecogniRead more in Note 24 regarding Contingent Liabilities. tion amounted to SEK 0.4 bn (0.1). Transferred ﬁnancial assets for which substantially all risks and rewards Gains, losses, interest income and expenses from have been transferred are derecognized continuously. Involvement in ﬁnancial instruments these assets are reﬂected in the Volvo Group’s balance sheet as part of The table below shows how gains and losses as well as interest income the external credit guarantees, which are recognized at fair value as proviand expenses have affected income after ﬁnancial items in the Volvo sions in the balance sheet and amounted to SEK 520 M (650). Group divided on the different categories of ﬁnancial instruments. Reported in operating income1 2015 2014 Gains/ Interest Interest Gains/ Interest Interest SEK M losses income expenses7 losses income expenses7 Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through the income statement2 Currency risk derivatives3 –11 – – –42 – – Loans receivable and other receivables Accounts receivables / trade payables 1 –913 – – –1,190 – – Customer ﬁnancing receivables VFS 1 75 5,128 – 89 4,829 – Financial assets available for sale Shares and participations for which a market value can be calculated 6 4,650 – – 55 – – Shares and participations for which a market value cannot be calculated 28 – – 16 – – Financial liabilities valued at amortized cost4 – –1,945 – – –1,847 Effect on operating income 3,829 5,128 –1,945 –1,072 4,829 –1,847 Reported in net ﬁnancial items5, 7 Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through the income statement Marketable securities – 14 – 46 – Interest and currency rate risk derivatives2, 3 298 1 –208 1,567 9 99 Loans receivable and other receivables Cash and Cash equivalents – 242 – 273 – Financial liabilities valued at amortized cost –841 –1,698 –391 – –1,661 Effect on net ﬁnancial items 5 , 7 –543 257 –1,906 1,176 328 –1,562 1 Information is provided regarding changes in provisions for doubtful receivables 5 In gains, losses, income and expenses related to ﬁnancial instruments and customer ﬁnancing in Notes 15 and 16, Accounts receivable and customer recognized in Net ﬁnancial items, negative SEK 543 M (1,176) was recognized ﬁnancing receivables, as well as in Note 8, Other operating income and expenses. under other ﬁnancial income and expenses. 2 Accrued and realized interest is included in gains and losses related to Financial 6 During 2015 Volvo Group sold the holding of the shares in the listed Indian autoassets and liabilities at fair value through the income statement. motive manufacturer Eicher Motors Limited. The sale generated a gain of SEK 3 The Volvo Group uses forward contracts and currency options to hedge the 4.6 billion. value of future cash ﬂows in foreign currency. Both unrealized and realized result 7 Interest expenses reported in net ﬁnancial items attributable to pensions, SEK on currency risk contracts is included in the table. Read more in Note 4, Goals 460 M (432) are not included in this table. and policies in ﬁnancial risk management. 4 Interest expenses attributable to ﬁnancial liabilities valued at amortized cost Read more in Note 9, Other ﬁnancial income and expenses for further recognized in operating income include interest expenses for ﬁnancing operatinformation. ing lease activities, which are not classiﬁed as a Financial Instrument. Read more in Note 5 Investments in joint ventures, associated companies and other shares and participations for further information about the divestments of the shares in Eicher Motors limited. 156 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 NOTES In the table below outstanding derivatives hedging currency and interest rate risks is presented. Outstanding derivative instruments Dec 31, 2015 Dec 31, 2014 SEK M Nominal amount Carrying value Nominal amount Carrying value Interest-rate swaps – receivable position 87,712 1,824 86,136 2,137 – payable position 66,793 –763 70,109 –72 Foreign exchange derivatives – receivable position 44,386 793 16,272 675 – payable position 16,019 –333 24,332 –432 Options purchased – receivable position 627 5 1,788 65 – payable position 84 – 36 – Options written – payable position 755 –3 2,636 –71 Subtotal 1,522 2,302 Raw material derivatives – receivable position 27 6 208 3 – payable position 236 –68 267 –23 Total 1,460 2,282 Hedge accounting Volvo Group is only applying hedge accounting on the following speciﬁc hedging relationships: • Hedging fair value of a loan. Fair value of the hedge instruments outstanding amounted to SEK 872 M (1,290). Changes in fair value of the loan related to hedge accounting amounted to SEK neg 611 M (neg 1,022). The changes in the fair value of the hedge instruments and on the loan have been recognized in ﬁnance net in the income statement. • Hedging of certain net investments in foreign operations done in previous years. The result of such hedges was recognized as a separate item in other comprehensive income. In the event of a divestment, the accumulated result from the hedge is recognized in the income statement. • Hedging of forecasted electricity consumption. Changes in the fair value are recognized in the cash ﬂow hedge reserve in OCI for effective hedge accounting. Refer to Note 19 Equity and numbers of shares for information on the changes in the fair value on derivatives hedging forecasted electricity consumption recognized in the cash ﬂow hedge reserve in OCI. Refer to accounting policies in this note for all other hedging relationships where hedge accounting is not applied. Read more in Note 4 for goals and policies in ﬁnancial risk management including Volvo Group’s policies on hedging. 157 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 PARENT COMPANY Parent Company AB Volvo Corporate registration number 556012-5790. Amounts in SEK M unless otherwise speciﬁed. Amounts within parentheses refer to the preceding year, 2014. Board of Directors’ report During 2015 AB Volvo acquired 45 % of the Chinese automotive manuAB Volvo is the Parent Company of the Volvo Group and its operations facturer Dongfeng Commercial Vehicles Co., Ltd. to the value of 7,197. comprise of the Group’s head ofﬁce with staff together with some corpoThe holding is recognized as an investment in associated company. rate functions. Total investments by year end in joint ventures and associated compaIncome from investments in Group companies include dividends nies included 10,392 (3,317) in joint ventures and associated companies amounting to 1,061 (6,826) and transfer price adjustments and royalties that are recognized in accordance with the equity method in the consoliamounting to an expense of 775 (1,120). dated accounts. The portion of shareholders’ equity in joint ventures and Capital gain from divestment of the holding in Eicher Motors Ltd. associated companies pertaining to AB Volvo amounted to 8,026 (2,781). amounted to 4,608. Reversal of revaluation to market value amounted to Financial net debt amounted to 42,933 (35,967). 3,995 and is recognized in other comprehensive income. AB Volvo’s risk capital (shareholders’ equity plus untaxed reserves) The carrying value of shares and participations in Group companies amounted to 41,010 (38,290) corresponding to 41% (46%) of total assets. amounted to 60,766 (61,283), of which 60,092 (60,241) pertained to shares in wholly owned subsidiaries. The corresponding shareholders’ equity in the subsidiaries (including equity in untaxed reserves but excluding minority interests) amounted to 103,382 (101,274). INCOME STATEMENT SEK M 2015 2014 Net sales Note 2 884 696 Cost of sales Note 2 –884 –696 Gross income 0 0 Administrative expenses Note 2, 3 –1,342 –1,011 Other operating income and expenses Note 4 –161 –65 Income from investments in Group companies Note 5 288 5,572 Income from investments in joint ventures and associated companies Note 6 84 26 Income from other investments Note 7 4,612 7 Operating income 3,481 4,529 Interest income and similar credits 0 1 Interest expenses and similar charges Note 8 –1,195 –947 Other ﬁnancial income and expenses Note 9 –9 –19 Income after ﬁnancial items 2,277 3,564 Allocations Note 10 12,565 3,505 Income taxes Note 11 –2,103 –379 Income for the period 12,739 6,690 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Income for the period 12,739 6,690 Items that may be reclassiﬁed subsequently to income statement: Available-for-sale investments –3,995 3,037 Other comprehensive income, net of income taxes –3,995 3,037 Total comprehensive income for the period 8,744 9,727 158 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 PARENT COMPANY BALANCE SHEET SEK M Dec 31, 2015 Dec 31, 2014 Assets Non-current assets Intangible assets Note 12 8 23 Tangible assets Note 12 41 54 Financial assets Shares and participations in Group companies Note 13 60,766 61,283 Receivables from Group companies 54 59 Investments in joint ventures and associated companies Note 13 10,397 3,322 Other shares and participations Note 13 13 4,241 Deferred tax assets Note 11 157 2,191 Other non-current receivables – 27 Total non-current assets 71,436 71,200 Current assets Current receivables Receivables Group companies 28,627 11,682 Other receivables Note 14 116 300 Cash and bank accounts – 0 Total current assets 28,743 11,982 Total assets 100,179 83,182 Shareholders’ equity and liabilities Shareholders’ equity Restricted equity Share capital (2,128,420,220 shares, quota value SEK 1.20) 2,554 2,554 Statutory reserve 7,337 7,337 Unrestricted equity Non-restricted reserves 302 4,252 Retained earnings 18,074 17,453 Income for the period 12,739 6,690 Total shareholders’ equity 41,006 38,286 Untaxed reserves Note 15 4 4 Provisions Provisions for post-employment beneﬁts Note 16 117 122 Other provisions Note 17 11 20 Total provisions 128 142 Non-current liabilities Note 18 Liabilities to Group companies 13,973 7 Other liabilities 3 0 Total non-current liabilities 13,976 7 Current liabilities Trade payables 170 166 Other liabilities to Group companies 44,470 44,269 Tax liabilities 44 – Other liabilities Note 19 381 308 Total current liabilities 45,065 44,743 Total shareholders’ equity and liabilities 100,179 83,182 Assets pledged – – Contingent liabilities Note 20 282,175 279,807 159 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 PARENT COMPANY CASH FLOW STATEMENT SEK M 2015 2014 Operating activities Operating income 3,481 4,530 Depreciation and amortization 17 17 Other non-cash items Note 21 –5,104 113 Total change in working capital whereof 3 –159 Change in accounts receivable –166 16 Change in trade payables 5 –43 Other changes in working capital 164 –132 Interest and similar items received 0 1 Interest and similar items paid –1,171 –944 Other ﬁnancial items –18 –16 Group contributions received 3,504 832 Income taxes paid 0 –20 Cash-ﬂow from operating activities 712 4,354 Investing activities Investments in ﬁxed assets –10 –29 Disposals of ﬁxed assets 21 51 Investments and divestments of shares in group companies, net Note 21 519 –654 Investments and divestments of shares in non-group companies, net Note 21 –2,207 –1 Interest-bearing receivables 26 – Cash-ﬂow after net investments –939 3,721 Financing activities Change in loans, net Note 21 6,953 2,291 Dividends to AB Volvo shareholders –6,090 –6,084 Other 76 72 Change in liquid funds 0 0 Liquid funds, beginning of year 0 0 Liquid funds, end of year – 0 160 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 PARENT COMPANY CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY Restricted equity Unrestricted equity Share Total Share Statutory premium Fair value Retained shareholders’ SEK M capital reserve reserve reserve earnings Total equity Balance at December 31, 2013 2,554 7,337 214 958 23,521 24,693 34,584 Income for the period – – – – 6,690 6,690 6,690 Other comprehensive income Available-for-sale investments: Gain at valuation to fair value – – – 3,037 – 3,037 3,037 Other comprehensive income for the period – – – 3,037 3,037 3,037 Total income for the period – – – 3,037 6,690 9,727 9,727 Transactions with shareholders Dividends to AB Volvo shareholders – – – – –6,084 –6,084 –6,084 Share based payments – – 43 – 16 59 59 Transactions with shareholders – – 43 – –6,068 –6,025 –6,025 Balance at December 31, 2014 2,554 7,337 257 3,995 24,143 28,395 38,286 Income for the period – – – – 12,739 12,739 12,739 Other comprehensive income Available-for-sale investments: Divestment of fair value investment – – – –3,995 – –3,995 –3,995 Other comprehensive income for the period – – – –3,995 -3,995 -3,995 Total income for the period – – – –3,995 12,739 8,744 8,744 Transactions with shareholders Dividends to AB Volvo shareholders – – – – –6,090 –6,090 –6,090 Share based payments – – 45 – 21 66 66 Transactions with shareholders – – 45 – –6,069 –6,024 –6,024 Balance at December 31, 2015 2,554 7,337 302 – 30,813 31,115 41,006 Read more about the share capital of the Parent Company in Note 19 Equity and number of shares in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. 161 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 PARENT COMPANY NOTES NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Amounts in SEK M unless otherwise speciﬁed. The amounts within parentheses refer to the preceding year, 2014. NOTE 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES NOTE 2 INTRA-GROUP TRANSACTIONS The Parent Company has prepared its ﬁnancial statements in accordance The Parent Company’s net sales amounted to 884 (696), of which 756 with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554) and RFR 2, Account(554) pertained to Group companies. Purchases from Group companies ing for Legal entities. According to RFR 2, the Parent Company shall apply amounted to 810 (494). all the International Financial Reporting Standards endorsed by the EU as far as this is possible within the framework of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. The changes in RFR 2 applicable to the ﬁscal year beginning January 1, 2015, have had no material impact on the ﬁnancial statements of the Parent Company. NOTE 3 ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES The accounting policies applied by the Volvo Group are described in the respective Notes in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. The main deviDepreciation ations between the accounting policies applied by the Volvo Group and Administrative expenses include depreciation of 17 (18) of which 1 (2) the Parent Company are described below. pertains to machinery and equipment, 1 (1) to buildings and 15 (15) to Shares and participations in Group companies and investments in joint other intangible assets. ventures and associated companies are recognized at cost in the Parent Company and test for impairment is performed annually. In accordance with RFR 2 the Parent Company includes expenses related to acquisition Fees to the auditors 2015 2014 of a business in the acquisition value. Dividends are recognized in the PricewaterhouseCoopers AB income statement. All shares and participations are related to business – Audit fees 21 19 operations and proﬁt or loss from these are reported within Operating – Audit-related fees 1 1 income. – Tax advisory services 1 0 The Parent Company applies the exception in the application of IAS 39 – Other fees 1 11 which concerns accounting and measurement of ﬁnancial contracts of Total 24 31 guarantee in favour of subsidiaries and associated companies. The Parent Company recognizes the ﬁnancial contracts of guarantee as contingent Read more in Note 28 Fees to the Auditors in the consolidated ﬁnancial liabilities. statements for a description of the different categories of fees. According to RFR 2, application of the regulations in IAS 19 regarding deﬁned-beneﬁt plans is not mandatory for legal entities. However, IAS 19 Personnel shall be adopted regarding supplementary disclosures when applicable. Wages, salaries and other remunerations amounted to 413 (354), social RFR 2 refers to the Swedish law on safeguarding of pension commitcosts to 123 (109) and pension costs to 123 (84). Pension cost of 9 (6) ments (“tryggandelagen”) regarding recording of “Provisions for postpertained to Board Members and the President. The Parent Company has employment beneﬁts” in the balance sheet and of plan assets in pension outstanding pension obligations of 1 (1) to these individuals. foundations. The number of employees at year-end was 327 (317). The Parent Company recognizes the difference between depreciation according to plan and tax depreciation as accumulated additional depreRead more in Note 27 Personnel in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements about the average number of employees, wages, salaries and other remuneraciation, included in untaxed reserves. tions including incentive program as well as Board members and senior Reporting of Group contributions is recognized in accordance with the executives by gender. alternative rule in RFR 2. Group contributions are reported as Allocations. NOTE 4 OTHER OPERATING INCOME AND EXPENSES Other operating income and expenses include restructuring costs, donations and grants and Volvo proﬁt sharing program costs by 3 (–). 162 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 PARENT COMPANY NOTES NOTE 5 INCOME FROM INVESTMENTS IN GROUP COMPANIES NOTE 8 INTEREST EXPENSES Income from investments in Interest expenses and similar charges totalling 1,195 (947) included interGroup Companies 2015 2014 est of 1,193 (944) to subsidiaries. Dividends received Volvo Financial Services AB 565 450 Volvo Automotive Finance (China) Volvo Malaysia Sdn Bhd. Volvo China Investment Co. Ltd. 477 19 – 367 – – NOTE 9 OTHER FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES Volvo Danmark AS – 61 Volvo East Asia (Pte) Ltd. – 108 Other ﬁnancial income and expenses include exchange rate gains and Volvo Holding Sverige AB – 4,500 losses, costs for credit rating and costs for stock exchange listing. Volvo Korea Holding AB – 1,300 Volvo Event Management UK Ltd. – 1 Volvo Norge AS Subtotal 1,061 – 39 6,826 NOTE 10 ALLOCATIONS Impairment of shares Volvo Logistics AB –85 – Group contributions amounted to a net of 12,565 (3,504). Volvo Business Services AB –67 – Volvo East Asia (Pte) Ltd. –9 – 11 Alviva AB –5 – Volvo Group UK Ltd. – –134 Subtotal –166 –134 NOTE INCOME TAXES Reversal impairment of shares Income taxes were distributed as follow: Volvo Danmark AS 30 – 2015 2014 Subtotal 30 – Current taxes relating to the period –69 –20 Deferred taxes –2,034 –359 Income from divestment of shares I/S Total income taxes –2,103 –379 Part of Volvo Norge AS after ﬁssion 134 – Adjustment of divestment Volvo Aero AB 4 – Deferred taxes relate to estimated tax on the change in tax-loss carrySubtotal 138 – forwards and temporary differences. Deferred tax assets are recognized to the extent that it is probable that the amount can be utilized against Income from investments in Group Companies 1,063 6,692 future taxable income. The tax-loss carry forwards have indeﬁnite period of utilization. Transfer price adjustments and royalties amount to an expense of 775 (1,120). Deferred taxes related to change in tax-loss carryforwards amount to an expense of 2,037 (357) and to changes in other temporary differences to an income of 3 (expense of 2). The table below discloses the principal reasons for the difference between the corporate income tax of 22% and the tax for the period. NOTE 6 INCOME FROM INVESTMENTS IN JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATED COMPANIES 2015 2014 Income before taxes 14,842 7,069 Dividend of 35 (28) was received from VE Commercial Vehicles Ltd, and Income tax according to applicable tax rate –3,265 –1,555 of 20 (19) from Deutz AG. Income include reversal of impairment of parCapital gains/losses 1,044 – ticipation in Blue Chip Jet HB with 4 and in Blue Chip Jet II HB with 25. Non-taxable dividends 247 1,513 Income 2014 included impairment of Blue Chip Jet II HB with 21. Non-taxable revaluations of shareholdings –24 –34 Other non-deductible expenses –26 –23 Other non-taxable income 0 10 7 Withholding tax –24 –20 Adjustment of deferred taxes for prior periods –55 –269 NOTE INCOME FROM OTHER INVESTMENTS Recognition and derecognition of deferred tax assets due to change in tax rate – –1 Income taxes for the period –2,103 –379 Income from other investments includes gain from divestment of the holding in Eicher Motors Ltd. of 4,608. Dividend of 7 (7) was received from Speciﬁcation of deferred tax assets Dec 31, Dec 31, Eicher Motors Ltd. Impairment of the shares in Johanneberg Science 2015 2014 Park AB and Lindholmen Science Park AB is included by an expense of 3 Deferred tax-loss carryforwards – 2,037 (–). Provisions for post-employment beneﬁts 154 150 Provisions for restructuring measures 3 4 B/S Deferred tax assets 157 2,191 163 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 PARENT COMPANY NOTES NOTE 12 INTANGIBLE AND TANGIBLE ASSETS Intangible assets, acquisition costs Rights Other intangible assets Total intangible assets Opening balance 2014 52 116 168 Acquisition cost as of Dec 31, 2014 52 116 168 Acquisition cost as of Dec 31, 2015 52 116 168 Intangible assets, accumulated amortization Rights Other intangible assets Total intangible assets Opening balance 2014 52 78 130 Amortization – 15 15 Accumulated amortization as of Dec 31, 2014 52 93 145 Amortization – 15 15 Accumulated amortization as of Dec 31, 2015 52 108 160 B/S Net value in balance sheet as of Dec 31, 20141 – 23 23 B/S Net value in balance sheet as of Dec 31, 20151 – 8 8 Tangible assets, acquisition costs Construction in Land and Machinery progress, including Buildings improvements and equipment advance payments Total tangible assets Opening balance 2014 27 14 47 21 109 Capital Expenditures – – – 28 28 Sales/scrapping –6 –3 0 –38 –47 Reclassiﬁcations – – 0 0 0 Acquisition cost as of Dec 31, 2014 21 11 47 11 90 Capital Expenditures – – – 10 10 Sales/scrapping – – – –21 –21 Acquisition cost as of Dec 31, 2015 21 11 47 0 79 Tangible assets, accumulated Construction in depreciation Land and Machinery progress, including Buildings improvements and equipment advance payments Total tangible assets Opening balance 2014 5 0 32 – 37 Depreciation 1 0 2 – 3 Sales/scrapping –3 – –1 – –4 Accumulated depreciation as Dec 31, 2014 3 0 33 – 36 Depreciation 1 0 1 – 2 Accumulated depreciation as of Dec 31, 2015 4 0 34 – 38 B/S Net value in balance sheet as of Dec 31, 20141 18 11 14 11 54 B/S Net value in balance sheet as of Dec 31, 20151 17 11 13 0 41 1 Acquisition value, less accumulated depreciation, amortization and impairment. NOTE 13 INVESTMENTS IN SHARES AND PARTICIPATIONS AB Volvo owns, directly or indirectly, 278 (294) legal entities. The legal restrictions which limit the Group’s ability to transfer assets between the structure is designed to effectively manage legal requirements, adminisGroup’s legal entities. Read more in the Note 18 Marketable securities tration and taxes, as well as the operations conducted by the Group in and liquid funds in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for a description each country it operates. Legal entities may have different characters and of restrictions related to cash and cash equivalents. include different types of operations, such as production, development Volvo Group’s operational structure gives a better overview of how the and sales. The character of a legal entity may change over time. FurtherVolvo Group has chosen to organize its business. Read more about Volvo more legal entities could include different type of the Group’s operations Group’s operational structure in Note 6 Segment Reporting in the consoland this could also change over time. In some countries there are legal idated ﬁnancial statements. 164 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 PARENT COMPANY NOTES Changes in AB Volvo’s holding of shares and participations are disclosed below: Joint ventures Group companies and associated companies Non-Group companies 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Opening balance as of January 1 61,283 60,763 3,322 3,343 4,241 1,203 Acquisitions/New issue of shares – 2 7,197 – – – Divestments –381 –31 – – –232 – Shareholder’s contribution – 683 – – 2 1 Repayment of equity – – –151 – – Impairment of shares and participations –166 –134 – –21 –3 – Reversal impairment of shares and participations 30 – 29 – Revaluation of shares in listed companies – – – – –3,995 3,037 B/S Balance sheet, December 31 60,766 61,283 10,397 3,322 13 4,241 Holding of shares in Group Dec 31, 2015 Dec 31, 2015 Dec 31, 2014 Shares and participations in Group companies companies Registration Percentage Carrying Carrying number holding1 value2 value2 Fission in Volvo Norge AS created four new companies which have been divested by the carrying Volvo Lastvagnar AB, Sweden 556013–9700 100 8,711 8,711 value of 14. CPAC AB has been divested by 367. Volvo Holding Sverige AB, Sweden 556539–9853 100 7,634 7,634 Impairment of shares in Volvo Logistics AB has UD Trucks Corporation, Japan – 100 8,928 8,928 been made by 85, in Volvo Business Services AB Volvo Bussar AB, Sweden 556197–3826 100 1,917 1,917 by 67, in Volvo East Asia (Pte) Ltd by 9 and in Volvo Construction Equipment NV, Alviva AB by 5. Reversal of impairment of shares The Netherlands – 100 2,582 2,582 has been made in Volvo Danmark AS by 30. AB Volvo Penta, Sweden 556034–1330 100 438 438 During 2014 shareholder’s contribution was VNA Holding Inc., USA – 100 3,278 3,278 given to Volvo Group UK Limited by 283 and to Volvo Financial Services AB, Sweden 556000–5406 100 1,945 1,945 Volvo Powertrain AB by 400. Subscription in the Volvo Treasury AB, Sweden 556135–4449 100 13,044 13,044 new company VFS Int Romania Leasing OperaSotrof AB, Sweden 556519–4494 100 1,388 1,388 tional was made by 2. Divestment of Rossared Volvo Korea Holding AB, Sweden 556531–8572 100 2,655 2,655 Fastighets AB was made by 26 and AB Fortos by 5. Impairment of shares in Volvo Group UK LimVolvo China Investment Co Ltd., China – 100 1,096 1,096 ited was made by 134. Volvo Automotive Finance (China) Ltd., China – 100 491 491 AB Volvo’s holding in Group companies is preVolvo Group UK Ltd., Great Britain3 – 40 561 561 sented in the adjoining table. Volvo Holding Mexico, Mexico – – – 531 Volvo Group Mexico SA de CV (JC) – 100 531 – Investments in associated companies Volvo Group Venture Capital AB, Sweden 556542–4370 100 361 361 and joint ventures Volvo Powertrain AB, Sweden 556000–0753 100 898 898 Investment in Dongfeng Commercial Vehicles Co Volvo Information Technology AB, Sweden 556103–2698 100 1,263 1,263 Ltd. has been made by 7,197. Repayment of equity has decreased the holding in Blue Chip Jet II by Volvo Parts AB, Sweden 556365–9746 100 150 150 151. Reversal of impairment of the participation in Volvo Group Insurance Försäkrings AB, Sweden 516401–8037 100 182 182 Blue Chip Jet was recognized by 4 and in Blue Volvo Business Services AB, Sweden 556029–5197 100 – 67 Chip Jet II HB by 25. Volvo Danmark A/S, Denmark – 100 157 128 During 2014 impairment of participation in VFS Servizi Financiari Spa, Italy4 – 25 79 79 Blue Chip Jet II HB was recognized by 21. Kommersiella Fordon Europa AB, Sweden 556049–3388 100 1,890 1,890 Volvo Norge A/S, Norway – 100 43 56 Shares and participations in non-Group Volvo Malaysia Sdn, Malaysia – 100 48 48 companies During 2015 divestment of the holding in the ZAO Volvo Vostok, Russia5 – 75 34 34 listed company Eicher Motors Ltd. to a carrying Volvo Italia Spa, Italy – 100 447 447 amount of 4,228 was made. The acquisition value CPAC Systems AB, Sweden6 556566–2870 – – 367 amounted to 232 and reversal of the revaluation Volvo Logistics AB, Sweden 556197–9732 100 – 85 to fair value amounted to 3,995, also recognized Alviva AB, Sweden 556622–8820 100 – 5 in other comprehensive income. During 2014 Volvo East Asia (Pte) Ltd., Singapore – 100 – 9 revaluation increased the value by 3,037. ShareVolvo Information Technology GB Ltd., Great Britain – 100 3 3 holder’s contribution has been given to JohanVFS Latvia SIA, Latvia – 100 9 9 neberg Science Park AB and Lindholmen SciVFS Int Romania Leasing Operational, Romania – 100 2 2 ence Park AB by 2 (1) and impairment of shares in Other holdings – 1 1 Johanneberg Science Park AB and Lindholmen Total carrying value Group companies7 60,766 61,283 Science Park AB has been recognized by 3 (–). 1 The percentage holding refers to the Parent Dec 31, 2015 Dec 31, 2015 Dec 31, 2014 Company AB Volvo’s holding. Holding of shares in Joint Ventures, 2 Refers to AB Volvo’s carrying value of its holding. associated companies and Registration Percentage Carrying Carrying 3 Total holding by Volvo Lastvagnar AB and AB non-Group companies number holding1 value2 value2 Volvo is 100%. Dongfeng Commercial Vehicles Co. Ltd, China – 45.0 7,197 – 4 Total holding by Volvo Italia Spa and AB Volvo is VE Commercial Vehicles Ltd., India8 – 45.6 1,616 1,616 100%. 5 Total holding by AB Volvo and Volvo Trucks Eicher Motors Ltd., India – – – 4,228 Region Central Europe GmbH is 100%. Deutz AG, Germany – 25.0 1,359 1,359 6 Total holding by AB Volvo Penta is 100% (2014: Blue Chip Jet HB, Sweden 969639–1011 50.0 8 3 49% AB Volvo and 51% AB Volvo Penta). Blue Chip Jet II HB, Sweden 969717–2105 50.0 212 339 7 AB Volvo’s share of shareholders’ equity in Other investments – 18 18 subsidiaries (including equity in untaxed reserves) was 103,382 (101,274). Total carrying value, joint ventures, associated 8 In Volvo Group the company is reported as a joint companies and non-Group companies 10,410 7,563 venture, consolidated according to equity method. 165 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 PARENT COMPANY NOTES NOTE 14 OTHER RECEIVABLES Obligations in deﬁned-beneﬁt plans Obligations opening balance 2014 Funded 556 Unfunded 132 Total 688 Service costs 4 6 10 Interest costs 32 3 35 Dec 31, Dec 31, 2015 2014 Pensions paid –17 –19 –36 Accounts receivable 9 25 Obligations as of December 31, 2014 575 122 697 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 62 221 Service costs 15 11 26 Other receivables 45 54 Interest costs 21 2 23 B/S Total other receivables 116 300 Pensions paid –18 –18 –36 Obligations as of December 31, 2015 593 117 710 The valuation allowance for doubtful receivables amounted to 1 (2) at the end of the year. The company considers that fair value does not differ from carrying value. Fair value of plan assets in funded plans Plan assets opening balance 2014 591 Actual return on plan assets 65 NOTE 15 UNTAXED RESERVES Contributions and compensation to/from the fund Plan assets as of December 31, 2014 Actual return on plan assets – 656 36 Contributions and compensation to/from the fund – Dec 31, Dec 31, Plan assets as of December 31, 2015 692 2015 2014 Accumulated additional depreciation Provisions for post-employment beneﬁts Dec 31, Dec 31, Machinery and equipment 4 4 2015 2014 B/S Total untaxed reserves 4 4 Obligations1 –710 –697 Fair value of plan assets 692 656 Funded status –18 –41 Limitation on assets in accordance with RFR2 (when NOTE 16 PROVISIONS FOR POSTEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS plan assets exceed corresponding obligations) B/S Net provisions for post-employment beneﬁts2 –99 –117 –81 –122 1 The ITP2 obligations amount to 573 (556). The Parent Company has two types of pension plans: 2 ITP2 obligations, net, amount to 0 (0). Deﬁned-contribution plans: post-employment beneﬁt plans where the Company makes regular payments to separate entities and has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contributions. The expenses for Pension costs 2015 2014 deﬁned contribution plans are recognized during the period when the Service costs 26 10 employee provides service. Interest costs3 23 35 Interest income3 –18 –20 Deﬁned-beneﬁt plans: post-employment beneﬁt plans where the Company’s undertaking is to provide predetermined beneﬁts that the employee will Pension costs for deﬁned-beneﬁt plans 31 25 receive on or after retirement. These beneﬁt plans are secured through Pension costs for deﬁned-contribution plans 46 54 balance-sheet provisions or pension-fund contributions. Furthermore, a 4 credit insurance policy has been taken out for the value of the obligations. Special payroll tax/yield tax 46 3 The main deﬁned-beneﬁt plan is the ITP2 plan which is based on ﬁnal Cost for credit insurance FPG 0 2 salary. The plan is semi-closed, meaning that only new employees born Total costs for the period 123 84 before 1979 have the possibility to choose the ITP2 solution. The ITP2 3 Interest cost, net of 2 (3) is included in the ﬁnancial items plan for the Company is funded in Volvo Pension Foundation. Pension 4 Special payroll tax / yield tax are calculated according to Swedish Tax law and obligations are calculated annually, on the balance sheet date, based on accrued for in Current liabilities actuarial assumptions. The deﬁned-beneﬁt obligations are calculated based on the actual salary levels at year-end and based on a discount rate of 3.84% (3.84) for the ITP2 plan and 1.9% (2.6) for other pension obligations. Assumptions for discount rates and mortality rates are determined annually by PRI Pensionsgaranti for ITP2 and Finansinspektionen for other pension obligations, respectively. The Volvo Pension Foundation was formed in 1996 to secure obligations relating to retirement pensions in accordance with the ITP plan. Since its formation, net contributions of 249 have been made to the foundation by the Parent Company. Provisions for post-employment beneﬁts in the Parent Company’s balance sheet correspond to the present value of obligations at year-end, less value of plan assets. 166 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2015 PARENT COMPANY NOTES Volvo Group applies IAS 19 Employee Beneﬁts in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. This implies differences, which may be signiﬁcant, in the accounting of deﬁned-beneﬁt pension plans as well as in the accounting of plan assets invested in the Volvo Pension Foundation. NOTE 20 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES The accounting principles for deﬁned-beneﬁt plans differ from IAS19 mainly relating to: Contingent liabilities as of December 31, 2015, amounted to 282,175 • Pension liability calculated according to Swedish accounting principles (279,807) of which 282,164 (279,796) pertained to Group companies. does not take into account future salary increases. Credit guarantees are included to an amount corresponding to the • The discount rate used in the calculations is set by PRI Pensionsgaranti credit limits. Credit guarantees amounted to 272,432 (270,616). The total and Finansinspektionen, respectively. amount pertained to Group companies. • Changes in the discount rate, actual return on plan assets and other The utilized portion at year end amounted to 124.526 (134,504), of actuarial assumptions are recognized directly in the income statement which 124.514 (134,493) pertained to Group companies. and in the balance sheet. • Deﬁcit must be either immediately settled in cash or recognized as a liability in the balance sheet. • Surplus cannot be recognized as an asset, but may in some cases be refunded to the Company to offset pensions costs. NOTE 21 CASH-FLOW Other non-cash items 2015 2014 NOTE 17 OTHER PROVISIONS Revaluation of shareholdings Gains on sale of shares Transfer price adjustments, net 110 –4,746 –104 155 0 –132 Anticipated dividend –419 – Other provisions include provisions for restructuring measures of 11 (20). Other changes 55 90 Total Other items not affecting cash ﬂow –5,104 113 Further information is provided in Notes 5 Income from investments in NOTE 18 NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES Group companies, 6 Income from investments in joint ventures and associated companies and 7 Income from other investments. Acquired and divested shares in Non-current debt matures as follows: Group companies, net 2015 2014 Acquisitions – –685 Divestments 519 31 2020 8,384 Total cash ﬂow from acquired and divested 2022 or later 5,592 shares in Group companies, net 519 –654 B/S Total non-current liabilities 13,976 Acquisitions and divestments of participations in Group companies are shown in Note 13 Investments in shares and participations. NOTE 19 OTHER LIABILITIES Acquired and divested shares in non-Group companies, net Acquisitions 2015 –7,047 2014 –1 Divestments 4,840 – Total cash ﬂow from acquired and divested Dec 31, Dec 31, shares in non-Group companies, net –2,207 –1 2015 2014 Wages, salaries and withholding taxes 184 150 Acquisitions and divestments of participations in non-Group companies VAT liabilities 1 – are presented in Note 13 Investments in shares and participations. Accrued expenses and prepaid income 162 136 Other liabilities 34 22 Change in loans, net B/S Total other liabilities 381 308 Increase in loans is related to loans from Volvo Treasury AB by 13,973 No collateral is provided for current liabilities. (–) and the company’s liability in the group account at Volvo Treasury AB which has decreased by 7,020 (increased by 2,291). 167 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2015 CORPORATE G OV E R N A N C E The Volvo Group appreciates the value of sound corporate governance as a fundamental base in achieving a trusting relation with shareholders and other key parties. The Swedish Corporate Governance Code, which is applied by the Volvo Group, aims at creating a sound balance of power between shareholders, the board of directors and the senior management. Sound corporate governance, characterized by high standards when it comes to transparency, reliability and ethical values, has always been a well-established guiding principle within the Volvo Group’s operations. 168 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2015 SIGNIFICANT EVENTS 2015 In January, the Volvo Group completed the acquisition of 45% of the Chinese automotive manufacturer, Dongfeng Commercial Vehicles Co., Ltd. The transaction signiﬁcantly strengthened the Volvo Group’s position in medium-duty trucks leading to the Group becoming one of the world’s largest manufacturers of both medium-duty and heavy-duty trucks. In March and June, the Volvo Group divested its shares in the listed Indian automotive manufacturer Eicher Motors Limited (EML). The divestment had no impact on the ownership or control of the joint venture VE Commercial Vehicles in which the Volvo Group remains as owner together with EML. The Board of Directors of AB Volvo decided in April to appoint Martin Lundstedt as the new President and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of the Volvo Group. Martin Lundstedt assumed his position in October. In October, the Volvo Group announced its intention to divest its external IT business and to outsource IT infrastructure operations to HCL Technologies. The transaction is expected to be implemented on March 31, 2016 and will provide both cost savings and a capital gain. A reorganization of the truck sales operation will be implemented on March 1, 2016, entailing a brand-based organization with clearer commercial accountability for the Volvo Group’s various truck brands. As a result of the new trucks sales organization and a decision to include representatives from the Volvo Group’s largest Business Areas in the Executive Board, the Volvo Group Executive Board will consist of 13 executive positions including the CEO as from March 1, 2016. The recruitment of the Executive Vice President Group Trucks Purchasing is ongoing. 169 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2015 Introductory remarks The Swedish Corporate Governance Code Corporate governance is deﬁned as the structures and processes by AB Volvo’s shares are admitted to trading on the stock exchange which companies are directed and controlled. Sound corporate governNasdaq Stockholm and accordingly, Volvo complies with Nasdaq Stockance is a fundamental guiding principle for the Volvo Group, and a key holm’s Rule Book for Issuers. As a listed company, Volvo also applies the factor in making the Group more accountable and transparent to shareSwedish Corporate Governance Code (the Code), which is available at holders, employees and other stakeholders. www.corporategovernanceboard.se. The Board of Directors is ultimately responsible for Volvo’s overall straThis Corporate Governance Report has been prepared in accordance tegic direction and the organization and management of the Group’s with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the Code, and is separate operations, and consequently has an important role to play in sound corfrom the Annual Report. The report has been reviewed by Volvo’s auditors porate governance for the Volvo Group. and includes a report from the auditors. One of the Board’s key tasks is to appoint the President and CEO of the Volvo Group, who is responsible for driving the daily operations of the Group. After over ten years of acquisition driven growth starting in 1999, the Volvo Group entered a phase of product renewal and cost efﬁciency programs in 2012, during which much efforts were also put into strengthening the Corporate Governance Model Group’s balance sheet. This transformation phase was largely completed during 2015, paving the way for a new phase for the Volvo Group with increased focus on customer success, organic growth and performance. To lead the Group into this new phase, the Board decided in April 2015 to recruit Martin Lundstedt as new President and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer The governance and control of the Volvo Group is carried out through a (CEO) of the Volvo Group and he took on the position in October. Martin number of corporate bodies. At the General Meetings of AB Volvo, which brings 25 years of experience from development, production and sales is the Parent Company in the Volvo Group, the shareholders exercise their within the commercial vehicle industry into the Volvo Group. voting rights with regard to for example the composition of the Board of As a ﬁrst step on this new part of the Group’s journey, Volvo is introducing Directors of AB Volvo and the election of auditors. as of March 1, 2016, a brand-based organization for the Group’s truck An Election Committee, appointed by the Annual General Meeting of brands Volvo Trucks, UD Trucks, Renault Trucks and Mack Trucks, expanding AB Volvo, submits proposals to the next Annual General Meeting the mandate for the sales organizations to control and develop their busiconcerning the election of Board members, Board Chairman and, when nesses and providing a clear responsibility for their respective proﬁtability. necessary, external auditors, and proposals for resolutions concerning The annual Board visit to a Volvo facility went to UD Trucks’ site in Ageo, fees to the Board and the auditors. Japan in October. It was an important and interesting visit, providing the The Board is ultimately responsible for Volvo’s organization and manBoard with additional valuable insights into the Japanese market and the UD agement of its operations. The duties of the Board are partly exercised Trucks operation. It conﬁrmed the Board’s view that the steps taken during through its Audit Committee and its Remuneration Committee. the past years in order to strengthen the UD Trucks business have given In addition, the Board appoints the President of AB Volvo, who is also positive results but that an accelerated development is necessary, which will the CEO of the Volvo Group. The CEO is in charge of the daily managebe addressed in the new organizational set-up with UD Trucks as a separate ment of the Group in accordance with guidelines and instructions proBusiness Area. vided by the Board. Finally, the competence within the Board was also strengthened during Division of responsibilities and duties between the General Meeting, the year through the addition of the newly appointed Board members Marthe Board of Directors and the President are regulated inter alia by the tina Mertz and Eckhard Cordes, contributing with valuable knowledge and Swedish Companies Act, Volvo’s articles of association, the Code and the experiences from the automotive industry from both the supplier and the Board’s work procedures. OEM side. 170 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2015 1 Shareholders AB VOLVO Vote at the General Meetings 2 Elects Auditor General Meeting Appoints Election Submits proposals concerning election Committee of Board members, auditors and Election 5 Audit Committee Committee for the upcoming Annual General Meeting. 7 Auditor 3 Election Committee 6 Remuneration Committee Elects Board Prepare part of the Board’s work. 4 Board of Directors The auditors review the interim report for the period January 1 Appoints President/CEO to June 30 and audit the annual 9 report and consolidated ﬁnancial 10 statements. President/CEO 8 Corporate Audit 11 Internal Control over Financial Reporting 10 Group Executive Board BUSINESS AREAS/ Operations DIVISIONS 171 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2015 1 Shares and shareholders 2 General Meeting AB Volvo’s share register is kept by Euroclear Sweden AB. On December General 31, 2015, Volvo had 234,989 shareholders according to the share regisThe General Meeting is Volvo’s highest decision-making body. The Genter. The largest shareholder on that date was AB Industrivärden, with 22.3 eral Meeting held within six months after the end of the ﬁscal year adoptpercent of the votes based on the number of outstanding shares. Cevian ing the income statement and the balance sheet is called the Annual Capital held 14.8 percent of the votes, Norges Bank Investment ManageGeneral Meeting. The Annual General Meeting of Volvo is normally held in ment held 6.1 percent of the votes, and Svenska Handelsbanken together Göteborg. In addition to resolutions concerning adoption of the income with SHB Pension Fund, SHB Employee Fund, SHB Pensionskassa and statement and balance sheet for AB Volvo and the Volvo Group, the Oktogonen held 5.8 percent of the votes, based on the number of outAnnual General Meeting also adopts resolutions concerning allocations standing shares. of proﬁt, the composition of Volvo’s Board of Directors, directors’ fees and Volvo has issued two classes of shares: series A and series B. In a vote elects, when applicable, external auditors. Notice to attend a General at a General Meeting, series A shares carry one vote and series B shares Meeting is issued in the form of an announcement in Postoch Inrikes one-tenth of a vote. The two share classes carry equal rights to a share in Tidningar (Swedish Ofﬁcial Gazette) and on the company’s website. The the assets and earnings of the company. According to a special share fact that notice has been issued is announced in Dagens Nyheter and conversion clause in the Articles of Association, holders of series A Göteborgs-Posten. shares are entitled to request that their series A shares are converted to Shareholders who are recorded in the share register ﬁve working days series B shares. Implementation of such conversions entails that the total prior to a General Meeting and who have notiﬁed Volvo of their participanumber of votes in the company decreases. tion in a certain order, are entitled to participate in the Meeting, in person At the end of 2015, the total number of shares in AB Volvo amounted or by proxy, and to vote for or against the proposals put forward at the to 2,128,420,220, of which series A shares accounted for 505,481,960 Meeting, and to present questions to the Board and the President. and series B shares accounted for 1,622,938,260. The total number of A shareholder who wants the Meeting to consider a special matter votes amounted to 667,775,786. must submit a request to the Board in sufﬁcient time prior to the Meeting For more information about the Volvo share and its shareholders, refer to the address provided on Volvo’s website, www.volvogroup.com. to the Board of Director’s report on pages 104–106 of the Annual Report. Resolutions at a General Meeting are normally passed by simple majority and for elections, the person who receives the most votes is considered elected. However, certain resolutions, such as amendment of the Articles of Association, require a decision by a qualiﬁed majority. AB Volvo’s Annual General Meeting 2015 was held on April 1, 2015 in Konserthuset, Göteborg. 172 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2015 3 Election Committee Annual General Meeting 2015 Duties Volvo’s Annual General Meeting 2015 was held on Wednesday, April 1, The Election Committee is the shareholders’ body responsible for submit2015 in Konserthuset, Göteborg. The Meeting was attended by 1,427 ting to the Annual General Meeting the names of candidates to serve as shareholders, either in person or by proxy, representing 69.77 percent of Chairman at the Meeting and Chairman and other Members of the Board, the votes in the company. Attorney Sven Unger was elected Chairman of as well as proposing fees and other compensations to be paid to the the Meeting. Members of the Board and of the Group Executive Board Board Members. were present at the Meeting. Authorized Public Accountants Peter ClemIn the years in which Volvo elects auditors, the Election Committee edtson, Volvo’s Lead Audit Partner, and Johan Rippe were also present, presents proposals to the Meeting for the election of auditors and for fees representing the company’s auditor PricewaterhouseCoopers AB. to be paid to the auditors. In addition, the Election Committee, in accordThe Annual General Meeting 2015 decided to pay a dividend of SEK ance with prevailing instructions for Volvo’s Election Committee, presents 3.00 per share. The Meeting further resolved to reelect Board Members proposals for members of the Election Committee for the following year. Matti Alahuhta, James W. Grifﬁth, Kathryn V. Marinello, Hanne de Mora, The Election Committee’s proposal shall be presented to Volvo in sufAnders Nyrén, Olof Persson, Carl-Henric Svanberg (as Chairman) and ﬁcient time to be included in the notice to attend the Annual General Lars Westerberg, and to elect Eckhard Cordes and Martina Merz as new Meeting and to be published on Volvo’s website at the same time. In conBoard Members. Olof Persson resigned as a Board Member on April 21, junction with the notice to attend the Annual General Meeting being pub2015. lished, the Election Committee shall comment on whether those persons The further resolutions of the Meeting are included in the complete who are proposed to be elected as Board Members are to be considered minutes from the Annual General Meeting 2015 which, together with as independent in relation to the company and company management as other information about the Meeting, are available at www.volvogroup.com. well as to major shareholders in the company and further to comment on their important assignments and holding of shares in Volvo. Annual General Meeting 2016 Volvo’s Annual General Meeting 2016 will be held on Wednesday, April 6, Composition 2016 in Konserthuset, Göteborg. For further information about the Annual In accordance with instructions for the Election Committee adopted by General Meeting 2016, please refer to the fold-out in the end of the the Annual General Meeting 2014, the Annual General Meeting shall Annual Report and Volvo’s website www.volvogroup.com. elect ﬁve members to serve on the Election Committee, of whom four shall represent the largest shareholders in the company, in terms of the number of votes, who have expressed their willingness to participate on the Election Committee. In addition, one of the members shall be the Chairman of the AB Volvo Board. Additionally, the Election Committee can offer other major shareholders to appoint one representative as a member of the Election Committee. If such an offer is made, it should be directed in turn to the largest shareholder in terms of voting rights not already represented on the Election Committee. The number of members on the Election Committee may however not exceed seven. In accordance with its instructions, Volvo’s Annual General Meeting 2015 resolved to appoint the following individuals as members of the Election Committee: • Carl-Henric Svanberg, Chairman of the Board, • Carl-Olof By, representing AB Industrivärden, • Lars Förberg, representing Cevian Capital, • Yngve Slyngstad, representing Norges Bank Investment Management, and • Håkan Sandberg, representing Svenska Handelsbanken, SHB Pension Fund, SHB Employee Fund, SHB Pensionskassa and Oktogonen. The Election Committee appointed Carl-Olof By as Chairman. During the year, Carl-Olof By’s assignment for AB Industrivärden ceased and he was therefore replaced by Bengt Kjell as member and Chairman of the Election Committee representing AB Industrivärden. In addition, Håkan Sandberg resigned from the Election Committee and he was therefore replaced by Pär Boman as member of the Election Committee representing Svenska Handelsbanken, SHB Pension Fund, SHB Employee Fund, SHB Pensionskassa and Oktogonen. 173 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2015 4 Board of Directors Duties Work procedures The Board of Directors is ultimately responsible for Volvo’s organization Every year, the Board adopts work procedures for the Board’s work. The and management of the company’s operations. The Board is responsible work procedures contain rules pertaining to the number of Board meetfor the Group’s long-term development and strategy, for regularly controlings, matters to be addressed at regular meetings of the Board and duties ling and evaluating the Group’s operations and for the other duties set incumbent on the Chairman. forth in the Swedish Companies Act. Volvo’s Chairman shall organize and guide the Board’s work, be responsible for contacts with the owners regarding ownership matters and proComposition vide the owners’ viewpoints to the Board, ensure that the Board receives During the period January 1, 2015 to April 1, 2015, AB Volvo’s Board adequate information and decision documents for its work and verify that consisted of nine members elected by the Annual General Meeting. The the Board’s resolutions are implemented. The work procedures further Annual General Meeting 2015 held on April 1, 2015 elected ten Board refer to the charter of the Audit Committee and the charter of the Remumembers. Olof Persson stepped down from the Board on April 21, 2015 neration Committee for the tasks assigned to the respective committee. and therefore the Board consisted of nine members elected by the Annual The Board has also issued written instructions specifying how ﬁnancial General Meeting during the period April 22, 2015 to December 31, 2015. information should be reported to the Board, as well as deﬁning the distriIn addition, the Board had three members and two deputy members bution of duties between the Board and the President. appointed by employee organizations during the period January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015. The Board’s work in 2015 The Annual General Meeting 2015 reelected Matti Alahuhta, James W. The Board’s work is mainly performed within the framework of formal Grifﬁth, Kathryn V. Marinello, Hanne de Mora, Anders Nyrén, Olof PersBoard meetings and through meetings in the respective committees of son, Carl-Henric Svanberg and Lars Westerberg as Board members, and the Board. In addition, regular contact is maintained between the ChairCarl-Henric Svanberg as Chairman of the Board. Eckhard Cordes and man of the Board and the CEO in order to discuss on-going business and Martina Merz were elected as new Board Members. An account of each to ensure that the resolutions taken by the Board are executed. Board member’s age, principal education, professional experience, In 2015, there were nine regular meetings, one extraordinary meeting assignments in the company, other important board memberships, their and one statutory meeting. The attendance of Board members at these own and related parties’ ownership of shares in Volvo as of February 22, meetings is presented in the table on page 177. 2016, and the year they were elected on the Volvo Board, is presented in In addition to what is mentioned in the Introductory remarks on the the “Board of Directors” section on pages 178–179. Board’s work regarding the appointment of Martin Lundstedt as new President and CEO of the Volvo Group and the introduction of a new Independence requirements brand-based organization for the trucks sales operation, the Board has The Board of Directors of AB Volvo must meet independence requirements during 2015 continued to focus on proﬁtability efforts, and on measures pursuant to the Code entailing that only one person from the company’s to strengthen the balance sheet. management may be a member of the Board, that a majority of the Board In this respect, the Board has decided on the divestment of the Volvo members elected by the General Meeting shall be independent of the comGroup’s shares in the listed Indian automotive manufacturer Eicher Motors pany and the company management and that at least two of the Board memLimited (EML) for a total purchase consideration of approximately SEK bers elected by the General Meeting who are independent of the company 4,7 billion. The share divestment, which was completed in two steps, had and the company’s management shall also be independent of the company’s a positive impact on the Volvo Group’s cash ﬂow after net investments and major shareholders. Prior to the Annual General Meeting 2015, the Election net ﬁnancial debt in the ﬁrst and second quarter, and the sale also generCommittee presented the following assessment concerning independence ated a capital gain of approximately SEK 4.5 billion. The divestment did of the Board members elected by the Annual General Meeting 2015. not have any impact on VE Commercial Vehicle, the Group’s longstanding Matti Alahuhta, James W. Grifﬁth, Kathryn V. Marinello, Martina Merz, Indian joint venture, which the Group owns together with EML. Hanne de Mora, Carl-Henric Svanberg and Lars Westerberg were all conFurther, a review of what is core and non-core in the Volvo Group’s IT sidered independent of the company and the company management as operations was performed during 2015, and as a measure to reduce well as of the company’s major shareholders. structural costs and improve the proﬁtability of the Group, it was Since Olof Persson had the position as AB Volvo’s President and CEO announced in October that the Group intends to divest its external IT busiof the Volvo Group prior to the Annual General Meeting 2015, he was ness and to outsource IT infrastructure operations to HCL Technologies. considered independent of the company’s major shareholders but not of In addition to the above measures, the Board decided on an overall ﬁnanthe company and the company management. cial plan and investment frame for the Group’s operations and continuously Eckhard Cordes and Anders Nyrén were considered independent of followed-up the Group’s performance and ﬁnancial position in order to the company and the company management. ensure proper actions and that there are efﬁcient systems for follow-up and Since Cevian Capital Partners, prior to the Annual General Meeting control of the business and the ﬁnancial position of the Volvo Group. In con2015, controlled more than 10 percent of the votes in the company, nection therewith, the Audit Committee was responsible for preparing the Eckhard Cordes, due to his capacity as partner in Cevian Capital Partners, Board’s work to assure the quality of the Group’s ﬁnancial reporting by was not considered independent in relation to one of the company’s major reviewing the interim reports, the Annual Report and consolidated accountshareholders. ing. The Board also met with the company’s auditors at several occasions Since AB Industrivärden, prior to the Annual General Meeting 2015, during 2015 and without the presence of management at one occasion. controlled more than 10 percent of the votes in the company, Anders During 2015, the Board has also focused on risk-related matters, such as Nyrén, due to him at that time being the President and CEO of AB Industrienterprise risk management, updates on compliance work and on-going värden, was not considered independent in relation to one of the compalegal cases and investigations, and on monitoring the business environment ny’s major shareholders. in order to be prepared to adapt the operation to prevailing demands. The 174 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2015 In October 2015, the Board of Directors visited the Group’s businesses in Japan, including a visit at the Experience Center in Ageo. Board has kept itself continuously updated about the weak markets in Brazil different areas relating to the Board’s work. The areas being evaluated for and China. The declining market in China for particularly construction equip2015 included, for example, the Board composition, expertise and dynamment has resulted in decreased proﬁtability and weakened ﬁnancial position ics, time management and Board support, Board oversight, and priorities for construction equipment customers and dealers, and as a consequence for change. The areas covered by the evaluation may differ from one year further provisions for expected credit losses has been recognized. to another to reﬂect the development of the Board’s work and the Volvo Finally the Board always devotes considerable time to operational Group. reviews of the Group’s various business areas, to keep itself updated Separate evaluations for the Board, the Chairman of the Board, the about the status and development of the business operation of the Group. Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee were completed. The As part of these operational reviews, the Board usually visits a Volvo reports over the evaluations were discussed at a Board meeting. In addiGroup facility once a year and, as mentioned in the Introductory remarks tion, the results of the evaluations of the Board and the Board Chairman earlier in this report, this year’s Board visit went to the Group’s facilities in are shared with the Election Committee. Japan in October, which provided additional valuable insights into the Japanese truck market and the UD Trucks operation in Japan. Remuneration to Board members The Annual General Meeting resolves on fees to be paid to the Board Evaluation of the board’s work Members elected by the shareholders. The Annual General Meeting held During 2015 the Board performed its yearly evaluation of the Board’s on April 1, 2015, approved fee payments to the Board for the time until the work. The purpose of the evaluation is to develop the Board’s efﬁciency, end of the next Annual General Meeting, as follows. and its working procedures, and to determine the focus of the Board’s Volvo’s Chairman should receive a fee of SEK 3,250,000 and each of coming work. In addition, the evaluation serves as a tool in determining the remaining Members elected by the shareholders should receive a fee the requirements for special competence needed in the Board, and for of SEK 950,000 with the exception of the President. The Chairman of the analyzing the competence already accessible in the current Board. By Audit Committee should receive SEK 300,000 and other members of the that, the evaluation also serves as input for the Election Committee’s work Audit Committee SEK 150,000 each. In addition, the Chairman of the with proposing Board members. Remuneration Committee should receive SEK 125,000 and other memIn performing the yearly evaluation, the Board members were asked to bers of the Remuneration Committee SEK 100,000 each. complete an individual questionnaire rating, from their own perspective, 175 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2015 Board of Directors >> The Board’s committees 5 Audit Committee 6 Remuneration Committee Duties Duties In December 2002, the Board established an Audit Committee primarily In April 2003, the Board established a Remuneration Committee for the for the purpose of overseeing the accounting and ﬁnancial reporting propurpose of preparing and deciding on issues relating to remuneration to cesses and the audit of the ﬁnancial statements. senior executives in the Group. The duties of the Committee include preThe Audit Committee is responsible for preparing the Board’s work to senting recommendations for resolution by the Board regarding the terms assure the quality of the Group’s ﬁnancial reporting by reviewing the and conditions of employment and remuneration for the President of AB interim reports, the Annual Report and the consolidated accounting. The Volvo, principles for remuneration, including pensions and severance payAudit Committee also has the task of reviewing and overseeing the ments, for other members of the Group Executive Team, and principles for Group’s legal and taxation matters as well as compliance with laws and variable salary systems, share-based incentive programs, pensions and regulations that may have a material impact on the ﬁnancial reporting. severance payment for other senior executives in the Group. Further the Audit Committee has the task of reviewing and overseeing the The Remuneration Committee shall monitor and evaluate ongoing proimpartiality and independence of the company’s auditors. The Audit Comgrams and programs concluded during the year covering variable remumittee is responsible for evaluating the internal and external auditors’ neration for the executives, application of the policy for remuneration to work, providing the Election Committee with the results of the evaluation senior executives on which the Annual General Meeting shall decide and of the external auditors and to assist in preparing proposals for the electhe current remuneration structures and levels in the Group. The Board tion of auditors. In addition, it is the Audit Committee’s task to establish shall, not later than three weeks prior to the Annual General Meeting, guidelines specifying what other services, beyond auditing, the company submit a report on the results of the Remuneration Committee’s evaluamay procure from the auditors. The Audit Committee shall also evaluate tion on the company’s website. the quality, relevance and efﬁciency of the Group’s system for internal control over ﬁnancial reporting, and with respect to the internal audit and Composition and work in 2015 risk management. Finally, the Audit Committee adopts guidelines for At the statutory Board meeting following the Annual General Meeting transactions with companies and persons closely associated with Volvo. 2015 the following Board members were appointed members of the Remuneration Committee: Composition and work in 2015 • Carl-Henric Svanberg, At the statutory Board meeting following the Annual General Meeting • Matti Alahuhta, 2015, the following Board members were appointed members of the • James W. Grifﬁth, Audit Committee: • Anders Nyrén • Lars Westerberg, • Anders Nyrén, Carl-Henric Svanberg was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration • Hanne de Mora Committee. Lars Westerberg was appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee. The Code sets the requirement that members of the Remuneration Committee, with the exception of the Board Chairman if being a member of the According to the Swedish Companies Act, the members of the Audit Remuneration Committee, shall be independent of the company and the Committee may not be employees of the company and at least one memcompany management. The Election committee’s assessment of indeber of the Audit Committee shall be independent and have accounting or pendence prior to the Annual General Meeting 2015 is presented under auditing expertise. In addition, the Code stipulates that a majority of the the “Independence requirements” section on page 174. members of the Audit Committee shall be independent of the company The Remuneration Committee held ﬁve meetings during 2015. The and the company management, and that at least one of the members who attendance of Board Members at Committee meetings is presented in the is independent of the company and the company management shall also table on page 177. The Remuneration Committee reports the outcome of be independent of the company’s major shareholders. The Election Comits work to the full Board on a regular basis. mittee’s assessment of independence prior to the Annual General Meeting 2015 is presented above under the “Independence requirements” section on page 174. All members of the Audit Committee are highly familiar with accounting matters and the accounting standards that apply for an international Group such as the Volvo Group. The Audit Committee met with the external auditors without the presence of management at four occasions during 2015 in connection with the Audit Committee meetings. The Audit Committee has also met with the Head of Corporate Audit at the meetings of the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee and the external auditors have, among other tasks, discussed the external audit plan and risk management. The Audit Committee held eight regular meetings during 2015. The attendance of Board Members at Committee meetings is presented in the table on page 177. The Audit Committee reports the outcome of its work to the full Board on a regular basis, and the minutes of the Audit Committee meetings are distributed to the Board members. During the period April 22, 2015 to December 31, 2015, AB Volvo’s Board consisted of nine members elected by the Annual General Meeting, and three members and two deputy members appointed by employee organizations. Board member Eckhard Cordes is missing on the photo. 176 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2015 The Board’s composition and attendance at meetings January 1, 2015 – December 31, 2015 Board (11 incl. Audit Remuneration Member statutory) Committee (8) Committee (5) Carl-Henric Svanberg 11 5 Matti Alahuhta 10 2 Eckhard Cordes1 8 Jean-Baptiste Duzan2 2 2 James W. Grifﬁth 11 5 Martina Merz1 9 Kathryn V. Marinello 8 Hanne de Mora 11 8 Anders Nyrén 11 6 5 Olof Persson3 3 Lars Westerberg 10 8 Mats Henning, employee representative, ordinary member 11 Mikael Sällström, employee representative, ordinary member 11 Berth Tulin, employee representative, ordinary member 11 Lars Ask, employee representative, deputy member 8 Mari Larsson, employee representative, deputy member4 6 Tommy Olsson, employee representative, deputy member 5 1 Total number of meetings 11 8 5 1 Joined the Board on April 1, 2015. 2 Stepped down from the Board on April 1, 2015. 3 Stepped down from the Board on April 21, 2015 4 Joined the Board as employee representative, deputy member, on May 22, 2015. 5 Stepped down from the Board as employee representative, deputy member, on May 22, 2015. 177 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2015 Board of Directors BOARD MEMBERS ELECTED BY THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Carl-Henric Svanberg Matti Alahuhta Eckhard Cordes James W. Grifﬁth Chairman of the Board, Member of the Remuneration Member of the Chairman of the Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Education Master of Science, Master of Science, MBA and PhD, University of BSc Industrial Engineering, BSc. Business Administration. Doctor of Science. Hamburg. MBA from Stanford University. Born 1952 1952 1950 1954 Member of the Chairman of the Volvo Board Since April 2, 2014. Since April 1, 2015. Since April 2, 2014. Volvo Board since April 4, 2012. Position and Board Board Chairman: BP p.l.c. Board Chairman: DevCo Partner in Cevian Capital and Board member: Illinois Tool memberships Partners Oy, Outotec CorporaEMERAM Capital Partners. Works Inc. tion and Confederation of Finnish Member of the Executive Industries. Committe of Eastern European Board member: Kone CorporaEconomic Relations of German tion, ABB Ltd. Industry. Board Chairman: Bilﬁnger SE. Principal work Has held various positions at Has held several management Started with Daimler Benz AG, Began his career at The Timken experience Asea Brown Boveri (ABB) and positions in the Nokia Group – where he has held several manCompany in 1984, where he has Securitas AB; President and President of Nokia Telecommuagement positions, such as head held several management posiChief Executive Ofﬁcer of Assa nications, President of Nokia of the trucks and buses business, tions, such as responsible for Abloy AB; President and Chief Mobile Phones and Chief StratHead of Group Controlling, Timken’s bearing business activiExecutive Ofﬁcer of Telefonakegy Ofﬁcer of the Nokia Group; Corporate Development and ties in Asia, the Paciﬁc and Latin tiebolaget LM Ericsson; member President of Kone Corporation M&A in AEG AG and CEO of America and for the company’s of the External Advisory Board of between 2005–2014 and Mercedes Car Group. Previously automotive business in North the Earth Institute at Columbia between 2006–2014 also Chief CEO of Metro AG, senior advisor America. Until 2014 President University and the Advisory Executive Ofﬁcer. Board Chairat EQT and Board member of Air and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer at Board of Harvard Kennedy man Aalto University FoundaBerlin, SKF, Carl Zeiss and Timken Company. School. tion until 2015. Rheinmetall AG. Holdings in Volvo, own 700,000 Series B shares 64,100 Series B shares. None. 20,000 Series B shares. and related parties BOARD MEMBERS APPOINTED BY THE EMPLOYEE ORGANISATIONS Mats Henning Mikael Sällström Berth Tulin Employee representative, ordinary member Employee representative, ordinary member Employee representative, ordinary member Born 1961 1959 1951 Member of the Since May 9, 2014. Since September 7, 2009. Deputy member 1999–2009, Volvo Board ordinary member since June 16, 2009. Background within With Volvo since 1982. With Volvo 1980–1999 and since 2009. With Volvo since 1975. Volvo Holdings in Volvo, own 337 shares, including 250 Series B Shares. 87 Series A shares. 1,512 shares, including 1,425 Series B shares. and related parties 178 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2015 Kathryn V. Marinello Martina Merz Hanne de Mora Anders Nyrén Lars Westerberg Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Audit Committee Chairman of the and Audit Committee Remuneration Committee BA from State University of New York BS from University of CooperaBA in Economics from HEC in Graduate of the Stockholm MSc. Engineering, Bachelor at Albany, MBA from Hofstra tive Education, Stuttgart. Lausanne, MBA from IESE in School of Economics, MBA at Business Administration. University. Barcelona. UCLA, Honorary Doctor of Economics. 1956 1963 1960 1954 1948 Since April 2, 2014. Since April 1, 2015. Since April 14, 2010. Since April 1, 2009. Since April 4, 2007. Senior Advisor, Ares Management, Board member: SAF Holland SA. Board Chairman: a-connect Deputy Board Chairman: Board member: SSAB Svenskt LLC. (group) ag. Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson. Stål AB, Sandvik AB, Meda AB, Board member: General Motors Board member: Sandvik AB, Board member: Stockholm Stena AB. Company, Nielsen and RealPage. IMD Foundation Board. School of Economics and SSE Association, Vice Preses IVA, Ernström & Co AB. Has held several management posiUntil January 2015, Chief ExecuCredit Analyst Den Norske CreditHas worked for AB Wilhelm Has held various positions within tions at Citibank, Chemical Bank New tive Ofﬁcer for Chassis Brakes bank in Luxemburg 1984, various Becker. He has held various ASEA 1972–1984. Served sevYork (now JP Morgan Chase), First International. Has, during almost positions within brand managepositions within STC – Controller, eral executive positions at Esab Bank Systems and First Data Corpo25 years held various management and controlling within Executive Vice President and AB 1984–1994 including Chief ration; Division President General ment positions in Robert Bosch Procter & Gamble 1986–1989, CFO, and President of STC VenExecutive Ofﬁcer and President. Electric Financial Assurance PartnerGmbH, most recently as Executive Partner McKinsey & Company, ture AB; President of OM InterChief Executive Ofﬁcer and ship Marketing and Division President Vice President Sales and MarketInc. 1989–2002, one of the national AB; Executive Vice President of Gränges AB 1994– General Electric Fleet Services; Presiing in the Chassis System Brakes founders and owners, also ChairPresident and CFO at Securum; 1999. Chief Executive Ofﬁcer dent and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of division combined with responsiman of the Board, of the global Director with executive responsiand President of Autoliv Inc. Ceridian Corporation and subsebility for regions China and Brazil consulting ﬁrm and talent bility for Markets and Corporate 1999–2007 and Chairman of quently also Chairman; Board Chairand previously Chief Executive pool a-connect (group) ag since Finance at Nordbanken; ExecuAutoliv Inc. 2007–2011. Previman, President and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of the subsidiary Bosch 2002. tive Vice President and CFO at ously Chairman of Husqvarna Ofﬁcer of Stream Global Services, Inc. Closure Systems, also member of Skanska. Until 2015, President AB, Vattenfall AB and Ahlsell AB. the Board of Management of and CEO of AB Industrivärden. Brose Fahrzeugteile GmbH & Co. None. 4,500 Series B shares. 3,000 Series B shares. 5,200 Series B shares. 198,000 shares including 168,000 Series B shares. DEPUTIES APPOINTED BY THE EMPLOYEE ORGANISATIONS SECRETARY TO THE BOARD Lars Ask Mari Larsson Soﬁa Frändberg Employee representative, deputy member Employee representative, deputy member Secretary to the Board Master of Laws 1959 1978 1964 Since June 16, 2009 (deputy member). Since May 22, 2015 (deputy member). Secretary to the Board since April 1, 2013. With Volvo since 1982. With Volvo since 2004. Executive Vice President Group Legal & Compliance and General Counsel. 87 Series A shares. 399 Series A shares. 46,659 shares, including 45,127 Series B shares. 179 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2015 7 External auditing 9 Governance principles and organizational structure Volvo’s auditors are elected by the Annual General Meeting. The current Governance principles auditor is PricewaterhouseCoopers AB (PwC), which was elected at the The Volvo Group’s mission, vision and strategic priorities serve as basis for Annual General Meeting 2014 for a period of four years. Two partners of the governance and decision-making in the Group. More detailed governPwC, Peter Clemedtson and Johan Palmgren, are responsible for the ance principles are however set out in the Group’s policies and directives, audit of Volvo. Peter Clemedtson is Lead Partner. such as the Code of Conduct and policies pertaining to investments, The external auditors discuss the external audit plan and risk management ﬁnancial risks, accounting, ﬁnancial control and internal audit, which conwith the Audit Committee. The auditors review the interim report for the tain Group wide operating and ﬁnancial rules for the operations, as well as period January 1 to June 30 and audit the Annual Report and the consoliresponsibility and authority structures. dated accounting. The auditors also express an opinion whether this Corporate Governance Report was prepared or not, and in such respect whether Organizational structure certain information therein coincides with the Annual Report and consoliAs from March 1, 2016, the Volvo Group will introduce a brand-based dated accounting. The auditors report their ﬁndings with regard to the annual organization with clearer commercial accountability for the Group’s trucks report and consolidated accounting through the audit reports and a separate sales operations. The former single Group Trucks Sales division will be opinion regarding the Corporate Governance Report, which they present to replaced by four brand speciﬁc Business Areas which will have responsithe Annual General Meeting. In addition, the auditors report detailed ﬁndings bility for their respective proﬁtability. A new Business Area called Value from their reviews to the Audit Committee three times a year and once a year Trucks & JVs will also be introduced to meet the speciﬁc needs of the to the full Board of Directors. Group’s truck customers in the value truck segments. When PwC is retained to provide services other than the audit, it is The Truck Division Group Trucks Technology (GTT) will continue to be done in accordance with rules decided by the Audit Committee pertaining responsible for product development of engines, transmissions and to pre-approval of the nature of the services and the fees. trucks. The Truck Division Group Trucks Operations (GTO) will still be For information concerning Volvo’s remuneration to the auditors, refer responsible for the production of trucks and the Group’s engines and to Note 28 “Fees to the auditors” in the Group’s notes in the Annual Report. transmissions. GTO is also responsible for the Group’s spare parts supply and logistics operation. Further a new third Truck Division for the purchasing organization, Group Trucks Purchasing (GTP) will be introduced. With the creation of Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers AB GTP, the Group’s purchasing activities will be moved out of GTO into a separate Truck Division. Peter Clemedtson Johan Palmgren As per March 1, 2016, the Volvo Group’s business activities will thereAuthorized Public Accountant. Authorized Public Accountant. fore be organized into ten Business Areas, namely: Volvo Trucks, UD Lead Partner. Partner. Trucks, Renault Trucks, Mack Trucks, Value Trucks & JVs, Volvo ConstrucAuditor since 2012. Auditor since 2015. tion Equipment, Volvo Buses, Volvo Penta, Governmental Sales and Volvo Financial Services (VFS). Peter Clemedtson’s other listed Johan Palmgren’s other listed clients are Nordea AB, SKF AB clients include Hexatronic With this governance model, Volvo will utilize the synergies of having and Ratos AB. His unlisted Group AB. global organizations for manufacturing, product development and purchasclients include Stena AB and Waling, while still having clear leadership and responsibility for each truck brand Born 1974. lenbergstiftelserna. to make sure that customer needs are understood throughout the entire Born 1956. organization. The goal of the governance model is for all of the Group’s Business Areas to be driven along the same distinct business principles and the Group’s decided brand positioning, whereby each Business Area can follow and optimize its own earnings performance in the long and short term. 8 Corporate audit Volvo’s internal audit function, Corporate Audit, helps the organization Corporate Audit also assists in investigations of suspected fraudulent accomplish its objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined approach activities within the organization and coordinates and provides oversight to improve and evaluate independently and objectively the effectiveness of other control and monitoring functions. of risk management, control, and governance processes. The head of Corporate Audit reports directly to the CEO, the Group’s In the discharge of its duties, Corporate Audit performs internal audits General Counsel and the Board’s Audit Committee. and special assignments requested by management and the Audit ComFor additional information on internal control over ﬁnancial reporting, mittee and issues reports summarizing the results of these activities. see pages 186-187. The audits cover, among others, assessments on the adequacy and effectiveness of the organization’s processes for controlling its activities and managing its risks and evaluation of compliance with policies and directives. 180 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2015 VOLVO GROUP ORGANIZATION AS FROM MARCH 1, 2016 Group CEO Group Finance Group Human Resources (Deputy CEO & CFO) Group Communication Group Legal & Compliance & Sustainability Affairs BUSINESS AREAS Renault Mack UD Volvo Value Trucks Volvo Volvo Volvo Governmental VFS Trucks Trucks Trucks Trucks & JVs CE Buses Penta Sales TRUCK DIVISIONS Value Trucks Group Trucks Technology DFCV Group Trucks Operations Group Trucks Purchasing VECV Executive Board members 181 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2015 10 Group Management As per March 1, 2016, the Group Executive Board will consist of 13 execuThe Group Executive Board members have during 2015 participated in tive positions including the CEO. In addition to the CEO, the Group Executhe Group’s long-term, share-based incentive plan for senior executives tive Board comprises the Executive Vice Presidents of the three Group which was adopted by the Annual General Meeting 2014. The participants Truck Divisions, the Executive Vice Presidents of the ﬁve Business Areas have during 2015 invested in Volvo shares up to a maximum of 15 percent Renault Trucks, Mack Trucks, UD Trucks, Volvo Trucks and Volvo Construcof the ﬁxed gross base salary for Group Executive Board members and 10 tion Equipment, and the Executive Vice Presidents of the four Group Funcpercent of the ﬁxed gross base salary for other participants. On the conditions Group Human Resources, Group Communication & Sustainability tions that the participant remains an employee within the Volvo Group and Affairs, Group Finance (Deputy CEO & Chief Financial Ofﬁcer (CFO)), and also retains the invested Volvo shares for at least three years after the Group Legal & Compliance. The members of the Group Executive Board investment date (exceptions could be granted in so called good leaver will report directly to the CEO. The position Executive Vice President GTP situations), one matching share per invested share and a number of will be vacant as per March 1, 2016. performance shares per invested share could be allotted. As for the The Presidents of the Business Areas Value Trucks & JVs, Volvo Buses, matching shares, allotment for 2015 is conditional upon the Annual GenVolvo Penta, Governmental Sales and VFS will also report directly to the eral Meeting to be held in April 2016 deciding that dividend shall be disCEO, and be part of an enlarged Group Management Team together with tributed to the shareholders. Allotment of performance shares for 2015 the members of the Group Executive Board and representatives from was conditional on the Volvo Group’s ROE for 2015 reaching at least 11 some other key functions. percent. Maximum allotment of performance shares was set at an ROE of The CEO is responsible for managing the day-to-day operations of the 26 percent for 2015. Maximum allotment of performance shares under a Volvo Group and is authorized to take decisions on matters that do not require yearly plan amounts to seven shares per invested share for the CEO, six Board approval. The CEO leads the operations of the Group mainly through shares per invested share for Group Executive Board members and ﬁve the Group Executive Board and the enlarged Group Management Team but shares per invested share for other participants. also through individual follow-ups with the respective Group Executive Board The AB Volvo Board Remuneration Committee conducts an annual members and the Presidents of the Business Areas not represented in the evaluation of the remuneration policy, Volvo’s system for variable remuGroup Executive Board. The ten Business Areas also have separate decision neration to executives and the long-term, share-based incentive program foras for important matters called Business Review Meetings. The CEO is the to senior executives, and the AB Volvo Board prepares a special report of Chairman of the Business Review Meetings for the ﬁve trucks related Busithis evaluation and the conclusions. The report on the evaluation for 2015 ness Areas, and the Deputy CEO and CFO is the Chairman of the Business will be available on Volvo’s website no later than three weeks prior to the Review Meetings for the ﬁve Business Areas Volvo Construction Equipment, Annual General Meeting 2016, www.volvogroup.com. For more informaVolvo Buses, Volvo Penta, Governmental Sales and VFS. tion about remuneration to the Group Executive Board and an account of All the above bodies affect control and monitoring of the Group’s ﬁnanoutstanding share and share-price related incentive programs to the cial development, strategies and targets and take decisions regarding management, refer to Note 27 in the Group’s notes in the Annual Report. investments and other matters. Changes to the Group Executive Board Remuneration to the Group Executive Board As a result of the new trucks sales organization and a decision to include AB Volvo’s Annual General Meeting annually approves a policy on remurepresentatives from the Group’s largest Business Areas in the Executive neration to the Group Executive Board, following a proposal from the AB Board, the number of executive positions comprising the Group Executive Volvo Board. The remuneration policy adopted by the Annual General Board will be increased from 10 to 13 including the CEO as from March 1, Meeting 2015 states that the guiding principle is that remuneration and 2016, through the following changes: other terms of employment for the Group Executive Board shall be com• The presidents of the four new brand-based truck sales Business Areas petitive in order to ensure that the Volvo Group can attract and retain will be included in the Group Executive Board, replacing the Executive competent executives. Vice President for the current Group Trucks Sales Division. The policy also states that the executives may receive variable salary in • A separate Truck Division for the purchasing organization, GTP, will be addition to ﬁxed salary. The variable salary may, as regards the CEO, created resulting in one additional Group Executive Board member (the amount to a maximum of 75 percent of the ﬁxed salary and, as regards the position will however be vacant on March 1, 2016). other Group Executive Board members, a maximum of 60 percent of the • The Executive Vice President of the Business Area Volvo Construction ﬁxed salary. In 2015, members of the Group Executive Board were entiEquipment will be included as a member of the Group Executive Board. tled to variable salary according to a program for variable remuneration to • In addition to the CFO’s current role, the CFO will also become Deputy senior executives determined by the AB Volvo Board. The performance CEO and assume responsibility for the strategy function. Corporate targets deﬁned in the program for the Group Executive Board members Strategy & Brand Portfolio will therefore be relocated organizationally were related to operating margin and cash ﬂow. The purpose of the program under the CFO, and the current Executive Vice President for this funcfor variable remuneration is to create an incentive for the executives to strive tion will no longer be a member of the Group Executive Board. for the Volvo Group developing in such a manner that the deﬁned perfor• The current Executive Vice President Group Business Areas will assume mance targets are achieved, thereby constituting a management tool. the responsibility for strategic projects and will no longer be a member of the Group Executive Board. 182 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2015 Martin Lundstedt, President and CEO, at the Volvo Group Leadership Summit in February 2016. The composition of the Group Executive Board after the organizational In September 2015, Torbjörn Holmström announced his intention to change is detailed above in the preamble section of this chapter. The step down from his position as Executive Vice President GTT. He will recruitment of the Executive Vice President GTP is ongoing. continue in his current position until such time as a successor has been On April 21, 2015, Olof Persson stepped down from his position as appointed to lead the GTT organization. Following this, he will remain in Group CEO. The Group CFO, Jan Gurander, assumed the position as the Volvo Group as senior advisor in research and development. Acting CEO during the period April 22, 2015 to October 21, 2015. On In December 2015, Mikael Bratt, Executive Vice President GTO, October 22, 2015, Martin Lundstedt assumed the position as Group CEO. announced that he intends to leave the Volvo Group. He will remain in his current position for a time period of up to six months. 183 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2015 Group Executive Board as of March 1, 2016 Martin Lundstedt Jan Gurander Claes Nilsson Bruno Blin Dennis Slagle President and CEO Deputy CEO and CFO Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Volvo Group & PresiVolvo Group & PresiVolvo Group and dent Volvo Trucks dent Renault Trucks President Mack Trucks Education MSc. MSc. MBA. BS Accounting CPA Born 1967 1961 1957 1963 1954 Principal work experience President and CEO Chief Financial Ofﬁcer & Has held various posiAfter having worked for Has held various execuof Volvo and member of Senior Vice President tions in the Volvo Group several companies in tive level positions the Group Executive Finance Volvo Car since 1982. Senior Vice the manufacturing, qualwithin Volvo Group Board since October 22, Corporation 2011–2013. President Latin America ity and purchasing Trucks Sales North 2015. President and CFO MAN Diesel & 2015. Senior Vice Presiareas, Bruno Blin joined America 2008–2016. CEO of Scania 2012– Turbo SE 2010. CFO dent Europe North and Renault Trucks PurchasPresident Volvo Con2015. Prior to that, MAN Diesel SE 2008– Central, Group Trucks ing in 1999. He has held struction Equipment NA various managerial 2009. Group Vice Sales (2013–2014). several senior positions 2000–2008. Member of positions at Scania President and CFO Senior Vice President over the years until the Executive Board since 1992. With Volvo Scania AB 2001–2006. Volvo Trucks (2011– being appointed Senior since March 1, 2016 and since 2015. President of Business 2012). President Europe Vice President of Volvo between 2008–2014. Unit Finance AB Volvo Division (2007–2011) Group Purchasing. He With Volvo since 2000. 1999–2001. Senior Vice and International Divihas also served as SenPresident & Finance sion (2006–2007) for ior Vice President, Director Scania AB Volvo Trucks. Member of Group Truck Sales 1998–1999. Member of the Group Executive South Europe since the Group Executive Board since March 1 January 2013. Member Board since 2014. With 2016. With Volvo since of the Group Executive Volvo 1999–2001 and 1982. Board since March 1 since 2014. 2016. With Volvo since 1999. Board Chairman of Partex Board member West memberships Marking Systems AB, Virginia Wesleyan ColPermobil AB and ACEA lege Board of Trustees, Commercial Vehicle and and Volvo Group RepreBoard member of Consentative for National centric AB. Member of Association of Manufacthe Royal Swedish turers (NAM) Academy of Engineering Sciences and Co-chairman of the UN Secretary-General’s HighLevel Advisory Group on Sustainable Transport. Holdings in Volvo, 36,447 Series B shares. 17,687 Series B shares. 15,380 series B shares. 18,332 Series B shares. 70,824 series B shares, own and related parties 8,838 non-sponsored ADR shares. 184 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2015 Joachim Rosenberg Martin Weissburg Torbjörn Holmström Mikael Bratt Soﬁa Frändberg Kerstin Renard Henry Sténson Executive Vice Executive Vice President Executive Vice Executive Vice Executive Vice Executive Vice Executive Vice President Volvo Group Volvo Group and President Group President Group President Group Legal President Group President Group and Chairman of UD President Volvo Trucks Technology Trucks Operations & Compliance and Human Resources Communication & Trucks. Construction Equipment General Counsel Sustainability Affairs MSc. Industrial EngiMaster of Business MSc. Mechanical Master of Laws. BSc. Sociology. neering and ManageManagement, Engineering. ment, MSc. Financial BSc Industrial Economics, MSc. BusiManagement. ness and Economics. 1970 1962 1955 1967 1964 1961 1955 Has held various senior President Volvo CE Executive Vice PresiHas held various senior Responsible for Group Senior Vice President 2012–2014 Brunswick positions in the Volvo since 2014. President dent Group Trucks positions in the ﬁnanLegal & Compliance Human Resources for Group Partner. Senior Group, most recently & CEO Volvo Financial Technology and Volvo cial areas in the Volvo and General Counsel the Volvo Group Vice President Corpoas Executive Vice Services 2010–2014. Group Chief TechnolGroup, most recently of the Volvo Group 2007–2011. Prior to rate Communications President Group Trucks President Volvo Finanogy Ofﬁcer 2014. as Senior Vice Presisince April 1, 2013. that Senior Vice PresiEricsson 2002–2011. Sales 2015. Executive cial Services Americas President of Volvo 3P dent and CFO 2008– Head of Corporate dent Human Resources Senior Vice President Vice President Group 2005–2010. Prior to 2003–2011. Prior to 2011. Prior to that Vice Legal at AB Volvo & Communication at SAS Group CommuniTrucks Sales & MarketVolvo, President Woodthat he has held variPresident and Head of 1998–2013. Corporate Volvo Powertrain cations 1998–2002. ing APAC 2012–2014. ard LLC. President ous senior positions at Corporate Finance at Legal Counsel at AB 2005–2006. Member Senior Vice President President of Volvo Great Dane Financial Volvo Powertrain. AB Volvo. Member of Volvo 1994–1997. of the Group Executive Communications Volvo Group Asia Truck Services. Senior Vice Member of the Executhe Group Executive Member of the Group Board since 2012. With Car Corporation 1995– Operations 2007– President ORIX. Memtive Board since 2012. Board since 2008. Executive Board since Volvo since 2005. 1998. Vice President 2011. Vice President ber of the Executive With Volvo since 1979. With Volvo since 1988. April 1, 2013. With Automotive CommuniVolvo Group Alliance Board since March 1, Volvo since 1994. cation AB 1993–1994. Ofﬁce 2007. Vice 2016 and between Vice President ComPresident Volvo Power2010–2014. With Volvo munications & Public train 2005–2007. since 2005. Affairs Volvo Aero Member of the Group 1989–1993. Member Executive Board since of the Group Executive 2012. With Volvo since Board since 2015. With 2005. Volvo 1989–1993 and 1995–1998 and since 2015. Vice Chairman Secretary to the Board Board member Board member Vestas Chalmers University of AB Volvo since Teknikföretagen Wind Systems A/S, of Technology April 1, 2013. (Engineering Denmark. Braathens companies) Regional Aviation. 49,034 shares, 63,588 series B 80,683 shares, 132,637 shares, 46,659 shares, 37,113 shares, 17,267 Series B including 48,947 shares. including 80,596 including 131,658 including 45,127 including 36,866 shares. Series B shares. Series B shares. Series B shares. Series B shares. Series B shares. 185 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2015 11 Internal control over ﬁnancial reporting The Board is responsible for the internal controls according to the Swedish Risk assessment Companies Act and the Code. The purpose of this report is to provide Risks relating to ﬁnancial reporting are evaluated and monitored by the shareholders and other interested parties with an understanding of how Board through the Audit Committee inter alia through identifying risks internal control is organized at Volvo with regard to ﬁnancial reporting. The that could be considered as material, and through the mitigating control description has been designed in accordance with the Swedish Annual objectives. The risk assessment is based on a number of criteria, such as Accounts Act and is thus limited to internal control over ﬁnancial reporting. the complexity of the accounting principles, revaluation principles of assets or liabilities, complex and/or changing business circumstances, Introduction etc. The risks together with mitigating control objectives are collected in Volvo has a function for internal control with the objective to provide supa framework for internal control over ﬁnancial reporting, Volvo Internal port for management, allowing them to continuously provide solid and Control Standard (VICS). improved internal controls relating to ﬁnancial reporting. Work that is conducted through this function is primarily based to ensure compliance with Control activities directives and policies, and to create effective conditions for speciﬁc conIn addition to the Board of AB Volvo and its Audit Committee, the trol activities in key processes related to ﬁnancial reporting. The Audit management groups and other decision-making bodies in the Group Committee is continuously informed of the results of the work performed constitute overall supervisory bodies. Business processes are designed by the Internal Control function within Volvo with regard to risks, control to ensure that potential errors or deviations in the ﬁnancial reporting are activities and follow-up on the ﬁnancial reporting. prevented, discovered and corrected by implementing control activities Volvo also has a Corporate Audit function with the primary task of indethat correspond to the control objectives deﬁned in the VICS framework. pendently monitoring that companies in the Group follow the principles Control activities range from review of outcome results in management and rules that are stated in the Group’s directives, policies and instrucgroup meetings to speciﬁc reconciliation of accounts and analyses of the tions for ﬁnancial reporting. The head of the Corporate Audit function ongoing processes for ﬁnancial reporting. reports directly to the CEO, to the Group’s General Counsel and the Board’s Audit Committee. Information and communication Policies and instructions relating to the ﬁnancial reporting are updated Control environment and communicated on a regular basis from management to all affected Fundamental to Volvo’s control environment is the business culture that is employees. The Group’s ﬁnancial reporting function has direct operating established within the Group and in which managers and employees operresponsibility for the daily ﬁnancial reporting and works to ensure a uniate. Volvo works actively on communications and training regarding the comform application of the Group’s policies, principles and instructions for the pany’s basic values as described in The Volvo Way, an internal document ﬁnancial reporting and to identify and communicate shortcomings and concerning Volvo’s business culture, and the Group’s Code of Conduct, to areas of improvement in the processes for ﬁnancial reporting. ensure that good morals, ethics and integrity permeate the organization. The foundation of the internal control process relating to the ﬁnancial reporting is based on the Group’s directives, policies and instructions, as well as the organization’s responsibility and authority structure. The principles for internal controls and directives and policies for the ﬁnancial reporting are contained in the Volvo Group Management System, a group wide management system comprising, among other things, instructions, rules and principles. ies enc Pla eﬁci na d g foc nd of ortin u Rem ep ly ed ear ia ty an tion lec as d Volvo Group Internal se are r Control Programme s FPP VICS Volvo Group Internal Control Programme o Test Yearly evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over ﬁnancial reporting (ICFR) within the Volvo Group. fd es d co et a s m n tr il s en ol (v a li an t da e ss ass ti o n c ) P ro s i g n de 186 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2015 Auditor’s report on the Corporate Governance Report Follow-up To the annual meeting of the shareholders of AB Volvo (publ), corporate Ongoing responsibility for follow-up rests with the Group’s ﬁnancial reportidentity number 556012-5790 ing function. In addition, the Corporate Audit and the Internal Control funcIt is the Board of Directors who is responsible for the Corporate Govtion conduct review and follow-up activities in accordance with what is ernance Report for the year 2015 on pages 168–187 and that it has been described in the introduction of this report. More speciﬁcally, the Internal prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. Control function runs and coordinates evaluation activities through the We have read the Corporate Governance Report and based on that “Volvo Group Internal Control Programme,” with the purpose of systematireading and our knowledge of the company and the group we believe that cally evaluating the quality of the internal control over ﬁnancial reporting on we have a sufﬁcient basis for our opinions. This means that our statutory an annual basis. An annual evaluation plan is established and presented to examination of the Corporate Governance Report is different and subthe Audit Committee. This evaluation program comprises three main areas: stantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing stand1. Group-wide controls: Self-assessment procedure carried out by manards in Sweden. agement teams at business area, Group Function and company levels. In our opinion, the Corporate Governance Report has been prepared The main areas evaluated are compliance with the Group’s ﬁnancial and its statutory content is consistent with the annual accounts and the directives and policies found in the Financial Policies and Procedures, consolidated accounts. The Volvo Way and the Group’s Code of Conduct. 2. Process controls at transaction level: Processes related to the ﬁnancial reporting are evaluated by testing procedures/controls based on the Göteborg, 22 February 2016 framework for internal control over ﬁnancial reporting, Volvo Internal Control Standards (VICS). PricewaterhouseCoopers AB 3. General IT controls: Processes for maintenance, development and access management of ﬁnancial applications are evaluated by testing procedures and controls. Peter Clemedtson Johan Palmgren Authorized Public Accountant Authorized Public Accountant The results of the evaluation activities are reported to Group management Lead Partner Partner and the Audit Committee. During 2015, the Internal Control function reported three times to the Audit Committee regarding the annual evaluation plan, status on outstanding issues and ﬁnal assessment of the control environment. Göteborg, February 22, 2016 AB Volvo (publ) The Board of Directors 187 OTHER INFORMATION Proposed policy for remuneration to senior executives Proposal by the Board of Directors to the Annual General Meeting 2016 This policy concerns the remuneration and other terms of employment for Meeting is therefore discontinued after 2015. New share-based incentive the members of the Volvo Group Executive Board (“Executives”). programs, will, where applicable, be resolved by the General Meeting, but The remuneration and the other terms of employment of the Executives no such program is currently proposed. shall be competitive so that the Volvo Group can attract and retain comFor Executives resident in Sweden, the notice period upon termination petent Executives. The total remuneration to Executives consists of ﬁxed by the company shall not exceed 12 months and the notice period upon salary, short-term and long-term incentives, pension and other beneﬁts. termination by the Executive shall not exceed 6 months. In addition, in the Short-term and long-term incentives shall be linked to predetermined and event of termination by the company, the Executive may be entitled to a measurable criteria relating to EBIT and cash ﬂow targets for the Volvo maximum of 12 months’ severance pay. Group, devised to promote the long-term value creation of the Volvo Executives resident outside Sweden or resident in Sweden but having Group and strengthen the link between achieved performance targets a material connection to or having been resident in a country other than and reward. The criteria for short-term and long-term incentives shall be Sweden may be offered notice periods for termination and severance paydetermined by the Board annually. ment that are competitive in the country where the Executives are or have Short-term incentive may, as regards the President & CEO, amount to a been resident or to which the Executives have a material connection, prefmaximum of 100% of the ﬁxed salary and, as regards other Executives, a erably solutions comparable to the solutions applied to Executives resimaximum of 80% of the ﬁxed salary. dent in Sweden. Long-term incentive may, as regards the President & CEO, amount to a maximum of 100% of the ﬁxed salary and, as regards other Executives, a Authority to decide on deviations from this policy maximum of 80% of the ﬁxed salary. The Board of Directors has decided The Board of Directors may deviate from this policy if there are special on a new cash-based long-term incentive program for the Group’s top reasons to do so in an individual case. 300 executives, including the Executives, subject to the general meeting’s approval of this policy. Awards under the program, based on how well Additional information the performance targets are achieved, are disbursed in cash to the particExecutive compensation, which has been decided but which has not yet ipants on the condition that they invest the net award in AB Volvo shares become due for payment by the time of the 2016 Annual General Meetand that they retain the shares for at least three years. The long-term ing, falls within the scope of this policy. Additional information regarding share-based incentive program resolved by the 2014 Annual General remuneration is available in the Volvo Group Annual Report for 2015. 188 OTHER INFORMATION Proposed Disposition of Unappropriated Earnings AB Volvo SEK obligations and the Company and the Group are well prepared to handle both changes in the liquidity and unexpected events. Retained earnings 18,375,935,969.92 The Board of Directors is of the opinion that the Company and the Income for the period 2015 12,738,576,497.44 Group have capacity to assume future business risks as well as to bear Total retained earnings 31,114,512,467.36 contingent losses. The proposed dividend is not expected to adversely affect the Company’s and the Group’s ability to make further commercially The Board of Directors and the President propose that the above sum justiﬁed investments in accordance with the Board of Directors’ plans. be disposed of as follows: In addition to what has been stated above, the Board of Directors has SEK considered other known circumstances which may be of importance for the Company’s and the Group’s ﬁnancial position. In doing so, no circumTo the shareholders, a dividend of SEK 3.00 per share 6,093,139,071.00 stance has appeared that does not justify the proposed dividend. To be carried forward 25,021,373,396.36 If the Annual General Meeting resolves in accordance with the Board Total 31,114,512,467.36 of Directors’ proposal, SEK 25,021,373,396.36 will remain of the Company’s non-restricted equity, calculated as per year end 2015. The Board of Directors has the view that the Company’s and the The record date for determining who is entitled to receive dividends is Group’s shareholders’ equity will, after the proposed dividend, be sufﬁproposed to be Friday April 8, 2016. cient in relation to the nature, scope and risks of the business. In view of the Board of Directors’ proposal to the Annual General Meeting to be held April 6, 2016 to decide on the distribution of a dividend of SEK 3.00 per share, the Board hereby makes the following statement in accordance with Chapter 18, Section 4 of the Swedish Companies Act. The Board of Directors concludes that the Company’s restricted equity is The Board of Directors and the President certify that the annual ﬁnancial fully covered after the proposed dividend. The Board further concludes that report has been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accountthe proposed dividend is justiﬁable in view of the parameters set out in Chaping principles and that the consolidated accounts have been prepared in ter 17, Section 3, second and third paragraphs of the Swedish Companies accordance with the international set of accounting standards referred to Act. In connection herewith, the Board wishes to point out the following. in Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and of the The proposed dividend reduces the Company’s solvency from 40.9 per Council of 19 July 2002 on the application of international accounting cent to 37.1 per cent and the Group’s solvency from 22.9 per cent to 21.6 standards, and give a true and fair view of the position and proﬁt or loss of per cent, calculated as per year end 2015. The Board of Directors considthe Company and the Group, and that the management report for the ers this solvency to be satisfactory with regard to the business in which Company and for the Group gives a fair review of the development and the Group is active. performance of the business, position and proﬁt or loss of the Company According to the Board of Directors’ opinion, the proposed dividend and the Group, and describes the principal risks and uncertainties that the will not affect the Company’s or the Group’s ability to fulﬁl their payment Company and the companies in the Group face. Göteborg, February 22, 2016 Carl-Henric Svanberg Board Chairman Matti Alahuhta Eckhard Cordes James W. Grifﬁth Board member Board member Board member Martin Lundstedt Kathryn V. Marinello Martina Merz President and CEO Board member Board member Hanne de Mora Anders Nyrén Lars Westerberg Board member Board member Board member Mats Henning Mikael Sällström Berth Tulin Board member Board member Board member Our audit report was issued on February 22, 2016 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Peter Clemedtson Johan Palmgren Authorized Public Accountant Authorized Public Accountant Lead Partner Partner 189 OTHER INFORMATION Audit Report for AB Volvo (publ) To the annual meeting of the shareholders of AB Volvo (publ), corporate accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts identity number 556012-5790 have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the ﬁnancial position of the group as Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of 31 December 2015 and of their ﬁnancial performance and cash ﬂows We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of AB for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial ReportVolvo (publ) for the year 2015. The annual accounts and consolidated ing Standards, as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. Our accounts of the company are included in the printed version of this docuopinions do not cover the corporate governance statement on pages ment on pages 76–167 and 189. 168–187. The statutory administration report is consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director for We therefore recommend that the annual meeting of shareholders the annual accounts and consolidated accounts adopt the income statement and balance sheet for the parent company The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the and the group. preparation and fair presentation of these annual accounts in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and of the consolidated accounts in accordReport on other legal and regulatory requirements ance with International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, EU, and the Annual Accounts Act, and for such internal control as the we have also audited the proposed appropriations of the company’s proﬁt Board of Directors and the Managing Director determine is necessary to or loss and the administration of the Board of Directors and the Managing enable the preparation of annual accounts and consolidated accounts Director of AB Volvo (publ) for the year 2015. that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director Auditor’s responsibility The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriations of Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these annual accounts and the company’s proﬁt or loss, and the Board of Directors and the Managing consolidated accounts based on our audit. We conducted our audit in Director are responsible for administration under the Companies Act. accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Those standards require that we Auditor’s responsibility comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain Our responsibility is to express an opinion with reasonable assurance on reasonable assurance about whether the annual accounts and consolithe proposed appropriations of the company’s proﬁt or loss and on the dated accounts are free from material misstatement. administration based on our audit. We conducted the audit in accordance An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. the amounts and disclosures in the annual accounts and consolidated As a basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ proposed approaccounts. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, priations of the company’s proﬁt or loss, we examined the Board of Direcincluding the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the tors’ reasoned statement and a selection of supporting evidence in order annual accounts and consolidated accounts, whether due to fraud or error. to be able to assess whether the proposal is in accordance with the ComIn making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control panies Act. relevant to the company’s preparation and fair presentation of the annual As a basis for our opinion concerning discharge from liability, in addition accounts and consolidated accounts in order to design audit procedures to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, we examthat are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of ined signiﬁcant decisions, actions taken and circumstances of the comexpressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal conpany in order to determine whether any member of the Board of Directors trol. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting or Managing Director is liable to the company. We also examined whether policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by any member of the Board of Directors or Managing Director has, in any the Board of Directors and the Managing Director, as well as evaluating other way, acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the Annual the overall presentation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufﬁcient and We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufﬁcient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinions. appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. Opinions Opinions In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance We recommend to the annual meeting of shareholders that the proﬁt be with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory administrathe ﬁnancial position of the parent company as of 31 December 2015 and tion report and that the members of the Board of Directors and the Manof its ﬁnancial performance and its cash ﬂows for the year then ended in aging Directors be discharged from liability for the ﬁnancial year. Göteborg, 22 February 2016 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Peter Clemedtson Johan Palmgren Authorized Public Accountant Authorized Public Accountant Lead Partner Partner 190 OTHER INFORMATION Eleven-year Summary The reporting in the eleven-year summary is based on IFRS. As from Janestate has been transferred from Volvo Financial Services, which, as from uary 1, 2007, the beneﬁts from the synergies created in the business January 1, 2007, only are consolidated in accordance with the purchase units are transferred back to the business areas. Also, as from January 1, method. Comparison ﬁgures for 2006 have been recalculated. 2007, the responsibility for the Group’s treasury operations and real Consolidated income statement SEK M 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Net sales 312,515 282,948 272,622 303,647 310,367 264,749 218,361 303,667 285,405 258,835 240,559 Cost of sales –240,653 –220,012 –212,504 –235,085 –235,104 –201,797 –186,167 –237,578 –219,600 –199,054 –186,662 Gross income 71,862 62,937 60,118 68,562 75,263 62,952 32,194 66,089 65,805 59,781 53,897 Research and development expenses –15,368 –16,656 –15,124 –14,794 –13,276 –12,970 –13,193 –14,348 –11,059 –8,354 –7,557 Selling expenses –27,694 –27,448 –28,506 –28,248 –26,001 –24,149 –25,334 –27,129 –26,068 –21,213 –20,778 Administrative expenses –5,769 –5,408 –5,862 –5,669 –7,132 –5,666 –5,863 –6,940 –7,133 –6,551 –6,301 Other operating income and expenses –4,179 –7,697 –3,554 –2,160 –1,649 –2,023 –4,798 –1,915 163 –3,466 –588 Income from investments in joint ventures and associated companies –143 46 96 –23 –81 –86 –14 25 430 61 –557 Income from other investments 4,609 50 –30 –47 –225 –58 –6 69 93 141 37 Operating income 23,318 5,824 7,138 17,622 26,899 18,000 –17,013 15,851 22,231 20,399 18,153 Interest income and similar credits 257 328 381 510 608 442 390 1,171 952 666 654 Interest expenses and similar charges –2,366 –1,994 –2,810 –2,476 –2,875 –3,142 –3,559 –1,935 –1,122 –585 –972 Other ﬁnancial income and expenses –792 931 11 –301 297 213 –392 –1,077 –504 –181 181 Income after ﬁnancial items 20,418 5,089 4,721 15,355 24,929 15,514 –20,573 14,010 21,557 20,299 18,016 Income taxes –5,320 –2,854 –919 –4,097 –6,814 –4,302 5,889 –3,994 –6,529 –3,981 –4,908 Income for the period 15,099 2,235 3,802 11,258 18,115 11,212 –14,685 10,016 15,028 16,318 13,108 Attributable to: Equity holders of the Parent Company 15,058 2,099 3,583 11,039 17,751 10,866 –14,718 9,942 14,932 16,268 13,054 Minority interest 41 136 219 219 364 346 33 74 96 50 54 15,099 2,235 3,802 11,258 18,115 11,212 –14,685 10,016 15,028 16,318 13,108 Consolidated income statement Industrial Operations SEK M 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Net sales 303,582 275,999 265,420 296,031 303,589 257,375 208,487 294,932 276,795 249,020 231,191 Cost of sales –236,311 –217,251 –209,307 –231,216 –233,097 –197,480 –179,578 –232,247 –214,160 –192,400 –180,823 Gross income 67,271 58,748 56,113 64,815 70,492 59,895 28,909 62,685 62,635 56,620 50,368 Research and development expenses –15,368 –16,656 –15,124 –14,794 –13,276 –12,970 –13,193 –14,348 –11,059 –8,354 –7,557 Selling expenses –25,857 –25,778 –26,904 –26,582 –25,181 –22,649 –23,752 –25,597 –24,671 –19,999 –19,616 Administrative expenses –5,728 –5,367 –5,824 –5,639 –4,753 –5,640 –5,838 –6,921 –7,092 –6,481 –6,147 Other operating income and expenses –3,473 –6,931 –2,710 –1,600 –1,045 –659 –2,432 –1,457 249 –3,275 –397 Income from Volvo Financial Services – – – – – – – – – – 2,033 Income/loss from investments in joint ventures and associated companies –143 46 96 –23 –82 –86 –15 23 428 61 –568 Income from other investments 4,610 49 –31 –46 –225 –57 –13 69 93 141 37 Operating income 21,312 4,111 5,616 16,130 25,930 17,834 –16,333 14,454 20,583 18,713 18,153 191 OTHER INFORMATION Consolidated balance sheets SEK M 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Intangible assets 36,416 37,115 36,588 40,373 39,507 40,714 41,628 43,958 36,508 19,117 20,421 Property, plant and equipment 53,618 55,181 52,233 55,004 54,540 54,242 55,280 57,270 47,210 34,379 35,068 Assets under operating leases 32,531 31,218 25,672 29,022 23,922 19,647 20,388 25,429 22,502 20,501 20,839 Shares and participations 12,050 9,839 6,327 2,890 1,874 2,098 2,044 1,953 2,219 6,890 751 Inventories 44,390 45,533 41,153 40,409 44,599 39,837 37,727 55,045 43,645 34,211 33,937 Customer-ﬁnancing receivables 102,583 99,166 83,861 80,989 78,699 72,688 81,977 98,489 78,847 64,742 64,466 Interest-bearing receivables 2,938 2,555 1,389 5,635 3,638 2,757 3,044 5,101 4,530 4,116 1,897 Other receivables 61,932 68,448 59,943 55,531 59,877 53,154 50,575 61,560 55,152 42,567 42,881 Non-interest-bearing assets held for sale 3,314 288 8,104 – 9,348 136 1,692 – – 805 – Cash and cash equivalents 24,393 33,554 29,559 28,889 37,241 32,733 37,910 23,614 31,034 31,099 36,947 Assets 374,165 382,896 344,829 338,742 353,244 318,007 332,265 372,419 321,647 258,427 257,207 Shareholders’ equity1 85,610 80,048 77,365 86,914 85,681 74,121 67,034 84,640 82,781 87,188 78,760 Provision for post-employment beneﬁts 13,673 16,683 12,322 6,697 6,665 7,510 8,051 11,705 9,774 8,692 11,986 Other provisions 27,207 28,010 19,900 21,787 20,815 18,992 19,485 29,076 27,084 20,970 18,556 Interest-bearing liabilities 132,607 147,985 135,001 131,842 130,479 123,695 156,852 145,727 108,318 66,957 74,885 Liabilities associated with assets held for sale 573 130 350 – 4,716 135 272 – – 280 – Other liabilities 114,495 110,042 99,891 91,502 104,888 93,554 80,571 101,271 93,690 74,340 73,020 Shareholders’ equity and liabilities 374,165 382,896 344,829 338,742 353,244 318,007 332,265 372,419 321,647 258,427 257,207 Assets pledged 9,428 7,680 5,078 4,099 1,832 3,339 958 1,380 1,556 1,960 3,255 Contingent liabilities 15,580 15,940 17,290 17,763 17,154 11,003 9,607 9,427 8,153 7,726 7,850 1 of which minority interests 1,801 1,723 1,333 1,266 1,100 1,011 629 630 579 284 260 192 OTHER INFORMATION Consolidated balance sheets, Industrial Operations SEK M 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Intangible assets 36,314 37,010 36,479 40,267 39,385 40,613 41,532 43,909 36,441 19,054 20,348 Property, plant and equipment 53,554 55,087 52,146 54,899 54,446 54,169 55,208 57,185 47,132 30,493 31,330 Assets under operating leases 20,616 19,484 17,013 21,263 16,749 13,217 13,539 16,967 13,850 11,822 10,260 Shares and participations 12,042 9,825 6,321 2,884 1,871 2,080 2,025 1,935 2,189 16,565 10,357 Inventories 44,194 45,364 40,964 40,057 43,828 38,956 35,765 54,084 43,264 33,893 33,583 Customer-ﬁnancing receivables 11 1,828 1,406 1,397 1,702 1,428 1,367 975 1,233 1,193 1,377 Interest-bearing receivables 3,738 2,777 2,195 11,011 6,734 11,153 8,010 6,056 13,701 13,214 7,691 Other receivables 68,223 70,413 60,679 54,324 59,062 52,358 49,008 60,586 55,970 43,335 43,992 Non-current assets held for sale 3,314 288 8,104 – 9,348 136 1,692 – – 805 – Cash and cash equivalents 21,210 31,105 28,230 27,146 35,951 31,491 37,404 22,575 30,026 29,907 36,047 Assets 263,216 273,181 253,537 253,248 269,076 245,602 245,550 264,272 243,806 200,281 194,985 Shareholders’ equity 75,151 70,105 68,467 78,321 76,682 66,101 58,485 75,046 75,129 87,188 78,760 Provision for post-employment beneﬁts 13,621 16,580 12,249 6,663 6,635 7,478 8,021 11,677 9,746 8,661 11,966 Other provisions 23,936 25,054 17,575 19,653 19,101 17,240 17,456 27,015 25,372 19,385 17,164 Interest-bearing liabilities 32,562 48,180 52,491 54,472 55,394 59,857 78,890 46,749 38,286 9,779 13,097 Liabilities associated with assets held for sale 573 130 350 – 4,716 135 272 – – 280 – Other liabilities 117,374 113,131 102,405 94,139 106,548 94,791 82,426 103,785 95,273 74,988 73,998 Shareholders’ equity and liabilities 263,216 273,181 253,537 253,248 269,076 245,602 245,550 264,272 243,806 200,281 194,985 193 OTHER INFORMATION Consolidated cash-ﬂow statements SEK bn 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Operating income/loss 23.3 5.8 7.1 17.6 26.9 18.0 –17.0 15.9 22.2 20.4 18.2 Depreciation and amortization 16.8 15.9 17.4 14.7 13.9 13.8 15.2 13.5 12.5 12.4 9.9 Other non-cash items –0.5 6.1 2.4 1.4 1.3 1.6 4.4 –0.2 –0.5 0.7 0.4 Change in working capital –9.0 –14.1 –10.8 –21.9 –15.1 4.8 16.9 –23.3 –9.9 –7.7 –4.7 Customer ﬁnancing receivables, net – – – – – – – – – – –7.8 Financial items and income tax –4.6 –5.0 –5.1 –8.0 –7.3 –5.5 –4.6 –5.2 –5.9 –4.3 –2.0 Cash-ﬂow from operating activities 25.9 8.7 11.0 3.8 19.7 32.7 14.9 0.7 18.4 21.5 14.0 Investments in ﬁxed assets –8.8 –8.6 –12.2 –14.6 –12.6 –10.4 –10.5 –12.7 –10.1 –10.0 –10.3 Investments in leasing assets –10.5 –10.1 –8.2 –10.0 –7.4 –4.8 –4.2 –5.4 –4.8 –4.6 –4.5 Disposals of ﬁxed assets and leasing assets 6.0 5.0 3.4 3.1 3.3 3.1 3.8 2.9 2.9 3.2 2.6 Shares and participations, net –2.0 0.1 0.0 –1.2 –0.1 –0.1 0.0 0.0 0.4 –5.8 0.3 Acquired and divested subsidiaries and other business units, net 0.4 7.4 0.9 3.4 –1.6 0.6 0.2 –1.3 –15.0 0.5 0.7 Interest-bearing receivables including marketable securities 3.6 –4.8 0.5 3.7 2.6 6.8 –8.9 10.9 3.6 7.7 –1.3 Cash-ﬂow after net investments 14.5 –2.3 –4.6 –11.8 3.9 27.9 –4.7 –4.9 –4.6 12.5 1.5 Change in loans, net –13.2 6.7 13.0 14.1 8.7 –25.7 12.6 18.2 28.7 –2.6 3.6 Repurchase of own shares – – – – – – 0.0 – – – –1.8 Dividend to AB Volvo’s shareholders –6.1 –6.1 –6.1 –6.1 –5.1 0.0 –4.1 –11.1 –20.3 –6.8 –5.1 Dividend to minority shareholder’s –0.0 0.0 –0.2 0.0 0.0 –0.1 – – – – – Other 0.0 –0.1 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 –0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Change in cash and cash equivalents excluding translation differences –4.8 –1.8 2.2 –3.8 7.5 2.1 3.7 2.2 3.8 3.1 –1.8 Translation differences on cash and cash equivalents –0.4 1.1 –0.5 –0.8 –0.1 –0.4 –0.2 1.0 0.0 –0.5 1.1 Change in cash and cash equivalents –5.2 –0.7 1.7 –4.6 7.4 1.7 3.5 3.2 3.8 2.6 –0.7 Operating cash-ﬂow Industrial Operations SEK bn 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Operating income 21.3 4.1 5.6 16.1 26.0 17.8 –16.3 14.5 20.6 18.7 16.1 Depreciation and amortization 12.6 12.7 14.5 12.0 11.4 11.4 12.4 11.8 10.3 9.8 7.3 Other items not affecting cash –1.1 5.3 1.5 0.8 0.6 0.1 2.3 –0.7 –0.4 0.2 0.2 Change in working capital –1.9 –3.3 –2.0 –9.2 –4.2 4.6 4.7 –10.9 –0.1 –3.1 –5.6 Financial items and income taxes –4.0 –4.5 –4.9 –7.3 –6.9 –5.1 –4.7 –5.0 –6.0 –3.7 –1.9 Cash-ﬂow from operating activities 26.7 14.3 14.7 12.4 26.9 28.8 –1.6 9.7 24.4 21.9 16.1 Investments in ﬁxed assets –8.8 –8.6 –12.2 –14.6 –12.6 –10.3 –10.3 –12.6 –10.1 –9.7 –9.9 Investments in leasing assets –0.3 –0.5 –1.5 –3.6 –1.4 –0.3 –0.2 –0.4 –0.2 –0.5 –0.3 Disposals of ﬁxed assets and leasing assets 0.7 1.1 0.5 0.9 1.2 0.8 0.7 0.6 1.1 0.9 0.9 Operating cash-ﬂow 18.3 6.4 1.5 –4.9 14.1 19.0 –11.4 –2.7 15.2 12.6 6.8 194 OTHER INFORMATION Exports from Sweden SEK M 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Volvo Group, total 86,731 78,174 88,560 84,314 91,065 72,688 41,829 96,571 88,606 80,517 71,133 Key ratios 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Gross margin, %1 22.2 21.3 21.1 21.9 23.7 23.3 13.9 21.3 22.6 22.7 21.8 Research and development expenses as percentage of net sales1 5.1 6.0 5.7 5.0 4.4 5.0 6.3 4.9 4.0 3.4 3.3 Selling expenses as percentage of net sales1 8.5 9.3 10.1 9.0 8.0 8.8 11.4 8.7 8.9 8.0 8.5 Administration expenses as percentage of net sales1 1.9 1.9 2.2 1.9 2.3 2.2 2.8 2.3 2.6 2.6 2.7 Return on shareholders’ equity, % 18.4 2.8 5.0 12.9 23.1 16.0 –19.7 12.1 18.1 19.6 17.8 Interest coverage, times1 9.1 2.2 2.1 6.7 9.6 5.9 –4.7 8.8 20.7 26.1 16.7 Self-ﬁnancing ratio, % 194 64 84 18 118 270 137 5 153 189 116 Self-ﬁnancing ratio Industrial Operations, % 316 180 112 72 210 294 –16 78 265 235 173 Net Financial position incl. post-employment beneﬁts SEK M1 –13,237 –26,378 –32,066 –22,978 –19,346 –24,691 –41,489 –29,795 –4,305 23,076 18,675 Net ﬁnancial position incl. post-employment beneﬁts as percentage of shareholders’ equity1 –17.6 –37.6 –46.8 –29.3 –25.2 –37.4 –70.9 –39.7 –5.7 29.2 23.7 Shareholders’ equity as percentage of total assets 22.9 20.9 22.4 25.7 24.3 23.3 20.2 22.7 25.7 33.7 30.6 Shareholders’ equity as percentage of total assets, Industrial Operations 28.6 25.7 27.0 30.9 28.5 26.9 23.8 28.4 30.8 40.6 40.4 Shareholders’ equity excluding minority interest as percentage of total assets 22.4 20.5 22.0 25.2 23.9 23.0 20.0 22.6 25.6 33.6 30.5 1 Pertains to the Industrial Operations. For periods up to and including 2006, Volvo Financial Services is included and consolidated according to the equity method. 195 OTHER INFORMATION Volvo share statistics Data per share (adjusted for issues and splits)1 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Basic earnings, SEK1 7.42 1.03 1.77 5.44 8.75 5.36 –7.26 4.90 7.37 8.03 6.44 Cash dividend, SEK 3.00 9 3.00 3.00 3.00 3.00 2.50 0 2.00 5.50 10.008 3.35 Share price at year-end (B share), SEK 79.10 84.70 84.45 88.80 75.30 118.50 61.45 42.90 108.50 90.70 74.90 Direct return (B share), %2 3.8 3.5 3.6 3.4 4.0 2.1 – 4.7 5.1 11.0 4.5 Effective return (B share), % 3 –3 4 –2 22 –34 97 43 –59 25.7 39.8 48.5 Price/earnings ratio (B share)4 10.7 82.2 47.7 16.3 8.6 22.1 neg 8.8 14.7 11.3 11.6 EBIT multiple5 7.7 26.3 19.6 9.0 5.1 12.0 neg 3.6 9.7 10.3 9.3 Payout ratio, % 6 40 291 169 55 34 47 – 41 75 62 52 Shareholders’ equity, SEK7 41 39 38 43 42 36 33 41 41 43 38.80 Return on shareholders' equity, % 18.4 2.8 5.0 12.9 23.1 16.0 neg 12.1 18.1 19.6 17.8 1 Basic earnings per share is calculated as income for the period divided 5 Market value at year-end minus net ﬁnancial position and minority interests by average number of shares outstanding. divided by operating income. 2 Proposed dividend in SEK per share divided by share price at year-end. 6 Cash dividend divided by basic earnings per share. 3 Share price at year-end, including proposed dividend during the year, 7 Shareholders’ equity for shareholders in AB Volvo divided by number divided by share price at beginning of the year, (2006 includes a share split of shares outstanding at year-end. 6:1 in which the sixth share was redeemed by AB Volvo for an amount of 8 Including extra payment of SEK 5 through redemption of shares. SEK 5.00 per share). 9 Proposed by the Board of Directors. 4 Share price at year-end divided by basic earnings per share. Other share data 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Number of shareholders at year-end 234,989 237,871 246,265 242,482 251,715 240,043 233,311 220,192 197,519 183,735 195,442 Number of Series A shares outstanding at year-end, million 485 492 499 526 643 657 657 657 657 131.4 131.4 Number of Series B shares outstanding at year-end, million 1,546 1,537 1,530 1,502 1,385 1,371 1,371 1,371 1,369 273.4 273.1 Average number of shares outstanding, million 2,030 2,028 2,028 2,028 2,027 2,027 2,027 2,027 2,025 404.7 405.2 Number of Series A shares traded in Stockholm during the year, million 51.7 86.3 53.0 45.4 130.5 203.2 147.0 308.0 172.3 56.4 39.3 Number of Series B shares traded in Stockholm during the year, million 2,052.1 2,068.7 1,878.5 2,081.2 2,944.1 2,272.4 2,713.9 3,130.0 2,712.4 617.0 518.7 % of Distribution of shares, Number of % of total Share of The largest shareholders in Number total Share December 31, 20151 shareholders votes1 capital, %1 AB Volvo, December 31, 20151 of shares votes capital, % 1–1,000 shares 178,756 2.7 2.6 Industrivärden 143,671,662 22.3 7.1 1,001–10,000 shares 51,005 6.0 6.9 Cevian Capital 170,515,457 14.8 8.4 10,001–100,000 shares 4,447 3.5 5.2 Norges Bank Investment Management 112,719,593 6.1 5.6 100,001– 781 87.7 85.3 SHB 2 37,559,739 5.8 1.9 Total 234,989 100.0 100.0 Alecta (pension funds) 79,960,000 4.5 3.9 AFA Insurance 24,737,368 3.4 1.2 1 Based on all registered shares. AMF Insurance & Funds 49,292,749 2.6 2.4 AP4 Fund 24,554,732 1.9 1.2 AB Volvo held 4.6% of the Company’s shares on December 31, 2015. Swedbank Robur Funds 90,191,649 1.8 4.4 Skandia Liv 10,540,070 0.9 0.5 Total 743,743,019 64.1 36.6 1 Based on the number of outstanding shares. 2 Comprises shares held by SHB, SHB Pension Fund, SHB Employee Fund, SHB Pensionskassa and Oktogonen. 196 OTHER INFORMATION Business area statistics Net sales1 SEK M 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Trucks Europe 83,767 72,757 73,640 76,365 83,451 69,606 65,874 109,914 108,651 93,282 79,706 North America 73,017 53,696 40,314 42,650 37,042 26,901 21,563 26,588 27,255 50,605 46,129 South America 11,624 19,669 23,318 21,172 26,847 21,680 12,490 14,680 11,483 9,213 7,657 Asia 31,589 29,264 26,740 36,531 37,840 35,231 26,943 37,515 26,593 8,975 13,551 Other markets 13,982 15,518 14,462 15,565 13,741 13,887 12,069 14,538 13,910 9,190 8,353 Total 213,978 190,904 178,474 192,283 198,920 167,305 138,940 203,235 187,892 171,265 155,396 Buses Europe 7,284 6,139 5,429 6,200 6,631 6,242 7,707 7,321 7,767 7,924 7,142 North America 10,635 6,721 5,929 6,675 7,532 7,200 5,673 5,355 4,630 4,910 4,247 South America 1,425 2,559 1,836 2,794 2,715 1,737 1,235 1,571 1,623 1,537 2,641 Asia 2,557 1,892 2,055 2,853 2,953 3,299 2,749 2,094 1,802 2,003 1,612 Other markets 1,678 1,334 1,457 1,774 1,992 2,038 1,101 971 786 897 947 Total 23,580 18,645 16,707 20,295 21,823 20,516 18,465 17,312 16,608 17,271 16,589 Construction Europe 17,732 17,215 16,356 16,518 17,765 16,138 12,987 25,192 25,294 20,326 15,524 Equipment North America 11,843 10,784 8,319 12,027 7,829 6,267 5,475 10,159 11,170 11,280 10,337 South America 2,207 3,234 3,314 3,788 4,163 4,130 2,578 2,913 2,155 1,358 1,238 Asia 16,424 18,458 21,911 27,033 29,999 24,352 12,957 13,738 12,179 6,903 5,717 Other markets 2,802 3,164 3,539 4,192 3,745 2,923 1,661 4,077 2,835 2,264 2,000 Total 51,008 52,855 53,437 63,558 63,500 53,810 35,658 56,079 53,633 42,131 34,816 Volvo Penta Europe 4,462 3,779 3,714 3,620 4,274 4,507 4,390 6,554 6,798 6,111 5,102 North America 2,161 1,584 1,491 1,486 1,379 1,500 1,100 1,947 2,674 2,815 2,832 South America 365 386 297 306 335 335 284 364 274 221 208 Asia 1,855 1,615 1,692 1,867 2,130 2,008 2,054 2,082 1,624 1,359 1,427 Other markets 562 425 356 352 341 366 331 486 349 268 207 Total 9,406 7,790 7,550 7,631 8,458 8,716 8,159 11,433 11,719 10,774 9,776 Volvo Aero Europe – – – 2,404 2,893 3,768 3,942 3,497 3,462 3,798 3,406 North America – – – 2,657 3,300 3,599 3,508 3,534 3,723 3,815 3,612 South America – – – 0 7 27 34 58 127 173 168 Asia – – – 109 104 233 205 234 234 356 284 Other markets – – – 49 52 81 114 125 100 91 68 Total – – – 5,219 6,356 7,708 7,803 7,448 7,646 8,233 7,538 Other and eliminations 5,610 5,806 9,252 7,044 4,532 –680 –538 –575 –703 –654 7,076 Net sales Industrial Operations 303,582 275,999 265,420 296,031 303,589 257,375 208,487 294,932 276,795 249,020 231,191 Customer Europe 5,278 5,120 4,686 4,703 4,663 4,733 7,127 7,099 4,484 4,388 4,797 Finance North America 4,033 2,999 2,900 2,833 2,326 2,605 3,004 369 2,467 2,569 2,036 South America 1,116 1,122 1,009 1,195 1,131 1,156 1,070 791 620 608 570 Asia 548 638 707 795 571 435 435 158 87 45 101 Other markets 224 232 237 257 192 101 75 68 47 38 45 Total 11,199 10,111 9,539 9,783 8,883 9,031 11,711 8,485 7,705 7,648 7,549 Eliminations –2,265 –3,162 –2,336 –2,167 –2,104 –1,658 –1,836 250 905 2,167 1,819 Volvo Group total 312,515 282,948 272,622 303,647 310,367 264,749 218,361 303,667 285,405 258,835 240,559 1 As of January 1, 2007, the results from the synergies created in the business units are transferred back to the various business areas. Comparison ﬁgures for 2006 have been restated. Volvo Aero was divested in October 1, 2012. 197 OTHER INFORMATION Operating income SEK M 20155 20144 20133 20122 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 20061 2005 Trucks 19,517 4,157 6,145 10,216 18,227 10,112 –10,805 12,167 15,193 13,116 11,717 Buses 860 92 –190 51 1,114 780 –350 –76 231 745 470 Construction Equipment 2,044 652 2,592 5,773 6,812 6,180 –4,005 1,808 4,218 4,072 2,752 Volvo Penta 1,086 724 626 541 825 578 –230 928 1,173 1,105 943 Volvo Aero – – – 767 360 286 50 359 529 359 836 Customer Finance 2,006 1,712 1,522 1,492 969 167 –680 1,397 1,649 1,686 2,033 Other –2,195 –1,514 –3,557 –1,217 –1,408 –102 –994 –731 –762 –684 –598 Operating income/loss Volvo Group 23,318 5,824 7,138 17,622 26,899 18,000 –17,013 15,851 22,231 20,399 18,153 Between 2007 and 2011, the beneﬁts from the synergies created in the business 3 Operating income in 2013 included a revaluation of neg 1,500 related to Volvo units are transferred back to the various business areas. Comparison ﬁgures for Rents, reported in Other. 2006 have been restated. 4 Operating income in 2014 included provisions of 4,450 for pending EU antitrust 1 Operating income in 2006 included adjustment of goodwill of neg 1,712, investigation of 3,790 and expected credit losses of 660. reported in Trucks. 5 Operating income in 2014 included a capital gain of SEK 4,608 M from a sale of 2 Volvo Aero was divested October 1, 2012. shares in Eicher Motors Limited. Operating margin % 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Trucks 9.1 2.2 3.4 5.3 9.2 6.0 –7.8 6.0 8.1 7.7 7.5 Buses 3.6 0.5 –1.1 0.3 5.1 3.8 –1.9 –0.4 1.4 4.3 2.8 Construction Equipment 4.0 1.2 4.9 9.1 10.7 11.5 –11.2 3.2 7.9 9.7 7.9 Volvo Penta 11.5 9.3 8.3 7.1 9.8 6.6 –2.8 8.1 10.0 10.3 9.6 Volvo Aero – – – 14.7 5.7 3.7 0.6 4.8 6.9 4.4 11.1 Volvo Group Industrial Operations 7.0 1.5 2.1 5.4 8.5 6.9 –7.8 5.2 7.8 7.9 7.9 Customer Finance 17.9 16.9 16.0 15.3 10.9 1.8 –5.8 16.5 21.4 22.0 26.9 Volvo Group 7.5 2.1 2.6 5.8 8.7 6.8 –7.8 5.2 7.8 7.9 7.5 Number of employees at year-end Number1, 2, 3 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Trucks 54,668 58,067 58,542 61,256 62,315 57,796 56,505 64,280 64,390 49,900 50,240 Buses 7,270 6,900 6,648 7,514 8,529 8,685 9,541 8,930 9,290 7,760 7,710 Construction Equipment 13,889 14,901 14,663 14,788 18,422 16,648 16,126 19,810 19,710 11,050 10,290 Volvo Penta 1,470 1,422 1,412 1,361 2,549 2,353 2,928 2,940 3,000 1,650 1,560 Volvo Aero – – – – 3,179 3,120 3,278 3,510 3,550 3,510 3,460 Financial Services 1,340 1,339 1,355 1,362 1,323 1,235 1,234 1,290 1,150 1,010 1,070 Other 9,827 10,193 12,913 12,436 1,845 572 596 620 610 8,310 7,530 Volvo Group, total 88,464 92,822 95,533 98,717 98,162 90,409 90,208 101,380 101,700 83,190 81,860 1 Between 2007 and 2011, employees in business units are allocated to the business areas. 2 As of 2009, only regular employees are shown, for previous years also temporary employees were included. 3 As of 2012, employees in business units are not allocated to the business areas. Environmental performance of Volvo production plants, Industrial operations Absolute values related to net sales 2015 2014 2013 20121 Energy consumption (GWh; MWh/SEK M) 2,106; 6.9 2,176; 7.9 2,536; 9.6 2,518; 8.6 CO2 emissions (1,000 tons; tons/SEK M) 221; 0.7 231; 0.8 280; 1.1 235; 0.8 Water consumption (1,000 m3; m3/SEK M) 4,919; 16.2 4,982; 18.1 5,815; 21.9 7,372; 25.2 NO x emissions (tons; kilos/SEK M) 344; 1.3 332; 1.2 347; 1.3 413; 1.4 Solvent emissions (tons; kilos/SEK M) 1,885; 6.2 2,472; 9.0 2,221; 8.4 2,358; 8.1 Sulphur dioxide emissions (tons; kilos/SEK M) 32.1; 0.1 37.9; 0.1 23.4; 0.1 26; 0.1 Hazardous waste (tons; kg/SEK M) 27,824; 91.6 24,944; 90.4 28,395; 107.0 32,547; 111.4 Net sales, SEK bn 303.6 276.0 265.4 292.2 1 Restated according to new accounting rules. 2 Excluding UD Trucks and Ingersoll Rand Road Development. 198 OTHER INFORMATION Employees Number1 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Sweden 20,412 21,384 22,588 23,052 24,663 23,073 22,763 28,190 28,660 27,830 27,070 Europe, excluding Sweden 27,662 29,449 29,746 30,382 30,458 29,239 29,793 32,940 32,780 30,070 29,650 North America 15,534 15,217 16,397 16,569 15,427 12,844 12,640 14,200 15,750 14,820 15,140 South America 5,380 6,353 6,275 5,977 5,234 4,322 4,257 4,380 4,640 3,890 3,690 Asia 17,046 17,793 17,953 20,222 19,924 18,535 18,416 19,090 17,150 4,420 4,210 Other markets 2,430 2,626 2,574 2,515 2,456 2,396 2,339 2,580 2,720 2,160 2,100 Volvo Group total 88,464 92,822 95,533 98,717 98,162 90,409 90,208 101,380 101,700 83,190 81,860 1 As of 2009, only regular employees are shown, for previous years also temporary employees were included. Delivered units Number 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Heavy-duty trucks (>16 tons) 176,589 173,650 170,307 172,798 179,779 123,522 82,675 179,962 172,322 179,089 172,242 Medium-duty trucks (7–15.9 tons) 14,749 15,114 16,779 32,935 34,631 30,657 21,653 30,817 27,933 14,695 18,643 Light trucks (<7 tons) 16,137 14,360 13,188 18,284 23,982 25,811 23,354 40,372 36,101 26,147 23,494 Total trucks 207,475 203,124 200,274 224,017 238,391 179,989 127,681 251,151 236,356 219,931 214,379 Number 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Trucks Total Europe 86,448 72,458 82,088 84,355 95,113 65,503 49,145 121,847 128,070 114,417 103,622 Western Europe 71,169 57,038 64,275 63,730 75,728 56,215 43,919 95,969 100,106 97,074 91,087 Eastern Europe 15,279 15,420 17,813 20,625 19,385 9,288 5,226 25,878 27,964 17,343 12,535 North America 64,507 57,714 44,755 47,806 42,613 24,282 17,574 30,146 33,280 70,499 64,974 South America 11,069 23,741 29,137 23,443 29,274 21,483 12,587 18,092 15,264 11,646 11,248 Asia 31,979 32,399 28,692 51,514 56,165 53,833 34,800 60,725 39,916 12,817 25,706 Other markets 13,472 16,812 15,602 16,899 15,226 14,888 13,575 20,341 19,826 10,552 8,829 Total 207,475 203,124 200,274 224,017 238,391 179,989 127,681 251,151 236,356 219,931 214,379 Buses Total Europe 2,431 2,221 2,146 2,491 2,695 2,395 3,164 3,313 3,748 3,570 3,723 Western Europe 2,274 2,054 2,073 2,427 2,601 2,336 2,896 3,140 3,377 3,081 3,385 Eastern Europe 157 167 73 64 94 59 268 173 371 489 338 North America 2,398 1,590 1,752 1,826 3,014 2,092 1,539 1,884 1,547 1,741 1,546 South America 1,415 2,985 2,434 2,560 2,620 1,174 690 995 1,318 1,236 2,297 Asia 1,656 1,242 1,822 2,945 3,417 3,477 3,839 3,033 2,757 3,349 2,554 Other markets 925 721 756 856 1,040 1,091 625 712 546 464 555 Total 8,825 8,759 8,910 10,678 12,786 10,229 9,857 9,937 9,916 10,360 10,675 2011 2010 2009 2008 20072 2006 2005 2,471; 8.1 2,315; 9.0 1,888; 9.1 2,530; 8.6 2,426; 9.6 2,612; 10.5 2,683; 11.6 255; 0.8 279; 1.1 213; 1.0 291; 1.0 242; 1.0 282; 11.4 292; 1.3 7,970; 26.2 7,519; 29.2 6,637; 31.8 8,205; 27.8 7,067; 27.9 7,596; 30.6 7,419; 32.1 474; 1.6 719; 2.8 322; 1.5 800; 2.7 542; 2.1 606; 2.4 672; 2.9 2,554; 8.4 2,294; 8.9 1,435; 6.9 1,945; 6.6 1,979; 7.8 2,048; 8.3 1,960; 8.5 34; 0.1 33; 0.1 38; 0.2 64; 0.2 58; 0.2 69; 0.3 209; 0.9 25,943; 85.5 22,730; 88 17,558; 84 27,675; 94 27,120; 107 26,987; 108.8 23,590; 102 303.6 257.4 208.5 294.9 253.2 248.1 231.2 199 OTHER INFORMATION DEFINITIONS Basic earnings per share Gross margin Income for the period attributable to shareholders of the Parent Company Gross income divided by net sales. divided by the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the period. Interest coverage Operating income plus interest income and similar credits divided by Capital expenditures interest expense and similar charges. Capital expenditures include investments in property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and assets under operating leases. Investments in ﬁxed Joint ventures assets included in the Group’s cash-ﬂow statement include only capital Companies over which the Company has joint control together with one or expenditures that have reduced the Group’s liquid funds during the year. more external parties. Cash-ﬂow Net ﬁnancial position Combined changes in the Group’s liquid funds during the ﬁscal year. Cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and interest-bearing Changes in liquid funds are speciﬁed with reference to changes in operashortand long-term receivables reduced by shortand long-term interesttions, operating activities, changes depending on investments in equipbearing liabilities and provisions for post-employment beneﬁts. ment, ﬁxed assets etc. and ﬁnancing activities such as changes in loans and investments. Operating margin Operating income divided by net sales. Diluted earnings per share Diluted earnings per share is calculated as income for the period attributPenetration rate able to the Parent Company’s shareholders divided by the average number Share of unit sales ﬁnanced by Volvo Financial Services in relation to total of shares outstanding plus the average number of shares that would be number units sold by the Volvo Group in markets where ﬁnancial services issued as an effect of ongoing share-based incentive programs and are offered. employee stock option programs. Return on operating capital EBITDA Income for the period divided by average operating capital. EBITDA is the operating income before depreciation and amortization of tangible and intangible assets. This key ﬁgure is calculated by adding Return on shareholders’ equity back depreciation and amortization on the operating income of the IndusIncome for the period divided by average shareholders’ equity. trial operations. Self-ﬁnancing ratio Equity ratio Cash-ﬂow from operating activities (see Cash-ﬂow statement) divided by Shareholders’ equity divided by total assets. net investments in ﬁxed assets and leasing assets as deﬁned in the cashﬂow statement. Financial targets Information on how the comparison with competitors is made is available under the heading Investors on www.volvogroup.com. REPORTING SCOPE AND BOUNDARY For the reporting scope and boundary for non-ﬁnancial data, please see the supplementary GRI-report at www.volvogroup.com/responsibility (available from mid-March 2016). 200 OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING, APRIL 6, 2016 PRELIMINARY PUBLICATION DATES The Annual General Meeting of AB Volvo will be held in Göteborg in Annual General Meeting 2016 April 6, 2016 Konserthuset, Götaplatsen, Wednesday, April 6, 2016. Report on the ﬁrst quarter 2016 April 22, 2016 Report on the second quarter 2016 July 19, 2016 Notice Those who wish to participate must be recorded as shareholders in the Report on the third quarter 2016 October 21, 2016 share register maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB on March 31, 2016 Report on the fourth quarter 2016 February 1, 2017 and give notice of intention to attend the meeting no later than March 31, 2016: The reports are available on www.volvogroup.com on date of publication and are also sent electronically to shareholders who have advised Volvo • by telephone, +46 8 402 90 76, notice of intention to attend the that they wish to receive ﬁnancial information. meeting could be given by telephone no later than 4.00 p.m. on March 31, 2016 Historical and current time series reﬂecting the Volvo Group’s market • by mail addressed to AB Volvo (publ), “AGM”, information are published regularly on www.volvogroup.com. P.O. Box 7841, SE-103 98 Stockholm, Sweden • on AB Volvo’s website www.volvogroup.com When giving notice, shareholders should state their: CONTACTS • name • personal registration number (corporate registration number) Investor Relations: • address and telephone number Christer Johansson +46 31-66 13 34 • name and personal number (registration number) of the proxy, if any Anna Sikström +46 31-66 13 36 • number of any accompanying assistant(s) Anders Christensson +46 31-66 11 91 John Hartwell +1 201 252 8844 To be entitled to participate in the annual general meeting, shareholders E-mail: investorrelations@volvo.com having their shares registered in the name of a nominee must request the nominee to enter the shareholder into the share register. Such regisCSR Management: tration, which can be temporary, must have been effected by March 31, Malin Ripa +46 31-66 11 61 2016 and should therefore be requested well in advance of March 31, Eva Lindebäck Brandt +46 31-32 26 700 2016. E-mail: csr@volvo.com Aktiebolaget Volvo (publ) 556012-5790 VOLVO’S ELECTION COMMITTEE Investor Relations, VHQ SE-405 08 Göteborg Sweden The following persons are members of Volvo’s Election Committee: Tel +46 31 66 00 00 www.volvogroup.com Bengt Kjell Chairman of the Election Committee, AB Industrivärden Lars Förberg Cevian Capital Pär Boman Svenska Handelsbanken, SHB Pension Fund, SHB Pensionskassa, SHB Employee Fund and Oktogonen Yngve Slyngstad Norges Bank Investment Management Carl-Henric Svanberg Chairman of the AB Volvo Board Among other duties, the Election Committee is responsible for submitting to the Annual General Meeting proposals for candidates to serve as members of the Board of Directors and Chairman of the Board and proposal for auditors if applicable. The Committee also proposes the amount of the fees to be paid to the holders of these positions. The Volvo Group is one of the world’s leading manufacturers of trucks, buses, construction equipment and marine and industrial engines. The Group also provides complete solutions for ﬁnancing and service. The Volvo Group, with its headquarters in Gothenburg, Sweden employs about 100,000 people, has production facilities in 18 countries and sells its products in more than 190 markets. AB Volvo, Investor Relations and Corporate Financial Reporting
