the sustainability of our business RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2016 3,000 lawyers We will be the global law We always strive to exceed the expectations of our clients, firm of choice for the whether from business, 6,200 colleagues government or the not-for-profit sector and provide the highest35 offices in 25 countries world’s leading businesses quality service and legal insight. No.1 in Chambers Global Top 30 Over 75% of our top 50 clients worked of today and tomorrow. We pride ourselves on our approachable, collegial and team-based culture, and the commitments we make to our with us across at least 20 of our offices people and to the wider world. £1,390m in annual revenues CONTENTS Introduction Our Responsible Doing business Establishing People Creating a safe, Community Widening access Environment Managing our Targets & progress Holding ourselves Business strategy: market-shaping healthy and to justice, finance footprint and accountable and A vision for building a practices in inclusive workplace, and education contributing to inspiring progress sustainable business relation to ethics, and broadening our developing a more professional skills and experience Better Outcomes sustainable world Our Commitments Building Confidence standards and 25–26 41–42 and Inspiring Trust risk management Being More Open Switching Off 3–4 17–18 Rebuilding Lives 33–34 Managing Risk 27–28 The Right Choices 11–12 Wellness Matters Giving Back 5–6 19–20 From Classrooms 35–36 Global Standards to Careers Materiality and 13–14 Potential in All 29–30 Stakeholder 21–22 Engagement 7–8 Under the rules of certain US jurisdictions, this document may constitute attorney advertising. Prior results do not guarantee a similar outcome. 1 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 2 People Our clients Doing Our people Environment business Civil society Community BUILDING CONFIDENCE AND INSPIRING TRUST OUR Clifford Chance has a clear vision: We will be We believe that developing a culture Doing business People RESPONSIBLE the global law firm of choice for the world’s of respect and support that provides Strategic focus: Strategic focus: BUSINESS leading businesses of today and tomorrow. opportunities for fulfilling work enables We establish and promote market-shaping We realise the potential of our people STRATEGY us to recruit and build rewarding careers practices in relation to ethics, professional by creating a safe, healthy and inclusive As a leader in our field, we are rightly for the best talent. standards and risk management. workplace, and by broadening our skills Our Responsible Business strategy is held to high standards in all we do. Benefits to clients: and experience. integral to our firm strategy. It guides We believe that clients choose to work with Service informed and defined by the highest Benefits to clients: how we conduct our core business, We believe that our licence to operate, organisations that share their values, who standards of professionalism, ethics and Better understanding and better advice. how we develop and support our people, the sustainability of our business and the are committed to long-term relationships, risk management. Benefits to firm: and how we foster closer collaboration achievement of our vision are dependent and where collaboration has greatest impact. Benefits to firm: Attract, retain and develop high-quality people. with our clients. on our ability to inspire trust and earn the Builds trust and confidence in all stakeholders. For more information see page 15. confidence of all our stakeholders. To do this We believe that the skills, insights For more information see page 9. we must act responsibly, creating long-term and experience developed through our value and supporting their future success. Responsible Business programme improve our ability to secure high-value mandates, Community Environment Therefore, our stakeholders are at the heart seek always to do the best work and provide Strategic focus: Strategic focus: of our strategy. our clients with the most effective support. We partner to support our community We manage our footprint and contribute by widening access to justice, finance to developing a more sustainable world. We believe that our ability to build a successful We believe that developing our ability to and education. Benefits to clients: business is dependent on having strong work collaboratively, and being challenged Benefits to clients: Meet expectations of relationships across our stakeholder groups with new ways of thinking and working, Project collaboration strengthens relationships. environmental sustainability. and making a useful contribution to business through a broad range of experience, Benefits to firm: Benefits to the firm: and wider civil society. means we are better able to understand Broadens experience, develops skills. Demonstrates commitment what clients value and how to deliver it. For more information see page 23. to environmental issues. For more information see page 31. 3 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 4 “We believe that focusing on Responsible Business says something important about who we are and what we believe in and that this will strengthen the bonds between us and our clients.” THE RIGHTCHOICES DELIVERING ON OUR RESPONSIBILITIES What do you mean by being a ‘responsible’ business? Matthew: In the most basic sense it means to rebuild and maintain the vital trust and confidence between the public and business. Supporting this objective in every aspect of our work has to be our overarching priority. What are you changing as a result of focusing on being a Responsible Business? Malcolm: Explicitly focusing on being a Responsible Business signals that we understand what’s important to our stakeholders, clarifies our commitment to We have a valuable role to play in helping them to do that successfully and sustainably across borders and cultures and in the most complex and business-critical contexts. putting our values and our integrity, together Matthew: The materiality assessment constantly make improvements and helps Never have expectations of business with our commitment to all our stakeholders, Malcolm: Take the example of the EU showed that our stakeholders value and us to monitor our progress more effectively. To what extent will being a Responsible been greater. Inspiring and maintaining front and centre in how we develop and run Referendum. We have a huge amount of support what we’re already doing around Business make us a more successful the trust and confidence of all our every aspect of the firm. I think about it as relevant knowledge and expertise. We can people, community and the environment. How does our commitment to being a business in the future? stakeholders – whether our clients, our always challenging ourselves by asking whether apply that just to our clients, or we can choose But the most important issue for everyone Responsible Business fit within the firm’s own people, governments, regulators we are doing the right thing: are we helping to work collaboratively together with a broader we spoke to was the firm’s integrity in how vision of being the global law firm of choice Matthew: As Malcolm said, our business is and the public – demands that we our clients to succeed in their strategic group of interested stakeholders to navigate we operate our core business: how we for the world’s leading businesses? founded on integrity and trust. Our success apply our skills and expertise, and objectives over the long-term; building our the many and complex challenges that lie service and manage our client relationships, depends upon our ability to inspire and retain run our business, in a way that creates own business to be stronger and more ahead, collectively securing a better outcome our processes for managing risk, and the Malcolm: Clients work with organisations the confidence not just of clients and regulators long-term, sustainable benefit as well successful for all our stakeholders; making for everyone. That is the path we want to take. ethical standards to which we hold ourselves that have cultures and values that reflect their but across the broad spectrum of our as near-term successful outcomes. a positive contribution to the communities as an organisation. These are critical to our own values. The deepest relationships are stakeholders. It depends upon our ability to Senior partner Malcolm Sweeting in which we operate. These aren’t ‘either/or’ Acting responsibly also means having the reputation and at the heart of our continued built on trust and confidence. We believe recruit and motivate people who share our and managing partner Matthew Layton choices and that means it isn’t always easy. courage of our convictions on important licence to operate. that focusing on Responsible Business values, who are determined to be the best at reflect on why we are putting our role But where there are tensions – which inevitably issues like human rights (we were the first says something important about who we what they do, who value collaboration, who as a Responsible Business at the heart there are – we need to consciously interrogate major international law firm to adopt a human Of course, these have always been important are and what we believe in and that this have the courage to stand up for what they of the firm’s strategy. our decisions, and make the right choices for rights policy) and taking a leadership role on considerations for us and we have often will strengthen the bonds between us and know to be right. I believe that by demonstrating, the right reasons. important issues such as ethics, corporate played a role in setting the standards in the our clients. time and again, that we understand and governance, risk, and regulatory compliance. industry but the materiality exercise underlined respect what matters to our stakeholders, Our clients face these exact challenges every Always standing up for what you believe in, the relevance of these questions to all of our Matthew: Being a Responsible Business is that we share and support their ambitions, day: more scrutiny, more questioning of their being ready to do things differently, if that is stakeholders, and the need for a more integrated absolutely central to our strategy, governing and are committed to being held to account priorities, more uncertainty and shifting what is right, can be uncomfortable but we way of understanding our responsibilities. the advice and support we give our clients. for our own actions, we will become stronger, expectations, complex cultural nuances. At the think it is an important standard that we Hence the evolution of our new Responsible Many of our clients make a massive contribution more successful and ultimately a more same time, all around the world, there is a need need to aim for. Business strategy. to society through the number of people they sustainable business. employ and the economic benefits they generate. 5 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 6 “Through Clifford Chance’s pro >> We surveyed some 40 of our NGO All stakeholder groups consider that a Our people continue to value the bono and financial support for partners to understand what mattered responsible business should be governed contribution they can personally make our global growth and expansion, most to them and held a workshop in by the highest standards of ethical to supporting our communities and Asylum Access have nearly London to interrogate the findings in more behaviour, regulatory compliance, working with our strategic NGO partners. quadrupled the number of detail. As part of the materiality exercise, information security and risk management. Our readiness and ability to contribute refugees to whom we provide we also held a number of discussions with All stakeholders thought quality of service our time, energy, expertise and financial individualised legal assistance, our clients to get a fuller understanding of and effective client relationship management support to our local and global communities growing from 5,800 to over what they value most in their legal advisors. should sit at the very heart of our was also viewed as important by our 20,000 a year. To receive such Responsible Business strategy. external stakeholders. “full-service” pro bono support What we learned from this exercise and is invaluable, and makes what we continue to assimilate into our Inclusion and diversity, including gender The materiality exercise also confirmed Clifford Chance unique.” thinking through ongoing feedback reflects balance and LGBT+ issues, and people our stakeholders’ expectations that we a broad range of perspectives and development, were valued highly by all should set high standards for managing Emily Arnold-Fernández, expectations. While it is difficult to generalise our stakeholder groups. We continue to our environmental impact. Executive Director, Asylum Access – each member of our different stakeholder prioritise these issues, alongside the physical groups will look at issues in their own way and mental wellbeing of our people. There was consensus among all stakeholders – some common themes did emerge. that we should be transparent about our performance against these targets, and an expectation that we should constantly review our Responsible Business strategy to ensure it continues to address their most important issues. BUILDING DOING BUSINESS PEOPLE COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT Issues like business ethics, regulatory Business strategy is fully aligned with our POTENTIAL TO IMPACT ON THE SUSTAINABILITY AND SUCCESS OF CLIFFORD CHANCE UNDERSTANDING compliance and information security are vision, our commercial strategy and the Risk management Ethics OF OUR MOST important to us, and we also know through values we feel strongly about. Employee wellbeing Regulatory compliance IMPORTANT ISSUES our regular conversations that they are of Talent attraction & retention Inclusion & diversity Quality of service Information security critical importance to our clients, our NGO In addition to this ongoing dialogue, we will, VERY HIGH Client relationship management As a Responsible Business, we do partners and other stakeholders. at regular intervals, gather formal feedback Reputation of the Clifford Chance brand not operate in isolation. Our strategic from our stakeholders about what they decision making is informed by We know issues such as human rights, regard as the key issues facing them the expectations of our clients, pro bono volunteering and philanthropic over the near and medium-term future. Responsible procurement Human rights Learning & development our community and NGO partners, giving are important concerns for our NGO Beginning in late 2014, we conducted Environmental policy & standards Transparency our employees and stakeholders in and community outreach partners; they are a ‘materiality assessment’ exercise with Waste & resource consumption Client selection policies Funding & philanthropic giving wider society. Our aspirations and also valued by our clients and employees our clients, NGO partners and internally. MEDIUM Pro bono & community outreach actions are shaped through an as opportunities for collaboration. -HIGH Gender balance ongoing and open dialogue with The exercise began with a series of Widening access to the profession Governance structure these different stakeholders. Similarly, issues around employee wellbeing extensive qualitative interviews with and people development are important to us senior leaders from across the firm. Business travel & commuting because we know these are critical issues Carbon emissions for people looking to join the firm and for At focus groups in Amsterdam, Dubai, colleagues who are already working here. Hong Kong, London and New York, LOW MEDIUM and individual meetings, we looked at Drawing together these different insights our operations and the issues our people about what is most important to our considered most relevant to how we stakeholders allows us to build a complete do business. >> LOW-MEDIUM MEDIUM-HIGH VERY HIGH picture of the ‘material’ issues we need to consider in ensuring our Responsible IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS 7 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 8 DOING BUSINESS 9 | CLIFFORD CHANCE It is important when advising clients that our lawyers are not simply achieving an outcome, but are also acting with integrity. MANAGING RISK HOW We want to be seen as trusted advisers, We seek to ensure that each of our people creating a culture of responsibility, we aim WE DO supporting our clients’ own ethical endeavours, feels personally responsible for his or her to develop a generation of professionals OUR GLOBAL BUSINESS looking beyond the strict letter of the law to part in implementing our global standards, who will lead our industry in developing INITIATIVES the ethical purpose behind it. Our lawyers as both an ambassador and a risk manager. and promoting a Responsible Business. INCLUDE: We are committed to maintaining are encouraged not only to ensure that they We have created global processes to review and developing a responsible and advise clients within the technical confines of regularly our performance against those We continue to evolve our capabilities and • Legal Ethics Training Programme: • Strict policies on anti-corruption, with ethical business, working to the the law, but also to consider the policies and aims and standards, involving senior our thinking on the way we do business 90 minutes of dedicated ethical training a risk-based approach to corporate highest standards in all we do. objectives behind relevant legal requirements, management in each Clifford Chance office, and with whom we do it. For instance, with every year for all our lawyers, covering hospitality, requiring prior approval at This commitment is shared by the as well as broader societal expectation. co-ordinated and supported by the general increased amounts of information available different areas of a lawyer’s practice. specified financial limits, with special whole of our organisation worldwide counsel and central compliance function. and improved processes in place, we are restrictions where public officials and endorsed at the highest level. At the simplest level our approach to acting able to make a better assessment of our • Annual compliance declaration, which are concerned. ethically could be characterised as ‘doing Our strategy is to establish and promote clients’ and suppliers’ human rights records. refreshes familiarity with some of our the right thing in the right way, everywhere’. market-shaping practices and help shape Just as clients want to be seen by wider basic policies in the area of business • Putting in place policies and procedures We have taken a global view. Although the standards in relation to the evolving areas society to be acting responsibly, so Clifford ethics and confidentiality and is to ensure modern slavery is not present professional codes of conduct which govern of ethics, professional standards and risk Chance wants to be seen to promote required of every member of the firm. in any part of our business and supply us as lawyers require us all to act with management, reflecting those values and responsible business practices and to chain, following the introduction of the integrity, and similarly there are laws issues that our clients have told us are most earn the trust and confidence of all our • Strict policies on anti-money laundering Modern Slavery Act. regulating our business in the many important to them. In this way we are acting stakeholders. In this way we will build an covering client engagement from countries in which we operate, the detail as a responsive business. ethical culture, a market leading reputation inception and transaction scrutiny varies from one jurisdiction to another. and a more successful, sustainable business. throughout, with special features for the Our approach has been to apply the same, Clifford Chance has, over many years, conflict clearance and accounting teams. highest possible, standards to every part sought to promote greater professionalism of our business, to every office and every in the industry and set transparent standards member of the firm, whether or not required for how legal services should be provided. by local law. By continuing to innovate in this area and 11 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 12 ZERO TOLERANCE Given the high stakes – risk of imprisonment Beyond the advice we give to clients, CONFIDENTIALITY: Our knowledge is a valuable asset and an We aim to meet these increased expectations, FOR BRIBERY for those found guilty and unlimited fines for our commitment to set the very highest MANAGING AND important reason why clients choose to with no compromise on issues around data AND CORRUPTION the organisations involved – we are working standards of ethical behaviour also governs PROTECTING OUR work with us. We seek to promote knowledge security and confidentiality. with our clients to address the potential risks our own internal policies and processes on KNOWLEDGE sharing across the organisation to leverage Prosecutions for bribery and to their business and to their reputation by this important issue. Bribery is a criminal our competitive position while also supporting All our people have a duty of confidentiality corruption continue to attract any failure to comply with anti-bribery rules. offence under most countries’ laws; it is In our increasingly information-rich collaborative working on behalf of our clients. to our clients. This duty is a legal and media headlines around the world. also a breach of the professional ethics world, it is critical that we manage Achieving the balance – between security regulatory requirement; it is also fundamental Fundamental to this approach is the need to rules applicable to lawyers. our knowledge and data – proprietary and ‘smart’, responsive working – is difficult to our role as a client-focused business. stay on top of relevant legislative developments and client information – securely. and sits at the heart of our relationship and enforcement trends in the countries in Our zero tolerance policy for bribery and with our clients and our ambition to be The firm’s senior management has these which they operate. Some national authorities corruption is supplemented by training, a Responsible Business setting the issues at the top of its agenda. This is not have even highlighted this information monitoring and communications about professional standards for the industry. a finite endeavour and we will continue to gathering as a regulatory requirement for the issue as part of our wider antiinvest in technology and put in place the directors and senior corporate officers. bribery programme. As our clients are subject to the highest systems and processes needed to standards of information security, they safeguard the intelligence of the firm To ensure our clients are aware of changes increasingly expect us to be mindful of and the confidence our clients. to legislation and on prosecutions and the security of the information we have, enforcement trends, we produce updates share and store about them. They also on the significant issues at regular intervals. look to us to be responsive and agile in our service delivery. GLOBAL STANDARDS Partner Rae Lindsay is advising the firm RESPECTING HUMAN RIGHTS Consistent with our policy, and our participation in the UN Global Compact, we have developed strategies, risk management systems and have been trained to identify and understand potential human rights impacts of our client relationships, and we take steps to ensure on the best practice training aimed at ensuring respect for human that any identified human rights risks are implementation We are proud to have been one of the rights throughout our operations. Mandatory addressed appropriately in accordance with of its own human first law firms to adopt a formal human human rights training has been introduced our policy. rights policy. rights policy in 2013 and to have been for all of the firm’s lawyers and members of closely involved in the development of our business services teams to increase In relation to our supply chains, we have the UN Guiding Principles on Business their awareness of the issues most likely to undertaken a process to address potential and Human Rights. occur in the course of their work and provide human rights risks that could arise through a framework within which to address them. our relationships, with a recent focus on the risks of slavery and human trafficking. As we are increasingly called upon by clients Our objective is to ensure that all of our to advise them on the management of people approach their work and their human rights risks arising in relation to their business relationships within a framework business, we have a team of lawyers with that respects the human rights of others specialist expertise that advises regularly and to support clients who seek assistance on mandates involving business and human in doing the same. rights issues. Our commitment to respect internationally We have taken steps to ensure that our recognised human rights is a fundamental responsibility to respect human rights and tenet guiding the way we work, who we our professional obligations to our clients work for and the work we do. do not conflict. Our clearance centre teams 13 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 14 PEOPLE 26,500 BUILDING THE BEST TEAM We believe our success is built on our ability to field the best team, so we have made this one of our strategic priorities. This means Total hours invested in training investing in ever better processes and systems to recruit, develop, 4,000 motivate and support the most talented individuals; it means bringing people into the firm from a wide range of backgrounds, to develop ever better solutions to our clients’ most important challenges; and it means promoting teamwork, as we are so much more powerful when we work together. Total number of Clifford Chance Academy participants We seek to create an open, welcoming culture and an environment 1,500 which treats everyone fairly, fosters collaboration and increases effectiveness and impact. We encourage our people to develop their resilience, providing resources and support to ensure their physical and mental wellbeing. We invest in enhancing skills and sharing knowledge. We embrace innovation and are open to change and Total number of classroom courses to finding improved ways of working. 4.7 Average course satisfaction, score out of 5 BEING MORE OPEN WORKING TOGETHER BETTER Tom Slate, Director of Continuous Improvement, “We created a group of Change Champions; explains that from the very first planning meeting: “The philosophy was all about one or two individuals that represented their functional area and were heavily involved in year by the teams that have moved. The move to open plan was new for some people and has involved adjusting to Six months after most people moved into the new spaces, what is working best? This year, we moved some 500 Londonhow we were going to enable people to identifying the needs of their teams. They working in closer contact with colleagues. “People like having the choice of informal based business services colleagues to work together in a different way: more consulted around all sorts of things from the Issues like noise, storage of personal items, spaces to have conversations and meetings, a new open-plan working space in our flexibly and more effectively.” choice of furniture and the configuration of booking meeting rooms and protocols as well as more formal meeting rooms,” says current building and to another office different meeting spaces to new working around use of desks and even eating in Claire. “They like having a workplace which just two minutes away. The decision Tom adds: “We started with a blank canvas. protocols. Their contribution was critical to communal spaces needed to be considered. was a commercial one but, as those Initially, we didn’t know what the office would the success of the move. “People’s needs were put at responsible for managing the move look like or where exactly it would be. We Alistair Johnson, General Manager London, the centre of the project.” explain, necessity was transformed knew we wanted to keep a space in our “There was another group who were involved explains: “There was a heavy focus on into a virtue. People’s needs were put existing building for some teams and for in trialling the different technologies, laptops getting people ready for the change. We is flexible and suits the way they at the centre of the project during both ad-hoc working and that the new office versus tablets, and provided feedback about started that process early on, so I think by want to work.” Tom says the new space the design and delivery phases and the would have to be nearby, but after that a which technology was going to be most the time it came to the move people were is aiding efficiency and saving money. result is a state-of-the-art environment lot of the focus was thinking about how we helpful and best for most users. By constantly prepared for it and understood what “The new working environment is more that encourages greater collaboration, create spaces that help people to do their listening to people’s views through a variety behaviours were expected of them. productive. Even if it feels more relaxed, supports more efficient working and jobs smarter, better, in the space that was of forums, we were able to ensure we were people are using their time more efficiently is greener. most convenient for them.” designing something that was right.” “We did some sessions with managers; and getting more done. We are working people managers first and then sessions together better.” While the project team looked at other offices The combination of increased use of mobile with different teams of people to focus on designed to support flexible and collaborative devices, pervasive wi-fi and ‘follow-me’ these protocols. That input really helped working, we also ran an extensive listening printing has not only enabled flexible working, us in drawing up best practice.” exercise. As London HR Director Claire it has also saved costs: print volumes have Howe explains, a lot of employee input dropped by more than 55%, with an estimated was built into the eventual design. 3.5m fewer printed pages produced every 17 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 18 “We care about the physical health of everyone who works here and we care about their mental wellbeing in the same way.” David Bickerton, London managing partner WELLNESS MATTERS ENABLING COLLEAGUES TO GIVE THEIR BEST London managing partner David Bickerton explains: “We ask a lot from our people and we need them to be able to be themselves London Lord Mayor’s This is Me campaign, which encourages employees who have experienced a mental health problem to As part of our wider wellbeing agenda, we promote mindfulness as a way of not only helping with stress, but also with managing In London we also ran a highly popular series called ‘Meet the Experts’, providing the chance to chat with specialists about a and to give their best to our clients. We care share their story. physical problems, such as chronic pain. number of different health-related topics, We are committed to attracting, about the physical health of everyone who In January of this year, our Singapore office including nutrition, ageing and cardiovascular developing and retaining the best works here and we care about their mental We provide resources and support for hosted a well-attended session on health. The office also took part in National team to deliver the very highest level wellbeing in the same way.” those managing mental health conditions. ‘Mindfulness in the Workplace’ with the Fitness Day, when colleagues were offered of service to our clients. As part of this There are a number of partners and senior Britcham Women in Business group. The free health checks, such as blood pressure commitment, we invest in our people’s In the UK, an estimated 91 million days are Business Services people who act as Clifford Chance Academy runs a ‘bite-size’ and heart rate, and help to draw up wellbeing so that they can perform at lost to stress and other mental illness each Mental Health Advocates, providing advice learning course ‘Introduction to Mindfulness’ personalised exercise plans. their full potential. This means caring for year, amounting to a cost of £1,035 per on sources of support for an individual, The ‘black dog’ campaign by and Geelong Thubten, a Buddhist monk, our people’s physical and mental health. worker per year. Previously, the London or someone who may be managing an mental health charity SANE regularly leads mindfulness practice office supported the ‘black dog’ campaign individual with mental health concerns. sessions in our London office. by the mental health charity SANE to tackle the stigma around mental health conditions. And our Employee Assistance Programme Promoting a healthy lifestyle is another (EAP), which is being rolled out across focus. This year we are participating in the This year we joined the City Mental Health the global network over the coming year, Global Corporate Challenge a programme Alliance, a partnership of professional provides individual support from trained that encourages businesses, all over the services firms, to raise the awareness of counsellors as well as fast access to a world to improve the health, performance the issue and to create an environment range of services. and engagement levels of their employees. where people at all levels in an organisation Teams of seven from across the Firm are can talk openly about their experiences. As Our offices in Delhi, New York and Paris tasked with walking 10,000 steps every part of this year’s Mental Health Awareness are running similar campaigns to raise day for 100 days. The challenge helps our Week, we ran a number of events focusing awareness around mental health issues. Employees got behind the people take the first step towards a healthier on relationships and signed up to the Global Corporate Challenge lifestyle while also encouraging teamwork. 19 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 20 CELEBRATING This year, for the first time, we co-ordinated In Dubai, we supported the Shell Women’s INTERNATIONAL our efforts around the firm to mark International Networking UAE panel discussion featuring Amanda Couper WOMEN’S DAY Women’s Day, resulting in an array of events senior women executives and we participated speaking at our designed to draw attention to the issues, in the ‘Pledge for Parity’ business breakfast London office In advance of International Women’s Day, facilitate debate and help women less in Abu Dhabi organised by the Central for International global managing partner Matthew Layton fortunate than ourselves. Business District Network of Women and Women’s Day announced that Clifford Chance was The British Business Group. joining a number of our leading clients, Our US and Australian offices held a clothes including Axa, Carrefour, L’Oreal, Pfizer, drive for business attire to help out-of-work Our German offices donated 5,000 euros Fujitsu, and RBS in signing the UN women get back into employment and raised to the Frankfurt Multigenerationhouse, a Women’s Empowerment Principles. funds for the Dress for Success charity. longstanding charity partner of the Firm, In doing so, we made a public which houses refugee families, mostly from commitment to promote gender equality Our Hong Kong office also held a clothes Syria, Afghanistan, Iraq, Eritrea and Pakistan. and inclusiveness within the organisation. collection and sponsored a table at The At the heart of this commitment is our Women’s Foundation lunch with invited Our London office hosted a talk by the existing pledge to achieve a more genderclient guests including HSBC, Deutsche broadcaster and journalist Mishal Husain, balanced partnership, comprising at least Bank and BNPP. The event raised funds who spoke about the barriers that prevent 30% female partners. for disadvantaged women and girls in women reaching their full potential and how Hong Kong. women and girls can build their confidence and skills to play a fuller role in the workplace Our Global Shared Support Centre in Delhi and society. There was also a presentation invited Literacy India’s handicraft section by Amanda Couper, director of legal and “Indha” to hold a sale of its hand-made donor compliance for Marie Stopes products in the office. Literacy India helps International, an NGO that provides family rural women to gain a livelihood, enabling planning and reproductive healthcare for them to improve their socio-economic status vulnerable women. in their communities. POTENTIAL IN ALL GENDER BALANCE % Female 2016 2015 DEVELOPING OUR LEADERS The Clifford Chance Academy has launched two courses this year aimed at A course participant said: “Spending time assessing and discussing the variables of Partners 18.1% 17.0% broadening the skills of our management business planning, business management To meet the challenges of today and cadre in our global network. The Strategic and strategic analysis is invaluable and Other fee earners 47.9% 47.1% tomorrow we need to regularly refresh Leadership Programme is a new course it was illuminating to hear from fellow Business services 67.7% 67.7% our skills and ensure our thinking is for directors, while the Making Strategy directors about their approaches to kept up to date. Happen programme is new for strategy and implementation.” executive managers. The objective of the Making Strategy ETHNIC MINORITIES (SELF-REPORTING) The aim of the Strategic Leadership Happen course is to help managers Programme is to equip Directors and excel in their roles so they can be more 2016 2015 Executive Directors with the skills and confident and collaborative advisors to Partners know-how to lead the firm and their the business. The course aims to sharpen New York / Washington, DC 6.6% 5.0% teams through change aligned with our participants’ business acumen and to London 5.2% 5.3% strategy. The course considers personal develop their influencing skills. styles and techniques to help leaders Other fee earners to communicate with their people Both courses aim to build resilience and New York / Washington, DC 34.3% 31.1% to inspire, coach and motivate them. positive ways of managing oneself and London 26.4% 26.2% others through a period of change. Business services New York / Washington, DC 50.0% 49.1% London 15.9% 16.7% 21 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 22 COMMUNITY 17.2 BUILDING STRONGER HELPING EX-OFFENDERS In November last year, artwork by offenders COMMUNITIES BACK INTO EMPLOYMENT was exhibited at London’s Southbank Centre with financial support from the At the centre of our pro bono and outreach programme are strategic The Clifford Chance Foundation Foundation. Called Re:Form, the exhibition partnerships with 16 NGOs and a number of community partners. partnered with The Koestler Trust, a aimed to change the public’s perception Average number of pro bono The relationships are focused on helping those organisations charity which supports ex-offenders of offenders and the contribution they can hours per lawyer to achieve their objectives through the provision of free legal 54,500 and detainees to secure employment. make in society. advice and professional expertise, and funding from the Clifford Chance Foundation. Six ex-offenders acted as hosts, talking about their personal experience of the These partnerships, alongside hundreds of others, large and small criminal justice system. Five of the hosts across the firm, contribute to our ‘Helping 100,000 initiative’ – an were subsequently offered jobs with the Total number of hours worked annual target to make a material difference to the lives of 100,000 Southbank Centre. pro bono by lawyers people around the world through our community and pro bono work. We have exceeded the target every year since its start in 2012. Sally Taylor, Chief Executive at the Koestler Trust, said: “Clifford Chance, thank you so Everyone in the Firm is encouraged to volunteer their skills and time much for the support which made the hosts’ to support those in need. From mentoring a young person to providing project possible. You can be very proud of legal advice, we believe that helping others not only benefits the the outcome.” receiver, but also builds the skills and enthusiasm of the giver. The Koestler Trust’s annual UK Exhibition We seek to create a culture of dedicated and active service. ‘Re:Form’ at the Southbank Centre and the 2015 Exhibition hosts supported by Clifford Chance. BETTER OUTCOMES USING LAW TO FIGHT POVERTY The Clifford Chance Foundation, A4ID and other legal partners are working together to promote better corporate governance in and scope and deliver training for local lawyers. Funding for the first year covered one part-time A4ID staff member in both BUILDING HEALTHY COMMUNITIES IN INDONESIA In Indonesia, where half the population live in poverty, the Foundation’s funding has helped launch a pilot Community Health The project builds on our ongoing partnership with Opportunity International, which works in 22 countries to help people set up their Kenya and India, encouraging the adoption Kenya and India, A4ID staff costs in the UK Leader programme to tackle two key issues: own businesses to improve their lives. Advocates for International of the 2011 UN Guiding Principles on relating to the programme, and various costs Thanks to the support of the Clifford lack of preventative health knowledge; and Development (A4ID) is a charity that Business and Human Rights in the legal and relating to the scoping of the initiative in India. Chance Foundation, our global strategic lack of accessible healthcare. “It’s estimated that some 250,000 seeks to empower lawyers to use business sectors, and enabling lawyers to pro bono client Opportunity International people will in total be positively their skills to fight global poverty. play a leading role in the development of a A progress report at the end of the first year Australia is piloting a solution to tackle Over three years, the project hopes to train impacted by the programme.” responsible global business community. of the programme concluded: “The first year health and poverty challenges affecting 380 women health leaders to deliver basic has been extremely productive and has laid some of Indonesia’s poorest families. health education to 51,000 Indonesian Our Sydney office has previously donated The Foundation is supporting the charity solid foundations for the key activities to take families. It’s estimated that some 250,000 funding to support a youth employmentover three years to design a legal programme, place in the following years.” people in total will be positively impacted generation programme and provided small by the programme. loans to women in Assam, India, hosted fundraisers, and provided pro bono advice, By acting as health leaders and promoting including on the charity’s anti-money greater awareness of health issues, the laundering and counter-terrorism policies. women are able to lift their communities The London office has advised Opportunity out of poverty and participate in income International UK on its corporate structure generation initiatives. and on employment issues. 25 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 26 SUPPORTING As a Responsible Business, Clifford Chance In Spain, our lawyers have provided pro REFUGEES AROUND is committed to providing access to justice bono legal advice to the Spanish NGO Diana Chang, THE WORLD for those who are disadvantaged and without Pueblos Unidos in drafting a report on the managing partner a legal voice. As part of this commitment, right to asylum and refugee status in Spain. in Sydney The UNHCR estimates that 65 million the firm collaborates with partner organisations Volunteers from our Frankfurt office people have been forced from their to support refugees’ asylum applications, participate through our association with homes, 21 million of whom have and helps empower those who are stateless the Multigenerationhouse charity in reading become refugees from their native and works to improve the lives of refugees and language-building programmes, and countries in 2015. It is a crisis of in their new host countries. events, including day trips, to enable the unprecedented proportions. As a responsible business we are also a “Our work with refugees is Responsive Business. This means enabling driven by a deep, often personal the pro bono and community work of our commitment to help people who colleagues on issues they care about, and are vulnerable, and frequently providing financial assistance for the powerless to help themselves.” refugee-related work of our people. integration of refugees into German society. For instance, through our partnership with Colleagues in Munich and Düsseldorf help Laamiga, an organisation that enables women mentor young refugees, and we are the to find meaningful employment, Pavini Emiko only law firm to have signed up to the Singh, an associate in our London office, Wir zusammen (We together) initiative mentored ‘Sarah’ a refugee from Eritrea. With launched in February 2016, which creates Emiko’s help, Sarah was able to rebuild her corporate career opportunities for refugees. confidence, develop her skills and improve We have also created the APAC Asylum her situation. Sarah, who speaks six languages, Seekers’ Forum, which aims to share now balances her regular job with acting as knowledge and resources about asylum an interpreter for other refugee families. law within the firm. The Forum supports >> REBUILDING LIVES >> initiatives in the region, including work with Asylum Access (one of our global strategic pro bono and community outreach Our work with refugees is driven by a deep, often personal commitment to help people who are vulnerable, and frequently powerless APPLYING OUR SKILLS TO HELP ASYLUM SEEKERS How does the firm’s pro bono and community work fit with our strategy of being a Responsible Business? What extra value can our people bring to this work? We can apply the skills we have developed clients) to review appeal cases of asylum to help themselves. As a firm, we are in a position to contribute as lawyers and business services seekers and the Bangkok Refugee Centre. Lawyers in our Sydney office are in a meaningful and positive way to the colleagues to assist disadvantaged In March this year, Tijmen Bongartz, working pro bono with Justice Connect communities in which we operate. This members of our community. Our work In India, we are partnering with the firm Andrei Mikes and Karen Townend from on behalf of a number of asylum seekers type of activity is an important part of helps a variety of clients in our communities ARA Law to assist asylum seekers to gain our Amsterdam office travelled with Dutch seeking judicial review of decisions being a Responsible Business. across a range of different causes. official recognition as refugees and asylum refugee organisation Movement on the made in relation to their applications seekers using the UNHCR framework. The Ground to Lesbos in Greece to distribute for protective visas. Diana Chang, Why have you focused attention on What do you personally get from aim is to help 300 cases each year, many food and clothes to arriving refugees. managing partner in Sydney, talks about the issue of asylum seekers? doing pro bono work? of whom have been the victims of torture The volunteers also took part in ‘Night her personal support for this cause and We were approached in 2011 by Justice Doing pro bono work is not only deeply and persecution. Watches’, greeting incoming boats why firms have a responsibility to act. Connect to ensure that asylum seekers satisfying, but I also learn from the transporting refugees from Turkey. had access to legal assistance to experience. The community work our In co-operation with Asylum Access, our The Amsterdam office also hosted a dinner appeal decisions. people participate in enhances our skills Brussels office has advised on various EU for 80 refugees from Syria, Iraq and Eritrea, and knowledge of important issues. funding programmes relating to asylum and sold red bracelets in the office to raise Asylum seekers are a vulnerable group in seekers in Ecuador, Malaysia, Thailand and money for Netherlands Red Cross (Rode our community and ordinarily don’t have How is this type of work part of our Tanzania, and provided policy information to Kruis) in its work with refugees. access to important support services ‘licence to operate’? European Commission officials working on such as access to legal assistance. I was It is an essential part. Our clients and our refugee-related issues. Trainees regularly encouraged by the response I received people expect us to behave responsibly. Members of our Bangkok office with defend the interests of refugees as part of from lawyers in the firm who were keen shoes and clothing donated to the their three-year legal training. to get involved in the project. Bangkok Refugee Centre. 27 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 28 AIMING We held two Raising Aspirations days this Sam Dobin, from Brampton Manor, who THE GREAT HIGHER year for sixth form pupils from Brampton organises the event, said: “Following the DEBATE 99 Manor, a multi-academy trust located in Raising Aspirations day last year, we’ve got Our Raising Aspirations programme East Ham, near our London office. a couple of students who now hold offers We are the main sponsor of the UAE helps bridge the divide between the The days began with a panel discussion from amazing universities to study law. Schools Debating competition and assist playground and the corporate world, about the panellists’ own career paths and They would never have considered law until with judging the finals. We also help with showing youngsters how they can some ‘top tips’ for future success, followed they spent the day at Clifford Chance and mock debates and trials to prepare the achieve their future goals. by a careers carousel talking to lawyers and saw what was achievable!” students for the competition. business services people, and ended with a talk from HR professionals. The first event The intra-school competition in The number of partners who sat on looked at a broad range of careers while Dubai is very competitive, with the best not-for-profit boards in 2015/16 £20.5m the second focused on careers in the law. individual debaters selected for the UAE National Schools Debating Team, which The following week, another 100 students competes in the annual World Schools attended our Raising Aspirations open day Debating Championships. when we partnered with JP Morgan as part of its annual ‘Day of Service’. About Our people assist in mock debates and 25 JP Morgan lawyers took part in the trials to help prepare the students for the careers carousel. actual competition. The value of our pro bono work globally in 2015/16 WORKING A great example of the way we have built such and co-operation, while breaking down any THINKING About 30 young people from state schools Next, the students were separated into TOGETHER FOR a relationship through our Access to Education stereotypes that might exist around gender DIFFERENTLY recently visited our offices in the business different groups to meet with employees THE LONG TERM programme is our partnership with 15 Billion and cultural suitability for particular jobs. ABOUT CAREERS district of Hong Kong. For many, this was in different roles, including lawyers, people EBP, an education charity that works to improve the first time they had been to the area working in accounts and IT professionals, Central to our work in the community the outcomes for young people by providing Recently 27 pupils aged 8 and 9 from New City Our office in Hong Kong teamed up known as ‘Central’ and the visit helped to talk to them about what they did each day is a commitment to develop deep them with work-related skills and experience. Primary School in Newham visited our offices with our client Morgan Stanley to host break down perceived barriers separating and to ask them lots of questions. The event relationships with our NGO partners. as part of a ‘Literacy & Numeracy at Work’ day. a ‘careers carousel’ event in partnership them from the corporate world. encouraged the young teenagers to think We believe that by working together We have been involved with the charity’s with Hong Kong Unison, a local NGO about careers they had never considered over the long term, investing in the ‘World of Work Week’ programme since 2013, “The work environment at Clifford Chance is that promotes social participation. As an ‘icebreaker’, the young visitors before and to take the first steps relationship and really trying to when we started our commitment of £14,999 unlike anything the children see on a day-to-day were asked to guess what jobs different towards success. understand what our partner is trying seed-funding for the project. Since then, basis,” said the children’s teacher, Charlie Wild. employees did. None of the students to achieve, then both they and we we’ve worked with many primary schools in “Visiting the firm really helped them broaden their guessed that any of the women were derive the greatest benefit. the borough of Newham, hosting visits by experience of the world of work and of different lawyers, instead thinking them to be youngsters to our London office to enable kinds of jobs on offer. Many children were also receptionists. Although the exercise was them to apply what they’ve learned in school interested to learn about what they needed to meant as a bit of fun, it also highlighted in a workplace setting. do to become a solicitor.” issues around gender preconceptions and the importance of visible role models. Through this initiative, the pupils develop “The children were so enthusiastic about valuable skills, such as communication (making being here,” said Clifford Chance community phone calls and holding meetings), numeracy events co-ordinator Jo Ford, who led a Career (managing a budget) and interview technique. Carousel showing the children different job roles in action. “Earlier in the day, they said they Such visits are hugely valuable in demonstrating wanted to be footballers or famous. But by the the links between learning in school and time they had been on a short tour and spoke to success in adult life. They are also designed some people working at the firm, they said they to develop the pupil’s sense of responsibility all wanted to work at Clifford Chance!” 29 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 30 ENVIRONMENT 31 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 32 MANAGING OUR FOOTPRINT Clifford Chance is committed to managing its environmental impact. As a leading global law firm, our stakeholders expect us to set high standards for environmental performance across our 35 offices. In 2013, we published targets for reduction in energy emissions, paper type and consumption, and general waste and paper recycling. We have been proactive in measuring our progress towards these goals. We constantly evaluate our environmental footprint and continue to implement energy saving and recycling initiatives. All of our offices are dedicated to reducing our impact. It is a team performance. Some offices are able to make direct technical improvements, other offices achieve reductions through emphasising the practical measures they can take, such as switching off equipment when it is not in use. Globally, we have achieved a 9.78% reduction in energy consumption and a 10.31% reduction in paper consumption, per FTE, from our 2012/2013 baseline. SWITCHING OFF 34 A SPOTLIGHT ON OUR LONDON OFFICE The facilities management and business operations team has been busy implementing changes, which have had a Another change was the introduction of ‘follow-me’ printing in our new office in 20 Churchill Place, Canary Wharf in February SWITCHING OFF FOR EARTH HOUR OUR GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM significant effect on our worldwide energy 2016. ‘Follow-me’ printing requires users Recent initiatives in our London and paper consumption. to visit and log into individual printers to WWF’s Earth Hour encouraged Our Global Environmental Management Offices separate at least one office are a good example of local manually request that their documents are businesses, officials managing public System allows us to measure carbon type of waste for recycling action having a global impact, One such change was the introduction of printed. This makes it far more difficult to buildings and home owners around the emissions, identify trends and take 10.31 when it comes to the environment. LED lighting. More than 11,000 lights in our waste paper by printing documents world to switch off their lights between informed action to ensure better Upper Bank Street office were replaced with energy-efficient LEDs. LED lamps last longer than conventional bulbs and waste far less accidentally and prompts users to stop and think about whether they really need a hard copy. The introduction of ‘follow me’ printing 8.30 and 9.30 pm on 19 March 2016. Almost all of the firm’s offices across our performance in the future. The carbon management system was % energy in the form of heat. The installation of has contributed to an 8.44% reduction in global network participated for the ninth rolled out globally in 2013 and tracks LED lighting in London is a significant factor, paper usage across our London offices. year in this annual event, along with other data from each of our 35 offices. Local Reduction in paper consumption among a range of initiatives, contributing to London’s year of progress culminated in the organisations and individuals from 178 representatives of our global environmental per FTE from the 2012/13 baseline the global fall in energy consumption by implementation of a new ISO50001-certified different countries – a record breaking benchmark group input all available 9.78 14.30% since 2012/13. energy management system. This will number, which made this the largest performance information into the system become the office’s framework for further managing, monitoring and reducing its consumption to help achieve our global Earth Hour ever. via our Amsterdam office, enabling us to produce annual and six-monthly reports charting energy and paper consumption, % energy targets. water consumption, waste recycling efforts, and other initiatives. We are accountable to Reduction in Scope 1 & 2 CO2 each other for our environmental footprint, emissions from the 2012/13 baseline both locally and globally. 33 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 34 Promoting environmental initiatives by our employees, in collaboration with external organisations, is a key part of our firm-wide policy. WORKING WITH THE LYNX UK TRUST TO INCREASE Although Eurasian lynx still populate many areas of Europe, hunting and habitat destruction have eradicated the species The Trust plans to transport a number of wild lynx from Europe to Kielder in Northumberland, where they will be BACK OUR CONTRIBUTION TO DEVELOPING A MORE SUSTAINABLE Members of our Amsterdam business services department teamed up with Stichting Meergroen to help with the In recognition of their dedication, they were given the Best Performance Award by the clean-up organisers, having cleared more BIODIVERSITY from the UK, where the last wild lynx is released and tracked using satellite collars. WORLD ecological management of the 7.5km-long rubbish per attendee than any of the other thought to have died more than a millennia museum railway line between Bovenkerk 98 organisations involved. Clifford Chance is working with the Lynx ago. Before its extinction, the lynx played an The team’s involvement goes beyond legal Clifford Chance is committed to helping and Amsterdam, which is travelled by UK Trust to reintroduce the lynx wildcat important role in the UK ecosystem. It is an advice. Global pro bono partner Roger the environment and contributing to historic trams. The group helped to trim A group of volunteers from Clifford Chance’s to the UK. apex predator, preventing over-population Leese and trainee Adam Eagle are both our local communities throughout our overgrown trees and bushes, cultivating a Milan office took part in a clean-up day as among other native species. Conservationists members of the project team and assist the global network. Our people are regularly picturesque view for passengers travelling part of the city municipality’s ‘Clean Schools’ believe that the reintroduction of the lynx Trust on a strategic and operational level. involved in community cleaning initiatives on the line. Their participation in the project. Their goal was to clean and repaint will provide a natural control over deer and In October 2015, Adam authored the Trust’s like those highlighted below. clean-up day formed part of an NL DOET the walls of the De Marchi elementary school fox numbers in the UK and, in doing so, proposal for a trial reintroduction of lynx, initiative, run by community organisation in the historic centre of Milan, which had been increase biodiversity. initiating a consultation process, which is Oranje Fonds. covered in graffiti. After a quick lesson on wall currently in its latter stages. Adam is also an painting from the municipality team, the A Clifford Chance team is providing pro bono active fundraiser for the Trust and recently For the third consecutive year, a team based volunteers got to work as efficiently and legal advice to the Trust on its proposed trial completed an eight-day sponsored in our Tokyo office volunteered to pick up effectively as they do in the office. Passers-by release of a small group of lynx in the UK. wilderness trek through the Sarek national litter on the Arakawa riverbed. The river were full of compliments for the initiative and, This includes advising on a licence application park in northern Sweden. flows out through Tokyo bay, carrying to top it all off, the municipality informally for the project, as well as complex domestic rubbish into the sea and causing damage to declared the site the best one of the day. and international law issues, such as tort The Trust is hopeful that the reintroduction local wildlife. The Clifford Chance volunteers liability, animal welfare, species protection of the lynx could begin within the next two worked hard to improve on previous years’ law, regulation and the potential impact of years, following the outcome of its licence performances and leave their designated Brexit on the Trust’s activities. application, which will be submitted in 2016. area as clean as possible. 35 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 36 TARGETS AND Setting ourselves targets and monitoring progress against key indicators is an important part of our approach to responsible business, just as it is in any other aspect of how we run the firm. PROGRESS We want to be transparent where we are making headway, and where we are not. To ensure our activity supports our overall goals, we have agreed objectives for where we need to put our focus, in addition to maintaining ongoing programmes. DOING BUSINESS PEOPLE Objectives 2016/17 Indicators Objectives 2015/16 Progress Embed a consistent, firm-wide culture of Hold biannual global risk sessions for all Office Managing Review performance management processes We have revised our approach to partner appraisals, individual responsibility for Risk Management. Partners and General Managers. and support for learning and skills acquisition increasing the alignment with the goals and behaviours in line with the firm’s new vision and strategy. required by our new strategy. Hold annual Office Managing Partner risk conference. We have initiated a review of learning and development H  old biannual global Money Laundering Reporting Officer programmes across the firm to ensure they support the firm’s (MLRO) meetings. strategy. This has already led to the introduction of some new programmes (examples on p22). This work will continue with Equip our people with the training and  eview and update our annual ethical training programme. R the introduction of the new Learning Management System. support to do the right thing, in the right way.  Circulate monthly Professional Standards updates. Work towards a more gender-balanced Globally women now make up 18% of our partnership, partnership comprising at least 30% women. with APAC at 28% and London at 22%. Protecting our clients’ confidentiality. Run annual cyber awareness campaign for all staff globally. Invest in a new learning management system and virtual The implementation of the new learning management system Establish network with key clients’ security teams classroom tools to improve the accessibility, relevance and is scheduled for the end of 2016 and this will provide the to share knowledge and challenges. timeliness of the full range of learning options for our people. platform for additional technology led solutions to improve user accessibility and choice. Implement advanced technological controls to protect data from loss/theft. Objectives 2016/17 Indicators Improve the gender balance in our partnership, % of women partners globally and by region. Support external initiatives which promote P  ut in place an anti-slavery policy so that women make up at least 30% of our partnership. responsible and ethical business practices. and implementation programme. Improve the ethnic diversity of our firm. Investigate how data on the diversity of our population can be better collected and more meaningfully collated. ENVIRONMENT Improve partner self-reporting on ethnicity. Objectives 2017/18 Progress Improve the alignment our learning and development Launch the new Learning Management System. Decrease our CO2 emissions by at least 5% Scope 1 & 2 CO2 emissions per FTE have programmes with our vision and strategy. from 2012/13 baseline by the end of 2017/18. decreased by 9.78% from the 2012/13 baseline. Complete the review of the full suite of programmes currently provided, including technical, commercial and soft skills Reduce paper consumption by 10% per FTE Paper consumption per FTE has decreased by 10.31% development to ensure they support the firm’s priorities from the 2012/13 baseline by the end of 2017/18. (number of reams per FTE in 2012/13 was 44.63 and potential future demands for more agile careers. compared to 40.03 in 2015/16). Support our people in increasing their resilience. Global deployment of our Employee Assistance Programme. Every office, where possible, to recycle at least 34 offices separate at least one and up to 14 types 30% of general waste by the end of 2017/18. of waste for recycling. Run internal awareness raising programmes globally about the importance of wellness and resilience. Every office, where possible, to recycle at least 34 offices are currently meeting the requirement of Evaluate what we can learn from existing successful programmes 50% of office paper waste by the end of 2017/18. recycling paper (2012: 30, 2013: 32, 2014: 34, 2015: 33). and then introduce these programmes in new offices. Every office to ensure that at least 15% of paper has at least 24 offices state they use either a paper type with a 30% post-consumer recycled content or comes from FSC a percentage of recycled content or showing a or other internationally recognised, certified sources showing low carbon footprint (2012: 20, 2014: 23, 2015: 24). a low carbon footprint by the end of 2017/18. 37 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 38 Objectives 2016/17 Indicators COMMUNITY Ensure we have active and well-supported pro bono and Establish new ‘NGO Supporters Network’ internally 2015/16 Indicator Progress community outreach programmes in place in the US and Africa. for our global strategic pro bono and community clients; levels of participation in the Network. The number of partners leading a pro bono Partners leading a pro bono relationship 2015/2016: relationship or sitting on a not for profit board. 98 across 17 offices, involved in leading pro bono Number of significant new pro bono mandates relationships with 97 NGOs. in the US and Africa. Partners on not for profit boards 2015/16: Number of client collaborations in the US and Africa. 99 across 18 offices, sitting on the boards of 134 not for profit organisations (2014/15: 108). Increase focus on work that a) enhances the capabilities of our The number of our people who are serving on the people to deliver high value mandates and b) strengthens the boards of not for profit organisations. The number of global strategic and pro bono 16 impact made by our pro bono and community outreach clients. community outreach clients. (2014/15: 14) The number of people who are helped by the NGOs we work with as a result of our support for them. The number of clients with whom we undertake 55 collaborations with 25 clients, with greater focus on and higher pro bono and community outreach collaborations. levels of engagement with the firm’s largest and most important Increase the proportion of our pro bono and community Progress towards the target of having 20 global strategic client relationships (2014/15: 41 collaborations with 30 clients). outreach work that is undertaken for our global strategic pro bono and community outreach clients. pro bono and community outreach clients. The impact of pro bono activities in business 89% of our global Foundation’s grants, provided alongside The proportion of our overall funding that goes to our critical geographies. pro bono support, went to major projects of NGOs either global strategic pro bono and community outreach clients. based in or operating in the US and Africa, both business critical regions. These projects have the potential to scale significantly, The proportion of all the pro bono work done by our lawyers having a positive impact on crucial issues such as access to and business services that is undertaken for our global healthcare, business and human rights, prisoner welfare and strategic pro bono and community outreach clients. conflict resolution. Increase the proportion of our pro bono and community The number of clients with whom we collaborate; The number of lawyer and business services colleagues Lawyers: 1,565 (2014/15: 1,671) outreach work that is undertaken in the context of and the number of initiatives with them. engaged in pro bono and community outreach. Business services: 356 (2014/15: 389) client collaboration. We are interrogating these small dips in activity levels to evaluate potential causes. To further professionalise the team structures through which The proportion of our pro bono client teams that are we deliver our pro bono and community outreach support. appropriately constituted and fulfilling the expectations The number of pro bono hours by lawyers. 54,377 (2014/15: 55,353) we have set for service delivery. To improve our understanding of the contribution our Completion of a consultation process with practice areas The number of volunteering hours by business 3,837 (2014/15: 4,440) pro bono and community outreach work can make in order to identify the skills their lawyers need to acquire services colleagues. towards the development of our people. to become more effective and well rounded. The value our stakeholders place on our H  igh levels of engagement by partners, lawyers Assess the return on the investment we make in our Completion of an analysis of: pro bono and community outreach work. and business services (see figures above). communities and identify how we can further scale • The number of FTE staff dedicated to the delivery of  its impact. our pro bono and community outreach resource. Strong support from the firm’s leadership: • The in-kind and direct financial investment in • Progress against strategic objectives reviewed regularly our pro bono and community outreach work. by the Executive Leadership Group, our most senior • The impact achieved by our pro bono and decision making body. community outreach investment. • 33 of our 35 offices have a partner responsible for leading local pro bono involvement. Strong interest from clients and increasing collaboration (see above). Positive feedback and high levels of engagement with our NGO partners. 39 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 40 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Clifford Chance is proud to participate As a leading international law firm, we also Our website and client briefings provide in the UN Global Compact. We are consider that we have a responsibility a fuller picture of how we operate as a “We are proud to be a participant in committed to aligning our strategies, not only to participate in the Global Compact, business, including our provision of legal operations and organisational culture but to promote it by shaping the development services to both private and public sector the UN Global Compact and to make with the Ten Principles, which encompass of law and regulations in these areas, clients, our recruitment practices and our human rights, labour, the environment supporting robust debate and their pro bono activities. our contribution to the fundamental and anti-corruption. Participation in the effective implementation, and encouraging Global Compact shapes our approach to best practice in our industry, as well as To support our reporting, we have prepared ideas it espouses in relation to doing business responsibly and assists the sectors in which our clients operate. a Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index, us in identifying opportunities to make published on our website. This focuses on human rights, labour, environment a positive impact on the world. This report provides a number of examples those indicators which we believe are most of our work in support of the Ten Principles. material to our business and stakeholders. and anti-corruption.” Matthew Layton, Clifford Chance managing partner THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT Human rights Environment Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary the protection of internationally proclaimed approach to environmental challenges; human rights; and Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit environmental responsibility; and in human rights abuses. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Labour Anti-corruption Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption association and the effective recognition in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. WOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT PRINCIPLES Clifford Chance has a longstanding The Women’s Empowerment Principles The Women’s Empowerment Principles commitment to promoting gender are seven principles, which promote and 1. Establish high-level corporate equality. In 2016, we signed a formal guide corporate action in pursuit of gender leadership for gender equality statement of support for the Women’s equality. They encourage high-level 2. Treat all women and men fairly at work Empowerment Principles, an initiative corporate leadership on gender issues – respect and support human rights created by UN Women in collaboration and transparent reporting on progress. and nondiscrimination with the UN Global Compact. 3. Ensure the health, safety and wellbeing This report highlights several ways in which of all women and men workers we are promoting women’s empowerment, 4. Promote education, training and both internally and externally. Further professional development for women information about this work and our 5. Implement enterprise development, progress is available on our website. supply chain and marketing practices that empower women 6. Promote equality through community initiatives and advocacy 7. Measure and publicly report on WE SUPPORT progress to achieve gender equality 41 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 42 © Clifford Chance, October 2016 Clifford Chance LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England & Wales under number OC323571. Registered office: 10 Upper Bank Street, London E14 5JJ. Tel: +44 20 7006 1000 We use the word ‘partner’ to refer to a member of Clifford Chance LLP or members, partners, directors, employees or consultants of Clifford Chance entities who are of equivalent standing and qualifications. Designed by branding agency, The Partners Cover and selected photography by Colin Baldwin
