GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS COMPANY: Corporate Risk & Crisis Management GbR (CRCM) Address: Bettinastraße 30, 60325 Frankfurt am Main, Germany Website: www.security-consulting.net Person of contact: Mr. Jan Grundor (CEO) Email address: grundorf@security-consulting.net Report Submitted: July 2016 Period covered: 2015 Contents: 1. Signs of Identity (CRCM’s philosophy) 2. Principles Description of actions – Communication Page 1 of 7 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that CRCM reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Jan Grundorf CEO CRCM Page 2 of 7 1) Signs of Identity (CRCM’s philosophy) CRCM’S IDENTITY 1. CRCM is a professionalized, internationally focused company that wishes to maintain and consolidate its prestige in the security and political consulting sector. 2. CRCM, as a Learning Organization, places people at the centre of its management model and undertakes to develop its human capital. 3. CRCM favours a participative, transparent management leading to the assumption of new responsibilities in a climate of mutual trust and confidence. 4. CRCM reasserts its vocation of leadership by means of research and innovation of products, services, systems and processes. 5. CRCM reaffirms its spirit of service towards its internal, external and associate customers, beyond conventional expectations, in order to be a strategic partner of reference to them all. 6. CRCM wishes to be a flexible organization, able to respond quickly to the challenges and opportunities of its environment and with the capacity to foresee and surpass them. 7. CRCM states its will to constantly improve the quality of its products, services and management activities, and to actively search for building synergies in its path to excellence. 8. CRCM actively promotes that its relationships with people and the environment be consistent with the principles for sustainable development. 9. CRCM believes that constant development of these marks of identity will make it more efficient and competitive in the creation of tangible and intangible assets, and thus provide it with sustained profitability. 10. CRCM is firmly opposed to corruption in all forms and is committed to doing business in accordance with the highest ethical standards. Page 3 of 7 2) Principles Description of actions – Communication CRCM’s Vision CRCM is a company in search of excellence in the security consulting sector in North Africa, devoting all efforts to achieve recognition by its internal and external customers and associates, and committed to improving health for the benefit of society. Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Commitment: CRCM supports the protection of human rights through its commitment with the social responsibility policies. In fact, CRCM contributes with economical resources to different social causes in Spain and worldwide. Action: CRCM supports refugee programs In this sense in 2015 CRCM has again supported several NGOs in North Africa which support African refugees in Tunisia and Libya. These organizations provide access to knowledge, nurture the growing refugee legal aid and advocacy movement, and encourage active sharing of information as well as expertise among legal practitioners throughout the world. We face the terrible refugee situation in our everyday work and decided not just to look away but to help these institutions and organizations to improve the quality of life for the thousands of refugees in North Africa. Communication: Internal communication: CRCM’s employees through the intranet and other standard channels External communication: No external communication has been made. Page 4 of 7 Labour Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Commitment: These are two of the 9 signs of identity of CRCM. CRCM favours a participative, transparent management leading to the assumption of new responsibilities in a climate of mutual trust and confidence (CRCM’s Identity, Item nº3) CRCM actively promotes that its relationships with people and the environment be consistent with the principles for sustainable development (CRCM’s Identity, Item nº8) CRCM promotes in all its facilities, affiliated companies either in Germany or worldwide the equality of rights in terms of no discrimination, no child labor and promotes the freedom of labor association. Action: In order to guarantee as much working privileges as possible, we apply not only the advanced ideas of the German employment law, but also the recommendations of the German labour unit to all of our Regional Advisors in North Africa, no matter which African employment law is applicable. From experience we can tell that a happy staff is much more important for us than a few more working days or recurrent salary negotiations. This is why we put a lot of effort into improving the labour conditions for our staff in North Africa. The application of German labour standards and labour unit recommendations are a substantial part of our staff’s satisfaction. Communication: Internal communication: CRCM’s employees External communication: ‘Ethics Section’ section on our website. Page 5 of 7 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Commitment: CRCM actively promotes that its relationship with people and environment to assure that they are totally aligned with the sustainable development principles (CRCM’s Identity, Item nº8) Action: In late 2015 we support several water projects that improve sustainable access to water where it is presently at risk in North Africa. Our goal is to reduce the number of people without access to safe drinking water and to stop unsustainable exploitation of water resources. We support projects that are replicable, scalable and sustainable, and set a high benchmark for innovation; which emphasize solutions with practical applicability and address non-discrimination/equality of access from a scientific, legal or other basis; and which involve and impact a range of stakeholders and have local/communitylevel engagement. CRCM created a work environment in which the use of paper is nearly eliminated. As part of our ‘CO2free’ policy, CRCM went paperless in 2013 by converting all documents and other papers into digital form. We take great measures to avoid and reduce emissions. This is why we decided to take the option of offsetting the unavoidable emissions produced by our staff’s flights between Europe and North Africa. Websites like www.lufthansa.myclimate.org allow customers to make monetary contributions to climate protection. These programs and projects are implemented in developing countries as the reduction of emissions is generally more affordable and, in these countries, the volume of environmentally harmful emissions can be reduced on a greater scale for the money that is invested. What counts in the end is the balance and CRCM is proud to be part of this CO2 compensation system. Communication: Internal communication: CRCM’s employees through the standard communication channels External communication: ‘Ethics and Environment’ section on our website Periodicity: This action is once a year communicated internally to all employees. Page 6 of 7 Anti‐Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Commitment: CRCM is firmly opposed to corruption in all forms and is committed to doing business in accordance with the highest ethical standards. (CRCM’s Identity, Item nº10) Action: CRCM prohibits corruption of government officials and the payment of bribes or kickbacks of any kind, whether in dealings with public officials or individuals in the private sector. Corruption promotes poverty, hunger, disease, and crime, and keeps societies and individuals from reaching their full potential. Corruption is one of the leading obstacles to economic and social development. It distorts the rule of law and the institutional foundation on which CRCM depends. CRCM is committed to observing the standards of conduct set forth in the applicable German and European Anti-Corruption and Anti-Money laundering laws of the countries in which we operate. Communication: Internal communication: CRCM’s employees through the standard communication channels External communication: ‘Ethics and Environment’ section on our website Page 7 of 7
