NIPPON PAPER GROUP Sustainability Report 2016 Nippon Paper Group Business Overview The Nippon Paper Group uses renewable wood resources to pursue a diversity of businesses. From paper and paperboard, and household paper, to paper containers, chemicals, and housing construction materials, we provide a wide range of products indispensable for daily life. Wood Products and Construction Related Business Other Businesses 6.2% 2.8% (62.1 billion yen) Paper Media (28.4 billion yen) Paper-Related Packaging Product Examples Business Product Examples 8.8% (88.9 billion yen) Fiscal 2015 Net sales share (1,007.1 billion yen) Newsprint Printing paper Linerboard and Beverage containers corrugated medium Pulp and Paper Business 82.2% (827.5 billion yen) Healthcare Pulp and Paper Business Product Example Business Description Various paper, paperboard and household paper products in this core segment lead the domestic industry in production, sales volumes and quality. We are working to reorganize our production structure. At the same time, we Household paper products are proactively developing overseas markets for paper and paperboard, especially in Asia and the Pacific Rim. Significant attention is also being devoted to the application of in-house power generation know-how to produce and sell electricity. Principal Customers Newspaper, publishing, printing, and stationery companies; public offices, paper manufacturers, electric utilities, and Special Function Papers general consumers Product Example Specialty paper (teabags and other products) Energy Business Example Power generation business 2 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 Paper-Related Business Business Description Comprising this business are three segments, including paper-processing operations, which add various forms of value to paper as a raw material; the chemical products segment, which applies all wood components fully in the manufacture and sale of various types of products; and the functional film segment, which makes the most of its clean coating technology. Principal Customers Manufacturers of beverages, food, chemicals and other products, and various types of paper processing companies Chemicals Product Examples Coating materials Food additives Material for LCDs Raw material for rayon Concrete dispersant Wood Products and Construction Related Business Business Description The lumber segment of this business has the advantage of using Japanese timber obtained by the same expertise Housing and Construction we use to procure wood resources for making paper. It Product Examples also strives to use Japanese timber for construction materials and finished products. The civil-engineeringrelated segment makes use of the technologies we have amassed for maintaining facilities at our paper mills. Principal Customers Construction materials, housing and construction companies, general consumers, and public offices Lumber Interior decoration materials Other Businesses Business Description Included here are segments that put biotechnology expertise developed in afforestation R&D to work in agricultural pursuits; apply real estate and other Group assets in sports and leisure operations; and handle product and Agriculture Sports & Leisure material logistics for Group companies. Business Example Business Example Principal Customers Businesses and general consumers Agricultural businesses Leisure business Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 3 Major Operating Companies and Production Sites (As of March 31, 2016) Group Companies Japan North America Australia Asia Europe South America Africa Total Consolidated subsidiaries 24 3 4 4 3 0 0 38 Non-consolidated subsidiaries 69 1 1 7 1 2 0 81 Affiliates 32 2 0 3 1 1 1 40 Equity-method affiliates 7 2 0 1 0 0 0 10 Production Sites Pulp and Paper Business Paper-Related Business Wood Products and Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Construction Related Business 1 Kushiro Mill (Paper-Pak Division) Nippon Paper Lumber Co., Ltd. 1 SOKA PAPER-PAK CO., LTD. 1 Iwaki Mill 2 Hokkaido Mill (Asahikawa) 3 Hokkaido Mill (Yufutsu) 2 EGAWA PAPER-PAK CO., LTD. 2 N&E Co., Ltd. 4 Hokkaido Mill (Shiraoi) 3 MIKI PAPER-PAK CO., LTD. Daishowa Uniboard Co., Ltd. 5 Akita Mill 4 ISHIOKA KAKO CO., LTD. 3 Miyagi Mill 6 Ishinomaki Mill 5 Nakoso Film Co., Ltd. 7 Iwanuma Mill Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. (Chemical Division) 8 Nakoso Mill 6 Gotsu Mill 9 Ashikaga Mill* 7 Iwakuni Mill 10 Soka Mill* 8 Higashimatsuyama Mill 11 Fuji Mill 9 Yufutsu Mill 12 Otake Mill Nippon Seitai Corporation 13 Iwakuni Mill Location of Production Sites 10 Asahikawa Mill 14 Yatsushiro Mill 11 Maebashi Mill Nippon Paper Crecia Co., Ltd. 12 Saitama Mill 15 Tokyo Mill 2 13 Niigata Mill 10 16 Kaisei Mill 2 1 14 Kyoto Mill 10 17 Kyoto Mill 15 Kyushu Mill 4 9 3 1 18 Koyo Mill Akita Jujo Chemicals Co., Ltd. 4 9 3 Nippon Paper Papylia Co., Ltd. 16 Head Office Plant 19 Harada Mill 20 Suita Mill 21 Kochi Mill 25 Kitakami Paper Co., Ltd. 25 23 5 22 Ichinoseki Mill 16 26 23 Nippon Paper Industries 5 USA Co., Ltd. 26 16 23 22 6 23 Port Angeles Mill 22 7 23 3 Paper Australia Pty Ltd. 24 6 13 7 3 24 Maryvale Mill 24 13 1 Jujo Thermal Oy 8 5 25 Kauttua Mill 1 8 5 26 Siam Nippon Industrial 11 9 12 Paper Co., Ltd. 1911169 17 * Renamed the “Kanto Mill” after an operational 6 11 18 12 consolidation in April 2016. 14 20 3 17 19 16 12 11 18 4 6 13 14 7 3 20 2 15 12 2 8 13 7 15 4 102 1 15 21 2 8 15 10 1 21 14 14 4 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 Nippon Paper Group Editorial Policy The Nippon Paper Group publishes its sustainability report to provide stakeholders with a broad overview Sustainability Report 2016 of what we are doing to meet our corporate social responsibilities (CSR). The Group also publishes an Contents annual report to provide information on its financial aspects and results of operations. This report was prepared in accordance with the Nippon Paper Group Business Overview 2 core option of the fourth update of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4). Major Operating Companies and Production Sites 4 Editorial Policy 5 Period Covered Fiscal 2015: April 1, 2015–March 31, 2016 Message from the President 6 Includes information from before April 1, 2015 and after March 31, 2016. Dates are indicated in such cases. Business Strategy and CSR Activities Scope of Organizations Covered The reporting entity is Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. • The Sustainable Business Model of Data, however, were compiled as of March 31, 2016 for a Comprehensive Biomass Enterprise 8 Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. and all 38 of its consolidated subsidiaries. • Business Strategy Aiming to Create Scope of Environmental Coverage New Value 10 The scope of the report covers the basic environmental policies, systems, environmental accounting and • Social Issues and the Nippon Paper environment performance and other data for the 19 Group’s Value Creation Flow 12 companies, including 5 non-consolidated subsidiaries with production facilities, named below. All major production • CSR Materiality at the Nippon Paper Group 14 locations are included. Consolidated: Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.; Nippon Paper Management Responsibility  15 Crecia Co., Ltd.; Nippon Paper Papylia Co., Ltd.; Paper Australia Pty Ltd.; Kitakami Paper Co., Ltd.; Nippon Paper Industries USA Co., Group Governance and Information Disclosure / CSR Ltd.; Jujo Thermal Oy; Siam Nippon Industrial Paper Co., Ltd.; Nippon Management / Compliance / Dialogue with Stakeholders* * Includes examples of dialogues with a customer and a chip supplier. Seitai Corporation; Nippon Paper Lumber Co., Ltd.; N&E Co., Ltd.; Daishowa Uniboard Co., Ltd..; Nippon Paper Development Co., Ltd.; GAC CO., LTD. Forest Management and Raw Material (The contribution to total consolidated sales of the companies Procurement Responsibility 25 listed here was 94%.) Policy and Management / Current Status of Raw Materials (Sales data for trading companies that are members of the Nippon Procurement / Sustainable Procurement of Raw Materials / Paper Group and sell products made by the Group to outside buyers Protecting and Nurturing Japan’s Wood Resources / are included.) Overseas Afforestation Non-consolidated: SOKA PAPERPAK CO., LTD.; EGAWA PAPERPAK CO., LTD.; MIKI PAPER-PAK CO., LTD.; ISHIOKA KAKO CO., Environmental Responsibility 33 LTD.; Akita Jujo Chemicals Co., Ltd. Policy and Management / Climate Change Initiatives / Reduction of Environmental Impacts / Wastepaper Collection Referenced Guidelines and Use / Preserving Biodiversity • Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2012) of the Ministry of the Environment Responsibility to Customers 51 Policy and Management / Providing Environmentally and • Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (Version 4) issued Socially Conscious Products by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) • United Nations Global Compact Human Rights, Employment and • ISO 26000, etc. Labor Responsibility 57 Policy and Management / Occupational Safety and Health / Creating Workplaces that Support Diverse Human Resources Disclaimer Responsibility to Communities 65 This report includes not only statements of fact and Policy and Management / Coexistence with Local Communities and Society at Large / Corporate Identity Sharing historical data but also plans, forecasts and estimates (forward-looking statements) based on the business plans and policies of the Nippon Paper Group. These forward-looking statements are the result of Outline of the Nippon Paper Group 70 assumptions or judgments based on currently available information as this report was prepared. It should be Guideline Comparison Table  72 noted that forward-looking statements may differ significantly from actual results due to the impacts of a Third-Party Comments 75 number of important factors. Action in Response to Third-Party Comments 75 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 5 Message from the President The Nippon Paper Group, as a comprehensive biomass enterprise shaping the future with trees, is constantly creating new value and contributing to better living and cultural progress. To grow our business over the long for 100% of the fuel to generate electricity at the Yatsushiro term, the Nippon Paper Group will Mill, started operations at the Komatsushima Solar Power continue to be an enterprise that is Plant, and embarked on investments in power generation indispensable to society. facilities at the Fuji, Ishinomaki, and Akita mills. Furthermore, we have decided to proceed with the construction of a The Nippon Paper Group is a comprehensive biomass production test facility for a new type of woody biomass enterprise with strengths in core technologies for making solid fuel in Thailand. In the area of cellulose nanofiber a paper from trees, and in the wood science technologies promising new material made from wood fiber – the first that derive from these core technologies. We are pursuing a products applying this material have been introduced in the wide array of businesses by practicing sustainable field of healthcare, and we have decided to go ahead with stewardship of forests and effectively applying every bit of the construction of what will be one of the world’s largest the biomass resources forests produce. cellulose nanofiber production facilities. This facility, which Trees absorb and sequester CO2, and continue to hold will have an annual capacity of 500 tons, will be located at it, even after they have been processed into lumber. Using the Ishinomaki Mill. Meanwhile, in the packaging business, wood resources, therefore, contributes to the fight against we have established a new organization to lead marketing global warming. Wood resources, as woody biomass fuel and overseas business development efforts, and have a substitute for fossil fuels also play a role in preventing acquired the liquid packaging board business of resource depletion. The Nippon Paper Group practices Weyerhaeuser Company of the US. sustainable forest management at its company-owned While there has been no change in our fundamental forests and overseas afforestation areas to preserve commitment to contribute to cultural development through ecosystems and biodiversity, and conducts natural paper, our plans for the future call for accelerating our environment education programs on a regular basis. business structure transformation and developing The Nippon Paper Group’s business model, as that of a businesses that support prosperity in daily life. comprehensive biomass enterprise, is sustainable and contributes to the development of society while making effective use of sustainable assets and resources. Practicing We aim to achieve sustainable CSR activities closely linked to the unique characteristics of development for society and the Nippon our business and to our business strategies will allow the Paper Group by responding to the needs Nippon Paper Group to continue to be an enterprise that is of all of our stakeholders. indispensable to society. The Nippon Paper Group, through its management of vast tracts of forest and operation of large-scale production Working as a unified whole we will make sites, has the potential to impact local areas and their the most of growth opportunities and residents significantly. Accordingly, paying attention to local create new fields of business. environmental needs and maintaining safe operations are critical to fulfilling our responsibilities as a manufacturer, and The Nippon Paper Group is implementing its Fifth Mediumwhat enable us to be a part of the communities where we Term Business Plan, covering fiscal 2015 to 2017. The operate. Regarding local environmental needs, for example, plan’s objective is to accelerate our transformation to a we listen to the expectations and demands expressed in business structure that applies our advanced wood-related communications with local residents and customers, and technologies, developed in papermaking operations, and reflect them in our medium-term environmental action plan. abundant woody biomass resources to provide products In fiscal 2016, we are beginning work to achieve the fiscal closely linked to people’s daily lives. In fiscal 2015, results 2020 objectives of our new environmental action plan. This were slow to emerge due to the impacts of an economic work, which impacts all aspects of the value chain, from slowdown, but steady progress was achieved in laying the product development to procurement, production, groundwork for future earnings growth. transportation, product use, and recycling, is pursued with In our energy business, we have begun to use biomass the intent of taking in highly effective action for the 6 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 Group Mission Mission The Nippon Paper Group aims to contribute to better living and cultural progress everywhere it does business. Vision 1. Drive social sustainability through our business 2. Delight our customers 3. Instill pride in employees 4. Give back to society Value Challenge : Embrace new challenges Fairness : Be fair Teamwork : Champion teamwork environment. It is also an implementation of the benefit of shareholders and other stakeholders, and engaging environmental management principles embodied in the in fair business practices. Nippon Paper Group Environmental Charter, which we are This report focuses on describing how our sustainable committed to steadily advancing. business model, as that of a comprehensive biomass One of the Vision statements of our Group Mission calls enterprise, is intimately connected to problem resolution for us to instill pride in employees. That requires a developed and ongoing development for society, and how we will corporate culture in which the organization and people continue to pursue our business in coexistence with local function well and employees who act based on a clear communities. In grasping the issues we must address understanding of their role within the organization. And all of toward that end, we place great importance on stakeholder this must be underpinned by health and safety. The Nippon opinions, and have included conversations with a customer Paper Group, which owns numerous production facilities, is and supplier to illustrate their value. dedicated to preventing accidents and will spare no effort in The Nippon Paper Group will keep working in ways that ensuring that its workplaces are safe. promote the development of a sustainable society, based on This attitude underlies the participation of Nippon Paper the needs of stakeholders. We invite everyone to read this Industries Co., Ltd. in the United Nations Global Compact, report, and we welcome candid feedback on its contents. which sets out ten principles with respect to human rights, labor standards, the environment, and the prevention of corruption. To help ensure ongoing growth for the Nippon Paper Group and enhance corporate value over the medium-to-long Fumio Manoshiro President term, the Corporate Governance Policy was implemented in Nippon Paper Industries, Co., Ltd. November 2015. Established by Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd., this policy serves to affirm the great importance we place on further enhancing management transparency for the Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 7 Business Strategy and CSR Activities The Sustainable Business Model of a Comprehensive Biomass Enterprise The Nippon Paper Group is a comprehensive biomass enterprise that, while sustainably managing forests, effectively uses and recycles the abundant biomass resources they produce. We practice CSR activities consistent with our business characteristics and business strategies. Helping to fight global warming, protect biodiversity, and prevent resource depletion Three Cycles Contributing to Sustainable Development 1 Sustainable Forest Management CO2 sequestered in wood 179,000 company-owned forests worldwide* hectares of * Reflects a decline from 204,000 hectares in fiscal 2015, due to the sale of plantations in light of lower paper demand. Harvesting and use In addition to preventing global warming and protecting watersheds, forests perform a wide variety of functions such as providing shelter for diverse living creatures. After harvesting, steps are taken to regenerate forests and ensure that forests under our stewardship thrive indefinitely. Preserving biodiversity Nippon Paper Industries has designated approximately 20% of its Japanese forest as “environmental forest areas.” In these areas, logging for commercial Photosynthesis 1 Sustainable Forest purposes is prohibited and forest ecosystems and water resources are Management Planting protected. These environmental forest areas include national park lands in Akan, Nikko, and other places as well. Environmental forest areas: 18,000 hectares About 20% of forests owned in Japan CO2 Nurturing 2 Carbon Neutrality (Preventing Global Warming CO2 absorption and sequestration 2 Carbon Neutrality through the Carbon Cycle) (Carbon Cycle) CO2 sequestered in company-owned forests worldwide: 32 million tons CO2 absorption from the growth of plants and trees Trees, the principal raw material used by the Nippon Paper Group, absorb and hold CO2 from the atmosphere as they grow. It is believed, therefore, that the release of CO2 when wood resources are burned results in no net increase in atmospheric CO2. The ongoing effective use of wood resources from properly managed, sustainable forests constitutes a carbon-neutral cycle that adds no carbon to the atmosphere. 8 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 Toward greater use of trees New business creation PP.10-11 Expansion of product PP.10-11 Wood science technologies applications to growth areas Woody biomass resources Making full use of trees as a biomass resource Cascade use of wood Cascade use of wood While constantly building upon its wealth of wood science technologies, the Nippon Paper Unprocessed wood Group uses every harvested tree in a cascade of applications. Prevention of resource depletion Of the energy used by the Nippon Paper Group, 47% is comprised of black liquor from the Use as a material pulp-making process, wood construction waste Paper and construction materials and and other biomass fuels, and fuels derived from various other products CO2 emission discarded tires, RPF, and other waste materials. from burning The Group is also making advances in the development of biomass fuel that can be used in place of fossil fuels. Use as a fuel Non-fossil energy* as a percent of Black liquor, construction waste, total energy usage: logging residue, and other forms of biomass fuel 47% * Non-fossil energy = biomass energy+ waste energy Use 3 Recycling of Separation and 3 Production of collection recycled paper Paper Products Recycling of Paper Products Recycled paper utilization rate Pulp production from wastepaper Paper 38% Paperboard 89% The Nippon Paper Group is working diligently to increase the waste paper collection rate with the support of customers and the general public. In addition to bolstering its recycled paper processing capabilities, the Group is striving to expand the range of applications for pulp made from wastepaper. Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 9 Business Strategy and CSR Activities Business Strategy Aiming to Create New Value Working from a base of enhancing profitability in the domestic and overseas paper and paperboard businesses, the Nippon Paper Group is expanding businesses in growth areas by transforming the business structure, and creating new value as a comprehensive biomass enterprise shaping the future with trees. Fifth Medium-Term Business Plan Period Covered by the Fifth Medium-Term Business Plan Fiscal 2014 Results Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2017 target Net sales Net sales Transform our Business Structure 1,052.5 Expand business in growth areas + Make new businesses competitive 1,110.0 billion yen billion yen Operating income Reallocate Management Resources Operating income People, Materials, Money, Information 23.7 billion yen 50.0 billion yen Enhance competitiveness of existing businesses ROA Support earnings ROA 2.2 % 3.7 % Businesses in growth areas 127.0 billion yen Profit improvement / Stabilization of operations 51.0 billion yen •Investment Maintenance / Renewal 102.0 billion yen •Asset Review Review existing assets, apply assets, replace assets Sources of Growth New Businesses and Business Structure Transformation Areas of Growth Energy The Nippon Paper Group’s Wood Science Response to demand for stable energy supplies •Expansion of biomass power generation and other energy Technologies Application of wood resource collection network businesses Application of power generation technology •Biomass fuels Nippon Paper Chemicals Industries’ Global Biomass Resources •Expansion of high-value-added product sales Application of pulping technology •Expansion of overseas sales 179,000 •Cellulose nanofiber hectares in total (Company-owned Healthcare forests in Japan: 90,000 hectares •Expansion of light incontinence Overseas afforestation Response to aging society and hygiene product sales areas: 89,000 hectares) awareness •Expansion of overseas sales Packaging Packaging for aging society •Expansion of high-value-added Response to safety and hygiene awareness product line (Packaging materials Application of paper manufacturing with barrier properties) and coating technologies •Expansion of overseas sales 10 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 Enhance Competitiveness of Existing Businesses Business Alliance with Tokushu Tokai Paper Co., Ltd. Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. and Tokushu Tokai Paper Co., Ltd. agreed to enter into a business alliance* concerning containerboard, and sack and general-purpose kraft paper, businesses. Under the agreement, an efficient sales system will be established by consolidating sales functions in a joint sales company to be newly established. Furthermore, Tokushu Tokai Paper will spin off its Shimada Mill, which will then be operated with production know-how from both companies for enhanced competitiveness. * The business alliance is scheduled to take effect on October 1, 2016. Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. will hold 65% of the shares of the new joint sales company, Nippon Tokai Industrial Paper Supply Co., Ltd., while Shin Tokai Paper Co., Ltd., the company created to take over operation of the Shimada Mill, holds the remaining 35%. New Business Creation and Expansion of Product Applications to Growth Areas 1 Energy Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. is focusing on the use of renewable energy in its power generation business, where it has established the goal of achieving ¥50 billion in annual sales as early as possible. The mega solar plant in Komatsushima City, Tokushima Prefecture, and the Yatsushiro Mill’s biomass power plant, fueled entirely with unused woody materials, are presently operating as expected. In addition, wind power generation is scheduled to get underway on a site adjacent to the Akita Mill, in January 2018, and a cutting-edge thermal power plant capable of using biomass Komatsushima Solar Power Plant (Module capacity of 21,000 KW) fuel, including unused woody material, at rates of up to 30% is expected to come online in March of the same year at the Ishinomaki Mill’s Hibarino site. 2 Cellulose Nanofiber (CNF) Cellulose nanofiber (CNF) is wood fiber (pulp) that has been refined down to a Chipping and 20m nano*-level scale and is the world’s most advanced biomass material. In 2013, pulping Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. established Japan’s first test facility for CNF 20nm production at the Iwakuni Mill, and now we are working on a new CNF production 1 1,000,000,000 facility at the Ishinomaki Mill. With an annual capacity of 500 tons, this plant will be Wood Cellulose (One billionth) nanofiber among the world’s largest facilities of its kind, and plans are to have it in operation by April 2017. In 2015, the Nippon Paper Group completed development work on sheets using CNF that has been treated so that its surface is coated with silver and other metal ions. These sheets offer outstanding antibacterial and deodorant properties, and they are being used in Nippon Paper Crecia Co., Ltd.’s Hada Care Acty® brand of adult diapers and other products in the Hada Care series the world’s first applications of functional CNF. Looking to the future, consideration is being given to offering not only CNF but also items such as resin and rubber primary processed products reinforced with CNF, and packaging, functional paper, and filters applying the transparency, gas-barrier, and other properties of CNF. * “Nano” = one billionth. 3 Healthcare The healthcare business is viewed as a promising growth area and management resources will be allocated to it with the goal of achieving a medium-term target of ¥20 billion in annual sales. Nippon Paper Crecia will complete capacity expansion work at its Kyoto Mill and strengthen its sales operations. In addition, through the offering of products such as the Poise® Hada Care Pad and the Hada Care Acty® Poise® Hada Care Pad Hada Care Acty® Soft Fit series, Nippon Paper Crecia is offering new value that responds to the needs of an Regular Comfortable thin pants aging society. 20 pads M-L size, 22 count 4 Packaging In April 2016, Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. established the Packaging Communication Center, to perform marketing and proposal functions, and the Packaging Research Laboratory, to develop packaging materials and technologies. The Company also entered into a licensing agreement with Elopak AS, a Norwegian company, in March 2016. Under the agreement, Nippon Paper Industries will become the first company in Japan to manufacture and sell the chilled liquid cartons Elopak provides around the world. In a separate deal, Nippon Paper Industries acquired the liquid packaging board business of Weyerhaeuser Company in the US. Through the measures mentioned above, Nippon Paper Industries aims to Various types of paper containers and packaging pursue global business development as a total liquid carton system supplier with integrated operations spanning everything from the production of liquid packaging board, to processing, new carton development, and sales. Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 11 Business Strategy and CSR Activities Social Issues and the Nippon Paper Group’s Value Creation Flow Harvesting and use 2 10 1 25 4 9 3 23 26 Photosynthesis 24 Sustainable 5 16 23 22 Forest Planting 6 7 3 13 Management 1 8 5 11 9 12 19 16 17 6 11 18 14 3 20 12 4 13 7 2 15 2 8 15 CO2 absorption 21 10 1 and sequestration 14 CO2 Nurturing Raw Materials Procurement Production and Shipping Addressing Social Issues in Our Value Chain ISO 26000 Pages in Social Issues Sustainability Core Subjects Report 2016 Raw Material Procurement Management Organizational Governance, Fair PP.15-24 Responsibility Operating Practices Sustainableraw • Sustainable procurement of raw materials material procurement (Efforts to procure certified material, confirm legitimacy, pursue afforestation Forest Management, overseas, obtain certifications for company-owned forests, and use domestic Raw Material materials) Procurement, and The Environment PP.25-50 • Protection and nurturing of company-owned forests in Japan Environmental ( Preserving Preservingbiodiversity biodiversity and other efforts to maintain the diversity of roles Responsibility played by forests) Responsibility to Consumer Issues PP.51-56 Customers • Confirmation of suppliers’ actions in respecting human rights • Respect for human rights in the company’s forest management (Respect for indigenous people, prohibitions against forced labor and child Human Rights, labor, etc.) Human Rights, Employment and Labor Practices PP.57-64 Labor Responsibility Coexistencewith • Coexistence withcommunities communities adjacent to overseas afforestation areas (Job creation, education support, cultural preservation, contributions to contributions to local environments , Preserving local environments preserving biodiversity biodiversity , promotion of Responsibility to Community safety and disaster preparedness, etc.) Involvement and PP.65-69 • Contributions that make use of company-owned forests for the benefit of Communities Development local areas and communities (Environmental education that makes use of company-owned forests, etc.) 12 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 Use Recycling of Paper Products Separation and collection Production of recycled paper Pulp production from wastepaper Sales and Usage Separation, Collection, Recycling, and Disposal :Materiality Initiatives in Our Value Chain Separation, Collection, Production Shipping Sales and Usage Recycling, and Disposal Corporate governance, CSR management, thorough compliance, appropriate information disclosure, personal information management, and dialogue dialogue with withstakeholders stakeholders • Climate changeinitiatives Climate change initiatives • Increase in load efficiency Promotion of • Promotion of • Lowering Reductionofofenvironmental environmental burden impacts (Promotion of modal shifts) wastepaper collection wastepaper collection (Water and air pollutants, waste, noise, • Shortening of transportation • Promotion Promotion of of vibration, odor, chemical substances, etc.) distances recycled paper usage usage (Pursuit of direct delivery and • Development Developmentand andmanufacturing manufacturingofof reorganization of distribution (Strengthening of waste environmentally and environmentally sociallyconscious and socially conscious warehouses) paper processing capacity, products expansion of use of unutilized waste paper, improvement of recycled paper pulp quality) • The stable supply of products Providing environmentally • Providing environmentally Promotion of • Promotion of wastepaper wastepaper • Ensuring quality and safety and socially socially conscious conscious collection collection together with products customers • Ensuring safety in use (Support for recycling • Pursuing customer satisfaction organizations, establishment of waste paper collection • Appropriate disclosure of facilities, etc.) product information • Addressing customer questions and opinions Climate Change Initiatives Appropriate information disclosure, promotion of communication, and environmental education activities • Hiring practices that respect human rights • Ensuring safety in shipping • Securing diversity in the workforce (Promotion of transportation safety) • Human resource development Ensuringoccupational • Ensuring occupationalsafety safetyand andhealth, health, and disaster disaster prevention prevention Respect for basic human rights Coexistencewith • Coexistence withareas surroundingmills areassurrounding mills • Reduction of impacts of • Working with local (Job creation, education support, contributions shipping promote communities to promote to local environments, cultural preservation, (Promotion of transportation wastepaper collection wastepaper collection promotion of promotion of safety safetyand anddisaster prevention , disaster prevention safety, adoption of low emission vehicles, promotion of noise etc.) abatement measures) Promotion of appropriate information disclosure and communication Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 13 Business Strategy and CSR Activities CSR Materiality at the Nippon Paper Group CSR Materiality Items among Initiatives in Our Value Chain (Addressed on pages 12-13) Scope of ISO 26000 Core Subjects Materiality Indicators External Impacts Organizational Governance, Fair Operating • Dialogue with stakeholders Society P.15 Practices (Management Responsibility) The Environment • Sustainable procurement Production sites, P.25 (Forest Management, Raw Material of raw materials people living near P.33 Procurement, and Environmental • Climate change initiatives company-owned Responsibility) • Reduction of environmental forests, and impacts suppliers • Wastepaper collection and use • Preserving biodiversity Consumer Issues • Providing environmentally and Customers P.51 (Responsibility to Customers) socially conscious products Human Rights, Labor Practices • Occupational safety and health Subcontractors, P.57 (Human Rights, Employment and Labor suppliers Responsibility) Community Involvement and Development • Coexistence with local Production sites P.65 (Responsibility to Communities) communities and society at and people living large near companyowned forests The Nippon Paper Group, working from a foundation of High sustainable forest management, contributes to better living and cultural progress as a comprehensive biomass Impact on stakeholders enterprise making full use of, and recycling, renewable Materiality wood resources. Proper management can make forests into sustainable resources and enable the preservation of biodiversity. Sequestering CO2 in forests and using wood resources helps to fight global warming. And using renewable wood resources prevents resource depletion. Creating new products and expanding our activities as a comprehensive biomass enterprise, we manage and Importance of issues related to High Nippon Paper Group businesses operate expansive forests and large-scale production sites. We, therefore, have a significant impact on the local areas Process for Identifying Materiality Items and people who work there. Coexistence with these Identify social issues in the value chain communities, as well as reducing environmental impacts and securing the safety and health of our local employees, Specify materiality item candidates therefore, are critical to our own continued existence. (Nippon Paper Industries’ CSR Department) Moreover, the opinions of our stakeholders serve as Stakeholder opinions valuable opportunities to grasp issues that are important for Consider materiality items, establish (Employee surveys, coexisting and growing with society in a sustainable way. objectives inquiries and (Relevant departments) requests made by Therefore, the materiality items given above are of customers and local residents, supplier particular importance among our initiatives addressing opinions [see pages Confirm materiality items and objectives 22-24], etc.) social issues in our value chain (see pages 12–13). (Group CSR liaison meetings) We identify materiality items as described in the diagram to the right. Finalize materiality items and objectives (General Manager of the CSR Division) 14 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 Management Responsibility The opinions of stakeholders are important for bringing attention to issues that could affect the Nippon Paper Group’s coexistence with society and efforts to grow sustainably. Investor briefings Indicators Key Objective Performance (fiscal 2015) Materiality: Dialogue with Stakeholders Strive to gain understanding of the Nippon Paper [Shareholders and Other Investors] Group’s corporate strategies and policies, listen Held four briefings on operating results and Constructive Dialogue to shareholder opinions and to the business management, and 219 individual meetings analysis views of capital providers, and reflect these perspectives in management [Suppliers] Surveys of main raw material (chips Exercise due consideration of human rights, worker Conducted surveys (20 chip suppliers, and pulp) suppliers, field interviews rights, local community needs, biodiversity, and legality 10 pulp suppliers), and noted no problems in field interviews [Customers] Responses to customer Respond rapidly and accurately Responded rapidly and accurately to questionnaires and inquiries questionnaires and routine inquiries [Employees, subcontractors, and others] Clearly stated in the rules governing the Group help line system that whistleblowers will be System for strictly protecting the privacy of Ensure that potential whistleblowers can have protected and that anonymous reports will be whistleblowers, and preventing retaliation confidence to report their concerns internally accepted under certain conditions. Received against them 19 whistleblower reports in fiscal 2015 [Local Residents] Dialogue and disclosure Provided information and gathered opinions in of environmental information via risk Promote mutual understanding of risk control measures communication meetings and other means 52 risk communication meetings Group Governance and Revision of the Rules Governing Compliance Information Disclosure the Board of Directors 18 Compliance Structure 20 Basic Stance 16 Internal Control System 18 Personal Information Protection 20 Corporate Governance Structure 16 Position on Information Disclosure 18 Group Internal Whistleblower System 20 Compensation Paid to Directors 17 Participating in Organizations in Japan and Abroad 18 Respect for Intellectual Property 20 Personnel & Remuneration Advisory Committee 17 Evaluating the Effectiveness of CSR Management Dialogue with Stakeholders the Board of Directors 17 Management Structure 19 Basic Stance 21 IR Activities 21 Reviewing Initiatives on Materiality Items 22 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 15 Management Responsibility Group Governance and Information Disclosure Further enhancing transparency and practicing fair management, while pursuing sustainable growth and increasing corporate value Basic Stance nine directors, as of June 29, 2016. By combining internal directors with outstanding track records and management Striving to achieve sustainable growth capabilities in the operations they oversee, and outside and increases in corporate value directors with high levels of knowledge and experience, the Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. established its Corporate Company has assembled a diverse Board of Directors that Governance Policy on November 5, 2015 to achieve is exceptionally well-balanced in terms of knowledge, sustainable growth and medium-to-long-term increases in experience, and capabilities. corporate value for the Nippon Paper Group in ways that The Management Execution Committee meets weekly to are consistent with the Group Mission (see page 7). As of support the business execution activities of the president, June 29, 2016, Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. is acting and undertake discussions of important operational matters. in accordance with all of the fundamental principles of The Management Strategy Committee meets as needed to Japan’s Corporate Governance Code. discuss management strategies for particular business The Company’s highest management priority is to areas, and other matters of importance for the Group. achieve even greater transparency toward shareholders The Board of Corporate Auditors monitors the and other stakeholders and engage in fair business company’s management. Two of the four auditors practices. The Company has adopted an executive officer comprising the board are outside auditors responsible for system and is working to strengthen the oversight function strengthening the board’s monitoring and auditing functions of its Board of Directors to ensure the separation of from a third-party perspective. business execution and management oversight. In addition, as the leader of the Nippon Paper Group, the company is •Increase in Independent Outside Directors implementing growth strategies, monitoring businesses In light of their importance, Nippon Paper Industries under its control, and promoting compliance. nominated an additional independent outside director who was approved at the General Meeting of Shareholders held Corporate Governance Policy http://www.nipponpapergroup.com/english/ir/governance/ on June 29, 2016. Of the Company’s two independent outside directors, one is an expert in legal matters, while the other began his career in government before going on Corporate Governance Structure to accumulate considerable experience in corporate management. Both independent outside directors will apply Working to enhance management their expertise, experience, broad perspectives, and efficiency and credibility understanding of international affairs in overseeing, and The company’s Board of Directors is comprised of seven providing advice on, the directors’ performance of their duties. internal directors and two outside directors, for a total of Corporate governance structure (as of June 29, 2016) General Meeting of Shareholders Elect Elect Cooperate Elect Board of Corporate Auditors Audit Board of Directors Audit (4 members including 2 outside auditors) (9 members including 2 outside directors) Accounting Auditors Supervise Personnel & Remuneration Advisory Committee Representative Directors Cooperate Cooperate Management Execution Committee Management Strategy Committee Management Audit Office Cooperate CSR Division CSR Department Compliance Office Corporate Lawyer Nippon Paper Group Monitor Cooperate Corporate Auditor Liaison meeting ( audit and ) supervise Cooperate Business Execution Divisions, Group Companies 16 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 Management Responsibility Compensation Paid to Directors Personnel & Remuneration Advisory Committee Group Governance and Information Disclosure Determined on the basis of Working to enhance responsibilities and performance management transparency Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. has set forth the To further enhance corporate governance, Nippon Paper following policy on officer remuneration in its Corporate Industries Co., Ltd. established the Personnel & Governance Policy. Remuneration Advisory Committee in April 2016. Created as an advisory body to the Board of Directors, the committee is structured to include outside directors as key members. Corporate Governance Policy (excerpt) With input from the Board of Directors on matters such as the process for nominating director and corporate Article 8 (Policy for deciding compensation, etc. of auditor candidates, candidate qualities and nomination directors and statutory auditors) rationale, independence criteria for outside directors, and 1. For directors, the Company shall set guidelines for the officer remuneration system, the committee undertakes purchasing and holding treasury shares in order to give them an incentive to increase shareholder value deliberations with appropriate involvement and by having management conscious of the need to recommendations by outside committee members. Using increase mediumto long-term corporate value. the committee’s advice, the Board of Directors then makes Directors shall, based on the said guidelines, apply decisions on matters including director and corporate a certain amount of their monthly compensation to contribute to the Directors’ Shareholding Association auditor nominations, and director remuneration. for acquiring treasury shares. The shares so acquired shall be held throughout their tenure of office. Personnel & Remuneration Advisory Committee structure 2. Regarding a director’s monthly compensation, his/ and functions her base compensation shall be decided according Board of Directors to his/her job responsibilities in the Company. Of Input Advice that, 70% shall be fixed and the remaining 30% shall Matters addressed: Officer candidates, officer remuneration, etc. be paid with increases or decreases based on the preceding business year’s business performance. Personnel & Remuneration Advisory Committee Meanwhile, they shall receive neither bonuses nor Structure: President and Representative Director, Director and directors’ retirement benefits. General Manager of the General Affairs and Human Resources, Division independent directors (Administration: Manager of 3. Regarding outside directors and outside statutory the Human Resources Department) auditors, monthly compensation shall be fixed. Meanwhile, in view of their job responsibilities, contributions to the Directors’ Shareholding Evaluating the Effectiveness of the Board of Association shall be left to their discretion. Directors Increasing the effectiveness of the Board of Directors Fiscal 2015 total remuneration1 for directors and corporate auditors In fiscal 2015, Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. began to Number of Total remuneration for all have its Board of Directors engage in self-evaluations of its Officer class officers members of the officer class effectiveness. The purpose of this initiative is to continuously Directors 112 ¥401 million per year strengthen the functions of the Board of Directors. Corporate auditors 4 ¥61 million per year Once each year, the administrative office supporting the 1 Rounded down to the nearest million yen. Board of Directors asks each director and corporate auditor to 2 Includes 3 directors who resigned during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016. complete a survey on matters such as board operations and deliberations. The Board of Directors discusses, analyzes, and evaluates the results of the survey and then uses what it has learned to improve the board’s effectiveness. Comment Helping to strengthen corporate governance Yoshimitsu Aoyama, Outside Director, Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. I believe the purpose of corporate governance is to promote transparent management decision-making that helps the Company increase its corporate value and pay returns to shareholders, create comfortable work environments where employees feel that what they do is valuable, and enhance its credibility as a member of society. It is from this perspective that I, as an outside director, intend to contribute the views of an outsider to oversight of the Company’s management. Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 17 Management Responsibility Group Governance and Information Disclosure Revision of the Rules Governing the Board of Directors (see page 19). This policy is provided in the Nippon Paper Group Disclosure Policy adopted in October 2005. Working to strengthen the oversight Following the guidelines of this basic policy, we comply function of the Board of Directors with the provisions of the Financial Instruments and In April 2016, Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. revised the Exchange Act of Japan and other relevant laws and rules governing the Board of Directors to strengthen the regulations. We disclose information in a timely manner, board’s oversight function. standing on the principles of transparency, fairness and In doing this, efforts were focused on modifying the continuity. Furthermore, we disclose information that may types of matters that should be taken up by the board, not be required under applicable laws, regulations, or timely given its responsibilities. Furthermore, materiality standards disclosure rules, when deemed to be of interest to our were revised and action was taken to clearly separate stakeholders and other members of society. business operations from management oversight by Information Disclosure Policy devolving decision-making authority on certain matters, http://www.nipponpapergroup.com/english/ir/disclosure/ such as capital investments, to the president or other policy/ executive officers. The revised rules governing the Board of Directors will serve as a foundation for further strengthening deliberation Participating in Organizations in Japan and Abroad and reporting on matters concerning management plans Seeking to connect to and work with and policies, and corporate governance. external parties Internal Control System The Nippon Paper Group strives to share information with other companies, international organizations, governmental Complying with statutory and institutions, labor organizations, and NGOs in countries regulatory requirements around the world, and contribute to various activities In accordance with Japan’s Companies Act and related together with these partners. laws and regulations, Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.’s Board of Directors approved the Basic Policy for •The United Nations Global Compact Establishing the Internal Control System in 2006 and has Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. revised it as necessary since then. As called for by the announced its decision to support basic policy, systems that are required for the Board of the 10 principles covering the four Directors to perform its duties in accordance with laws and fields of human rights, labor, regulations, and with the Company’s Articles of environment and anti-corruption Incorporation, and systems that are required for the Nippon and joined the United Nations Paper Group to properly pursue its business activities have Global Compact as a signatory in been established and are being used. November 2004. United Nations Global Compact • Financial reporting internal controls https://www.unglobalcompact.org/ To comply with the internal control reporting system requirements stipulated under the Financial Instruments and Principle organization memberships (as of July 2016) Exchange Act of Japan, the Management Audit Office Organization Position assesses the status and operation of financial reporting Japan Paper Association Chairman internal controls. Based on these assessments, it has been Japan Tappi Vice President determined that effective financial reporting internal controls Forest Management Association Director were in place at Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd., and 21 Japan Overseas Plantation Center for Pulpwood Director consolidated subsidiaries, as of March 31, 2015. Japan Woody Bioenergy Association Director Paper Recycling Promotion Center Vice President Position on Information Disclosure Japan Paper Exporters’ Association Chairman Japan Paper Importers’ Association Vice Chairman Enhancing management transparency Japan Association of Milk Packaging and Machinery Vice Chairman through active information disclosure Committee for Milk Container Environmental Issues Vice Chairman Association of Large-scale On-site Power-plant Managing The Nippon Paper Group constantly strives to enhance the Owners Director soundness and transparency of its management by disclosing National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology Nanocellulose Forum Chair company information in accordance with our Action Charter 18 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 Management Responsibility Management Responsibility CSR Management Advancing CSR activities that help to build a sustainable society through business endeavors Management Structure • Supporting CSR activities by Group companies Group Governance and Information Disclosure / Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.’s CSR Department hosts Overseeing corporate social regular CSR liaison meetings with personnel in charge of responsibility through the CSR Division CSR at principal Group companies. These meetings are Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. established the CSR held to communicate Division to oversee the CSR activities of the Group as a directions being taken with whole. The CSR Department and Public Relations Office regard to CSR matters and to CSR Management were set up within the CSR Division. The CSR Department share opinions. They are also promotes CSR activities based on the Action Charter and used as opportunities to hear works closely with the various divisions and departments. discussions of CSR activity trends by invited consultants, CSR liaison meeting and to hold workshops. The Nippon Paper Group’s Action Charter • Meeting social responsibilities through business activities 1. We shall pursue a sustainable growth for the future to contribute to society through our business activities. The Nippon Paper Group, as a comprehensive biomass 2. We shall abide by the letter and the spirit of laws enterprise shaping the future with trees, aims to contribute and regulations, and comply with the highest ethical to the development of a sustainable society through its standards and social codes of conduct, both in business activities. Toward that end, we are committed to Japan and abroad. 3. We shall conduct our business in a fair, transparent grasping the expectations and demands of our and liberal manner. stakeholders, and fulfilling our social responsibilities from 4. We shall win the trust of customers through the the perspectives of business management; forest development and provision of socially useful and safe management and the procurement of raw materials; the products and services. 5. We shall disclose corporate information positively and environment; customers; human rights, employment, and fairly to all stakeholders of the Group. labor; and local communities. 6. We shall actively address environmental issues, and shall endeavor to conserve and enhance the environmental state of our planet. Meeting social responsibilities through business activities 7. We shall maintain consistency between corporate development and the personal contentment of individual employees, and create a company filled with dream and hope. Mission The Nippon Paper Group aims to contribute to ➡P.7 better living and cultural progress everywhere it does business. Case Initiatives for Solving Social Problems Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report Management Responsibility ➡P.15 2015 awarded special prize for excellence Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2015, issued Forest Management and Raw Material Procurement Responsibility ➡P.25 by Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. in September 2015, was awarded a special prize for excellence in biodiversity reporting at the 19th Environmental Communication Environmental Responsibility ➡P.33 Awards, co-organized by Japan's Ministry of the Environment and by the Global Environmental Forum. Responsibility to Customers ➡P.51 The purpose of the Environmental Communication Awards is to recognize outstanding environmental Human Rights, Employment and Labor Responsibility ➡P.57 reporting and, thereby, encourage companies and other organizations to engage in environmental Responsibility to Communities ➡P.65 management and environmental communication initiatives, and improve the quality of environmental Identification of Social Problems and Needs information disclosures. The Nippon Paper Group Dialog with stakeholders ➡P.21 is honored to have had its sustainability report recognized Information disclosure ➡P.18 for excellence and will now work even harder in the pursuit of CSR activities and information disclosures that are substantial and Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report easily understandable. 2015 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 19 Management Responsibility Compliance As a committed partner ensuring that employees are fully informed about compliance, the Nippon Paper Group engages in corporate activities in accordance with laws and social norms Compliance Structure Group Internal Whistleblower System Promoting compliance throughout Encouraging reporting via a help line on the Group activity in conflict with compliance The CSR Division of Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. The Nippon Paper Group has established its help line serves as a facilitator and driving force behind efforts to system to allow any employee of the Group to provide achieve and reinforce understanding of compliance direct notification of, or seek advice outside the chain-ofthroughout the Nippon Paper Group. command on, any action in the workplace that could violate Each Group company appoints a person to be in charge laws, social norms or corporate ethics. The Compliance of compliance within its organization, and Nippon Paper Office located within the CSR Department serves as a point Industries’ Compliance Office actively hosts Group of contact within the Group. We have also established Compliance Liaison Meetings to provide all employees in points of contact outside the Group for use by employees charge of compliance with information on important policies as appropriate. and measures, opportunities to share information, and The help line system guarantees the privacy of advice on education and training activities. whistleblowers and takes steps to ensure that they do not suffer because they have reported questionable activity or • Implementing compliance education have sought advice. The Nippon Paper Group conducts training on an ongoing basis to further enhance compliance awareness Trends in the number of notifications received by the help line and understanding. We, together with a consultant from Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 outside the Group, conduct practical training that involves 13 21 26 19 group discussions and is tailored to the specific needs of production sites and sales offices. Flow of the help line system Education on compliance is also provided through User avenues such as e-learning, new-hire training, and training Group company employees, temporary workers, for newly appointed managers. contract workers, dispatched staff, workers from contractors, etc. In fiscal 2015, basic training Notification/consultation Notification/consultation Response was conducted for 650 employees; training on the External Point of Contact Antimonopoly Act, for 800 Response Company specializing in Legal office telephone counseling employees; and seminars on current issues, for 920 employees. Notification/consultation Response Compliance training Internal Point of Contact CSR Department Compliance Office Personal Information Protection Coordination Maintaining a systematic structure Consolidated Subsidiaries and rules Employees in charge of compliance Nippon Paper Industries has taken steps to ensure clear understanding of the structure and rules applicable to the Respect for Intellectual Property handling of personal information. The personal information of customers, business partners and employees is controlled Heightening respect for intellectual by clearly stated rules and a manual, and is tracked and property and ensuring compliance managed in control ledgers by individual related departments with all applicable laws through as required by the Private Information Protection Law. These education programs ledgers contain details of the dates when personal information was obtained and the purposes for holding it, The Nippon Paper Group’s emphasis on intellectual property is and are reviewed annually to eliminate data for which the evident not only in research and development but also in all of holding period has expired and take other actions, as well, to its business activities, and the Group adheres strictly to all ensure that information is handled properly. applicable laws and regulations. Members of the Intellectual Property Department of Nippon Paper Industries, and outside patent attorneys, conduct intellectual property education programs for the benefit of Group company employees. A total of 326 employees attended the 10 programs in fiscal 2015. 20 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 Management Responsibility Management Responsibility Dialogue with Stakeholders Actively creating opportunities for dialogue to promote coexistence with society Basic Stance IR Activities Compliance / Dialogue with Stakeholders Actively promoting dialogue Promoting dialogue with shareholders and investors The Nippon Paper Group manages broad areas of forest and operates large-scale production sites. Coexistence Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. strives to gain with the places where we pursue business activities, and understanding of the Group’s business direction by engaging with society at large, therefore, is in our own vital interest, shareholders and other investors in constructive dialogue. and dialogue with stakeholders is critical for understanding Furthermore, we reflect the opinions of investors and the what coexistence demands. business analysis perspectives of capital providers in our In this context, we actively establish contact points and management to promote sustainable growth and mediumopportunities for direct dialogue with all stakeholders while to-long-term increases in corporate value for the Group. regularly providing information on our operations and promoting the exchange of opinions. Each of our business Results of activities in fiscal 2015 locations actively creates opportunities for regular Operating results and management briefings 1 time communication on risks and other matters. And stakeholder Operating results briefings (Teleconference) 3 times opinions are received through channels such as our website Individual meetings 219 times and ShikiOriori, the CSR communication magazine we publish to provide plain and simple explanations of our CSR initiatives. • Tours and other events Stakeholder opinions are carefully considered and Every opportunity is taken to promote a deeper reflected in management decision making aimed at enabling understanding of the Nippon Paper Group and its activities. the mutually beneficial ongoing development of society and Annual plant tours are one the Nippon Paper Group. example. The tours of Nippon Paper Industries’ Iwanuma Mill in fiscal 2015 attracted considerable praise from participants. Tours of Nippon Paper Industries’ Iwanuma Mill Trends in dividends per share (Yen) Interim Period-end Company name Fiscal year end dividend dividend Nippon Paper March 2013 10 — Group, Inc. March 2013 — 30 Nippon Paper March 2014 10 30 Industries Co., CSR communication magazine ShikiOriori Ltd.* March 2015 20 30 March 2016 30 30 * Nippon Paper Industries Co. Ltd. and Nippon Paper Group, Inc. merged on April 1, 2013. Contact points for dialogue with stakeholders Stakeholder Major point of contact Means of communication Employees (executives, permanent employees, Human resource sections Labor–management councils, labor–management committees, etc. part-time employees, employee families) Sales sections Customers (business enterprises, Product safety sections Individual interviews, inquiries to customer relations sections, etc. consumers, etc.) Customer assistance channels Responsible sections Environmental explanatory meeting, risk communication, within mills and branches environmental monitoring system, mill presentation meetings, etc. Responsible sections Society and local residents (local communities, within each business Interviews, etc. NPOs/NGOs, municipalities, the media, segment students, etc.) Social contribution sections Social contribution activities, etc. Public relations sections Press releases, interviews, etc. Business partners (suppliers, Procurement sections Individual interviews, supplier surveys, etc. subcontractors, etc.) Human resource sections General affairs sections General shareholders’ meetings, shareholder communications, Shareholders (shareholders, investors, etc.) IR sections explanatory meetings, annual reports, IR site, IR information mail, etc. Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 21 Management Responsibility Dialogue with Stakeholders Reviewing Initiatives on Materiality Items Working to identify issues concerning coexistence with society and sustainable growth In reviewing the initiatives the Nippon Paper Group has that paper, through its use in providing environmentally and pursued to address materiality items, we asked socially conscious products (see page 14), can contribute stakeholders to contribute their opinions to our efforts to to the building of a sustainable society. shape improvements going forward and identify new In dialogues with suppliers (see page 24), we have materiality items. asked what is necessary to promote the sustainable Dialogue with a customer provided an opportunity to procurement of raw materials – one of our materiality items rediscover the value of paper, the Group’s core product, in – and have reviewed the Nippon Paper Group’s initiatives contributing to cultural progress, in accordance with our to date. Group Mission (see page 7). It has also allowed us to see Dialogue with a Customer On the Current and Future Paper as a tool for creating opportunities Value of Paper to think Kumagai To begin with, could you tell me how you came We talked with Hirohito Shibata, a researcher using to evaluate paper and how you do it? scientific methods to evaluate paper at Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd. Shibata I examine the value of paper Fuji Xerox handles in a Nippon Paper Group customer about the benefits and its copying machine and other businesses in order to the future of paper as a communication medium. understand the future of this paper. I prepare research reports based on objective data and facts and submit them for peer review to show that my findings are credible. Hirohito Shibata, Ph.D. K I understand that you compare paper to electronic Senior Research Principal, media. Recently, I heard that some companies that had Research and Technology Group Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd. been distributing internal newsletters electronically have Part-time Lecturer at Tokyo University of gone back to paper. Also, though it’s been said that paper Technology advertisements displayed in commuter trains will disappear, they’re still being used. What are the benefits of paper that distinguish it from electronic media? Research Areas: User interface design, cognitive science, S Using paper to distribute a company newsletter provides creativity support a trigger to read it. And as for ads, paper allows commuters Publications to choose those they want to look at, look at them as long 1 Shibata Hirohito: Where Can Paper Continue to be Used? as they want, and look at them again later; with an Paper Times Co., Ltd. ed. “Paper Pulp 2020 A Discussion of the Near Future with Experts” electronic device, ads are displayed automatically without PP.52-61 (2015) reader involvement. In other words, with paper, the reader 2 Shibata Hirohito: A Consideration of Media and Work Styles of the Future can exercise more degrees of freedom in choosing what Pulp and Paper Technology Times Vol.57, No.1, PP.61-70 (2014) they read and when they want to read it. Electronic media have the advantage of being able to display high volumes of information, but there is the tendency of readers to become passive. If we look at a learning situation as an example, electronic media can offer links to related information to help the reader understand difficult material. That would seem to result in understanding deeper than what would be possible with paper. Links, however, disturb concentration on the original material and lead the reader to believe that, having read the related information, they now understand the original material, without reviewing it. In one university experiment, students were divided into one group that took lecture notes by hand and another that used PCs for the same purpose. The students’ performance was then compared by examining their class grades. Students who took notes by hand were found to have written down their own interpretations or (Left) Takashi Kumagai, Business Communication and Industrial Paper Sales Division, Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. summaries, as well, while students who took notes on PCs (Right) Hirohito Shibata, Research and Technology Group, Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd. simply entered what they had heard. The students who used PCs recorded more information, but the students 22 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 Management Responsibility coming out with the better grades were the ones who took paper manufactured in Japan is made from recycled material. Dialogue with Stakeholders notes by hand, and by thinking. The same experiment was Furthermore, calculations based on data from the Japan also performed after telling students about these tendencies Environmental Management Association for Industry show and here, too, it was the students who took notes by hand that using printed paper emits less CO2 than does the use of who got the better grades. Human thought, in other words, either a computer display or a projector to present the same is affected by the tools they use to record information. information for a long meeting (Graph 1) or for a meeting with K There is a movement to create electronic versions of a small number of participants (Graph 2). I think this kind of schoolbooks, but is it up to our generation, which objective information would be very effective in promoting the understands the characteristics of both paper and electronic value of paper from an environmental perspective. media, to teach children the benefits of using paper? S I think we should teach children to use both properly, Comparison of CO2 emissions (Total from manufacturing without favoring either. Video content enhances learning, and use) (Calculated based on data from the Japan Environmental Management Association for and web-based English-language instruction is effective. Industry for products manufactured in 2008 or later) However, simply searching on the internet for an answer Graph 1: Breakdown by Length of Time Used and writing it down tends to involve no thinking. And in (For reading an eight-page document) business settings, using PowerPoint to create a beautiful CO2 emissions (g) Paper (Printed on both sides) Laptop PC presentation with a summary of main points and a diagram, Standard desktop PC High-performance desktop PC though they could be easily shown using paper, can very 125 well eat up a lot of time in adjusting line angles and 100 thicknesses – things that have nothing to do with the 75 essential task. In meetings, as well, rather than electronic media, the operation of which is distracting, it is paper, 50 which is easily handled, that leads to greater eye contact, 25 participation, and discussion among participants. And 0 probably all of us have found it difficult at one time or 15 30 45 60 Length of time used (minutes) another to talk with a doctor who was paying more * A “standard desktop PC” is equipped with an Intel Core processor and 4GB or attention to a screen than to us. less of memory. A “high-performance desktop PC” is equipped with an Intel Core processor and more than 4GB of memory. Value in ease of handling Graph 2: Breakdown by number of meeting participants K Users can easily handle paper by using their fingers to (For joint viewing of a 10-page document ) keep materials open to a certain page, turn pages, or go CO2 emissions (g) Paper (Distributed to all meeting participants as Projector + laptop PC for a document printed on both sides of each page) each meeting participant back to a page. They can also handle paper materials while Projector + 1 laptop PC talking. A display, on the other hand, requires that certain 400 procedures be used to show a particular bit of information, 300 and, with a tablet, in particular, accidentally touching the screen, while pointing at it can have the unfortunate result 200 of causing the display to change. 100 S With electronic media, users must learn how to use the operating system for each type of device and even spend 0 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Number of meeting time familiarizing themselves with newer, different features of participants operating system updates. Paper, the other hand, is something everyone gets used to handling almost from the time they’re born. And that ease of handling leads to greater Using paper and electronic media for speed and accuracy in error detection when editing a different purposes document, and the ability to quickly return to a previously K What is the future of paper as a medium of reviewed section, the position of which is physically communication? remembered. Given that people often read while using a S In comparisons with electronic media, the term finger to trace a line of text, or while making notes in the “paperless” is stressed. However, there is no all-purpose margin, paper is, indeed, read with the hands; the ability to medium. Chefs and carpenters use different tools for freely touch it is perhaps the greatest characteristic of paper. different purposes, and the same approach can be taken with electronic media and paper, the former being good for Bad for the environment? archiving, and the latter, for meetings. The strengths of K Some people make the argument that paper should not each should be applied where appropriate. And this will get be used because it is bad for the environment. The raw easier as it becomes possible to print documents in very material for paper, however, comes from trees a renewable little time and connectivity between different types of media resource – and we engage in sustainable forest improves. I would very much like to see greater pursuit of management to ensure that our access to an abundant the possibilities of paper. supply of this resource will continue. As they grow, trees K Thank you very much for this conversation. Hearing your absorb CO2 and, therefore, are a resource the use of which perspective on the value of paper has further strengthened does not add carbon to the atmosphere. my view of our role in providing products that make the most S I wonder if it is generally understood that over half of the of the benefits of paper, and of the need for promoting them. Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 23 Management Responsibility Dialogue with Stakeholders Dialogue with a Supplier On Sustainable Procurement of Raw Materials A Nippon Paper Group procurement specialist visited NCT Forestry Co-operative Limited, an overseas company supplying chips to the Group, to talk with its president, Patrick Kime. In their conversation, the two talked about initiatives in areas such as human rights, coexistence with local communities, and biodiversity, all of which are concerns that must be addressed for the ongoing pursuit of a forest-related business. (Left) Patrick Kime Chip plant manager (left) and employee (right) wearing safety gear President, NCT (Right) those of other companies. In addition, we use the feedback Takahiro Sato South Africa gained through these surveys to make improvements that representative, Nippon have gradually increased worker satisfaction over the years. Paper Industries Co., Ltd. S Is your company pursuing initiatives aimed at promoting coexistence with local communities? Supplier Profile K We are contributing to local communities primarily Company name: NCT Forestry Co-operative Limited (NCT) Location: Pietermaritzburg, South Africa through employment. However, we also use 1% of our Main businesses: Production and sale of hardwood chips, pretax profits to help local communities. Using this money, management of afforested areas we have undertaken 26 projects, in which we’ve done Relationship with Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. things such as purchasing musical instruments for Nippon Paper Industries has been purchasing hardwood economically needy local schools and providing rainwater chips from NCT continuously since 1975. storage tanks for areas suffering from drought. To ensure that our support activities are effective, we visit the places we intended to help to check whether the outcomes Sato What are the factors necessary for the ongoing envisioned were actually achieved. operation of your company? S Could you talk a little bit about what NCT does to protect Kime Keeping costs of forest operations within the range biodiversity? of economic feasibility. Also, maintaining a customer base K About 30% of NCT’s afforested areas have been set that will purchase products at market prices. aside for the protection of vegetation. That means we’ve S Does Nippon Paper Industries have an impact on the gone beyond what the law requires in our attempts to sustainability of forests related to your business? preserve or restore the diversity of native species. This is K Through its consistent purchases at fair prices over the useful for maintaining our FSC® certification, but more than years which account for about half of NCT’s sales volume that, we are aiming to manage our afforested areas in ways Nippon Paper Industries has been a long-term, indirect that are sensitive to biodiversity and that allow NCT supporter of private timber companies. Our strong, longmembers to say with pride that these are their lands. term relationship with Nippon Paper Industries has provided S Do the attitudes or stances of Nippon Paper Industries, a tremendous sense of security to the timber companies as demonstrated, for example, in annual surveys on human that make up NCT’s members. rights, coexistence with local communities, and biodiversity, S What kinds of measures does your company take in have any impact on NCT’s efforts? terms of safety, labor, and other areas of human rights? K Among our customers are some companies that know K In our plant and in forested areas, we operate in nothing about their suppliers and have no interest in them. compliance with the strict standards that must be Having a customer, such as Nippon Paper Industries, that maintained for the FSC® certification (see page 28), which has supplier selection standards and policies increases our we have gained. We have also established policies for motivation to be a morally upright supplier. protecting human rights, which we thoroughly implement S What does NCT expect of Nippon Paper Industries? through education and through clearly stated terms in K We would like for Nippon Paper Industries to continue to employment contracts covering all of our employees. be a stable, reliable customer and to continue to make S Are employees satisfied with employment terms and regular purchases that we can plan on. We also welcome working conditions? some degree of flexibility in response to droughts and other K Since about 10 years ago, we have had an outside unforeseeable conditions that affect suppliers. Our consultant conduct satisfaction surveys of our workers relationship has been strong until now and we look forward every two years, and our scores have been high relative to to continuing it into the future. 24 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 Forest Management and Raw Material Procurement Responsibility The Nippon Paper Group, as a comprehensive biomass enterprise pursuing business endeavors that are founded on sustainable forest management and promote sustainable growth by using, and later recycling, every bit of the renewable wood resources it harvests, contributes to better living and cultural progress. With sustainable forest management, biodiversity can be protected. Because forests act to sequester CO2, using wood resources actually helps to prevent global warming. Sudagai company-owned forest (Gunma Prefecture, Japan) Indicators Key Objectives Performance (fiscal 2015) Materiality: Sustainable Procurement of Raw Materials Maintenance of forest certifications for all company-owned forests inside 100% of company-owned forests 100% and outside Japan Procurement of imported hardwood chips 100% of imported hardwood chips 100% made with timber from certified forests Overseas chip and pulp supplier 100% of chip and pulp suppliers 100% (20 chip suppliers, seven pulp questionnaires suppliers) Policy and Management Sustainable Procurement of Overseas Afforestation Basic Stance 26 Raw Materials Sustainable Management of Basic Stance 28 Overseas Afforested Areas 32 Philosophy and Basic Policy 26 Action Plan for Wood-Based Tree Farm Initiative 32 Sustainable Forest Management 26 Raw Material Procurement 28 Framework for Promoting Raw Materials Procurement Management 26 Protecting and Nurturing Japan’s Wood Resources Current Status of Sustainable Management of Raw Materials Procurement Company-Owned Forests in Japan 30 Current Status of Paper Invigorating Japan’s Forest Industry 30 Raw Materials Procurement 27 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 25 Forest Management and Raw Material Procurement Responsibility Policy and Management Practicing sustainable procurement of raw materials in ways that consider environmental and social concerns in line with our philosophy and basic policy Basic Stance Sustainable Forest Management Pursuing sustainable and stable wood Practicing proper planning resources procurement and management Woodchips and wastepaper, as recycled material, are the Forestry management considers not only economic, but main raw materials for pulp and paper. Procurement of also environmental and social sustainability. The Nippon these materials entails the support not only of suppliers in Paper Group defines sustainable forest management as: and outside of Japan, but also the communities and 1) Biodiversity is conserved. government authorities of local production areas. Taking 2) The productivity and soundness of the forest ecosystem into consideration relationships with the environment and is maintained. society, the Nippon Paper Group recognizes the importance 3) Soil and water resources are conserved. of working closely with suppliers to establish a sustainable 4) Diverse social needs are satisfied. supply chain that incorporates production area forest Proper planning and management are important factors in ecosystem, local community, occupational safety and the sustainable management of forests. A considerable health as well as other concerns. amount of time is required to cultivate trees to their maturity. In Accordingly, we have built and implemented a structure putting together a viable sustainable forest management plan, and framework that will allow us to sustainably procure it is important to consider factors including the areas allocated renewable wood resources. to afforestation and harvesting, the rate of growth, the surrounding environment and the impact on society. Philosophy and Basic Policy Landscape concerns related to efforts to protect waterside forests and address other such needs must also be examined. Philosophy and basic policy reflecting Taking full advantage of its expertise in forest management, the opinions of stakeholders the Group is promoting proper planning and management. The Nippon Paper Group established its Philosophy and Basic Policy Concerning Raw Materials Procurement in Framework for Promoting Raw Materials fiscal 2005. In formulating this philosophy and basic Procurement Management policies, a draft proposal was released to the public so as Overseeing raw material procurement for to solicit the opinions of stakeholders in Japan and the entire Group overseas. The Group considered all of the close to 2,000 comments received, and incorporated several suggestions The Nippon Paper Group established the Raw Materials into revisions made to the draft. Committee, chaired by the general manager of the Raw Materials and Purchasing Division at Nippon Paper Industries. This subcommittee deliberates on a wide variety of important issues concerning raw material procurement, including the Group’s overarching procurement policy. Philosophy and Basic Policy Concerning Raw Materials Procurement (formulated on October 5, 2005) Philosophy We are committed to establishing a reliable raw materials procurement system through global supply chain management in consideration of the environment and society. Basic Policy 1. Environmentally friendly raw materials procurement 2. Socially aware raw materials procurement (1) We procure woodchips, lumber and pulp from forests (1) We pursue fair deals with suppliers on equal terms. under sustainable forest management. (2) We ensure that the entire supply chain has appropriate (2) We use and deal in no illegally logged lumber and we human rights and labor practices. support the eradication of illegal logging. (3) We make active use of recycled materials to help build a 3. Promotion of dialogues with stakeholders recycling-oriented society. (1) We engage in dialogues with stakeholders to improve (4) We make appropriate procurement of chemical the quality of our raw materials procurement in constant substances in compliance with relevant laws and consideration of the environment and society. regulations. (2) We proactively disclose information so that our initiatives (5) We build traceability systems to ensure the above policies are better known. are practiced throughout the supply chain. 26 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 Forest Management and Raw Material Procurement Responsibility Current Status of Raw Materials Procurement In addition to actively promoting the use of recycled paper, we procure wood resources from sustainably managed forests. Current Status of Paper Raw Materials • Initiatives aimed at stable wastepaper procurement Forest Management and Procurement With each passing year, the collection of wastepaper has taken on greater importance for reducing waste volumes Raw Material Procurement Using waste paper and wood resources and reusing materials. For Japan’s paper industry, as raw materials wastepaper is an essential resource accounting for more Responsibility The Nippon Paper Group is engaged primarily in the than half of the raw materials it uses. manufacture of paper products. 54.6 percent of the raw Against this backdrop, the Nippon Paper Group has materials are composed of recycled paper and the maintained a stable system for procuring wastepaper. This Policy and Management / Current Status of Raw Materials Procurement remaining 45.4% consists of such wood resources as system, the product of many years of collaboration with the woodchips. Both types of raw materials are used to wastepaper industry, promotes the recycling of wastepaper. produce pulp. • Initiatives aimed at stable wood resource procurement Breakdown of main raw materials for paper manufacturing 1 Of the wood raw materials Nippon Paper Industries (Fiscal 2015) procures, slightly more than 60% are sourced from overseas and a little below 40%, from Japan. To help ensure stable supplies, overseas procurement is diversified Other pulp (Wood resources) Recycled paper2 among multiple countries, including Australia. 45.4% 54.6% 1 Japanese subsidiaries 2 Wastepaper / (Wastepaper + other types of pulp) Geographic breakdown of wood raw materials procured by Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. (FY2015) (tonnes=bone dry tonnes) Overseas 64% (2,884,000 tonnes) Japan 36% (1,607,000 tonnes) Afforested areas Secondary forests* Hardwood Softwood 78% Hardwood Softwood 22% 58% 6% 14% 22% (2,623,000 tonnes) (261,000 (638,000 tonnes) (969,000 tonnes) tonnes) Hardwood resource breakdown (3,261 tonnes) Softwood resource breakdown (1,230 tonnes) Secondary forests* 5% Afforested areas Secondary forests* Afforested areas 78% 22% 95% 40 20 80 100 60 0 * Forests that have recovered naturally or that have been artificially replanted after an event such as timber harvesting or fire. Tree species Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. procured from overseas, and their countries of origin (Fiscal 2015) Hardwood Softwood Secondary forests* 5% Country Percentage Species Country Percentage Species Australia Afforested 37%areas Eucalyptus Australia 76% Radiata pine South Africa 9522% % Acacia 60 80 20 40 100 0 U.S.A. 17% Douglas fir Brazil 18% Eucalyptus, Acacia Russia 7% Yezo spruce Vietnam 12% Acacia Total 100% Chile 11% Eucalyptus Total 100% Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 27 Forest Management and Raw Material Procurement Responsibility Sustainable Procurement of Raw Materials Practicing sustainable forest management and resource procurement using certifications as benchmarks Basic Stance Action Plan for Wood-Based Raw Material Procurement Focusing on legal compliance and transparency in the procurement of Strictly prohibiting purchases from illegal raw materials logging while promoting procurement that takes into consideration the The Nippon Paper Group is a strong advocate of environment and society’s needs sustainable raw materials procurement that takes into consideration environmental and social concerns. Our The Nippon Paper Group has put in place its Action Plan procurement of wood raw materials rests on the principles for Wood-based Raw Material Procurement, in keeping with of legality and emphasizes sustainability, clear identification the Group’s Philosophy and Basic Policy Concerning Raw of the origin of wood resources, and full accountability. Materials Procurement. This action plan provides a When purchasing from external suppliers, we make roadmap that incorporates checks on the legality of every effort to enhance our supply chain management woodchips, and consideration for human rights, labor, local capabilities, taking into consideration environmental and communities, and the protection of biodiversity, allowing the social needs. At the same time, we use a system that Group to practice CSR procurement. This action plan also employs third-party forest certification programs to confirm helps enhance traceability with respect to woodchips the propriety of raw materials procurement. procured from overseas while placing considerable In the context of procurement from company-owned emphasis on trade association certification of the legality of forests, we pursue overseas afforestation projects to woodchips produced in Japan. increase our plantation timber procurement. Moreover, we Nippon Paper Industries, in connection with annual practice sustainable forest management by maintaining forest certification audits and audits performed by the forest certifications acquired for company-owned forests Japan Paper Association’s illegal logging monitoring project, both in Japan and overseas. has third parties perform objective assessments to determine whether it is conducting wood resource procurement in accordance with its basic policies. Key points of sustainable wood Suggestions from these assessments are then used to resources procurement make improvements. • Sourcing from sustainable forests (sustainability) Action Plan for Wood-Based Raw Material Procurement • Clearly identifying the origin of timber (traceability) http://www.nipponpapergroup.com/csr/forest/ procurement/actionplan/index.html (Japanese only) • Maintaining full accountability (accountability) Overview of major forest certification programs Certification program name Details and features FSC®—Forest Stewardship Council® FSC is a non-profit international member-based organization that certifies that forests are being managed in ® A forest certification program based on unified global standards compliance with its 10 principles and 70 standards. FSC® has adopted the FM and CoC certification system. PEFC—Programme for the PEFC bases its sustainability benchmark on a broad consensus expressed in intergovernmental processes Endorsement of Forest Certification and guidelines. It provides a mutual recognition system that endorses compatibility and comparability of the A program that promotes mutual responsible forest management systems of individual countries. Launched across countries in Europe, the recognition of the forest certification program encompasses the forest certification programs of 43 countries around the world. In similar fashion to programs of individual countries FSC®, PEFC has adopted the CoC certification system. Examples of certifications mutually approved by PEFC (for forests owned by Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.) Australian Forestry Standard (AFS): Australia / CERTFORCHILE: Chile / CERFLOR: Brazil SGEC—Sustainable Green SGEC engages in an evaluation based on seven criteria while taking into consideration Japan's natural Ecosystem Council A forest certification program environment as well as its social customs and culture. SGEC has also adopted the CoC certification system. established in Japan Mutual certification with PEFC was approved in June 2016. * FM and CoC Certification The forest certification system is composed of two components—the Forest biodiversity, (3) respect for native and local resident rights, and (4) maintenance Management (FM) component, which certifies that forests are responsibly and improvement of forest productivity. managed, and the Chain-of-Custody (CoC) component, which certifies that CoC certification is a system covering all operators engaged in the processing products from certified forests have been properly processed and distributed. and distribution of timber materials. In addition to tracking products (certified Under the FM certification system, a third party certifies that the management of woodchips) from certified forests in each process including processing and forests is being undertaken in a sustainable manner based on various objective distribution, CoC certification confirms that a risk assessment of all non-certified benchmarks including (1) compliance with regulatory requirements and system woodchips has been undertaken. Products display a certification mark in the frameworks, (2) maintenance and conservation of forest ecosystems and event that all operators have acquired CoC certification across all processes. 28 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 Sustainable wood resource procurement scheme Forest Management and Philosophy and Basic Policy Concerning Raw Materials Procurement ( P.26) Raw Material Procurement Responsibility Action Plan for Wood-based Raw Material Procurement Japanese Resources Overseas Resources Sustainable Procurement of Raw Materials Basic Policy • Based on verifications by organizations approved • Verifications by individual companies using their and Scheme by forest, timber or lumber industry organizations own approaches, as provided in the Guideline for specified in the Guideline for Verification of Verification of Legality and Sustainability of Wood Legality and Sustainability of Wood and Wood and Wood Products. Products established by Japan’s Forest Agency • Based on the Japan Paper Association’s guideline in connection with government procurement for measures against illegal logging. initiatives to fight illegal logging in accordance with the Law on Promoting Green Purchasing. Confirmation of • Traceability based on the Guideline for Verification • Document verifications are performed on a vesselLegality of Legality and Sustainability of Wood and Wood by-vessel basis to ensure that the area where the Products established by Japan’s Forest Agency wood was harvested and the supplier of the wood • Confirmation of basic information relating to are in compliance with relevant laws, and that no forest operations. Information examples include illegally harvested wood is included. compliance with laws and regulations, tree • On-site checks by employees assigned to local species, and whether forest certifications have offices been obtained. • Questionnaires and local interviews (Every effort is made to enhance traceability by confirming compliance with statutory requirements regarding forest management, tree species, and the acquisition of forest certifications. * In fiscal 2015, it was determined, based on questionnaire responses and shipping and other documents provided by each supplier, that no illegally harvested woodchips or pulp were procured from overseas suppliers. Confirmation of Based on information from sources such as results of supplier surveys and local interviews, the following has sustainability been confirmed. • Policies or systems have been established for addressing human rights and labor matters. • Social contribution initiatives have been undertaken to improve relations with local communities. • Biodiversity surveys have been conducted. • Areas requiring special consideration to protect biodiversity have been identified and logging and forest management activities have been modified appropriately. Independent The following have been implemented for all procured wood resources. Audits • Annual audits by the Japan Paper Association’s illegal logging monitoring project. • Annual risk assessments based on the due diligence system of the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC), a Forest certification organization. Implementation Results for the Action Plan for Wood-based Raw Material Procurement (Fiscal 2015) Procurement in Japan Procurement Overseas Coverage and 454 chip suppliers, 3 pulp suppliers 20 chip suppliers, 7 pulp suppliers Results No problems detected under the action plan No problems detected under the action plan Third-Party Sustainable Forest Management Validations Forest certification system: System for the certification by third-party organizations that forests are being sustainably managed At Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd., All company-owned forests in Japan and overseas have received forest certifications. All imported hardwood chips have been certified by the PEFC or FSC® (All procured chips have been produced with wood from forests with an FM certification or have undergone a risk assessment for the CoC certification.) Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 29 Forest Management and Raw Material Procurement Responsibility Protecting and Nurturing Japan’s Wood Resources Maintaining a focus on forest management that takes into consideration the characteristics of each region in an effort to promote sound growth Sustainable Management of Company-Owned Invigorating Japan’s Forest Industry Forests in Japan Actively utilizing domestically produced Practicing sustainable forest management timber while contributing to the at company-owned forests over an area prevention of forest deterioration extending to 90,000 hectares In recent years, deterioration of artificially planted Japanese Nippon Paper Industries owns approximately 90,000 cypress and Japanese cedar forests throughout Japan has hectares of forest in 375 locations in Japan, the second become a concern. The reason for this deterioration is low largest private-sector holdings of forest in the country. SGEC lumber prices that have squeezed forest industry profitability Forest Certifications have been obtained for all of the forest. and made it impossible to perform thinning and other For the Nippon Paper Group, forests are not only an necessary maintenance. To invigorate the industry and important business resource—as a corporate group whose prevent further forest deterioration, the Japanese existence is closely tied to the health and conservation of government, under its Forest and Forestry Basic Plan, has forests, we recognize and work to manage the integrity of committed itself to promoting the use of domestically the multifaceted functions forests play within society. produced wood, and lifting the nation’s wood selfsufficiency rate to 50% by 2025. • Maintaining company-owned forests in Japan Nippon Paper Industries allocates approximately ¥0.6 billion • Promoting the use of domestic timber each year to the maintenance and management of With its network for domestic timber collection in Japan, company-owned forests in Japan, which entails the clearing and its ability to handle a comprehensive lineup of products, of undergrowth and thinning. As a company which has Nippon Paper Lumber is actively developing its domestic continued to benefit from and grow through forests and timber business. In fiscal 2015, the company handled forest products, we are committed to balanced, sustainable approximately 770,000 m3 of domestically produced forest management that allows forests to fulfill their materials, and ranked second in its field in Japan. The multifaceted functions—including ones that benefit company aims to lift this figure to 1,000,000 m3, and, to biodiversity protection and watershed conservation— this end, is continuing to develop new applications while despite the fact that forests within Japan are not currently working to boost exports. economically viable because of the stagnant price of domestic timber. Distribution of company-owned forests in Japan and composition by species (Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.) • Environmental forest designations, biodiversityconscious forest management • Has established a bird sanctuary within its company-owned forests and is working closely with the Wild Bird Society of Japan to help protect Nippon Paper Industries has designated approximately Blakiston’s fish owl (see page 49) Hokkaido 20%, or 18,000 hectares, of forest areas owned in Japan 43,600 ha (Hokkaido) as “environmental forest areas.” In these areas, the logging of trees for the purpose of lumber production is prohibited and the environmental functions Tohoku • Held a tree-planting 10,800 ha activity at Marunuma of forests (forest ecosystems, Kogen in 2016 (see page 69) watershed conservation, etc.) Sugenuma company-owned forest are conserved. which includes an “environmental Sugenuma Forest • Support the activities of the Shirane-aoi, forest area” (Mt. Nikko-Shirane) (Gunma Prefecture) Glaucidium palmatum Preservation Group (see page 50) Hardwood 1% Other 5% Kanto/Chubu/Kinki Chugoku/Shikoku 11,400 ha Other softwood 3% 5,900 ha Native forests 54% • Has acquired forest certifications for all Kyushu Japanese larch 4% 18,300 ha Toyono Forest company-owned forests (see page 29) Hardwood 42% (Kumamoto Prefecture) Japanese cypress 6% • Maintains approximately 20% of company-owned forests as environmental Spruce, fir 9% forest areas (see page 30) • Holds the School of Friendship for Japanese cedar 9% Forests and Paper within • Allocates approximately ¥0.6 billion each company-owned forests to provide year to the maintenance of company-owned Pine 9% Spruce, fir 9% hands-on courses on the natural forests (see page 30) environment (see page 69) • Engages in forest management that takes Planted forests 41% Other softwood 3% Total 90,000ha into consideration biodiversity (see page 48) 30 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 Domestic timber sales results by product type Participants in the agreement include Kumamoto Forest Management and (Nippon Paper Lumber Co., Ltd.) (1,000 m3) Unprocessed timber Processed products Prefecture, Yatsushiro City, the Yatsushiro Shinrin Forest 800 736 773 Cooperative, and Nippon Paper Co. Ltd. Raw Material Procurement 703 632 600 562 529 464 Responsibility 400 200 Case 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) Creation of the “Japan wood mark” and Protecting and Nurturing Japan’s Wood Resources participation in promotion activities • Efforts to use more domestic wood as a raw material for paper Based on the concept that greater use of domestically produced wood by Japan’s people and industries will rejuvenate the country's forests, the JAPIC Forestry The Nippon Paper Group is working to increase the Regeneration Committee created the Japan wood mark, percentage of domestically produced wood it uses to make and a committee dedicated to the promotion of its use, in August 2013. paper. Having reached 30% in fiscal 2008, this figure rose Nippon Paper Industries contributed to the creation to 35.8% in fiscal 2015. In absolute terms, usage of of the Japan wood mark and is one domestically produced wood was about the same as in of the original participants on the fiscal 2014. However, with an increase in the overall amount Japan Wood Mark Committee. As it engages in activities that help to of raw materials used, domestically produced wood as a advance use of the Japan wood percentage of the total came in slightly below the fiscal mark, Nippon Paper Industries 2014 record high of 37.4%. intends to apply it as a sales Mark promoting the use of domestically promotion tool for wood from the produced wood forest it owns in Japan. Domestic timber utilization rate1 (Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.) (%) The Nippon Paper Group’s domestic timber utilization rate (raw material for paper) Pulp and chip wood self-sufficiency rate (calendar year)2 Case Japan’s wood self-sufficiency rate (calendar year)3 40 37.2 36.5 37.4 34.4 34.7 34.4 35.8 30.4 32.4 Start of Fukushima “Morino Chonai-kai” 34.5 31.5 (Forest Neighborhood Association) activities 30 29.4 32.7 31.1 31.0 33.7 28.6 29.6 27.8 26.6 27.9 In Fukushima Prefecture, impacts of the Great East 26.0 20 24.0 Japan Earthquake have caused forestry management and timber operations to stagnate, thereby endangering the watershed and disaster-prevention roles played 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) by forests. Responding to this situation, Nippon 1 The domestic (Japan) timber utilization rate includes sawmill residues. Paper Lumber Co., Ltd. and Office Chonai-kai, an 2 Source: Yearbook of Paper and Pulp Statistics issued by the Ministry of Economy, environmental NPO, concluded a memorandum of Trade and Industry of Japan understanding, under which the Fukushima Morino 3 Source: Supply and Demand of Lumber (Lumber material self-sufficiency rate) issued by the Forestry Agency of Japan Chonai-kai was launched in July 2016. Fukushima Morino Chonai-kai comprises a scheme in which Morino Chonai-kai, which was established by • Organizing private-sector forest owners in Kyushu Office Chonai-kai in 2005, will be used to promote the Increasing the competitiveness of Japan’s forest industry thinning operations necessary for protecting forests. requires that forest owners work together to maintain an These activities will be supported through sales of paper efficient road network and systematic thinning operations. and paper products. Under a similar memorandum of understanding with The signing of a memorandum of understanding on the Office Chonai-kai, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. has agreed advancement of forest management in Kyushu by Nippon to produce Fukushima Restoration Support Desktop Paper Industries Co. Ltd., the Kyushu Regional Forest Calendars and use 150 yen from the sale of each to Office; Oji Paper Co., Ltd.; Sumitomo Forestry Co., Ltd.; support forest protection activities in Fukushima Prefecture. In pursuit of the Fukushima and others in 2009 set the stage for later developments. In Morino Chonai-kai scheme, March 2015, for example, an area covered by an agreement Nippon Paper Lumber Co., concerning the promotion of forest maintenance in the Itsuki Ltd. will purchase material from forest thinning operations in region of Kyushu was designated as the site for a Fukushima and use it as raw consolidation test project with the participation of the Japan material for making paper at its Project-Industry Council’s Forestry Regeneration Committee. Ishinomaki and Iwanuma mills. Fukushima Restoration In a separate development, a forest management and Support Desktop Calendar lumber production agreement was concluded for the Yatsushiro region in March 2014. This groundbreaking wide-area model agreement calls for private-sector forest owners to manage forests in Kyushu collaboratively. Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 31 Forest Management and Raw Material Procurement Responsibility Overseas Afforestation Growing trees as a renewable resource, and coexisting with local communities Sustainable Management of Overseas Presently, the Company oversees 89,000 hectares (as Afforested Areas of December 31, 2015) of afforested areas in Brazil, Chile, Australia, and South Africa. Under its Environmental Action Developing an afforestation business that Plan (Green Action Plan 2015) (see page 35), the Nippon contributes to the local community Paper Group has established the target of increasing Recognizing the importance of mutual development the overseas afforestation areas to 200,000 hectares. Declines Nippon Paper Group strives to build positive ties with the in demand for paper and chips, however, have given rise to local communities in and around its forests. We pay forest management efficiency needs that are being met particular attention to the concerns of local residents while through the partial consolidation and downsizing of taking into consideration the cultures and traditions of each afforestation operations. region as well as the natural environment and ecosystems. Considerable effort is also placed on promoting educational •Afforestation projects that help the local ecology activities, and creating employment opportunities, within The Nippon Paper Group performs afforestation work on local economies. grasslands, former farms and pastures and on harvested plantation land. We select species, focusing mainly on • Acquisition of forest certifications (see page 28-29) fast-growing Eucalyptus, according to individual climatic • Engages in forest management that takes into consideration biodiversity (see page 48) conditions and materials available for making paper. In order to maintain a balance between areas planted • Coexisting with local communities (Employment support, respect for indigenous people, see page 67) with Eucalyptus and the biodiversity needs of each region, we implement appropriate measures and keep vegetation along rivers and water courses where the potential effects Tree Farm Initiative on the ecology are large. Nurturing renewable wood resources In similar fashion to the cultivation of crops in the field, the Tree Farm Initiative achieves sustainable procurement of raw materials through repeated cycles of growing and harvesting trees. The Tree Farm Initiative manifests Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.’s concept for overseas Tree planting that preserves riparian forests. (Right) The blue area indicates afforestation projects. riparian forests. Overview of overseas forests under Nippon Paper Group management (as of December 31, 2015) Total forest area: Australia Afforested area: 15,000ha 89,000 ha Company Name Background Nippon Paper Resources Wholly owned subsidiary of Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Australia Pty. Ltd. (NPR) (Manages PTP and BTP (see the table below)) Brazil Afforested area: 50,000ha Company Name Background Amapá Florestal e Celulose S.A. (AMCEL) Wholly owned subsidiary of Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Chile Afforested area: 13,000ha South Africa Afforested area: 11,000ha Company Name Background Company Name Background Joint-venture company established by Forest Resources Ltd. Joint-venture company established by Nippon Paper Volterra S.A. Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd., Sumitomo (Forestco) Industries Co., Ltd., Sumitomo Corporation and BayFibre Corporation and Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd. Status of forest certification acquisition for overseas afforestation project Overseas plantation project by operating company Certification system name (License no.) Date of acquisition PTP (Australia) AFS June 2006 BTP (Australia) AFS April 2006 FSC (FSC C120260) ® ® January 2014, Volterra (Chile) CERTFORCHILE December 2007 Forestco (South Africa) FSC® (FSC®C012171) April 2003 FSC® (FSC®C023383) December 2008, AMCEL (Brazil) CERFLOR September 2014 32 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 Environmental Responsibility The Nippon Paper Group’s social responsibility is to use sustainable resources to contribute to the ongoing development of society. With proper management, forests become sustainable resources, and biodiversity can be protected. The CO2 sequestering function of forests and the use of wood resources contribute to the prevention of global warming. And the use of renewable wood resources contributes to the prevention of resource depletion. As a comprehensive biomass enterprise pursuing the development of new products and expansion of business activities, the Nippon Paper Group owns large-scale production sites, and procures raw materials and ships finished products in massive volumes, so its impact can be significant. For coexistence with local communities and society at large, therefore, we will work to reduce our environmental impact at every stage of the value chain. Blakiston’s fish owl living in a company-owned forest (Photo courtesy of the Wild Bird Society of Japan) Indicators Key Objectives Performance (fiscal 2015) Materiality: Climate Change Initiatives CO2 emissions from fossil energy Fiscal 2015 objective/Reduce by 25% vs. fiscal 1990 Reduced by 30% Use of fossil energy Fiscal 2015 objective/Reduce by 30% vs. fiscal 1990 Reduced by 39% Materiality: Reduction of Environmental Impacts Waste recycling rate Fiscal 2015 objective/at least 97% 98% Onsite recycling rate for waste generated Fiscal 2015 objective/at least 40% 30% within mills Materiality: Wastepaper Collection and Use Ratio of recycled paper Fiscal 2015 objective/At least 40% for paper and at 38% for paper and 89% for paperboard least 88% for paperboard Materiality: Preserving Biodiversity Forest certifications for company-owned 100% 100% forests Check for rare species prior to harvesting 100% 100% in company-owned forests Policy and Management 34 Advancing Energy Efficiency in Vibration, and Odors / Controlling Logistics / Absorbing and sequestering Chemical Substances Basic Stance / Environmental Action CO2 through Proper Management of Plan (Green Action Plan) / Company-Owned Forests / Action Plan Wastepaper Collection and Use 47 Environmental Management 2015 Results Promotion Structure / Strengthening Basic Stance / Green Action Plan 2015 Environmental Compliance / Results / Initiatives for Expanding the Environmental Communication / Use of Recycled Paper Environmental Education and Training / Reduction of Environmental Accounting Environmental Impacts 42 Material Balance / Preventing Water Preserving Biodiversity 48 Pollution / Preventing Air Pollution / Basic Stance / Initiatives in Our Core Climate Change Initiatives 39 Preventing Soil Pollution / Reducing Business Activities / Initiatives Basic Stance / Fuel Conversion Led by Industrial Waste (Green Action Plan Leveraging Our Resources and the Adoption of Biomass Boilers / 2015 results) / Preventing Noise, Technologies * The reporting scope for environmental data is described on page 5. In cases where a different reporting scope is used a notification to that effect is provided. Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 33 Environmental Responsibility Policy and Management We are putting in place a Group-wide environmental management system based on our Environmental Charter and engaging in environmentally friendly corporate activities Basic Stance • Green 2016-2020 plan Action Plan 2015 results and formulation of the Endeavoring to reduce the environmental In implementing the Environmental Action Plan (Green impact of our activities taking into Action Plan 2015) (see page 35), covering fiscal 2011consideration the unique characteristics of 2015, Group companies achieved successes through our business and wide-ranging social issues proactive efforts, but came up short in promoting the use of To reduce the environmental impact of its production recycled resources (see the following page). processes, the Nippon Paper Group, in upholding the Based on the Group’s overall performance on Green principles and basic stance expressed in the Nippon Paper Action Plan 2015, we have formulated the Green Action Group Environmental Charter, emphasizes environmental Plan 2020, which took effect in April 2016. With objectives performance in selecting equipment and strives to increase established for each stage of the value chain, we are now operating efficiency. working to achieve further reductions in our environmental impact. The Nippon Paper Group Establishment of objectives at each stage of the value chain Environmental Charter (Established on March 30, 2001, and revised on March 30, 2007) Production Development of Fighting global warming environmentally conscious Philosophy products and technologies The Nippon Paper Group is committed to helping Resource Compliance with environmental laws and Logistics preserve the global environment over the long term procurement regulations and contributing to the development of a recycling Preserving biodiversity based society by carrying out its corporate activities Promoting Disposal/recycling Use energy savings in recognition of the importance of biodiversity*. Basic Policy Protection of forest resources 1. Act to counter global warming Resource recycling 2. Protect and develop forest resources 3. Increase use of recycled resources The Nippon Paper Group Environmental Action Plan (Green Action Plan 2020) (In effect from April 1, 2016) 4. Comply with environmental statutes and work to minimize our environmental impact Green Action Plan 2020 5. Develop environmentally friendly technologies and Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 10% compared to 1. Anti-global fiscal 2013*. products warming action Reduce logistics-generated CO2 emissions. 6. Engage in active environmental communication Advance domestic company-owned forest operations and the overseas afforestation project (Tree Farm Initiative) to ensure the sustainable nurturing of forest resources. Maintain forest certifications in all proprietary forests, Environmental Action Plan (Green Action Plan) 2. Protection both domestically and internationally. and development Ensure that all wood materials for pulp and paper are of forest endorsed under forest certification schemes. Setting forth specific objectives resources Enhance traceability and facilitate the procurement of and actions sustainable forest resources. Advance the use of wood fiber produced from The Nippon Paper Group has established its Environmental domestically grown trees to promote sound growth of forest resources in Japan. Action Plan the Green Action Plan – in accordance with the Promote greater use of wastepaper by achieving 3. Recycling of advances in wastepaper utilization technologies. six basic policies expressed in its Environmental Charter. resources Increase the waste recycling rate to at least 98%.* Group companies have each established their own 4. Observance Use the environmental management system to specific environmental action plans to reflect their own of environmentstrengthen environmental management and reduce related laws environmental impact. individual business circumstances based on the Green and reduction of Properly manage chemical substances in accordance Action Plan. Their efforts to fulfill these plans is enhancing environmental load with the Nippon Paper Group Chemical Substance Management Guidelines. our ability to accomplish the Green Action Plan. Enhance the more sophisticated use of wood materials. 5. Development Develop equipment technology for facilitating a departure of eco-friendly from reliance on fossil energy. Framework for achieving objectives technologies and products Reduce the environmental load through the provision of The Nippon Paper Group Environmental Charter ecofriendly products and services. Disclose environment-related information to stakeholders 6. Environmental and accelerate environmental communication through communication dialogue and other means. The Nippon Paper Group’s Environmental Action Plan Green Action Plan Proactively participate in and support environment conservation activities. 7. Biodiversity Advance companywide biodiversity initiatives in accordance with the Nippon Paper Group Basic Policies Environmental Action Plans of Group Companies commitments on Protection of Biodiversity. * Applies to production sites in Japan. 34 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 The Nippon Paper Group Environmental Action Plan (Green Action Plan 2015) main initiatives and final results (as of March 31, 2015) Green Action Plan 2015 Main Initiatives and Final Results Page Reduce CO2 emissions from fossil energy • Despite lower production volume in the Paper and Paperboard businesses, reduced CO2 by 25% versus fiscal 1990. emissions from fossil energy by 30.0% and the use of fossil energy by 39.0% versus fiscal 1990, outperforming the targets, through boiler modifications, updating of equipment, consolidation of 39, 41 Reduce the use of fossil energy by 30% versus fiscal 1990. facilities, fuel conversion, and energy-saving activities in daily operations. 1. Anti-global warming action • Advanced highly efficient modal shift transport. • Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.’s use of freight trains to transport wastepaper on return Reduce logistics-generated CO2 emissions. trips, thereby, reducing energy consumption and CO2 emissions earned the Fiscal 2014 Green 40 Logistics Partnership Conference Special Award and the Logistics Environment Special Award at the Japan Association for Logistics and Transport’s 16th Environmental Awards. Facilitate the Tree Farm Initiative, an overseas afforestation project for procuring • As of the end of 2015, total afforested areas came to 89,000 ha. sustainable resources, with the aim of • Going forward, plans to take full advantage of AMCEL’s forest resources in Brazil will be drawn 32 increasing overseas afforested area up to up for purposes including afforestation for the energy business. 200,000 hectares.1 2. Protection • Currently maintaining SGEC, FSC®2, and PEFC certification for 179,000 ha of company-owned and Maintain forest certification in all forests in Japan and overseas. development proprietary forests, both domestically and • AMCEL S.A., adding to its FSC®-FM certification, obtained the PEFC reciprocal CERFLOR FM 29, 32 of forest internationally. Environmental Responsibility certification in September 2014. resources Ensure that all imported hardwood chips • Have purchased only certified woodchips since fiscal 2013. 29 are PEFCor FSC ®-certified.3 Enhance traceability and facilitate the • In working to enhance traceability through the use of forest certifications, cleared the procurement of sustainable forest requirements of PEFC rules in their entirety and FSC ® rules to 91% with respect to the 29 resources. assessment of imported wood risk in fiscal 2015. Increase the ratio of recycled paper to • Ratio of recycled paper to paper: 38% (Underachieved the target. Proactive efforts to use paper to at least 40%. wastepaper were negatively affected by factors such as lower production of products 47 Increase the ratio of recycled paper to incorporating recycled content.) paperboard to at least 88%. • Ratio of recycled paper to paperboard: 89% (Achieved the target) 3. Recycling of Increase the waste recycling rate to at least • Granulation equipment was introduced to diversify the approaches for recycling ash, which resources 97%. accounts for approximately 80% of waste by volume. Sales of the granulated product, however, 45 Policy and Management Recycle at least 40% of waste generated came to 30%, below the target rate for on-site recycling. The objective for waste recycling rate, within mills. including off-site recycling, was achieved with a 98% result. Reduce water use in the manufacturing • Vigorous efforts, including the installation of filtration equipment and the reuse of process water, process. were made to reduce water consumption. 44 • As of March 31, 2016, 48 business locations at 14 consolidated subsidiaries, and 4 business Use the environmental management locations at 4 non-consolidated subsidiaries, had obtained ISO 14001 certification. Eco-Action system to strengthen environmental 36 management. 21 certification had been obtained by 1 business location at 1 non-consolidated subsidiary. Of 4. Observance the Nippon Paper Group’s principal production sites, 95% have obtained ISO 14001 certification. of environment• Based on the Nippon Paper Group Chemical Substance Management Guidelines, the types and related laws and Properly control and reduce the use of volumes of chemical substances handled are being ascertained, and proper chemical substance management is being pursued. 46 reduction of chemical substances. • Updates of recovery equipment and substitutions of chemical substances reduced releases and environmental load transfers of PRTR substances by 22%, compared to figures for fiscal 2010. Facilitate the procurement of raw materials • In establishing and updating facilities, pursuant to energy management rules, energy efficiency is and equipment with a smaller environmental being used as one selection benchmark for procurement. − burden throughout the supply chain. • Having succeeded in developing a cellulose nanofiber (CNF) sheet with exceptional deodorant properties, Nippon Paper Crecia Co., Ltd. introduced the new Acty brand of adult diapers incorporating CNF in October 2015. • To expand sales of CNF deodorant sheets and commercialize other CNF properties, Nippon Enhance the more sophisticated use of Paper Industries Co. Ltd. decided to build a high-capacity CNF production facility at its 11 wood materials. Ishinomaki Mill. With annual capacity of 500 tonnes, this facility is scheduled to come online in April 2017. • Participated in a NEDO project for the development of manufacturing process technology for non-edible plant-based chemical products. Achieved progress in developing elemental technologies for an integrated woody-biomass-to-chemical-raw-material production process. 5. Development • Work to develop a new biomass solid fuel resulted in the decision to adopt torrefaction of eco-friendly Develop equipment technology for technology. Under a joint research and development agreement with Phoenix Pulp and Paper facilitating a departure from reliance on 39 technologies fossil energy. Public Company Limited (PPPC), demonstration facilities will be established at PPPC’s Khon and products Kaen Mill. • Production facilities for CfFA®, a concrete admixture made from heat-modified fly ash, began operating at Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.’s Ishinomaki Mill. Provision of samples from test production runs began in January 2016 and full-scale operations began in April. • The Aluminum-Free Fuji Pak, a brick-shaped aluminum free paper carton, received the EcoReduce the environmental load through Products Awards Steering Committee Chairperson's Award at the 11th Eco-Products Awards. 11, 45 ecofriendly products and services. • Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. began operations at its solar power plant, on the grounds of its former Komatsushima Mill (Tokushima Prefecture), and the Yatsushiro Mill’s biomass power plant (Kumamoto Prefecture) fueled entirely with unused woody materials. In addition, a wind power generation project is planned for a site adjacent to the Akita Mill (Akita Prefecture), as the company moves forward with expansion of power generation using renewable energy. Disclose environment-related information • At the end of September of every year, sustainability reports are issued in both printed and to stakeholders whenever appropriate with online editions. Also, the ShikiOriori, environmental communication magazine is being published 21 to provide reader-friendly information on various social issues and the Nippon Paper Group’s the use of CSR reports, the website etc. responses to them. 6. Proactive Proactively facilitate environmental environmental communication on a regional basis through, communication for example, dialogue with local people and • Risk information was shared with local communities and to foster relationships of mutual trust. 37 governments. • Actively participated in environmental endeavors including clean-up and greening initiatives 62, Proactively participate in and support organized by local communities, while promoting various activities including mill tours and environment conservation activities. internships. 67-68 • The Nippon Paper Group’s Basic Policy on the Protection of Biodiversity was established in April 2016. 7. Biodiversity Remain aware of the impact of business • With forest certification systems as one of several biodiversity protection benchmarks, efforts activities on biodiversity, and facilitate were made to promote sustainable forest management. 48-50 commitments companywide biodiversity commitments. • Concluded a memorandum of understanding with the Wild Bird Society of Japan for the mutual benefit of Blakiston’s fish owl habitat preservation and the Nippon Paper Group’s logging operations, in company-owned forests in Hokkaido. 1 No deadline has been set at this point. 2 FSC® Logo License No.FSC®C120260, FSC®C012171, FSC®C023383 Environment performance data 3 Aside from FM certification, CW certification is also included. http://www.nipponpapergroup.com/english/csr/ Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 35 Environmental Responsibility Policy and Management Environmental Management Promotion Structure Acquisition of ISO 14001 certification (as of March 31, 2016) Putting in place a group-wide structure Company Name Mills / Operating Divisions / Manufacturing Companies The Management Execution Committee bears management Kushiro Mill, Hokkaido Mill, Akita Mill, Ishinomaki Mill, Iwanuma Mill, Nakoso decision-making responsibility for environmental strategy Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Mill, Ashikaga Mill*, Soka Mill*, Fuji Mill, Otake Mill, Iwakuni Mill, Yatsushiro Mill, and oversees environmental activities, for the entire Group. R&D Dept. Chaired by the executive officer responsible for Paper-Pak Division (Ochanomizu and Oji regions), SOKA PAPER-PAK CO., LTD., environmental management, the Nippon Paper Group (Paper-Pak Division) EGAWA PAPER-PAK CO., LTD., MIKI PAPER-PAK CO., LTD., ISHIOKA KAKO Environmental Committee draws up the Environmental CO., LTD. Action Plan. This Action Plan serves as the basis for (Chemical Division) Gotsu Mill, Iwakuni Mill, Higashimatsuyama Mill, Yufutsu Mill practicing the philosophy and basic policies of the Nippon Paper Crecia Co., Ltd. Tokyo Mill, Kaisei Mill, Koyo Mill, Environmental Charter, which outlines the environmental Kyoto Mill management principles of Group companies. In addition to Nippon Paper Papylia Co., Ltd. Harada Mill, Suita Mill, Kochi Mill monitoring the status of progress under the Plan, the Kitakami Paper Co., Ltd. Headquarters/Ichinoseki Mill Environmental Committee reports to the Management Headquarters/Sapporo Branch Office/ Chubu Branch Office/Kansai Branch Execution Committee. Deliberating and determining new NP Trading Co., Ltd. Office/Chugoku Branch Office/Kyushu Branch Office/Shizuoka Sales Office initiatives, the Management Execution Committee leads the Headquarters, Hokkaido Office, Niigata environmental activities of the entire Group and promotes Nippon Seitai Corporation Office, Maebashi Mill, Saitama Mill, Kansai Office, Kyusyu Office ongoing improvement. Daishowa Uniboard Co., Ltd. Headquarters, Miyagi Mill N&E Co., Ltd. The Nippon Paper Group’s environmental management promotion structure (as of March 31, 2016) Nippon Paper Development Co., Ltd. Headquarters, Landscape Department, Tokyo Department Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. President and Representative Director Sakurai Co., Ltd. Headquarters Nippon Paper Ishinomaki Headquarters Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Management Execution Committee Technology Co., Ltd. Report Approve Nippon Paper Industries USA Co., Ltd. Port Angeles Mill The Nippon Paper Group Environment Committee Australian Paper Maryvale Mill Chairperson: Executive officer responsible for environmental management Jujo Thermal Oy Kauttua Mill Executive officer, * Operations were consolidated in April 2016 and renamed the “Kanto Mill.” Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Environment & Safety Department The status of Eco-Action 21 acquisition (as of March 31, 2016) Group companies in Japan Group companies outside of Japan Company Name Mill / Operating Division Akita Jujo Chemicals Co., Ltd. Head Office Plant • Strengthening environmental management systems At the Nippon Paper Group, the environmental departments at our headquarters and production facilities work together Strengthening Environmental Compliance to strengthen the environmental management systems. Taking action in a two-pronged approach Nippon Paper Industries, for example, has adopted a system for centrally managing emissions from the boilers of In order to better manage and reduce the environmental individual mills and other business locations. This effort impact of its business activities, the Nippon Paper Group is illustrates how the company’s headquarters and production strengthening environmental compliance by placing equal facilities work together to ensure compliance with laws and emphasis on preventing problems and on establishing a regulations, and reduce environmental impact. framework that ensures all problems come to light. • Introducing environmental management systems As one measure aimed at promoting environmental To bolster environmental compliance management, the Nippon Paper Group is introducing 1. Building systems to prevent problems various environmental management systems including ISO • Building a workplace that emphasizes the importance 14001, the international standard for environmental of the environment (environmental compliance training) • Strengthening the system for identifying applicable management, and Eco-Action 21. ISO 14001 certifications laws and regulations have been obtained by 95% of the principal production • Implementing measures from both the facility and sites of Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. and its technology perspectives 2. Establishing a framework that ensures all problems consolidated subsidiaries. come to light • Bolstering environmental audits • Strengthening the environmental management structure • Engaging in environmental communication and active information disclosure 36 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 • Strengthening the framework for reliably identifying laws to be observed with local residents, as provided in the Nippon Paper Group Risk Communication Guidelines. To accurately respond to wide-ranging and relatively When installing large-scale equipment, the Nippon Paper frequent changes in environmental legislation, Nippon Group also conducts explanatory meetings to provide a Paper Industries has retained legal experts as advisors and better understanding of any impact on the environment. implemented a legal and regulatory search system. • Responses to opinions and complaints • Introducing equipment and facilities to prevent In addition to receiving opinions and inquiries via its Environmental Responsibility environmental accidents website, the Nippon Paper Group has established a Nippon Paper Industries identifies risks of environmental complaint and inquiry contact at each of its mills. We have accidents in terms of both probability and potential impact, also adopted environmental monitoring systems that and introduces the equipment and facilities needed for encourage input from local residents. prevention. Acting to prevent chemical major spills In fiscal 2015, the Nippon Paper Group received 12 considered a top priority again in fiscal 2015 the company environment-related complaints in Japan. With each took steps like installing liquid containment walls and complaint, the relevant mill took steps to determine the wastewater containment gates. cause, and took swift countermeasures. In those instances Policy and Management where a permanent solution required an extended amount • Environmental audits that place particular emphasis on legal compliance and risk control of time to implement, all appropriate provisional measures were taken as quickly as possible. With each complaint, the Based on the environmental management guidelines on Group takes steps to explain the details of remedial action pollution prevention issued by the Japanese Ministry of the to be taken and to obtain the necessary acknowledgement. Environment and Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, the Nippon Paper Group’s various business locations Environment-related complaints (fiscal 2015) perform internal audits, and Nippon Paper Industry’s head No. of No. of Complaints complaints Complaints complaints office Environment & Safety Department conducts environmental audits for double confirmation of legal Noise 5 Vibration 1 Dust and mist dispersal 3 Smoke 0 compliance. Environmental audits are also performed at the Odor 1 Other 2 local level to look for chemical leaks and other risky Total 12 conditions and take action to prevent environmental accidents. Furthermore, a system of mutual Environmental Education and Training audits has been put in place by Supporting employees to learn the Nippon Paper Group as an additional step to strengthen Conducting a field inspection The Nippon Paper Group provides basic to specialized compliance and risk control. environmental education covering topics such as wastewater treatment plant operation. In addition, the • Status with regard to legal compliance Group encourages employees to participate in external We were not subject to any form of adverse disposition training and take advantage of other opportunities to gain from regulatory authorities (revocation of licenses, orders to pollution prevention qualifications and expertise. suspend operation or the use of facilities, or fines) with respect to compliance with environmental regulations in •Environmental e-learning fiscal 2015. The Nippon Paper Group has introduced an online educational program to allow employees to learn about the Environmental Communication environment at their own pace. June is Environment Month and this time around in 2016 we offered an online program, Reflecting feedback into our under the theme of “Forests and Biodiversity,” which many environmental activities employees participated in. • Risk communication The Nippon Paper Group places particular emphasis on •The Nippon Paper Group Eco Photo Award sharing risk information with local communities in an effort to Eco Photo Awards in June 2015 as a part nurture strong ties of trust with of its Environment Month activities for them. To this end, the Group employees and their families. engages in risk communication Risk communication (Nippon Paper Industries Fuji Mill) The 9th Eco Photo Award grand prize “Pecko and the Marsh” Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 37 Environmental Responsibility Policy and Management Environmental Accounting Environmental conservation expenses amounted to around ¥31.6 billion To advance environmental protection initiatives more efficiently environmental accounting to track its environmental protection and effectively, the Nippon Paper Group practices investments and expenses and quantify their impacts. Environmental accounting at domestic consolidated subsidiaries* Environmental conservation costs (Millions of yen) Categories Principal Activities Investment Cost (1) Business area costs 1. Pollution prevention costs Maintaining, managing and improving air and water pollution prevention facilities, etc. 681 12,427 2. Global environmental Preventing global warming as well as maintaining and managing company-owned forests, etc. 3,786 1,051 conservation costs 3. Resources circulation costs Effectively utilizing recycled paper as well as treating, reducing and recycling industrial waste, etc. 556 8,766 (2) Upstream / downstream costs Recovering pallets, etc. – 1,990 (3) Administration costs ISO 14001 inspection, operation and management; environmental information disclosure; – 641 employee environmental education; and workplace cleaning initiatives, etc. (4) R&D costs R&D relating to environmentally friendly products as well as the reduction of environmental load – 1,107 imposed by paper manufacturing processes, etc. (5) Social activity costs Local community natural conservation, tree planting, cleaning and landscaping activities, as well – 54 as donations and support for environmental organizations, etc. (6) Environmental remediation costs Levy for pollution-related health damage compensation system (SOx), etc. – 541 Subtotal 5,023 26,578 Total 31,601 Environmental conservation impacts Categories Environmental Impact Indicators Results YoY Change Effects related to resources Afforestation projects overseas Overseas afforestation areas 89,000 hectares Down 25,000 hectars introduced to business activities Energy-saving measures Fuel use (Heavy oil equivalent) – Down 50,368 kl Greenhouse gas emissions CO2 emissions from fossil energy 6,380,000 tonnes Down 110,000 tonnes NOx emissions (NO equivalent) 7,835 tonnes Up 327 tonnes Hazardous air pollutant emissions SOx emissions (SO2 equivalent) 2,674 tonnes Up 153 tonnes Effects related to environmental Soot and dust emissions 1,235 tonnes Down 306 tonnes impact and waste from business 881,000,000 Up 2,000,000 activities Effluent tonnes tonnes Water contaminant emissions COD/BOD emissions 53,257 tonnes Down 826 tonnes SS emissions 23,196 tonnes Up 1,693 tonnes Final waste disposal 17,400 tonnes Up 3,800 tonnes Recycled paper utilization rate (paper) 37.8% Down 0.4% Effects related to goods Product recycling Recycled paper utilization rate and services produced from (paperboard) 88.6% Down 3.7% business activities Shipping material recycling Pallet recovery rate 48.1% Up 3.5% Economic benefits of environmental conservation (Millions of yen) Effect Amount Income from company-owned forests in Japan 519 Reduced expenses from energy saved 1,932 Reduced disposal expenses through the effective use of waste 5,373 Gain on sales from the recycled waste 125 Reduced expenses through the recycling of shipping materials 88 Total 8,037 * Accounting standards are based on Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005. 38 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 Environmental Responsibility Climate Change Initiatives Reducing CO2 emissions at every stage of our business activities Basic Stance • Development of a new biomass solid fuel effective for reducing CO emissions 2 Advancing three core initiatives Trees absorb CO2 as they grow. When fuel made from trees As a part of our efforts to prevent global warming across (woody biomass fuel) is burned, the CO2 that results is every stage of our business activities, we are (1) converting recognized as the CO2 that the trees absorbed and to non-fossil energy by employing boilers that use biomass sequestered as they were growing, so there is no net and waste fuels, (2) conserving energy in each of our impact on atmospheric CO2. Given this carbon-neutral production and transportation processes, and (3) managing characteristic of woody biomass fuel, the co-firing of woody Environmental Responsibility proprietary forests properly to ensure CO2 absorption/ biomass is being advanced to reduce the CO2 emissions of sequestration (see pages 39–41). coal-fired boilers. Woodchips and wood pellets, however, cannot be efficiently crushed and there are other issues, for Nippon Paper Group environmental initiatives example, with water repellency when stored outdoors. To address these challenges, Nippon Paper Industries Prevention of Global Warming has applied torrefaction technology to carbonize woody biomass at a relatively low temperature to develop a new Reduction of CO2 emissions Absorption of CO2 in biomass solid fuel that has pulverization properties similar Policy and Management / Climate Change Initiatives from operations proprietary forests to those of coal and retains most of its energy value. Carbon Fuel conversion Energy saving sequestration Fuel Conversion Led by the Adoption of Biomass Boilers Actively using biomass and waste fuels to reduce fossil energy usage New woody biomass solid fuel made with torrefaction technology In fiscal 2004, the Nippon Paper Group began installing two types of boilers—high-efficiency boilers and boilers capable One of the largest corporate users of of burning construction waste and woody biomass fuels; biomass energy in Japan used tires, RPF*; and other waste fuels. The Nippon Paper Group actively applies biomass As a result of energy saving activities, and the fuel energy from sources such as black liquor, a byproduct conversion accomplished through the introduction of these of the pulp manufacturing process, and construction boilers, the fossil energy usage ratio in Japan fell to 53% in waste. The amount consumed accounts for up to 7%* of non-fossil energy (excluding nuclear and hydroelectric fiscal 2015, compared to 66% in fiscal 1990. power) used in Japan. The Nippon Paper Group is one * RPF (Refuse paper and plastic fuel): Fuel derived from paper that is unusable as of the largest corporate users of biomass energy in recycled paper and waste plastic. Japan. * In-house data prepared by Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. using Change in fossil energy usage ratio (calories) energy supply information (fiscal 2014 finalized information) published (domestic subsidiaries with mills and works) by the Natural Resources and Energy Agency. Non-fossil energy Non-fossil energy 34 % 47% Biomass energy utilization at the Nippon Paper Group Fiscal Fiscal 1990 2015 Photosynthesis Vegetation Wooden housing Biomass and Fossil energy Fossil energy Construction waste materials waste boiler 66 % 53 % Biomass fuel Pulp Woodchips Black liquor Recovery boiler Construction waste and RPF Used tires other materials Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 39 Environmental Responsibility Climate Change Initiatives Advancing Energy Efficiency in Logistics • Obtaining Green Management Certifications Green Management Certifications are awarded and Working to promote green logistics registered by the Foundation for Promoting Personal The Nippon Paper Group focuses mainly on the two core Mobility and Ecological Transportation. Companies that initiatives of improving its loading efficiency and undertake at least a certain minimum level of initiatives shortening transportation distances to reduce logisticsbased on the Green Management Promotion Manual are related CO2 emissions. eligible for these certifications. Within the Nippon Paper Group, 17 business locations Logistics-related initiatives of 9 Group companies have received Green Management Green Logistics Certification. The Nippon Paper Group is actively implementing ecological driving, vehicle inspection Shortening Improving loading efficiency transportation distances and maintenance, reduction of Promoting a modal Pursuing direct vehicle disposal and waste shift to rail or delivery and marine transportation joint delivery generation, proper waste handling and recycling, and other practices consistent with green management. Green Management Certification logo Green Management Certifications (As of July 1, 2016) • Promoting a modal shift in transportation to secure high loading efficiency Company NIPPON PAPER LOGISTICS, Kyokushin Transport, Nanko Logistics Nippon Paper Industries achieved a modal shift rate* of Support, Hotoku, NP Unyu Kanto, NP Unyu Fuji, NP Unyu Kansai, NP Unyu Iwakuni, and New Transport 89% in its paper operations in fiscal 2015. This far * Consolidated and non-consolidated subsidiaries in Japan surpassed the domestic and industry averages. * Modal shift rate: The percentage of rail or marine (including coastal shipping and ferries) transport in general cargo transported over 500 kilometers. Environmental Consciousness Award Received under the Chiyoda Ward Global Comparison of modal shift rates Warming Action Plan System Paper manufacturing NP Trading Co., Ltd. was named a winner of the industry average 79% Environmental Consciousness Award presented by (Fiscal 2013: Data released by the Japan Paper Association) Tokyo’s Chiyoda ward under its Global Warming Action Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. 89% Plan System. In presenting these awards, the Chiyoda (Fiscal 2015 paper operations) ward government intends to promote environmentally 0 20 40 60 80 100 conscious action. Determination of winners is based on reports companies within the ward’s jurisdiction submit • Working with logistics service providers to shorten transportation distances on the routine environmental protection activities they undertake. In fiscal 2015, 249 companies submitted reports and four were selected as award winners. The Nippon Paper Group is working with logistics service For NP Trading, this was the second time it has been providers to bypass warehouses and deliver products recognized for its environmental performance, the first directly to customers. This effort is intended to reduce CO2 being an award received for energy saving in fiscal 2011. The reasons given for presenting the company emissions by shortening overall transportation distances. with an Environmental Consciousness Award included distribution of the company’s environmental stance Reducing the total distance by direct delivery from paper mills and objectives on cards to employees, local cleanMarine, rail and truck transportation up activities undertaken seven times a year, environmental education Warehouse and other environmental Customer for whom direct delivery means shorter overall transportation distance protection activities, donations to the Council Paper mill of Social Welfare and Direct delivery Transportation other social contribution activities, and issuance of Presentation of the Environmental an environmental report. Consciousness Award by the Mayor of Chiyoda ward, Tokyo 40 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 Absorbing and sequestering CO2 through Proper Action Plan 2015 Results Management of Company-Owned Forests Capital investment, efficiencySequestering atmospheric CO2 in forests improvement, and other energy– and wood products saving initiatives • Sequestering CO with 179,000 hectares of forests in and outside Japan 2 The Nippon Paper Group has established objectives for fighting global warming in its Environmental Action Plan As trees grow, they absorb and sequester CO2 from the (Green Action Plan) (see page 35). Environmental Responsibility atmosphere. As they are a major repository of carbon, it is In fiscal 2015, the final fiscal year covered by Green widely recognized that the proper protection of forests Action Plan 2015, investments were made in energy-saving helps prevent global warming. facilities, energy-saving activities were pursued in daily Together with its 90,000 hectares held across 30 operations, and other proactive initiatives were undertaken prefectures in Japan, the Nippon Paper Group manages in pursuit of plan objectives. As a result, fiscal 2015 CO2 89,000 hectares of forests across four countries abroad for emissions from fossil energy were reduced by 30% and use a total of 179,000 hectares. Through proper forest of fossil energy was cut by 39%, both in comparison to management, the Group retains its CO2 absorption and fiscal 1990. These figures, albeit with the effects of lower Climate Change Initiatives sequestration capabilities. These forests, both in and outside production volume in the Group’s mainstay paper and Japan, continuously sequester approximately 32 million paperboard businesses, greatly outperformed Green Action tonnes of CO2, thereby helping to prevent global warming. Plan 2015 objectives. Targets for Preventing Global Warming Sequestering CO2 in various (Green Action Plan 2015) wood products CO2 sequestered in trees as carbon remains sequestered even after trees have been processed into • Reduce CO2 emissions from fossil energy by 25% versus products like construction materials and paper. Products fiscal 1990 levels made from wood, therefore, work to prevent increases in • Reduce the use of fossil energy by 30% versus fiscal atmospheric CO2 concentrations. Using wood products 1990 levels and actively recycling waste paper, in other words, by • Reduce logistics-generated CO2 emissions (see page 40) fixing CO2 for extended periods of time in products, helps to hold down increases in atmospheric CO2 concentrations. Moreover, when wood products like construction materials reach the end of their useful lives they can be CO2 emissions from fossil energy1 used as carbon-neutral biomass fuel, the burning of (Millions of tonnes of CO2) which does not increase atmospheric CO2. 10 9.10 Approx. 30% reduction versus fiscal 1990 8 Helping to prevent global warming through the 6.37 6.51 6.68 6.49 6.38 cascade-use of wood* 6 4 Forests CO2 CO2 Materials 2 CO2 ( Paper, construction materials, and other forestry products ) Energy 0 1990 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) (Biomass fuel) Lumber logs, Construction waste chips, etc. CO2 materials, forest residues, black liquor, etc. Energy input1 CO2 光合成 (Millions of gigajoules) Fossil energy Non-fossil energy 2 植物 150 木材チップ 黒液 回収ボイラー 130 Approx. 39% reduction versus fiscal 1990 バイオマス パルプ 燃料 100 83 82 82 80 79 Forests and forestry products, as The use of biomass fuels in 66 68 65 67 70 70 carbon reservoirs, play a role in place of fossil fuels helps to preventing global warming. prevent global warming. 木造住宅 建築廃材 バイオマス 50 ボイラー * “Cascade-use” refers to the full use of an individual tree for applications 0 across the quality scale, from ones requiring very high quality to others 1990 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) for which quality is not a consideration, for maximum efficiency in resource usage. 1 For consolidated and non-consolidated Japanese subsidiaries subject to the Act on Rational Use of Energy 2 Energy from biomass and waste. Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 41 Environmental Responsibility Reduction of Environmental Impacts Coexisting with local communities by striving to lower environmental impacts Material Balance total net sales. Constituting most of the Group’s material balance in Japan, this division is responsible for Identifying and reducing the environmental approximately 92% of the Group’s water consumption and impact of our business activities 95% of its CO2 emissions there. The Nippon Paper Group engages in a broad range of Woodchips and recycled paper make up the bulk of raw paper-related and other business activities driven primarily materials used to make paper. After converting these raw by the Pulp and Paper Division, which accounts for 82% of materials into pulp, the pulp is diluted with water to produce Balance of materials (principal materials) 1 [Units] GWh = Gigawatt hours BDt = Bone-dry tonnes ADt = Air-dry tonnes Input Energy input Other non-fossil fuels 5,716,000 tonnes 3 Water consumption Raw materials Purchased electricity 2,145 GWh (Black liquor subtotal: 3,975,000 tonnes) 942,000,000 tonnes Woodchips 4,894,000 BD tonnes Oil 163,000 kℓ Chemical substances subject to River water 744,000,000 tonnes Logs 810,000 BD tonnes Coal 2,603,000 tonnes the PRTR Law 3 Industrial water Pulp 431,000 AD tonnes Gas 241,000 tonnes (Amount handled) 11,433 tonnes 170,000,000 tonnes Recycled paper Other fossil fuels 12,000 tonnes Well water 27,000,000 tonnes (pulp) 3,140,000 AD tonnes Public water supply Base paper 114,000 BD tonnes 1,000,000 tonnes 1 Beginning with fiscal 2015, the reporting scope has been changed to add 2 Biomass fuels and waste fuels Siam Nippon Industrial Paper and remove South East Fibre Exports, which was 3 Japan only divested, and Australian Paper’s Shoalhaven Paper Mill, which was closed. Material balance in the Pulp and Paper Business in Japan (principal materials) Production and supply Input Pulp manufacturing Raw materials Chemical pulp Sodium hydroxide, sodium sulfide Woodchips 4,464,000 BD tonnes In Logs 26,000 BD tonnes Cooking Pulp 355,000 AD tonnes (into fibers) Cleaning Recycled paper Woodchips (pulp) 3,064,000 AD tonnes Black liquor Chemical substances subject to Amount consumed 3,256,000 tonnes the PRTR Law Energy (electricity, Mechanical pulp (Amount handled) 462 tonnes steam) Energy (electricity) In Water consumption 831,000,000 tonnes Energy input Grinding Purchased electricity 872 GWh Private power Woodchips, logs Out Oil 158,000 kℓ generation Effluent (COD/BOD, SS) Coal 2,054,000 tonnes facilities Gas 95,000 tonnes Recycled paper pulp Other fossil fuels 12,000 tonnes Sodium hydroxide In Other non-fossil fuels* 1,342,000 tonnes Removal of Out Separation foreign substances CO2 SOx Out * Biomass fuels except for black liquor and waste fuels NOx Waste paper Vinyl, staples, Combustion ash adhesive in spines Materials procurement Waste generation Wastewater 810,000,000 tonnes Afforestation areas and other 671,000 BD tonnes COD/BOD 45,000 tonnes SS 20,000 tonnes Timber processing Nitrogen 1,530 tonnes (Chipping) Phosphorous 180 tonnes Recycling of waste Final waste disposal 656,000 BD tonnes 15,000 BD tonnes Cutoffs and thinned wood 42 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 pulp slurry and then formed as wet thin sheets. The water is manufacturing process are effluents containing water then removed by drying to make paper. In the pulp and contaminants as well as steam containing air pollutants and papermaking processes, steam is used as a heat source and CO2. Moreover, the fuels combusted by boilers produce electricity as a power source. Pulp and paper mills are equipped ash waste. With this in mind, the Nippon Paper Group with boilers that combust fuel to generate steam, and strives to reduce the environmental impact of these generators that create electricity with turbines driven by steam. pollutants. Unfortunate byproducts of the pulp and paper Environmental Responsibility Output CO2 emissions from fossil energy Wastewater 920,000,000 tonnes Waste generation 839,000 BD tonnes Products manufactured 7,150,000 tonnes Public water 912,000,000 tonnes Final waste disposal 52,400 BD tonnes Paper, household paper SOx emissions 5,100 tonnes Sewerage 8,000,000 tonnes Recycling of waste 787,000 BD tonnes 4,570,000 tonnes NOx emissions 9,600 tonnes COD/BOD 62,900 tonnes Paperboard 1,900,000 tonnes Soot and dust 1,500 tonnes SS 26,000 tonnes Pulp 107,000 tonnes Chemical substances subject to Nitrogen 1,700 tonnes Paper container 98,000 tonnes the PRTR Law 3 Phosphorous 260 tonnes Chemical products 105,000 tonnes (Amount released) 158 tonnes Building materials 67,000 tonnes Reduction of Environmental Impacts (Amount transferred) 78 tonnes Electricity 1,228GWh Waste paper Use, collection Chlorine dioxide, oxygen, ozone, Transportation hydrogen peroxide Fuel In Pulp In Output Bleaching Products Paper, household Out paper products 4,120,000 tonnes Out Effluent (COD/BOD, SS) CO2 Paperboard 1,670,000 tonnes Pulp 32,000 tonnes Hydrogen peroxide In Breakdown of products of the Pulp and Bleaching Paper Business (Japan) (2015 calendar year basis) Out Paper production Other Newsprint Effluent (COD/BOD, SS) Energy (heat) paperboard 2% 18% Surface Sodium silicate, hydrogen peroxide, In treatment Surfactant In thiourea dioxide White Printing and In paperboard 4% writing paper 34% Removal of ink Linerboard and (de-inking) Bleaching Dewatering Drying Rolling corrugated medium Out 23% Business Out Out communication Effluent (COD/BOD, SS) Miscellaneous paper 10% Effluent (COD/BOD, SS) Effluent (COD/BOD, SS) paper 3% Energy Packaging Sanitary paper 2% (electricity, steam) paper 4% Output Chemical substances subject to the PRTR Law CO2 emissions from fossil energy 6,060,000 tonnes (Amount released) 94 tonnes SOx emissions 2,400 tonnes (Amount transferred) 12 tonnes NOx emissions 7,500 tonnes Soot and dust 1,200 tonnes Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 43 Environmental Responsibility Reduction of Environmental Impacts Preventing Water Pollution Preventing Air Pollution Purifying wastewater through the use of Working to reduce NOx, SOx, soot microorganisms and dust In papermaking, pulp is highly diluted with water to make a The Nippon Paper Group uses boilers and turbines to pulp suspension and then formed into a thin sheet. The generate power internally at its paper mills. The steam sheet is then dried to make paper. Wastewater contains emitted by boilers includes substances such as nitrogen minute pulp fibers, filler, and other materials that did not oxide (NOx), sulfur oxide (SOx), soot, and dust. The Group remain in the paper. uses desulfurization, denitrification, dust collection, and other The Nippon Paper Group treats wastewater to bring it equipment to bring these pollutants within our own standards within our COD, BOD, SS, and pH standards and standards and standards agreed upon with local governments. agreed upon with local governments. NOx and SOx emissions in domestic subsidiaries with mills Amount of water consumed / wastewater discharged in and works (1,000 tonnes) NOx SOx domestic subsidiaries with mills and works 12.0 (Million tonnes) Amount of water consumed Amount of wastewater discharged 1,200 940 8.0 7.8 7.5 7.5 7.8 857 829 844 868 899 881 901 881 6.9 802 800 4.0 3.3 3.4 2.6 2.5 2.7 400 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) Soot and dust emissions in domestic subsidiaries with mills COD / BOD and SS figures for domestic subsidiaries with and works (1,000 tonnes) mills and works (1,000 tonnes) COD/BOD SS 2.0 80 1.3 1.2 1.2 1.2 1.0 60 53.8 55.8 54.1 1.0 53.3 46.7 40 23.2 0 21.0 21.8 21.5 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) 20 16.5 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) Standard wastewater treatment process at Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. paper mills Removal of Aeration Tank Post-Processing Measurement Suspended Solids (Activated Sludge Settling Pond COD, SS, and other Wastewater is Processing) Activated sludge is measurements are taken collected in a large Wastewater is aerated allowed to settle on a continuous basis tank, where and oxygenated to out of the and manually analyzed to suspended solids enable wastewater. confirm that pollutant are allowed to microorganisms to indices are within our Paper standards and standards settle out. break down manufacturing organic matter agreed upon with local Release process governments. 44 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 Preventing Soil Pollution The ratio of recycling to the amount of waste generated (Fiscal 2015) Fiscal 2015, another year free of soil Final disposal contamination 2% Recycling within facilities 30% The raw materials and chemicals used by Nippon Paper Group mills contain almost no heavy metals, trichloroethylene or other soil contaminants. There were no Recycling instances of contaminated soil generated at Group 98% Environmental Responsibility companies during fiscal 2015. Preventing Noise, Vibration, and Odors Reducing Industrial Waste (Green Action Plan 2015 results) Putting in place measures to reduce the impact on areas in proximity to mills Working to make effective use of waste, while reducing waste generation • Prevention of noise and vibration Pulp and paper mills use large machines incorporating The Group is working to expand the effective use of waste, numerous motors and pumps that generate noise and Reduction of Environmental Impacts while cutting the amount of waste generated, to reduce vibration. Acting even when complaints have not been final waste disposal. received, each mill takes steps to minimize the level of noise Under its Green Action Plan 2015 (see page 35), the generated, and installs sound insulation facilities or Group endeavored to increase the waste recycling rate to relocates machinery whenever an issue is determined to at least 97% and recycle at least 40% of waste generated have arisen. within its facilities to promote the effective use of resources. To diversify the approaches for recycling ash, which accounts for approximately 80% of waste by volume, granulation equipment was introduced. Sales of the granulated product, however, did not proceed entirely as hoped, holding the rate for on-site recycling to 30% and Before installation of sound insulation wall (left) and after (right) (Fuji Mill, Nippon preventing achievement of the target rate. Nevertheless, the Paper Industries) waste recycling rate, including off-site recycling, came to 98%, a level that achieved our objective. • Prevention of odors When making kraft pulp, foul odors from substances such Waste generated and final waste disposal in domestic as hydrogen sulfide, methyl mercaptan, methyl sulfide, and subsidiaries with mills and works methyl disulfide can be generated. In addition to installing (1,000 tonnes) Waste generated Final waste disposal 800 736 762 equipment that contains odors or breaks down the 666 718 704 600 98% substances that emit them, we regularly measure odor 400 recycled levels and conduct patrols of surrounding areas to ensure 50 22 30 30 17 that issues do not arise. 14 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) Case Project for making and selling heat-modified fly ash as the concrete admixture, CfFA® (Carbon-free Fly Ash) Nippon Paper Industries Co. Ltd. uses coal-fired power modified fly ash product at its Ishinomaki Mill. Easy to work plants to generate some of the electricity and heat needed with and offering consistent, well-controlled quality, CfFA® to make paper. Fly ash, a byproduct of coal-fired power represents the recycling of a waste product into a resource generation, has many benefits, such as increasing durability that improves concrete. and extending useful life, when added to concrete. The use Increasing the durability of fly ash as a concrete admixture, however, has not taken and useful life of concrete hold because it often contains unburned carbon, which, allows us to make positive in even small percentages, can have negative impacts on contributions in terms of the properties of ready-mixed concrete and the quality of aiding disaster recovery in hardened concrete. areas devastated by the Responding to this problem by adopting firing technology Great East Japan Earthquake to eliminate the problem of unburned carbon, Nippon Paper and reducing infrastructure 40-tonne breakwater tetrapod made with concrete containing CfFA® Industries began in April 2016 to produce CfFA®, a heatlifecycle costs. Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 45 Environmental Responsibility Reduction of Environmental Impacts Controlling Chemical Substances Amounts of substances subject to the PRTR Law handled, released and transferred Properly managing chemical substances (Tonnes) 20,000 Amounts handled Amounts released Amounts transferred while pursuing efforts to limit use • Responding to the PRTR Law 17,000 The Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (PRTR) is a 15,000 mechanism for businesses to use in tallying and reporting the wide variety of hazardous chemical substances that are 11,824 11,984 11,394 11,433 either emitted from their facilities or transferred from their facilities in waste. 500 The Nippon Paper Group holds risk communication 273 315 294 meetings at its mills. Steps are taken at each meeting to 190 158 83 74 80 62 78 explain to local residents how chemical substances subject 0 to the PRTR Law are being managed and used. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) Amounts of substances subject to the PRTR Law released and transferred1 (Fiscal 2015) Cabinet Amount Amount Order No. CAS No. Chemical Substance Unit Released Transferred 1 — Water-soluble zinc compounds t 2 11 2 79-06-1 Acrylamide t 0 0 4 — Acrylic acid and water-soluble salt t 0 0 6 818-61-1 Acrylic acid 2-hydroxyethyl ester t 0 0 9 107-13-1 Acrylonitrile t 0 0 30 — n-alkylbenzenesulfonic acid and its salts (alkyl C=10-14) t 0 0 33 1332-21-4 Asbestos t 0 4 37 80-05-7 4,4'-isopropylidenediphenol t 0 0 48 2104-64-5 O-ethyl O-4-nitrophenyl phenylphosphonothioate t 2 0 53 100-41-4 Ethylbenzene t 0 0 57 110-80-5 Ethylene glycol monoethyl ether t 1 5 80 1330-20-7 Xylene t 3 0 85 111-30-8 Glutaraldehyde t 0 0 98 79-11-8 Chlorodifluoromethane t 0 0 127 67-66-3 Chloroform2 t 57 15 144 — Inorganic cyanide compounds (except complex salts and cyanates) t 2 0 145 100-37-8 2-diethylaminoethanol t 0 0 149 56-23-5 Tetrachloromethane t 0 37 154 108-91-8 Cyclohexylamine t 1 0 213 127-19-5 N,N-dimethyl acetamide t 0 0 232 68-12-2 N,N-dimethylmethanamide t 0 0 243 — Dioxins2 g-TEQ 0 8 272 — Copper salts (water-soluble, except complex salts) t 2 0 296 95-63-6 1,2,4-trimethylbenzene t 4 0 300 108-88-3 Toluene t 20 5 302 91-20-3 Naphthalene t 0 0 318 75-15-0 Carbon disulfide t 7 0 333 302-01-2 Hydrazine t 0 0 374 — Hydrogen fluoride and its water-soluble salts t 22 0 392 110-54-3 N-hexane t 0 0 395 — Water-soluble salts of peroxodisulfuric acid t 0 0 405 — Boron compounds t 11 0 407 — Poly (oxyethylene) alkyl ether (alkyl C=12-15) t 0 0 410 9016-45-9 Polyoxyethylene nonylphenyl ether t 0 0 411 50-00-0 Formaldehyde t 4 0 412 — Manganese and its compounds t 18 0 414 108-31-6 Maleic anhydride t 0 0 415 79-41-4 Methacrylic acid t 0 0 418 2867-47-2 2-(dimethylamino) ethyl methacrylate t 0 0 419 97-88-1 N-butyl methacrylate t 0 0 420 80-62-6 Methyl methacrylate t 0 0 438 1321-94-4 Methylnaphthalene t 1 0 448 101-68-8 Methylenebis (4,1-phenylene) diisocyanate t 0 0 455 110-91-8 Morpholine t 0 0 Total3 t 158 78 1 A summary of the release or transfer volumes of substances, excluding dioxins, that are handled in quantities of at least 1 tonne by Group companies. Dioxins and formaldehyde are designated type 1 chemical substances. 2 Includes unintentionally generated chloroform and dioxins. 3 Dioxins are not included in total data. 46 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 Environmental Responsibility Wastepaper Collection and Use Contributing to the development of a recycling-based society by promoting increased use of recycled paper Basic Stance Initiatives for Expanding the Use of Recycled Paper Actively promoting paper recycling Expanding the production of products made with wastepaper pulp in Australia To promote effective use of resources, the Nippon Paper Group, together with customers, has built systems for Australian Paper, located in the Australian state of Victoria, collecting and using wastepaper and is working with is that country’s only company manufacturing eco-friendly citizens’ and industry groups to promote awareness and copier paper – a product that incorporates wastepaper understanding of wastepaper collection. In addition to pulp. And, responding to the country’s heightened Environmental Responsibility bolstering its wastepaper processing capabilities, the Group environmental awareness, the company is increasing its is striving to improve the quality of pulp made from waste production of eco-friendly products. paper and to increase the number of applications of pulp. In fiscal 2015, Australian Paper began operations at facilities that Green Action Plan 2015 Results are capable of producing 50,000 tonnes of wastepaper pulp Efforts to advance the use of wastepaper annually. These facilities were built Under its Green Action Plan 2015 (see page 35), the Nippon at the company’s Maryvale Mill Reduction of Environmental Impacts / Wastepaper Collection and Use Paper Group raised the objective of advancing the use of with technical assistance by REFLEX brand copier paper wastepaper by increasing the ratio of recycled paper to Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. incorporating wastepaper pulp paper and to paperboard to at least 40% and 88%, and assistance from the Australian respectively. government. Australian Paper aims to make the most of For fiscal 2015, the ratio of recycled paper used in paper these facilities in expanding and enhancing its line of came to 38%, less than the objective, due to factors products incorporating wastepaper pulp. including a decline in production. The ratio of recycled paper Australian Paper is also going beyond the use of used in paperboard declined in comparison to the previous wastepaper pulp, and conducting educational activities fiscal year, but, at 89%, achieved the objective. encouraging the collection of wastepaper for recycling. In 2013, the company entered into a partnership with Recycled paper utilization rate in domestic subsidiaries with PLANET ARK, Australia’s best-known nonprofit mills and works environmental protection organization, to pursue the Make (%) Paper Paperboard 92 It Australian Recycled campaign promoting the use of 100 89 89 89 90 89 products incorporating wastepaper pulp. Established in 1992, PLANET ARK supports individuals, companies, 50 39 40 41 39 38 38 governments, and others who are pursuing activities and education to protect the environment. The Make It 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) Australian Recycled campaign encourages people to choose recycled products made with pulp recycled from wastepaper collected in Australia. Case Beginning in 2016, Australian Paper, putting Initiatives aimed at recovering milk cartons to work its expanded (The Nippon Paper Industries) capabilities to make Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd., a member of the products incorporating Committee for Milk Container Environmental Issues, for example, is promoting activities consistent with wastepaper pulp and Campaign to promote the collection of the committee’s goal of achieving a beverage carton wastepaper for recycling, in the town of strengthening its collection rate of at least 50% by 2020. Through a variety Maryvale, Queensland, Australia relationship with PLANET of educational initiatives as well as the exchange of ARK, will embark on information and placement of milk carton collection boxes at schools and public facilities, we achieved a paper efforts to contribute to the beverage carton collection rate of 44.7% in fiscal 2014. building of a recyclingoriented society by Beverage carton collection rate promoting even greater （％） 50 43.6 42.9 44.2 44.6 44.7 use of recycled products. Collecting office wastepaper for recycling 40 30 19.9 20 10 0 1994 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014（年度） Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 47 Environmental Responsibility Preserving Biodiversity Pursuing activities that protect the ecosystems of company-owned forests and leverage proprietary resources and technologies Basic Stance Basic Policy on the Preservation Formulation of a new basic policy of Biodiversity (Established April 1, 2016) The business activities of the Nippon Paper Group entail the cultivation and utilization of forests and, therefore, have Principle an inherently significant and wide-ranging impact on forest The Nippon Paper Group, a corporate group biodiversity. We recognize that the sustainable use of to which forest resources are of fundamental forests is fundamental to our existence and development as importance, appreciates the natural gifts bestowed by biodiversity and, by preserving biodiversity, a going concern. The basic philosophy of the Nippon Paper aims to help create a sustainable society that can Group Environmental Charter (see page 34) states that the continuously enjoy ecosystem services. Nippon Paper Group will engage in corporate activities that Basic Policy recognize the importance of biodiversity. Our Basic Policies 1. Recognizing the protection of biodiversity as a on the Preservation of Biodiversity, established in April critical social issue, we will work to pursue business 2016, provides guidance for the pursuit of such activities. activities that are in harmony with the sustainable use of ecosystem services. 2. In supply-chain management, we acknowledge Nippon Paper Group initiatives the impacts on biodiversity of cross-border use of Preserving biodiversity ecosystem services, and will manage our ecosystem service usage properly. 3. In an effort to reduce environmental impacts on 1 Initiatives implemented in biodiversity, we will actively work to recycle and 2 Initiatives leveraging our the Conduct of Our Core save resources. Business Activities Resources and Technologies 4. We will promote the development of technologies, • Protection of forest biodiversity •Use of company-owned forests products, and services that contribute to the • Reduction of environmental impacts of production activities •Use of proprietary technologies preservation of biodiversity and the sustainable use of ecosystem services. 5. Endeavoring to raise employees’ awareness of 1 Initiatives in Our Core Business Activities biodiversity, and collaborating with stakeholders, we will contribute to the building of a society that Pass thriving forests on to nurtures biodiversity. future generations In pursuing sustainable forest management (see pages 30 and 32), the Nippon Paper Group conducts biodiversity surveys in company-owned forests. We also strive to reduce our impact on biodiversity by, for example, treating wastewater and controlling greenhouse gas emissions in our manufacturing processes. Forest biodiversity protection scheme Basic Policy on the Protection of Biodiversity Biodiversity surveys Japan Topography confirmation of riparian forests and other areas, fixed-point surveys of forest Establishment of environmental forest areas ecosystems, etc. (see page 30) Ex.) Regular surveys in afforested areas (see page 49), surveys of Blakiston’s fish owls Particularly Protection of the environment by prohibiting conducted with the Wild Bird Society of Japan, ornithological and vegetation surveys in sensitive logging for the purpose of lumber production the company-owned Kitayama Forest in the city of Fujinomiya, Shizuoka Prefecture areas Establishment of protected areas (see page 49) Protection of the Blakiston’s fish owl by prohibiting Confirmation and Adjustment in Forest Operation logging Overseas •(Preserving Adjustment of Location and Timing for Logging Blakiston’s Fish Owl Habitat while Pursuing Forest Operation (see page 49)) Establishment of protected areas (see page 49) Other •Use of a checklist based on prefectural Red Lists* to confirm conditions before and after operations (Establishment of forest protection areas, protection of riparian forests, etc. (see page 32)) * List of threatened animal and plant species in Japan. Third-Party Sustainable Forest Management Validations Forest certification programs (see pages 28-29) Forest certifications have been awarded to Nippon Paper Industries in recognition of its practice of biodiversity-friendly forest management in all of its companyowned forests in Japan and overseas. Breakdown of company-owned forests in Japan (Facts and Figures) http://www.nipponpapergroup.com/english/csr/ 48 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 Case Preserving Blakiston’s fish owl habitat while pursuing business activities – Collaborating with the Wild Bird Society of Japan In 2010, Nippon Paper Industries entered into an agreement forests located in the Kushiro region of Hokkaido. After with the Wild Bird Society of Japan where approximately collaborative surveys conducted in an atmosphere of mutual 126 hectares of forestland owned by the company in the trust, we have agreed to standards for methods and timing Nemuro region of Hokkaido was identified as a sanctuary for continuing lumber production, while also protecting for Blakiston’s fish owl. This sanctuary is home to three habitat and breeding activity, without establishing confirmed braces of this endangered species. protected areas. In May 2015, we signed a memorandum of * The activities pursued under this memorandum of understanding were understanding* for the pursuit of business activities while presented with a 2015 Biodiversity Action Award by the Japan Committee preserving Blakiston’s fish owl habitat in company-owned for the United Nations Decade on Biodiversity. Blakiston’s fish owl Surveys undertaken with the Wild Bird Society Standing 70 to 80cm high and weighing 3 Environmental Responsibility Fiscal Year Survey Description to 4.5 kg, Blakiston’s fish owl is the world’s largest owl, with a wingspan of 180 cm. 2010 Large trees suitable as Blakiston’s fish owl habitat Formerly numbering over 1,000 and found throughout Hokkaido, Blakiston’s fish owls 2011 Bird species habitat are now found mainly in the eastern parts of Nesting survey focusing on white-tailed eagles and Steller's Hokkaido, with confirmed numbers of around 2012 sea eagles, and an audio survey of nocturnal bird species 140, making up 50 braces. Blakiston’s fish owl was identified as a national protected 2013 Mammals and Blakiston’s fish owl habitat species in 1971, and placed on the Red List 2014 Geographic activity scope of the Blakiston’s fish owl of critically endangered species by Japan’s (Photo courtesy of the Ministry of the Environment. 2015 Blakiston’s fish owl habitat, other bird species habitat Wild Bird Society of Japan) Preserving Biodiversity Case Conducting biodiversity research overseas (AMCEL S.A, Brazil and Volterra S.A., Chile) AMCEL S.A., located in the Brazilian state of Amapa, owns These areas are home to large numbers of plant and approximately 310,000 hectares of land and has set aside animal species, many of which are rare or endangered. 170,000 hectares as a conservation area. Protecting them, therefore, is very meaningful. Both AMCEL Volterra S.A., in Chile, owns approximately 19,000 and Volterra undertake surveys and other initiatives to research hectares of forests and has designated about 5,000 hectares and monitor biodiversity in the areas they are protecting. as protected forests. Footprints of a jaguar (a “nearPerforming a wildlife survey Survey being performed by the Pudu (a “near-threatened” species threatened” species on the IUCN Red Universidad de Concepcion on the IUCN Red List) List) Initiatives by afforestation companies in South America Activity Description AMCEL S.A. Installation of equipment for monitoring the quality and level of water in the afforestation area, and performance of Regular water inspections regular water inspections Cooperation in a wildlife release program Annual provision of the conservation area for use in a wildlife release program being conducted by the Brazilian Institute for the Environment and Renewable Natural Resources Collaboration with the Department of Biological Ongoing monitoring by AMCEL following a joint mammalian habitat survey in afforested and other areas. Sciences at the Federal University of Para Collaboration with the local environmental A vegetation survey was initiated in a protected area to determine the distribution and status of plant life. research institution in Amapa state Collaboration with the Universidade Federal Conduct of a pre-afforestation tropical savanna survey to gather basic vegetation information. Plants from 25 Rural da Amazonia (2011-2012) orders and 14 families were catalogued. A survey covering eight communities located within the conservation area adjacent to AMCEL’s afforested land Conduct of a survey of mediumand large-size was conducted. The survey employed a questionnaire to gather sighting and other information, and incorporated mammals in the conservation area (2011-2013) observations of evidence such as animal trails, fecal matter, and footprints. Jaguars and other “near-threatened” species were found to be living within the conservation area. Volterra S.A. Joint activity with the Universidad de Biodiversity surveys are being conducted on company land. The 2013 survey identified rare species including the Concepcion endangered Chilean pine (Araucaria araucana). Wildlife surveys in the company’s protected Using camera traps and other tools, surveys have identified mammals (including pumas) and bird species. The forests 2015 survey confirmed the existence of the “near-threatened” pudu and several rare species. Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 49 Environmental Responsibility Preserving Biodiversity 2 Initiatives Leveraging Our Resources and Technologies • Use of company-owned forests Case Contributing to the protection of a variety of plant species Supporting the activities of the Shirane-aoi wo Mamoru Kai • Protecting trees of historical value and endangered species Shirane-aoi (Glaucidium palmatum: Japanese wood poppy) is designated as a “threatened II” species in the Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. is working to protect Red Data Book of Gunma Prefecture. To protect and precious plant species. It does this by using a proprietary breed this plant species, the Shirane-aoi Preservation technology that encourages cuttings to take root in Group was set up in December 2000, mainly at the initiative of Gunma Prefectural Oze High School and the containers kept in a special cultivating room. This residents of the village of Katashina in Tone-gun, Gunma technology, which promotes photosynthesis, enables the Prefecture. As recognition of its achievements to date, it propagation of even trees that failed to root via traditional received the Greenery Day Minister of the Environment's cutting technology. Prize for Meritorious Service Related to the Natural Environment in April 2014. In response to requests from various institutions, the Since its inception, Nippon Paper Development, Company has used this technology to propagate and return which manages Nippon Paper Industries’ Sugenuma precious plants species. Examples include endangered Forest, has supported the operation of the Shiraneaoi Preservation Group, and Nippon Paper Industries Ryukyu Island plant species being preserved for research has offered a portion of by the Tsukuba Botanical Garden of Japan’s National the Sugenuma Forest Museum of Nature and Science, cherry trees from various as a plantation site for shrines throughout Japan, and cherry trees being used for Shirane-aoi. Since 2002, the Group has called for research at Japan’s National Institute of Genetics. volunteers to participate in Light Carbon dioxide Carbon dioxide planting, seed collection, and other activities. Collecting Shirane-aoi seeds Daikichi Hoshino, Comment Chairman of the Shirane-aoi Preservation Group The Shirane-aoi Preservation Group is now Even plant species that normally fail to root by cutting are able to root in its 16th year of operation, and I would like to express my heartfelt thanks to the Nippon Paper Group for its cooperation and for its participation in our activities. Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.’s cherry tree preservation activities Cherry trees of Japan’s Cherry tree owned by National Institute of Genetics, Shiogama Shrine and which has numerous cherry registered as a Japanese tree species considered to be national treasure of exceptional value The Tatekawa cherry tree The Uwamizuzakura owned by Shinnyodo, a temple cherry tree owned in Kyoto, and said to be by Fuefuki Shrine connected to the third shogun and dating back to of the Tokugawa dynasty the end of the Miyagi 12th century. Cherry tree presented by the Kyoto Shizuoka The Hachisukazakura feudal lord Kikkawa Hiroie to Yamaguchi Nara cherry tree, estimated to Ueda Soko, a noted warrior be over 250 years old and tea master, around 1625 Tokushima Cherry tree presented by Kikkawa Hiroie to Ueda Soko (Photo courtesy of Uedaryu-Wafudou (Hiroshima Prefecture, Japan)) 50 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 Responsibility to Customers Stakeholder opinions are critical for bringing to our attention issues that are important for coexisting with society and growing sustainably. We now receive large numbers of customer questions regarding environmentally and socially conscious raw material procurement and product development. The Nippon Paper Group is committed to providing products that respond to customer concerns and desires. Paper gallery at headquarter of Nippon Paper Industries Indicators Key Objectives Performance (fiscal 2015) Materiality: Providing environmentally and socially conscious products Company-owned forests with forest 100% ( PP.28-29) certifications: 100% Forest certification coverage (the provision of products with forest certifications) Imported hardwood chips with forest 100% ( PP.28-29) certifications: 100% Wastepaper content At least 40% for paper and at least 88% for 38% for paper, 89% for paperboard ( P.47) paperboard Policy and Management Providing Environmentally and Basic Stance 52 Socially Conscious Products Product Safety Management System 52 Development of Environmentally Friendly Products 55 Approach toward Product Safety 52 Providing Products that Help to Initiatives for Quality Stabilization 53 Overcome Challenges for Society 56 The Stable Supply of Products 54 Identifying Customer Needs 54 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 51 Responsibility to Customers Policy and Management In addition to the stable supply of various products that are indispensable to everyday life, we continue to pursue quality and safety which meet the expectations of customers Basic Stance Product safety management system Group Providing reliable products and services Product Safety Committee The Nippon Paper Group’s business activities are grounded Chairperson: General Manager of Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.’s Technical & Engineering Division in the supply of paper and paper products to society. We Constituent members: General managers of related departments within Nippon have continued to develop and grow in tune with society. Paper Industries Co., Ltd. and general managers responsible for product safety at each Group company We also engage in a broad spectrum of activities including the manufacture and sale of films, healthcare products, Product Safety Subcommittee chemical products, lumber, and construction materials. Our customer base is equally wide-ranging, encompassing both Group companies (9 companies*) the corporate sector and individuals. Product Safety Committees Providing stable supplies of these products that are indispensable to everyday life is how we fulfill our basic * Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd., Nippon Paper Crecia Co., Ltd., Nippon Paper Papylia Co., Ltd., Nippon Paper Lumber Co., Ltd., Kitakami Paper Co., Ltd., responsibility to play a useful role for society. Assuring Nippon Seitai Corporation, NP Trading Co., Ltd., Nippon Paper Development quality and safety, we will continue to live up to the trust Co., Ltd., Akita Jujo Chemicals Co., Ltd. (As of March 31, 2016) society places in our products and services. Approach toward Product Safety System for legal and regulatory Philosophy and Basic Policy on management and compliance Product Safety (established on October 1, 2004, revised on August 1, 2014) The Nippon Paper Group, acting in compliance with laws, including Japanese laws such as the Act on the Evaluation Philosophy of Chemical Substances and Regulation of Their We pledge to work to improve safety at every stage of the life cycle of our products, from design to Manufacture, PRTR Law, and Food Sanitation Act, works manufacture, supply, and disposal, and to provide to ensure product safety by employing management products and services that the public can trust. approaches adapted to the characteristics of particular Basic Policy operations and products. 1. To provide safe products and services in response to the continued trust of our customers. 2. To respect related laws and standards in order to Product safety management approach guarantee the safety of our products and services. Overall Level We pursue safety not only as expected under • ISO 14001 Environmental Management Management of chemical substances included in raw materials Japanese laws but also from a global perspective. 3. To provide customers with precise information on the Food, beverages, and their containers (Paper-Pak Division) safety, features, and correct usage of our products. • HACCP1 hygiene management (Food containers) 4. To set up a product and service safety management Adoption and enhancement of facilities that emphasize production environment hygiene, the use of defect-detection devices to monitor products, and wearing structure and ensure that all group employees have a of clothing to prevent contamination by hair thorough awareness of the importance of product safety. • FSSC 220002 food safety standard • Food defense measures Prevention of intentional threats to food safety by equipping paper-pak manufacturing plants with entry and exit controls, cameras for quality control, Product Safety Management System tight controls on access to chemicals, and other such security measures. Establishing a Group system 1 HACCP The Nippon Paper Group Product Safety Committee, An acronym for “Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point” 2 FSSC 22000 chaired by the General Manager of Nippon Paper Industries FSSC 22000 is a food safety management system certification scheme integrating the ISO 22000 international food safety management system Co., Ltd.’s Technical & Engineering Division oversees all standard, which calls for implementation of HACCP, the ISO/TS 22002 activities concerning product safety. The committee prerequisite program on food safety, and other requirements. deliberates and makes determinations on important matters concerning product safety policies and activities. Acquisition of FSSC 22000 certifications obtained Reporting directly to the committee, the Product Safety (as of March 31, 2016) Subcommittee monitors and manages activities at each Company Name Mill, Operating Division, Production Company Group company. Drawing on information and the exchange Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. of opinions among Group companies, the subcommittee SOKA PAPER-PAK CO., LTD., EGAWA also deliberates on optimal responses to matters of (Paper-Pak Division) PAPER-PAK CO., LTD., MIKI PAPER-PAK CO., LTD., ISHIOKA KAKO CO., LTD. concern and submits its findings to the Product Safety (Chemical Division) Gotsu Mill* Committee. Each Group company establishes its own * CMC, cellulose powder, and stevia and licorice sweeteners (all for use in food) product safety committee and engages in appropriate product safety activities. 52 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 Initiatives for Quality Stabilization • Responding to instances of defective products In instances where a problem with a shipped product has Working to stabilize quality, so customers come to light, action is taken by the individual Group can use our products with confidence company responsible for the product. Each Group company actively promotes efforts aimed at In the Paper and Paperboard Division of Nippon Paper acquiring ISO 9001 certification and engages in quality Industries Co., Ltd., personnel in charge of sales management suited to the characteristics of its products. engineering act as the central contact point, tools such as a database of safety-related problems are brought into play, Acquisition of ISO 9001 certification (As of March 31, 2016) and the relevant mill and head office departments work Company Name Mill, Operating Division, Production Company together in developing a solution. Nippon Paper Industries Akita Mill, Nakoso Mill, Ashikaga Mill1, Soka At Nippon Paper Crecia Co., Ltd., which sells consumer Co., Ltd. Mill1, Fuji Mill (Yoshinaga), Otake Mill products, contact information for the Customer Service Gotsu Mill2, Iwakuni Mill, Higashimatsuyama (Chemical Division) Mill, Yufutsu Mill Office is provided on all products and the Customer Service Nippon Paper Crecia Tokyo Mill Office itself is placed directly under the president to ensure Co., Ltd. Nippon Paper Papylia that the president is informed of all customer complaints. Harada Mill, Suita Mill, Kochi Mill Co., Ltd. Furthermore, the company’s website is configured to Responsibility to Customers Nippon Seitai Corporation Hokkaido Office, Maebashi Mill, Saitama Mill accept customer queries and comments. Nippon Paper Four business sites at headquarters Crecia consistently acts in good faith whenever its products NIPPON PAPER UNITEC (construction/electricity/control systems/ CO., LTD. plant engineering) are a cause for customer inconvenience. Every effort is Headquarters/Equipment & Facilities made to ensure that customers are fully satisfied. Kokusaku Kiko Co., Ltd. Department/Yufutsu Department/Shiraoi Department/Asahikawa Department Headquarters/Ishinomaki Office/Shipping Product defect response system NANKO UNYU CO., Management Center/Iwanuma Office/ (Paper and Paperboard Division) LTD. Nakoso Office/Akita Sales Office Service Department/Maintenance Shop/ Customer Policy and Management Tokyo Branch Relevant Departments Nippon Paper Ishinomaki Headquarters Technology Co., Ltd. Problem Report Production GAC Co., Ltd. Headquarters/Mill, Marketing Division Departments Sales Headquarters, Concrete Research Center, (Including technical experts) Collaboration FLOWRIC CO., LTD. Nagoya Mill Product Safety Office N&E Co., Ltd. Investigation Investigation Use of a database request report and other tools Research Laboratory Australian Paper Maryvale Mill, Preston Facility Jujo Thermal Oy Kauttua Mill Mill Siam Nippon Industrial Paper Co., Ltd. 1 Renamed the “Kanto Mill” after an operational consolidation in April 2016. 2 Certifications obtained for CMC and cellulose powder production. • Quality assurance systems in the paper and paperboard divisions Nippon Paper Industries has adopted a Service Engineer The Customer Service Office (Nippon Paper (SE) system to shorten the distance between customers Crecia Co., Ltd.) and production facilities. Under this system, SEs technical staff members listen directly to customers’ voices. They • Verification and audit of wastepaper pulp blending ratios and use of thinned wood do this, for instance, by visiting customers and conducting quality patrols in which they observe printing and Nippon Paper Industries has established a management processing lines where paper is used. Furthermore, to system for providing customers with guarantees that create even closer relationships, Nippon Paper Industries products are made with a certain percentage of wastepaper revamped its quality assurance systems in 2013, assigning pulp content and with wood from forest thinning. employees expert in technical matters to sales divisions. In Steps are taken to manage and review production addition, collaboration between sales and technical procedures at each of the Group’s mills, based in part on divisions is promoted through regular quality information the standards and criteria of the ISO 14001 environmental meetings and other means, for the larger purpose of management system. The proper operation of content enabling swift responses to diverse customer needs. management systems is confirmed in internal and external audits, and customers come to our mills to verify that products are being manufactured to content specifications. Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 53 Responsibility to Customers Policy and Management • Quality for liquids audits at companies making containers guidelines, each mill and plant has examined the natural disaster response measures it has used to date and revised The four production subsidiaries of Nippon Paper its disaster response manual. Industries’ Paper-Pak Division undergo annual quality audits For its part, Nippon Paper Industries, in preparation for a by a team which includes the division head, and pursue major disaster that could either disable its headquarters or continuous quality improvement based on identified actual damage infrastructure so severely that its headquarters is conditions (including the “5Ss”*) in their production facilities. unable to function, has established a backup facility that In addition to the quality audits, production companies also could immediately take over headquarters functions. The undergo food sanitation investigation focusing in particular company also conducts training in the transfer of functions on measures for dealing with critical microorganisms, from its headquarters to the backup facility. foreign matters, and pest control. • Business continuity management system To help ensure that beverages and other products reach consumers regardless of external circumstances, Nippon Paper Industries’ Paper-Pak Division has developed its own business continuity guidelines and established its own business continuity management system, so that it can Quality audit at SOKA PAPER-PAK CO., LTD Checking carton quality maintain production even in times of emergency. In particular, the division is moving ahead with procurement of key raw * The 5Ss are romanized abbreviation of five Japanese words— seiri, seiton, materials from multiple manufacturers. It has also dispersed seiso, seiketsu, and shitsuke—which mean sorting, setting-in-order, shining, standardizing, and sustaining, respectively. The 5Ss are used to maintain or its paper container production facilities across four improve workplace environments. production companies to lower its disaster risk exposure. The Stable Supply of Products Identifying Customer Needs Stable supply systems optimized Proactive communication by product The Nippon Paper Group engages in proactive To provide customers with the amounts of products they communication—in everything from routine sales activities need at the times they need them, we devote considerable to quality patrols by technical staff—to identify customer effort to maintaining stable production by securing reliable needs across a wide range of areas. We now receive procurement of raw materials, and systematically numerous questions from customers wanting information maintaining and upgrading our production facilities. The on the tree species, countries of origin, and legality of our sales departments and production units coordinate their raw materials. In response, we explain that we are meeting activities to provide customers with reliable supplies of customer demands through our own initiatives and through products by developing flexible production plans that avoid third-party evaluations (see Sustainable Wood Resource waste, and managing inventories appropriately. Procurement Scheme on page 29). We also actively welcome customers for inspections and • Stable supply of newsprint tours of mills and plants to give them a first-hand view of Demand is particularly high for the stable supply of paper production facilities and, thereby, gain their understanding used in such highly public information media as of production activities. newspapers. As a result, the paper industry prepares emergency manuals by region for use when an • Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.’s Paper-Pak Division extraordinary incident occurs. Nippon Paper Industries’ Paper-Pak Division conducts In the event of a disruption technical lectures for customers (dairy and beverage to communication and companies) providing them with information on how to transportation systems as a properly use filling machines. At the same time, the division result of a major disaster, continuously strives to improve its products based on paper companies follow this valuable feedback from customers. manual to ensure the smooth Shipping products from a warehouse supply of newsprint. • Nippon Paper Crecia Co., Ltd. Nippon Paper Crecia conducts surveys to gather data on • Addressing natural disaster risks customer satisfaction and needs by product, and then The Nippon Paper Group, having learned much in the wake uses what it learns to create measures of success in of the Great East Japan Earthquake, has developed serving customers. practical guidelines for addressing earthquake, tsunami, and other natural disaster risks. Working from these 54 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 Responsibility to Customers Providing Environmentally and Socially Conscious Products We provide products that meet customer demands including forest certified products Development of Environmentally Friendly Products Points of environmental concern from a product lifecycle Raw materials Considering every stage of the procurement Procuring raw materials from sustainable forests product lifecycle PP.26–32, 48–49 Recovering and Nippon Paper Group products use wood raw materialsreapplying products that can be recycled renewable biomass resources – and are recyclable. Building and reused Production on the fact that our products have a low environmental impact by their very nature, we strive to develop products Post-use PP.34–46, 48 that are cognizant of the environment at every stage PP.45, 47 Reducing the emission of substances that beginning with raw material procurement and proceeding cause global warming and impose a burden on through production, consumption, post-consumption, the environment and disposal. Preventing the Disposal emission of Marketing products that help environmental Use conserve resources and energy pollutants; reducing P.45 the amount of waste Environmentally Friendly Raw Materials Procurement Responsibility to Customers Case Providing certified paper by starting with properly managed forests (Nippon Paper Group) The forest certification system is composed of two products from certified forests have been properly processed components—the Forest Management (FM) component, and distributed. The Nippon Paper Group has obtained which certifies that forests are responsibly managed from international CoC certifications at its principal mills, and environmental, social, and economic perspectives, and the provides certified paper products. Chain-of-Custody (CoC) component, which certifies that Policy and Management / Status of CoC certification acquisition (as of March 31, 2016) FSC® PEFC Company Name Mill, Production Company (License no.) Mill, Production Company Kushiro Mill (FSC®C129049); Hokkaido Mill (Yufutsu, Shiraoi) (FSC®C00952); Hokkaido Mill (Shiraoi), Akita Mill, Ishinomaki Nakoso Mill (FSC®C020977); Mill, Fuji Mill, Otake Mill, Iwakuni Mill, Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Iwakuni Mill (FSC®C115436); SOKA PAPER-PAK CO., Yatsushiro Mill, SOKA PAPER-PAK CO., LTD., LTD., EGAWA PAPER-PAK CO., LTD., MIKI PAPER-PAK EGAWA PAPER-PAK CO., LTD., MIKI PAPERCO., LTD., ISHIOKA KAKO CO., LTD. (FSC®C128733) PAK CO., LTD., ISHIOKA KAKO CO., LTD. Providing Environmentally and Socially Conscious Products Nippon Paper Papylia Co., Ltd. Harada Mill, Kochi Mill (FSC®C005984) Harada Mill, Kochi Mill Nippon Paper Crecia Co., Ltd. Kaisei Mill (FSC C124287), ® — Koyo (FSC®C095114) Environmentally Friendly Production Environmentally Friendly Utilization Case Case Low-basis-weight single-side Lightweight IJ form paper coated paperboard (Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.) (Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.) Quality requirements for inkjet paper have risen as the Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. introduced Be Light speed of inkjet printers has increased, and Nippon Card low-basis-weight, single-side coated paperboard Paper Industries Co., Ltd. has responded by developing in July 2015. Drawing on its low-density technology to NPi Form NEXT-IJα, a paper that greatly exceeds the reduce density to the greatest extent requirements of the latest inkjet printers. Compared possible, the company created to previous products used under the same printing a single-side coated paperboard conditions, this new paper offers much lower levels of that weighs 7%-10% less than show-through* and, therefore, can be made with up earlier products. Incorporating no to 20% less basis weight. In addition to this significant fluorescent dye, Be Light Card weight savings, NPi Form NEXT-IJα enables ink savings paperboard can be used for food, through printing with density up to 20% greater than was medical, cosmetic, and other types possible with previous products. of packaging, picture books, and a Be Light Card * The visibility of printing from the back side of the paper because of paperboard low opacity. wide variety of other purposes. Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 55 Responsibility to Customers Providing Environmentally and Socially Conscious Products Environmentally Friendly Handling after Use Providing Products that Help to Overcome Challenges for Society Case Responding to changing quality demands Paper impervious to oxygen and flavors SHIELDPLUS oxygenand flavor-barrier Case packaging material (Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.) Super Jet Fiber insulation material Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. has developed the (Nippon Paper Lumber Co., Ltd.) paper-based SHIELDPLUS barrier packaging material. Nippon Paper Lumber manufactures Super Jet Fiber, Using its papermaking and water-based coating a residential heat insulation material that, because it is technologies the company has created a paper material made primarily of recycled newspapers, is close to a that incorporates oxygenand flavor-barrier properties. natural material. This new product results in fewer CO2 emissions, from As a blown-in thermal insulation manufacturing to disposal, than do existing barrier material, Super Jet Fiber offers films, which are made with multiple layers of plastic. the benefits of low environmental Furthermore, manufactured with no organic solvents, impact and high insulating and recyclable as paper, SHIELDPLUS is environmentally efficiency, which have made it friendlier than barrier films. increasingly popular for use in ZEH The equal of various barrier films in terms of its Super Jet Fiber (net zero energy houses). barrier effectiveness and resistance to oil, SHIELDPLUS (insulator) also offers workability, and efforts to promote its use in various types of packaging are moving forward. SHIELDPLUS Processing Example Case (Inside) Sealant layer General-purpose laminate processing + • Heat-sealing properties • Vapor-barrier properties A product line for a wide range of needs (Nippon Paper Crecia Co., Ltd.) SHIELDPLUS Barrier coating layer Water-based coating for a uniformly thin barrier layer Nippon Paper Crecia goes to great lengths to develop Paper Can be adapted to a wide range products that respond to customer needs. It pays of thicknesses meticulous attention to feedback received through its + Customer Service Office and sales channels, and works (Functional layer) Can be added depending on to develop products that meet newly emerging needs quality demands (Outside) and performance demands. Environmentally Friendly Disposal Case Hada Care Acty® Scottie® Scottie® NonSoft-fit, comfortable Flowerpack alcohol Disinfecting absorbent pads for Triple Long Wet Tissues paper underpants Lasting KC FLOCK® powdered cellulose made from wood pulp (Nippon Paper Industries, Chemical Division) Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. markets KC FLOCK®, Case the brand name for the company’s powdered cellulose made from wood. Cellulose is a food fiber and harmless to humans. Biodegradable and easily incinerated, Participation in the “ifia® JAPAN2016,” cellulose is used extensively in food, cosmetics, filter Fine Chemical Trade Show (Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Chemical Division) aids and other fields. As a filter aid, KC FLOCK® is much easier to The Chemical Division is focusing on food, health incinerate than is the more conventional diatomaceous food, and beverage applications. Participating in “ifia® earth. This helps to significantly reduce waste. In JAPAN2016,” Japan’s largest food additive tradeshow, addition, when processing liquids that contain rare the division featured metals, the KC FLOCK® catches rare metals which can information on wood-derived then be recovered for reuse after CMC and cellulose powder, incineration of the KC FLOCK®. microcrystalline cellulose, and the natural sweetener, Stevia. It also gave a presentation on glycosylated Stevia. Nippon Paper Industries KC FLOCK® tradeshow booth 56 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 Human Rights, Employment and Labor Responsibility The Nippon Paper Group employs many people in our expansive forest holdings and large-scale production sites. Securing the safety and health of the people working at each of our business locations, therefore, is our top priority. Presentation conference for Small Group Activity Indicators Key Objectives Performance (fiscal 2015) Materiality: Occupational Safety and Health Prevention of injuries to any person at a mill site Number of serious occupational accidents • Elimination of serious occupational accidents No serious occupational accidents Frequency rate for occupational accidents requiring time off from work • Frequency rate for occupational accidents requiring time off from work = 0.30 or less Frequency rate for occupational accidents requiring time off from work = 0.40 Policy and Management Occupational Safety and Health Creating Workplaces that Basic Stance 58 Basic Stance 59 Support Diverse Human Resources Philosophy and Basic Policy 58 System to Promote Occupational Safety and Health 59 Basic Stance 61 Initiatives in Respect of Human Rights 58 Status of Occupational Accidents 60 Recruitment and Employment 61 Efforts regarding Safety and Women in the Workplace 62 Disaster Prevention 60 Promoting Work-Life Balance 63 Efforts regarding Hygiene and Health 60 Initiatives Aimed at Developing Human Resources 63 Fair Evaluation and Compensation 64 Industrial Relations 64 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 57 Human Rights, Employment and Labor Responsibility Policy and Management Building a healthy and safe workplace environment in which employees, who serve as the driving force behind the Group’s corporate activities, can take full advantage of their individual capabilities while conforming to the highest ethical standards Basic Stance act with a high moral sense and strong motivation. The Group, therefore, bears important responsibilities for Focusing on the optimal application of promoting employee awareness and behavior consistent diverse human resources while ensuring with that principle, helping individual employees improve safety and disaster prevention their capabilities, and rewarding them for their performance. The Nippon Paper Group respects human rights in every Taking all this into consideration, the Group established aspect of its business activities and aims to develop a its Philosophy and Basic Policy on Human Rights, working environment that makes the most of a diverse Employment and Labor. And employees who believe a range of human resources. For a company, employees are problem may exist in any of these areas can report it via the critical partners with whom there is a shared goal of mutual Group’s Help Line System (see page 20). growth. The Group, therefore, places considerable weight on building a fair evaluation and compensation system as Initiatives in Respect of Human Rights well as education and training programs that help Confirming, verifying, and educating with employees reach their full potential. the help of a third-party perspective While the Group’s production sites use heavy machinery and engage in inherently dangerous operations, every effort •Exchanging opinions with Amnesty International Japan is made to maintain and enhance safe working In 2014, divisions in charge of procuring wood chips and environments and to take all appropriate measures for managing labor relations at Nippon Paper Industries each safety and anti-disasters. met with Amnesty International Japan to share opinions. The meetings helped us to deepen our understanding of Philosophy and Basic Policy global trends in human rights issues. They also gave us an opportunity to explain and discuss conditions at the Aiming to be a company where company and prioritize our actions going forward. employees can look to a better future Later, we embarked on an examination of human rights In order for the Nippon Paper Group to gain the trust of conditions at subcontractors in Japan and at overseas chip society and to fulfill its responsibilities, every employee must suppliers. Examination results will be considered and next steps will be taken, while continuing our dialogue with Amnesty International Japan. Philosophy and Basic Policy on Human Rights, Employment and Labor (established on October 1, 2004) •Concern for human rights across the supply chain Concern for human rights and labor across the entire supply chain is clearly defined in the Nippon Paper Group’s Philosophy Philosophy and Basic Policy Concerning Raw Materials Respecting fundamental human rights at all times and making the most of the individuality and capabilities Procurement, and the Group conducts supplier surveys of a diverse range of human resources, we aim to and interviews regarding these concerns (see pages 26 and create a company overflowing with dreams and hope. 29). In fiscal 2015, we instituted on-site checks of human Basic Policy rights conditions. The first of these checks was performed 1. Respect for human rights at an overseas chip supplier in South Africa by a Group We pledge to respect fundamental human rights and employee in charge not to engage in any behavior that disregards such of procurement. rights, including discrimination based on matters such as nationality, race, place of birth, sex, religion, In addition, Group forest medical conditions or disabilities, sexual harassment management considers the and the abuse of power. We also pledge to manage culture and traditions of personal information appropriately in order to prevent residents in each region of infringements on privacy. its overseas afforestation 2. Prohibition of forced and child labor Sign with hazard information provided We pledge not to force any employees to carry out operations (see page 32). in the Zulu language for employees not accustomed to using English (South Africa) unreasonable work. We also pledge not to employ children aged under the minimum employment age stipulated in local laws and regulations. • Education and training The Nippon Paper Group, in its efforts to exercise personnel 3. Promotion of personnel training and skill development management cognizant of human rights, pursues initiatives We pledge to promote personnel training and skill development programs to help improve such as having the employees responsible for personnel individual employees’ abilities and skills through the matters participate in training courses hosted by establishment and maintenance of structures to government agencies. The Group is also conducting human make the most of the individuality and capabilities of rights education for personnel in charge of CSR, new hires a diverse range of human resources. and newly appointed managers. 58 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 Human Rights, Employment and Labor Responsibility Occupational Safety and Health By working daily to uncover inherent risks, maintaining a workplace environment in which employees can go about their duties without undue anxiety Basic Stance each year. The persons responsible for occupational safety and health from the head office, mills, and labor union come Securing safety and health, and together to discuss a variety of issues, including the annual preventing disasters occupational safety and health management plan. Safety In providing a safe work environment, the Nippon Paper and health committees are also established at each mill and Group advances initiatives emphasizing safety and health. office. These committees deliberate on and determine Maintaining an unwavering daily commitment to important management matters and activity policies. uncovering and minimizing risks is key to that effort. Employees are notified of the details of decisions through Consistently engaging in sound management while department meetings and internal mill newsletters and then responding to the trust of employees is also important for execute the determined activities. building a pleasant and comfortable workplace that helps to maintain and improve employees' health. System to promote occupational safety and health Having formulated the Philosophy and Basic Policy on The Safety and Disaster Prevention Committee (controlling the whole Group) Safety and Health Measures in 2004, the Group has created labor safety and health systems and continuously The Secretariat of the Safety and Disaster Prevention Committee strives to prevent accidents and provide safe, pleasant working environments. Mills of Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Group companies Examples of organizations for safety and health in mills: Philosophy and Basic Policy on Kushiro Mill, Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Safety and Health Measures Mill Manager Safety Supervisor Union Health Supervisor (established on October 1, 2004) General Safety and Industrial physician Health Supervisor Health Controller in Health Engineering Philosophy Safety and Working Environment In addition to acknowledging that it is the company’s Human Rights, Employment Health Committee Measurement Expert duty to guarantee safety and health, and to strive to develop pleasant, improved working conditions, we Safety and Environmental pledge to work ceaselessly to prevent any and all Manager by position Control Dept. Safety and Health and status Liaison Council and Labor Responsibility accidents, minor or major. Safety Control Section Basic Policy on Safety and Health 1. To respect the Industrial Safety and Health Law. Safety and Health Secretariat Meeting 2. To establish self-imposed standards and step up daily management. Employees 3. To set up a management structure and clearly define Policy and Management / roles, responsibilities, and authority. 4. To strive to improve safety and health training. 5. To develop and maintain a safe, pleasant working •Occupational safety and health management system environment. In 2009, the Nippon Paper Group implemented its own system for continuously pursuing occupational safety and Basic Policy on Safety and Risk Prevention Occupational Safety and Health 1. To respect laws and regulations pertaining to safety health management activities at the organization level. and risk prevention. Under this system, a three-tiered approach is used for the 2. To establish self-imposed standards and step up performance of risk assessments by employees and at the daily management. management level, and information on risks and risk 3. To set up a management structure and clearly define roles, responsibilities, and authority. abatement measures is shared through measures such as 4. To strive to improve safety and risk prevention the performance of mutual risk education and training. assessments among the 5. To work in cooperation with related government and organizational units of a business local communities and share information. location. Events are held to promote the sharing of expertise on the performance of risk System to Promote Occupational Safety and Health Sharing expertise on safety assessments to raise safety (Nippon Paper Industries, Nakoso Mill) standards across the Group. To build a safe workplace environment The Nippon Paper Group has established the Safety and •Mill safety audit system Disaster Prevention Committee, which coordinates GroupThe Nippon Paper Group conducts mill safety audits to wide occupational safety and health, disaster prevention raise the level of safety management. In addition, mutual and security measures. safety audits among the Group companies were introduced At Nippon Paper Industries, labor and management in 2010. Audits are being improved from the bottom up by occupational safety and health meetings are held once promoting closer communications within the Group. Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 59 Human Rights, Employment and Labor Responsibility Occupational Safety and Health Status of Occupational Accidents •In-plant safety measures Nippon Paper Industries has always endeavored to ensure Eliminating occupational accidents workplace safety based on its mission of eliminating In fiscal 2015, the Nippon Paper Group* experienced no personal injury to any and all people working within its mill serious occupational accidents and its frequency rate for premises. The company has accordingly implemented occupational accidents requiring time off from work came to safety patrols and education in collaboration with the labor 0.40, with an occupational accident severity rate of 0.02. union and subcontractors. In safety patrols, we provide Given an increase in occupational accidents by instructions and guidance for immediately correcting unsafe subcontractors performing work at Group production sites, conditions. As a principal employer, we also provide we are taking steps to enhance communication and information, reference materials, venues, and other coordination with affiliates to promote safety, and making resources, and have confirmed that subcontractors are even greater efforts to provide guidance during safety patrols. conducting safety education properly. Furthermore, we enhance safety at subcontractor workplaces by providing Frequency rate for occupational accidents requiring time off guidance on, and encouraging voluntary efforts, including from work risk prediction and risk assessment before engaging in work. Indicates how often occupational accidents occur, in terms of the number • of accidents causing injuries or deaths per million work hours. Natural disaster and fire countermeasures (Frequency rate) Nippon Paper Group* Pulp, paper and processed paper product Manufacturing industry manufacturing industry In preparation for earthquakes, tsunamis, floods, and other 2.0 1.79 types of natural disasters, the various business locations of 1.49 1.46 1.42 1.5 1.30 the Nippon Paper Group have created disaster 1.05 1.00 1.06 preparedness manuals reflecting local hazard map 1.0 0.94 1.06 information and the characteristics of their particular 0.5 0.77 0.30 0.31 0.40 operations and geographic location. They also cooperate 0.39 0 with local fire departments and other public safety 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (Year) authorities to conduct regular disaster preparedness training. At Nippon Paper Industries, individual business Occupational accident severity rate locations undergo regular disaster prevention surveys by a Indicates the seriousness of occupational accidents, in terms of the company specializing in risk assessment. number of workdays lost per 1,000 work hours. • (Severity rate) Nippon Paper Group* Pulp, paper and processed paper product Manufacturing industry manufacturing industry Traffic safety initiatives 0.9 0.76 The Nippon Paper Group actively participates in traffic 0.74 safety education and in various traffic safety campaigns 0.6 0.38 0.35 organized by local police authorities. 0.3 0.20 0.17 0.19 0.10 0.06 Efforts regarding Hygiene and Health 0.08 0.09 0 0.03 0.10 0.03 0.02 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (Year) Taking into consideration the importance * The manufacturing facilities of Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd., Nippon Paper of mental and physical health Crecia Co., Ltd., and Nippon Paper Papylia Co., Ltd. The Nippon Paper Group strives to keep its employees Efforts regarding Safety and Disaster Prevention healthy and to detect health problems in their early stages. For example, at Group companies that are members of the Working from various angles Nippon Paper Industries Health Insurance Union, • Safety education examinations focusing on lifestyle diseases are performed The Nippon Paper Group places considerable weight on together with regular physical examinations. In addition, employee safety education and training. These efforts are industrial physicians regularly visit workplaces and the designed to achieve employee thorough awareness toward Group uses the results of these visits in efforts to improve occupational safety and health. working environments. The Group also provides medical Nippon Paper Industries puts in place an annual examinations for the spouses of employees. Occupational Safety and Health Management System plan at each of its mills and offices, which then implements •Tackling mental health various occupational safety and health education programs Nippon Paper Industries has organized Internet-based covering every stage of an employee’s career from initial mental health care and counseling services for all hiring through to supervisor training. employees. Under this system, employees are asked to complete an annual survey designed to detect needs for mental health care services. 60 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 Human Rights, Employment and Labor Responsibility Creating Workplaces that Support Diverse Human Resources With a deep respect for fundamental human rights and the unique characteristics of each individual, the Nippon Paper Group consistently recruits new graduates and actively employs women and people with disabilities Basic Stance Employment data Units FY2015 Developing a dynamic organization Number of employees on a consolidated Persons 11,741 basis1,2 where diverse employees can Men Persons 10,479 demonstrate their capabilities Women Persons 1,262 Overseas Persons 1,662 Employees with different personalities stimulating one Men Persons 1,433 another and helping each other deepen their knowledge Women Persons 229 serve to invigorate the workplace. Amid forecasts of a drop Percent of upper management from % 80.6 the local community in Japan's working-age population, diversification of New graduates hired3 Persons 240 workforces is becoming increasingly vital to ensuring Men Persons 218 ongoing growth. Our aim is to be a vigorous organization Women Persons 22 emphasizing the spirit of Challenge, Fairness, and Mid-career hired3 Persons 146 Men Persons 136 Teamwork the values included in the Group Mission we Women Persons 10 definitively stated in 2015. Average age of employees1,3 Age 43.3 Men Age 43.3 Recruitment and Employment Women Age 42.8 Average years of employment1,3 Years 19.0 Advancing discrimination-free hiring Men Years 19.2 Women Years 17.8 The Nippon Paper Group employs over 11,000 employees in Turnover rate1,3 (Includes employees % 4.2 and outside of Japan. In its efforts to fulfill its responsibilities leaving at the mandatory retirement age) Dispatched workers1,3 Persons 131 to communities, the Group strives to ensure stable Men Persons 51 employment while continuously recruiting new employees. Women Persons 80 Furthermore, based on its Philosophy and Basic Policy 1 Fiscal year end on Human Rights, Employment and Labor, the Group 2 Data scope: Consolidated subsidiaries Human Rights, Employment 3 Data scope: Consolidated subsidiaries in Japan promotes discrimination-free recruitment and employment. The Group employs a selection process that bases Numbers* of overseas subsidiaries and employees by region (as of December 31, 2015) decisions on test and interview results. Factors including and Labor Responsibility nationality, place of birth, gender and level of school completed have no place in selection decisions. Europe (4 companies) North America (4 companies) Total 184 employees (Men 140, Women 44) Total 173 employees •Hiring of people with disabilities (Men 142, Women 31) Asia (10 companies) Total 87 employees The statutory employment rate for people with disabilities Occupational Safety and Health / (Men 57, Women 30) was increased to 2.0% in April 2013. The Nippon Paper Group as a whole is continuing with efforts to lift its rate for Australia (5 companies) South America (2 companies) Total 545 employees the employment of people with disabilities. Total 1,162 employees (Men 492, Women 53) (Men 1,028, Women 134) The rate of employment of people with disabilities Total 25 companies, 2,151 employees （％） Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. (Men 1,859, Women 292) 2.0 1.82 1.82 * Overseas subsidiaries (including non-consolidated subsidiaries) 1.91 1.99 1.98 1.78 Performance in reemploying workers who reach the Creating Workplaces that Support Diverse Human Resources 1.0 mandatory retirement age 1,2 (Regular employees of Nippon Paper Industries and consolidated subsidiaries in Japan) (Persons) 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) Fiscal years 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Nippon Paper Ind. Employees seeking 62 44 57 51 112 172 reemployment • Promoting the employment of elderly persons People reemployed Consolidated 59 43 67 53 112 172 The Nippon Paper Group has implemented its Reemployment subsidiaries in Japan — — — — 309 327 after Retirement System to respond to the needs of an aging People reemployed society and to facilitate the passing on of skills. In fiscal 2002, 1 Beginning with fiscal 2014, figures cover consolidated subsidiaries in Japan and management employees. Until fiscal 2013, figures covered only nonNippon Paper Industries introduced a reemployment system management employees at Nippon Paper Industries. to allow employees to work up to the age of 65. Now, it is 2 Depending on staffing conditions and other factors, the company may request employees to continue working beyond the retirement age, and some employees preparing new rules that will allow employees of retirement have agreed to do this. This is why the number of people reemployed sometimes age to continue working based on their desire and skills, at exceeds the number of retirees requesting to be reemployed. least until they begin to receive pensions. Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 61 Human Rights, Employment and Labor Responsibility Creating Workplaces that Support Diverse Human Resources •Female management participation and recruiting Case At Nippon Paper Industries a large proportion of jobs is in mill settings and so low recruitment of women in the past is Internships for university students a major reason for their low participation in our In recent years, an increasing number of companies management ranks now. To remedy this situation, and have adopted internship systems as a form of industry/ double the participation of women in management by fiscal academia cooperative human resource development. 2020, we are expanding the range of workplaces to which Internships give students opportunities to experience work in a commercial setting. women are assigned. As one aspect of its social contribution activities, Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. began offering Percentage of female employees in management internships to university students in 2015. The purpose (consolidated entity in Japan) of these internships is to help science and engineering Nippon Paper Group, Inc. + Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. students, in particular, better understand what paper (%) Nippon Paper Group (Japan) Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. industry employees do. 2.50 2.09 1.88 1.81 1.90 Students selected for the program are exposed to 1.63 1.70 1.49 issues and situations typically encountered in research facilities and mills. They also participate in tours of our 1.25 1.49 1.48 1.57 1.60 facilities and have opportunities to meet our employees. These activities are intended to give students a chance 0 to deepen their understanding of work by thinking about 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) matters such as how they could apply their university Beginning with fiscal 2013 percentages have been adjusted retroactively to exclude studies in a company setting. associate directors, employees commissioned for specific purposes, employees on temporary assignment from other companies, and other non-full-time personnel to present percentages of only full-time employees. Women in the Workplace Creating greater opportunities for women Percentage of female employees in management (consolidated subsidiaries outside Japan) Organizational invigoration, and securing human resources (as of December 31, 2015) against the backdrop of a declining birthrate, are two 20.4% (Section manager or positions higher) considerations that add to the importance of giving women opportunities to succeed in the workplace. The Nippon Hiring for career-track positions (Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.) Paper Group, with the establishment of a Human Fiscal years 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Resources Planning Office in fiscal 2015, is creating Career-track hires 37 43 56 34 52 conditions that promote their participation here. Women 3 6 8 7 11 Men 34 37 48 27 41 •Responding to the Act on Promotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace Percent women 8 14 14 21 21 * Figures disclosed in the past were mistakenly associated with the fiscal year prior to Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. is working to establish the fiscal year to which they actually applied. That mistake has now been corrected. conditions that enable women to advance their careers. •Follow-up system At Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd., female career-track Action Plan based on the Act on employees are organized in a network that spans the Promotion of Women’s Participation and company, crossing organizational unit and workplace Advancement in the Workplace boundaries. Within the network, veteran employees (Adopted by Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. in April 2016) collaborate with the Human Resources Planning Office to help their younger colleagues address concerns and build careers. 1. Make women at least 25% of new graduate hires for career-track positions. In addition, we conduct career training aimed at helping female 2. For career-track women hired 8 to 12 fiscal years career-track employees overcome career building challenges ago*, achieve an average continuous employment with the assistance of their immediate supervisors. rate that is at least 80% that of the rate for men. 3. To expand the range of roles performed by women Female career-track employee network at production sites, identify issues that would arise Human Resources Department Manager with the assignment of women to each workplace, consider solutions for these issues, and develop concrete plans for the workplaces to which women Human Resources Planning Office Regular liaison meetings, guidance, support Groups of 4-5 will be assigned. individuals * Women who joined the company during the fiscal years 2004 to 2008. Network leaders Members 62 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 Promoting Work-Life Balance Initiatives Aimed at Developing Human Resources Realizing a balanced workplace environment Support for the improvement and exercise of professional skills The Nippon Paper Group strives to establish an ideal workplace environment that allows employees to reach The Nippon Paper Group has identified five key elements their full potential while balancing work and family needs. for providing employees with equal opportunities for Nippon Paper Industries, for example, has introduced learning and for creating a framework enabling ambitious, flextime work hours for its head office, research facilities, capable individuals to further enhance their skills. branches, and the administrative sections of its mills. •Helping employees balance work and child care Five key elements for human resource development The Nippon Paper Group revised its action plan, in April 2016, and strives to support its employees in maintaining (1) Support for self-development and voluntary skill work and child-care balance in accordance with Japan’s acquisition (2) Assignment of the right people to the right positions Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising Next (3) Development of human resources capable of acting Generation Children. on a global stage As one example, Nippon Paper Industries has (4) Reinforcement of production frontline capabilities (5) Support for the planning of lives and careers implemented systems that exceed the provisions stipulated under Japan’s Child Care and Family Care Leave Act. This includes extensions to the exemption period for overtime (1) Support for self-development and voluntary working hours, the application period for child care and skill acquisition paid leave for child rearing. Based on these actions, we The Nippon Paper Group supports employee selfhave been designated by Japan’s Minister of Health, Labour development and voluntary skill acquisition through means and Welfare as a company that supports child rearing and such as group training and rewards for acquiring Human Rights, Employment have obtained the right to display the Kurumin mark. professional qualifications. In addition, job-level-based training, such as that for new hires and new managers, is conducted jointly by Group members to promote the and Labor Responsibility Action Plan in Response to the Act on development of employees throughout the Group. And Advancement of Measures to Support training is pursued from a broad perspective; job-levelRaising Next Generation Children based training at mills, for example, is conducted not just (Nippon Paper Industries: revised in April 2016) for a single mill but together with neighboring mills. Furthermore, Group employees can meet selfCreating Workplaces that Support Diverse Human Resources 1. Implement flexibility in workplaces and reduce annual total hours worked determined skill needs by taking any of approximately 150 2. Revise the child-rearing support system to encourage correspondence courses and joint training. Every employee greater participation by men in child-rearing activities. is offered not only the ability to choose courses they want to take but also precious, mutually Data on balancing work and personal lives stimulating opportunities for joint Unit 2015 training with colleagues from other Internal training session Employees taking child-care leave1 Persons 24 Group companies. Men Persons 0 Women Persons 24 Training time for individual employees recently giving birth % 100 (Consolidated subsidiaries in Japan) who returned to work % 100 6.9 hours/year Employees taking maternity/paternity leave1 Persons 167 Men Persons 145 (2) Assignment of the right people to the right positions Women Persons 22 Nippon Paper Industries periodically surveys employees to Average number of days taken for maternity/ paternity leave1 ascertain what kind of job assignments they wish to have. Men Days 3 Based on the results of these surveys, every effort is made Women Days 79 to match employee strengths with job types. Employees taking nursing-care leave1 Persons 0 In addition, the Nippon Paper Group has implemented Total number of working hours2 Hours 1,912 an internal recruitment system. Under this system, individual The rate of annual paid leave taken by employees2 % 66.8 employees can consider their skills and how they want to 1 Data scope: Consolidated subsidiaries in Japan 2 Data scope: Non-management employees of Nippon Paper Industries develop their career, and then apply for a position posted by a Nippon Paper Group member. Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 63 Human Rights, Employment and Labor Responsibility Creating Workplaces that Support Diverse Human Resources (3) Development of employees capable of acting on a the Nippon Paper Group offer Life Plan Seminars for global stage their employees. Nippon Paper Industries and other Group companies have put in place an open-application overseas study program. Fair Evaluation and Compensation This program is supported by the dispatch of personnel to Evaluation based on skills and performance overseas education institutions and by overseas assignments to the various offices of Nippon Paper Group. As part of its efforts to practice fair and transparent personnel Nippon Paper Industries is building the Global Human evaluations, Nippon Paper Industries lays out clear evaluation Resources Bank, a list of personnel with experience either criteria and conducts review sessions, in which managers working or studying overseas, or with advanced language provide feedback on performance evaluations, for all nonskills, in an effort to efficiently build a corps of human management employees. Review sessions are an resources capable of working in a global setting. Currently, opportunity to ensure that employees understand and 500 personnel are registered with the bank. accept evaluation results and for setting the skill development direction for individual employees. For decisions on promotions to management and other positions, the Case assistance of outside companies specializing in human resource assessment is called upon to enhance objectivity. Implement small group activities globally The Nippon Paper Group is implementing small group Industrial Relations activities in and outside Japan. The purpose of these activities is to achieve improvements in areas such as Improving the workplace environment operations, quality, and costs. through labor and management consensus At the 23rd (2015) Group-wide presentation meeting, attended by roughly 270 people, including The Nippon Paper Group strives to maintain a sound members of top management, teams representing eight domestic mills and one overseas mill gave presentations relationship with its employees. Labor unions have been explaining what they had formed at Nippon Paper Industries and the majority of its accomplished. consolidated subsidiaries. Irrespective of the existence of a The presentations labor union, however, every effort is made to promote helped attendees to better understand their smooth industrial relations at all Group companies. own workplaces and For example, under the common objective of building a consider good practices better company, Nippon Paper Industries has established a Team judged most outstanding at the 23rd Group-wide Presentation from other workplaces in Conference variety of committees that cover such fields as the Japan and abroad. operations of labor and management agreements, and staffing adjustments. Labor-management agreements (4) Reinforcement of production frontline capabilities provide the basis for a variety of initiatives, as well as efforts Human resource capabilities at the production frontline to improve the workplace environment. On the top of these represent the heart of the manufacturing process. The endeavors, regular central meetings of both sides’ leaders Nippon Paper Group passes on to each generation the provide a forum to discuss diverse issues including technologies and skills nurtured over a lengthy period to corporate management and working conditions. maintain and improve the capabilities of its human At Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd., there are 4,854 resources. labor union members (as of March 31, 2016). Workplaces Nippon Paper Industries created a committee to are union shops and all of the employees covered by strengthen frontline capabilities in fiscal 2006. Nippon Paper collective bargaining agreements are union members. Industries has organized and is operating systems under which technologies and skills that should be carried forward •Discussions of working conditions at individual production sites are identified, and training is Major changes to working conditions, such as alterations to prioritized based on analyses of the strengths and personnel systems and personnel downsizing, are in principle weaknesses of, and skills needed by, individuals. implemented on the basis of prior discussions between labor and management. Nippon Paper Group companies do not (5) Support for the planning of lives and careers unilaterally impose changes on employees. Given the hike in the public pension eligibility age and Routine communication is critical for gaining employee increasing diversification of lifestyles, employees must understanding of company actions. The Group strives to consider a number of factors when planning their careers engage in dialog with employees and labor union to provide and life after retirement. Therefore, core companies within such information as financial results. 64 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 Responsibility to Communities As a comprehensive biomass enterprise creating new products and growing its businesses, the Nippon Paper Group manages broad expanses of forests and owns large-scale production sites, so it has significant impacts on local communities and the people who live and work in them. Coexistence with these communities is critical to our own continued existence. Planting trees at Marunuma Kogen Indicators Key Objectives Performance (fiscal 2015) Materiality: Coexistence with Local Communities and Society at Large As a member of society, we shall proudly Gathered various opinions and evaluations Evaluations by stakeholders promote activities that contribute to social from stakeholders connected with our development. activities (To be used to improve activities) (Philosophy for social contribution activities) Company-owned forests with forest certifications (Granted based on results 100% 100% of inspections covering areas such as biodiversity and human rights) Policy and Management Coexistence with Local Corporate Identity Sharing Basic Stance 66 Communities and Society Utilizing Company-Owned Forests 69 at Large Employment Support 67 Respect for Indigenous People 67 Environmental Protection Activities 67 Advancing Science and Technology 67 Promoting Recycling Activities 68 Local Community Safety and Disaster Prevention 68 Providing Opportunities to Tour Group Companies and Their Mills 68 Disaster Relief Activities 68 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 65 Responsibility to Communities Policy and Management The Nippon Paper Group engages in a variety of social contribution activities to garner the trust of and remain close to local residents Basic Stance The Nippon Paper Group’s principal social contribution activities Principal activities Specific examples Page Coexisting with local communities, Local community activities contributing to the advancement of Cleaning activities Activities in areas surrounding the Group’s — society as a whole sites Watching over children going to, and returning from, school 68 Local community As one of its members, the Nippon Paper Group aims to safety and disaster Traffic safety initiatives 60 contribute to society as a whole. While continuing to provide prevention Participation in fire brigades — needed products, we would like to play a useful role in Local development Fostering of local specialty products — protection of the global environment and in the advancement Activities to preserve Japan’s precious 50 of culture and local communities. We are confident that cherry blossoms Preserving local building a consistent track record along those lines will earn community cultures Supporting Asukayama Takigi Noh plays — the trust of society and allow us to continue our business Protecting cultural assets — activities in coexistence with local communities. Respect for Making wild herb habitat available to 67 indigenous people indigenous people The initiatives we engage in, both inside and outside Participating in and sponsoring local events — Japan, include cleanups of the areas around our mills and Holding and participating in local Opening of recreational facilities to the public — plants, support for vocational training in afforestation events Holding summer festivals and other events — areas, and other locally focused activities; and operation of Participating in and cosponsoring social — the School of Friendship for Forests and Paper, mill tours, welfare events Social welfare Purchasing products made by social and other activities making use of forests and other activities welfare groups — Group resources. Provision of a venue for a charity horse race — Community education Holding of CSR lectures (public seminars) — Advancing science Supporting the Fujihara Foundation of Science 67 and technology Philosophy and Principles for Disaster relief Social Contribution Activities Donations of money and emergency supplies 68 activities (established on April 1, 2004) Environmental activities Tree planting activities Marunuma Highland Tree-Planting 69 Philosophy Utilizing the Group’s cultivating cuttings in As a member of society, we shall proudly promote container tech 50 activities that contribute to social development. Establishing a sanctuary for Blakiston’s fish owl 49 Preserving Principles biodiversity Supporting the activities of the Shirane-aoi 50 Preservation Group 1. We shall pursue activities that contribute to cultural heritage and development. Promoting Morino Chonai-kai activities 31 2. We shall pursue activities that contribute to Activities to protect Japanese crane — conservation and improvement of the environment. Environmental protection activities River cleanup activities 67 3. We shall pursue activities that contribute to the development of communities. Operating the Recycle Plaza Shiyukan — Supporting the recycling activities of 47 Promoting recycling organizations activities Recycling milk cartons 47 Recycling wood waste 68 Specific activity themes Accountability to local Risk communication 37 communities • Increase the community involvement of Group Educational activities company mills and overseas affiliates Providing • Promote activities that effectively utilize the resources opportunities to tour group companies and Mill tours and paper making 68 and expertise of each Group company their mills • Promote corporate citizenship activities in which our Utilizing companyHolding the School of Friendship for Forests 69 employees play an active role owned forests and Paper • Effectively use the company-owned forests in Japan Internships, and programs that allow (about 90,000 hectares) students to experience a workplace 62 • Employ effective PR inside and outside the Group Employment support Sponsoring workshops 67 •Structure for promoting social contribution activities Classes taught by Cooperation in teaching school classes 68 employees The CSR Division takes the lead in promoting Group-wide Music appreciation Inviting students to concerts — social contribution activities. Each Group company appoints a Baseball clinics and tournaments — Providing educational person responsible for overseeing social contribution activities. opportunities Ice hockey classes and championships — Each responsible person develops a thorough understanding through sports Cosponsoring soccer tournaments — of social contribution activities undertaken to date, and works Providing products to Provision of paper products, printed — to upgrade and expand their content and details. classrooms materials and publications 66 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 Responsibility to Communities Coexistence with Local Communities and Society at Large Continuing to pursue business activities in coexistence with local communities Employment Support Environmental Protection Activities Case Case Sponsoring workshops in line with Cleaning up the Suikawa River local desires (Kitakami Paper Co., Ltd.) (Brazil, AMCEL S.A.) In fiscal 2004, Kitakami Paper Co., Ltd. embarked AMCEL, which holds expansive land, strives to maintain on activities aimed at cleaning up the riverbed of the harmonious relationships and to further dialogue with Suikawa River, which the company uses to provide local residents. As part of that effort, it asked local water for its operations and dispose of industrial communities what topics they would like to learn about, wastewater. These activities take place once or twice a and in 2014 began to host workshops based on the month and involve 20-30 of the company’s employees responses received. In fiscal 2015, workshops were and employees of affiliated companies. In the past, local held on growing vegetables, beekeeping, and healthful residents had experienced problems that originated with foods. Led by AMCEL-invited experts, these workshops wastewater from Kitakami’s mill. In 2001, therefore, the took place in four areas, Macapa, Santana, Itaubal, and company installed oxygen-activated sludge treatment Tartarugalzinho, and lasted 3-6 days each. Participants, facilities to stabilize water quality, and, in 2002, it who numbered over 300 in total, indicated that they entered into an environmental protection agreement with were very pleased with the workshops and felt that what Ichinoseki City, the location of its mill, to strictly manage they learned would be useful in daily life. water quality. In addition, the company meets annually with an organization of Ichinoseki community leaders focused on looking after the Suikawa River. In these meetings, the company has won praise from the citizens’ group for its sincerity in acting to clean the Suikawa Participants for a beekeeping workshop riverbed and control the quality of its wastewater. Cleaning the Suikawa riverbed Advancing Science and Technology Case Workshop on healthful foods Responsibility to Supporting the Fujihara Foundation of Science Communities Respect for Indigenous People (Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.) Considered the “Nobel Prize of Japan,” the Fujihara Case Award, presented by the Fujihara Foundation of Science, a public interest incorporated association, recognizes outstanding contributions to science and technology Making wild herb habitat available to by Japanese scientists. Nippon Paper Industries lends indigenous people financial support to the Foundation to promote science Policy and Management / (Chile, Volterra S.A.) and technology. At the 57th Fujihara Awards presentation ceremony, The Mapuche are indigenous people who have inhabited held in June 2016, Dr. Kei Hirose, a Professor of Earth southern Chile since well before the arrival of Europeans and Planetary Sciences and Director of the Tokyo and maintained their own distinct traditions and culture. Institute of Technology’s Earth-Life Science Institute, and In recent years, availability of native wild herbs the Dr. Yoshinori Fujiyoshi, a Specially Appointed Professor Mapuche value for medicinal purposes has declined with in the Department of the development of land Basic Medical Sciences for agriculture, housing, at Nagoya University’s and other purposes. Graduate School Volterra, as part of its Coexistence with Local Communities and Society at Large of Pharmaceutical preservation activities Sciences, were each on company-owned presented with a land, is protecting certificate and gold habitat for the scarce medal, together with herbs and has made it Ñanco, a wild herb used by the Dr. Kei Hirose (center) and Dr. Yoshinori Fujiyoshi (2nd from right) ten million yen. available for their use. Mapuche Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 67 Responsibility to Communities Coexistence with Local Communities and Society at Large Promoting Recycling Activities Providing Opportunities to Tour Group Companies and Their Mills Case In fiscal 2015, 16,965 people (including 6,869 students and teachers) toured Nippon Paper Group facilities worldwide. Promoting the recycling of wood waste (Nanei Co., Ltd.) Case Nanei, a company that performs sylviculture and logging services in Nippon Paper Industries’ and other forests, also makes woodchips used for manufacturing Mill tours and papermaking (Hokkaido Mill (Yufutsu), Nippon Paper Industries) paper and generating electricity, and specializes in the intermediate processing of wood materials from waste. The Yufutsu works of the Hokkaido Mill enthusiastically Operating in the Kumamoto Prefecture city of Yatsushiro, welcomes students from schools in and around Nanei uses a tub grinder to turn tree waste from garden Tomakomai City for tours of its facilities. In addition to shrubs, wooden pallets and other wooden materials these tours, the Yufutsu works also offers a program into fine particles that can be used as boiler fuel, or in which it teaches the making of paper postcards by raw material for particle board. Some of this material hand. A similar program is conducted at local schools by is also mixed with sawdust and used as bedding for employees when requests are received. livestock. Recently, Students who come to the Yufutsu works gain a Nanei has begun to deeper appreciation for the paper used in daily life. They use tree waste that do this by touring the facility where they are typically would otherwise surprised by the scale of the machinery and then have gone to the city experiencing for themselves the craft of making paper waste incinerator, by hand. The numerous letters and notes of thanks significantly reducing received from students afterward reassure employees the city’s waste that their efforts are worthwhile. As a company that takes processing burden. Bringing tree waste in a strong interest in local communities where it operates, Nippon Paper Industries is committed to continuing its contributions in support of local education and culture. Local Community Safety and Disaster Prevention Case Cranes hockey players watching over kids Explaining how to make paper Kids making paper going to and coming home from school by hand (Nippon Paper Cranes ice hockey team) In their off-season, members of the Nippon Paper Cranes hockey team participate in an activity that looks after children as they go to school in the morning and Disaster Relief Activities come home from school in the afternoon. A key point of this activity, which was organized by a coalition of communities adjacent to the Kushiro Mill, is that Case participation takes place as a part of daily activities, such as cleaning up around a house or walking a dog. In fiscal 2016, the number of schools covered by the activity was Recovery assistance for disaster-hit areas (Nippon Paper Group) increased, and Cranes players, wearing their jerseys, are lending their support. Kumamoto Prefecture suffered significant damage when Cranes players, as friendship ambassadors, also earthquakes struck on April 14, 2016. Responding to the support education activities by, for example, visiting disaster, the Nippon Paper Group, which has one of its elementary schools in the City of Kushiro to participate main mills in Yatsushiro, a city in Kumamoto Prefecture, in athletic meets, act as visiting instructors, and teach not only contributed a total of ¥30 million in relief funds children how to skate. to the prefecture and the city but also donated toilet paper, wet tissues (wipes), disposable diapers, and other Group products to severely hit areas. Fortunately, no Group employees were injured in the disaster, and no environmental accidents occurred in our facilities. When the disaster struck, operations at the Yatsushiro Mill were halted, while operations at other mills and facilities were adjusted to maintain companywide production volume. Following recovery work Cranes player escorting elementary school giving top priority to safety, the Yatsushiro Mill resumed students across a street operations on April 24. 68 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 Responsibility to Communities Corporate Identity Sharing Conducting activities that enable local residents and employees to physically experience the essence of the Nippon Paper Group Utilizing Company-Owned Forests Case Conducting the annual School of Friendship for Forests and Paper (Nippon Paper Industries Co. Ltd., Nippon Paper Development Co., Ltd.) Comments from elementary school children (June 2016) A ceremonial photograph of all involved parties I enjoyed being in a I wondered if it was really possible natural environment! It to make paper from wood, and I was made me feel great! amazed to see that I could make paper just like I use every day. Walk in a forest owned by Nippon Paper Industries The School of Friendship for Forests and Paper is a handsSugenuma company-owned forest, through June 2016, on course on the natural environment utilizing forests the school has been conducted 20 times, for a total of 674 (approximately 90,000 hectares) owned by Nippon Paper participants, including parents and children, and students Industries in Japan. With the aim of introducing participants from local schools. to the beauty and abundance of forests owned by the Since 2007, the Toyono School of Friendship for Forests company, the school is also an opportunity to experience and Paper has been held in Nippon Paper Industries’ Toyono the connection between forests and paper, an essential forest in Kumamoto Prefecture. Organized mainly by the item for everyday life. This initiative was first launched in the company’s Yatsushiro Mill, particular emphasis is placed on Sugenuma forest of Gunma Prefecture in October 2006. activities deeply rooted in the local community. One program The common programs that make up the school draw of this school incorporates such activities as a mill tour and is heavily on the knowledge and experience of employees. one example of how activities are modified to accommodate Responsibility to With Group employees serving as guides, for example, the needs of each region. participants enjoy walking through the forest and making The activities discussed above were presented with a Communities paper from twigs they pick up. Participants are gathered 2015 Biodiversity Action Award by the Japan Committee for from general public with the cooperation of the Japan the United Nations Decade on Biodiversity. Philanthropic Association. Since its inception at the Case Coexistence with Local Communities and Society at Large / This was a great Marunuma Highland Tree-Planting 2016 held (Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd.) experience for kids and parents. Nippon Paper Industries is advancing initiatives aimed at leaving a thriving forest to future generations. As part of that effort, tree-planting activities were begun in the company’s Sugenuma Forest in Gunma Prefecture in May 2010. The fifth iteration of this activity—the Marunuma Highland Tree Planting 2016—took place in May. The number of participants—both Nippon Paper Group people and others, mainly from Tokyo—came to about 120 in all. Corporate Identity Sharing Under the guidance of staff, participants used transplanting trowels to plant 1,000 seedlings of five types of Participants planting trees trees, including Japanese beech and Japanese oak. Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 69 Outline of the Nippon Paper Group Company Profile (As of March 31, 2016) Trade Name Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Shares issued 116,254,892 Incorporation August 1, 1949 Shareholders Financial institutions 42.45%, foreign investors by category 23.82%, individuals and others 20.37%, other Capital ¥104.873 billion Japanese corporations 11.13%, securities Address 4-6 Kandasurugadai, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, Japan companies 1.94%, treasury stock 0.27% Telephone +81-3-6665-1111 Shareholders’ ¥402,814 million equity Listing Tokyo Stock Exchange (Securities code 3863) Total liabilities ¥966,233 million Major Financial Indicators Trends Consolidated net sales Consolidated ordinary income Pulp and Paper Business Paper-Related Business (Millions of yen) Wood Products and Construction Related Business Other Businesses 40,000 (Millions of yen) 1,200,000 1,042,436 1,025,078 1,081,277 1,052,491 1,007,097 28,188 30,000 70,564 68,579 70,584 66,694 28,469 60,675 69,543 59,242 62,155 23,081 23,204 60,725 93,469 94,460 93,004 91,033 88,912 20,000 17,123 800,000 10,000 6,057 817,726 801,312 848,145 835,521 827,560 400,000 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) Consolidated net income or loss (Millions of yen) 50,000 Consolidated operating income 22,770 23,183 Pulp and Paper Business Paper-Related Business 25,000 Wood Products and Construction Related Business Other Businesses 10,652 (Millions of yen) 2,424 45,000 0 36,524 3,113 -25,000 2,490 28,536 30,000 6,684 25,145 3,647 23,656 22,623 -50,000 -41,675 3,232 2,403 2,749 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) 2,718 2,481 5,045 2,123 3,639 15,000 6,238 3,760 2,661 24,235 Total assets (consolidated)1 17,440 12,955 15,022 13,840 (Millions of yen) 0 2,000,000 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) 1,527,635 1,497,729 1,480,894 1,495,622 1,500,000 1,390,918 Employees (consolidated)1 1,000,000 Pulp and Paper Business Paper-Related Business Wood Products and Construction Related Business Other Businesses 500,000 Cross-organizational 2 15,000 0 13,407 13,052 13,107 12,771 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) 232 221 237 11,741 214 213 2,377 2,399 2,263 2,397 1,238 10,000 1,632 Interest-bearing debt (consolidated)1 1,669 1,670 1,671 1,636 1,313 1,316 1,285 1,286 1,286 (Millions of yen) 1,000,000 838,285 830,220 5,000 775,597 731,834 7,853 7,449 7,516 7,337 7,368 750,000 703,831 0 50,000 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) 25,000 1 Fiscal year-end data 0 2 Employees responsible for multiple divisions 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) 70 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 Consolidated Subsidiaries (as of March 31, 2016) The Status of Debt Ratings (As of March 30, 2016) Pulp and Paper Business Ratings agency Rating Rating and Investment Information, Inc. (R&I) Long-term bonds: A– Nippon Paper Crecia Co., Ltd., Nippon Paper Papylia Co., Ltd., Paper Australia Pty Ltd. (and its 7 subsidiaries), NP Trading Co., Ltd., Kokuei Japan Credit Rating Agency, Ltd. (JCR) Long-term bonds: A Paper Co., Ltd., SUN OAK CO., LTD., Kitakami Paper Co., Ltd., Daishowa North America Corporation, Nippon Paper Industries USA Co., Ltd., Dyna Wave Holding Asia, Jujo Thermal Oy, and Siam Nippon Industrial Paper Co., Ltd. Major Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) Indices Incorporating the Nippon Paper Group Paper-Related Business Selected once again for inclusion in Ethibel Investment Register in May 2014 Sakurai Co., Ltd., Nippon Seitai Corporation, and FLOWRIC CO. LTD. A universe of companies selected by Forum Ethibel, a Belgian organization that promotes socially responsible investment, for their outstanding Wood Products and Construction Related Business performance in terms of social responsibility. In making its selections, Forum Ethibel assesses companies on criteria including human rights, Nippon Paper Lumber Co., Ltd., NIPPON PAPER UNITEC CO., LTD., human resources, environment, business behavior, Kokusaku Kiko Co., Ltd., Nippon Paper Ishinomaki Technology Co., Ltd., corporate governance, and community impact. Kunimoku House Co., Ltd., N&E Co., Ltd., Daishowa Uniboard Co., Ltd., Nanei Co., Ltd., Nichimoku Fancy Materials Co., Ltd., and Nippon Paper Resources Australia Pty Ltd. Again Included in the Euronext Vigeo World 120 Index in June 2016 The Euronext Vigeo World 120 is an equity index Other Businesses managed by NYSE Euronext, which operates securities exchanges in Europe and the U.S., and by Vigeo Eiris, an enterprise that assesses NANKO UNYU CO., LTD., Kyokushin Transport Co., Ltd., NIPPON PAPER companies. The Euronext Vigeo World 120 is comprised of the 120 companies judged to be LOGISTICS CO., LTD., Hotoku Co., Ltd., Nippon Paper Development Co., the most advanced in environmental, social, and Ltd., and GAC CO., LTD. governance matters in Europe, North America, and the Asia-Pacific region. Major Environmental Performance Data1 Unit FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Fossil energy input Million GJ 88 91 97 95 94 Energy Non-fossil energy input2 Million GJ 69 66 77 80 81 CO2 emissions from fossil energy Million tonnes of CO2 6.55 6.63 7.29 7.15 7.15 Water Million tonnes 870 953 883 939 942 consumption Amount discharged Million tonnes 843 905 907 918 920 Wastewater COD/BOD Thousand tonnes 46.9 54.0 56.0 63.7 62.9 SS Thousand tonnes 16.8 21.3 22.0 23.6 26 SOx Thousand tonnes 3.37 3.50 3.34 4.32 5.08 Gas emissions NOx Thousand tonnes 7.05 7.95 9.03 8.78 9.61 Soot and dust Thousand tonnes 1.25 1.04 1.52 1.54 1.47 Amount generated Thousand tonnes 688 737 819 850 839 Waste Final waste disposal Thousand tonnes 44 49 71.9 54.2 52.4 1 Changes in the Data Collection Scope: Australian Paper was added to the data collection scope in fiscal 2013. Jujo Thermal Oy and South East Fibre Exports Pty. Ltd. were added in fiscal 2014. Siam Nippon Industrial Paper Co., Ltd. was added in fiscal 2015. SHIKOKU COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO., LTD. was excluded from the data collection scope in fiscal 2014, and South East Fibre Exports Co., Ltd., in fiscal 2015, following divestments in both cases. The Shoalhaven Mill of Australian Paper was excluded from the data collection scope in fiscal 2015, following its closure. 2 Energy from biomass and waste External Awards for Environmental Conservation Activities (FY2015) Recipient Award Award Organization Chiyoda ward Anti-Global-Warming Action Plan System Chiyoda ward, Tokyo NP Trading Co., Ltd. Environmental Consciousness Award 2015 Biodiversity Action Award For conducting the School of Friendship for Forests Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd and Paper, and for pursuit of business operations and Japan Committee for the United protection of Blackiston’s fish owl habitat through Nations Decade on Biodiversity collaborative activities* * Awarded jointly with the Wild Bird Society of Japan Performance Data (Data Packet) http://www.nipponpapergroup.com/english/csr/ Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 71 Guideline Comparison Table This report was prepared in accordance with the core option of the fourth update of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4). Guideline Comparison Table (GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Ver. 4) *Only items mentioned in the report are shown. Corresponding Corresponding Item Contents Item Contents Page(s) Page(s) General Standard Disclosures Group Governance, Framework for Promoting Raw 16-18, 26, 36, 52, Materials Procurement Management, Environmental Strategy and Analysis G4-34 Management Promotion Structure, Product 59 Safety Management System, System to Promote G4-1 6-7 Message from the President Occupational Safety and Health Message from the President, The Sustainable Business G4-2 6-11 Model of a Comprehensive Biomass Enterprise, CSR Management, Framework for Promoting Raw Business Strategy Aiming to Create New Value Materials Procurement Management, Environmental 19, 26, 36, 52-53, Management Promotion Structure, Product Safety Organizational Profile G4-35 59, 66 Management System, Responding to Instances of Defective Products, System to Promote Occupational G4-3 70 Outline of the Nippon Paper Group Safety and Health, Structure for Promoting Social G4-4 2-3 Nippon Paper Group Business Overview Contribution Activities G4-5 70 Outline of the Nippon Paper Group Framework for Promoting Raw Materials Procurement G4-36 26, 36, 52, 59 Management, Environmental Management Promotion G4-6 4, 32, 61-62 Major Operating Companies and Production Sites, Structure, Product Safety Management System, Overseas Afforestation, Recruitment and Employment System to Promote Occupational Safety and Health G4-7 70 Outline of the Nippon Paper Group IR activities, Dialogue with Stakeholders, Sustainable G4-37 21, 28-29, 37, 52Procurement of Raw Materials, Environmental Nippon Paper Group Business Overview, Major 54, 59, 64 Communication, (Customers) Policy and Management, G4-8 2-4, 21 Operating Companies and Production Sites, Dialogue Occupational Safety and Health, Industrial Relations with Stakeholders G4-38 16-18 Group Governance Nippon Paper Group Business Overview, Major G4-9 2-4, 70 Operating Companies and Production Sites, Outline of G4-40 16-17 Group Governance the Nippon Paper Group G4-41 16-17 Group Governance G4-10 61-62 Creating Workplaces that Support Diverse Human Highest Governance Body's Role in Setting Purpose, Values, and Strategy Resources G4-42 16-18, 36 Group Governance, Environmental Management G4-11 64 Industrial Relations Promotion Structure Social Issues and the Nippon Paper Group’s Value Highest Governance Body's Competencies and Performance Evaluation G4-12 12-13, 27-29, 32 Creation Flow, Current Status of Raw Materials Group Governance, CSR Management, Sustainable Procurement, Sustainable Procurement of Raw G4-43 16-19,28-29, 36 Procurement of Raw Materials, Environmental Materials, Overseas Afforestation Management Promotion Structure G4-13 4, 70-71 Major Operating Companies and Production Sites, G4-44 16-18 Group Governance Outline of the Nippon Paper Group Highest Governance Body's Role in Risk Management Commitments to External Initiatives Group Governance, CSR Management, Dialogue Compliance, Sustainable Forest Management, with Stakeholders, Sustainable Procurement of Raw Action Plan for Wood-Based Raw Material 16-19, 21, 28-29, Materials, Environmental Communication, (Customers) 20, 26, 28-29, Procurement, (Environment) Policy and Management, G4-45 G4-14 34-37 52-54, 37, 52-54, 58, 59 Policy and Management, Initiatives in Respect of (Customers) Policy and Management, (Human Rights Human Rights, System to Promote Occupational 58-60 and Labor) Policy and Management, Occupational Safety and Health Safety and Health G4-46 16-18, 36 Group Governance, Environmental Management G4-15 18 The United Nations Global Compact Promotion Structure G4-16 18 Participating in Organizations in Japan and Abroad G4-47 16-18 Group Governance Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries Highest Governance Body's Role in Sustainability Reporting Scope of Organizations Covered, Outline of the G4-48 14 CSR Materiality at the Nippon Paper Group G4-17 4-5, 70-71 Nippon Paper Group Highest Governance Body's Role in Evaluating Economic, Environmental and Editorial Policy, Social Issues and the Nippon Paper Social Performance G4-18 5, 12-14, 21-24 Group’s Value Creation Flow, CSR Materiality at the Group Governance, CSR Management, Environmental Nippon Paper Group, Dialogue with Stakeholders G4-49 16-19, 36 Management Promotion Structure G4-19 14 CSR Materiality at the Nippon Paper Group Remuneration and Incentives Major Operating Companies and Production Sites, G4-51 17 Group Governance G4-20 4-5, 14 Scope of Organizations Covered, CSR Materiality at the Nippon Paper Group Ethics and Integrity Scope of Organizations Covered, CSR Materiality at Group Mission, The Nippon Paper Group’s Action G4-21 5, 14 the Nippon Paper Group Charter, Philosophy and Basic Policy Concerning Raw Materials Procurement, The Nippon Paper Group G4-22 62 Hiring for Career-Track Positions G4-56 7, 19, 26, 34, 48, Environmental Charter, Basic Policy on Preservation of 52, 58, 66 Biodiversity, Philosophy and Basic Policy on Product Scope of Organizations Covered, Material Balance, Safety, Philosophy and Basic Policy on Human Rights, G4-23 5, 42-43, 61, 71 Performance in Reemploying Workers Who Reach Employment and Labor, Philosophy and Principles for the Mandatory Retirement Age, Major Environmental Social Contribution Activities Performance Data G4-57 20 Group Internal Whistleblower System Stakeholder Engagement G4-58 20 Group Internal Whistleblower System G4-24 21 Dialogue with Stakeholders Specific Standard Disclosures G4-25 21 Dialogue with Stakeholders Social Issues and the Nippon Paper Group’s Value CSR Materiality at the Nippon Paper Group, Group 12-14, 15, 25, 33, Creation Flow; CSR Materiality at the Nippon Paper Internal Whistleblower System, Dialogue with DMA 51, 57, 65 Group; Indicators, Key Objectives, and Performance Stakeholders, Action Plan for Wood-Based Raw on various materiality items G4-26 14, 20-24, 28-29, Material Procurement, Environmental Communication, 37, 54, 59-69 Environmental Education and Training, Identifying Category: Economic Customer Needs, Occupational Safety and Health, Trends in Dividends Per Share, Environmental Creating Workplaces that Support Diverse Human G4-EC1 21, 38, 70 Accounting, Outline of the Nippon Paper Group Resources, Responsibility to Communities The Sustainable Business Model of a Comprehensive CSR Materiality at the Nippon Paper Group, Group Biomass Enterprise, Business Strategy Aiming to Internal Whistleblower System, Dialogue with G4-EC2 8-11, 38-41 Create New Value, Environmental Accounting, Climate Stakeholders, Action Plan for Wood-Based Raw Change Initiatives G4-27 14, 20-24,28-29, Material Procurement, Environmental Communication, 37, 55-56, 59-69 Provision of Environmentally and Socially Conscious G4-EC6 61 Employment Data Products, Occupational Safety and Health, Creating Protecting and Nurturing Japan’s Wood Resources, Workplaces that Support Diverse Human Resources, Responsibility to Communities G4-EC7 30-32, 38,40, 48-50, 65-69 Overseas Afforestation, Environmental Accounting, Advancing Energy Efficiency in Logistics, Preserving Report Profile Biodiversity, Responsibility to Communities G4-28 5 Period Covered G4-EC8 30-32, 65-69 Protecting and Nurturing Japan’s Wood Resources, Overseas Afforestation,Responsibility to Communities G4-29 Back cover Issued Year, Month Category: Environment G4-30 Back cover Issued Year, Month G4-EN1 27, 42-43 Current Status of Raw Materials Procurement, Material G4-31 Back cover Inquiries Balance GRI Content Index Current Status of Raw Materials Procurement, Material G4-EN2 27, 42-43, 47 Balance, Wastepaper Collection and Use G4-32 72-74 Guideline Comparison Table Assurance G4-EN3 39-43 Climate Change Initiatives, Material Balance G4-33 Does not apply Environmental Action Plan (Green Action Plan 2015) G4-EN6 35, 38, 39-41 Results, Environmental Conservation Impacts, Climate Governance Change Initiatives Governance Structure and Composition G4-EN8 42-43 Material Balance 72 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 ISO 26000 Comparison Table Corresponding Core Item Contents Subjects Corresponding Contents Page(s) Page(s) Environmental forest designations, biodiversityand Issues G4-EN9 30, 32, 48-50 conscious forest management, Afforestation projects Message from the President, The Sustainable that help the local ecology, Preserving Biodiversity Business Model of a Comprehensive Biomass G4Performance Data (Breakdown of Company-Owned Enterprise, Management Responsibility, 48 Forests in Japan) 6.2 6-9, 15-24, 26, (Raw Materials) Policy and Management, EN11 Organizational 28-29, 34-37, Sustainable Procurement of Raw Materials, Sustainable Management of Company-Owned Governance 52-54, 57-64, 66 (Environment) Policy and Management, G430, 32, 48-50 Forests in Japan, Overseas Afforestation, Preserving (Customers) Policy and Management, Human EN12 Biodiversity Rights, Employment and Labor Responsibility, (Community) Policy and Management Sustainable Management of Company-Owned G430, 32, 48-50 Forests in Japan, Overseas Afforestation, Preserving 6.3 Human Rights EN13 Biodiversity CSR Management, Sustainable Procurement G4Environmental Conservation Impacts, Environmental 6.3.3 19, 28-29, 58 of Raw Materials, Initiatives in Respect of EN19 38, 41 Action Plan (Green Action Plan 2015) Results Human Rights G46.3.4 19, 26 The Nippon Paper Group’s Action Charter, EN20 46 Controlling Chemical Substances (Raw Materials) Policy and Management G4Environmental Conservation Impacts, Material (Raw Materials) Policy and Management, EN21 38, 42-44 Balance, Preventing Air Pollution 6.3.5 26, 58 (Human Rights and Labor) Policy and Management G438, 42-44 Environmental Conservation Impacts, Material EN22 Balance, Preventing Water Pollution Group Internal Whistleblower System, 6.3.6 20, 37, 53-54 Environmental Communication, Initiatives for G438, 42-43, 45 Environmental Conservation Impacts, Material Balance, Quality Stabilization EN23 Reducing Industrial Waste (Human Rights and Labor) Policy and G437 Status with Regard to Legal Compliance 6.3.7 58, 61-64 Management, Creating Workplaces that EN24 Support Diverse Human Resources G438, 47 Environmental Conservation Impacts, Wastepaper (Human Rights and Labor) Policy and EN28 Collection and Use 6.3.8 58 Management G437 Status with regard to Legal Compliance Occupational Safety and Health, Respect for EN29 6.3.9 59-60, 67 Indigenous People G4Advancing Energy Efficiency in Logistics, 6.3.10 58, 64 (Human Rights and Labor) Policy and EN30 40-41, 55 Environmentally Friendly Utilization Management, Industrial Relations G46.4 Labor Practices EN31 38 Environmental Accounting 6.4.3 57-64 Human Rights, Employment and Labor G425, 28-29 (Raw Materials) Materiality Item Performance, Responsibility EN32 Sustainable Procurement of Raw Materials 6.4.4 57-64 Human Rights, Employment and Labor G437 Responses to Opinions and Complaints Responsibility EN34 6.4.5 64 Industrial Relations Category: Society 6.4.6 59-60 Occupational Safety and Health Sub-Category: Labor Practices and Decent Work 6.4.7 63-64 Initiatives Aimed at Developing Human Recruitment and Employment, Women in the Resources G4-LA1 61, 62 Workplace 6.5 Environment G4-LA3 63 Data on Balancing Work and Personal Lives Climate Change Initiatives, Reduction of 6.5.3 39-46 Environmental Impacts G4-LA5 59, 64 System to Promote Occupational Safety and Health, Industrial Relations The Sustainable Business Model of a G4-LA6 60 Status of Occupational Accidents Comprehensive Biomass Enterprise, 6.5.4 8-9, 28-32, 47 Sustainable Procurement of Raw Materials, G4-LA8 59, 64 System to Promote Occupational Safety and Health, Protecting and Nurturing Japan’s Wood Industrial Relations Resources, Overseas Afforestation, G4-LA9 63 Training Time for Individual Employees Wastepaper Collection and Use G4Creating Workplaces that Support Diverse Human 6.5.5 39-41 Climate Change Initiatives LA10 61-64 Resources 6.5.6 48-50 Preserving Biodiversity G464 Fair Evaluation and Compensation 6.6 Fair Operating Practices LA11 6.6.3 19, 26 The Nippon Paper Group’s Action Charter, G425, 28-29 (Raw Materials) Materiality Item Performance, (Raw Materials) Policy and Management LA14 Sustainable Procurement of Raw Materials 6.6.4 19, 26 The Nippon Paper Group’s Action Charter, G425, 28-29 (Raw Materials) Materiality Item Performance, (Raw Materials) Policy and Management LA15 Sustainable Procurement of Raw Materials 6.6.5 19, 26 The Nippon Paper Group’s Action Charter, G420 Group Internal Whistleblower System (Raw Materials) Policy and Management LA16 Social Issues and the Nippon Paper Group’s Sub-Category: Human Rights 6.6.6 12-13, 26, 28-29 Value Creation Flow, (Raw Materials) Policy and Management, Sustainable Procurement of G4-HR4 26, 28-29 (Raw Materials) Philosophy and Basic Policy, Action Raw Materials Plan for Wood-Based Raw Material Procurement 6.6.7 20 Respect for Intellectual Property G4-HR5 26, 28-29 (Raw Materials) Philosophy and Basic Policy, Action Plan for Wood-Based Raw Material Procurement 6.7 Consumer Issues (Raw Materials) Philosophy and Basic Policy, Action 6.7.3 18, 52 Position on Information Disclosure, (Customers) G4-HR6 26, 28-29 Plan for Wood-Based Raw Material Procurement Basic Stance (Raw Materials) Materiality Item Performance, 6.7.4 51-56 Responsibility to Our Customers G4-HR9 25, 28-29 Sustainable Procurement of Raw Materials 6.7.5 51-56 Responsibility to Our Customers G425, 28-29 (Raw Materials) Materiality Item Performance, 6.7.6 52-54 (Customers) Policy and Management HR10 Sustainable Procurement of Raw Materials 6.7.7 20 Personal Information Protection G425, 28-29 (Raw Materials) Materiality Item Performance, HR11 Sustainable Procurement of Raw Materials 6.7.8 19 The Nippon Paper Group’s Action Charter G4Identifying Customer Needs, Field Trips, 20 Group Internal Whistleblower System 6.7.9 54, 68-69 Corporate Identity Sharing HR12 Sub-Category: Society 6.8 Community Involvement and Development G4-SO1 15 (Management) Materiality Item Performance Dialogue with Stakeholders, Afforestation 6.8.3 20-24, 32, 65-69 projects overseas, Responsibility to G4-SO2 42-43 Material Balance Communities G4-SO4 20 Implementing Compliance Education 6.8.4 65-69 Responsibility to Communities G4(Raw Materials) Materiality Item Performance, 6.8.5 65-69 Responsibility to Communities SO10 25, 28-29 Sustainable Procurement of Raw Materials 6.8.6 65-69 Responsibility to Communities Sub-Category: Product Responsibility 6.8.7 65-69 Responsibility to Communities G4-PR1 52-54 Approach toward Product Safety, Initiatives for Quality Climate Change Initiatives, Reduction Stabilization 39-46, 55-56, of Environmental Impacts, Providing 6.8.8 59-60 Environmentally and Socially Conscious Invigorating Japan’s Forest Industry, Verification and Audit of Waste Paper Pulp Blending Ratio, Providing Products, Occupational Safety and Health G4-PR3 30-31, 53, 55 Certified Paper by Starting with Properly Managed 6.8.9 30-31, 65-69 Invigorating Japan’s Forest Industry, Forests Responsibility to Communities G4-PR5 15, 55-56 (Management) Materiality Item Performance, Providing of Environmentally and Socially Conscious Products Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 73 Guideline Comparison Table Guideline Comparison Table (Environmental Reporting Guidelines, Ministry of the Environment) Corresponding Corresponding Item Contents Item Contents Page(s) Page(s) Basic Issues of Environment Reporting Protecting and Nurturing Japan’s Wood Resources, 4. (6) 30-32, 39 Overseas Afforestation, Fuel Conversion Led by the 1. (1) 5 Editorial Policy Adoption of Biomass Boilers 4. (7) 45, 47 Reducing Industrial Waste, Wastepaper Collection 1. (2) 5 Editorial Policy and Use 1. (3) 5 Editorial Policy Information and Indicators that Describe the Status of Activities for Environmental Impacts and Its Reduction Measures 1. (4) 5, Back Cover Editorial Policy 1. (1) 39-43 Climate Change Initiatives, Material Balance 2 6-7 Message from the President 1. (2) 42-43, 47 Material Balance, Wastepaper Collection and Use Message from the President, The Sustainable 3. (1) 6-9 Business Model of a Comprehensive Biomass 1. (3) 42-43 Material Balance Enterprise The Sustainable Business Model of a Comprehensive Environmental Action Plan (Green Action Plan 2015) Biomass Enterprise, Fuel Conversion Led by the 3. (2) 35 2 8-9, 39, 45 Adoption of Biomass Boilers, Reducing Industrial Results Waste 3. (3) 35 Environmental Action Plan (Green Action Plan 2015) Results 3. (1) 42-43 Material Balance 4 42-43 Material Balance 3. (2) 39-43 Climate Change Initiatives, Material Balance Status of Environmental Management (MPI) 3. (3) 42-43 Material Balance 1. (1) 34-38 (Environment) Policy and Management 3. (4) 42-46 Reduction of Environmental Impacts Nippon Paper Group Business Overview, The Sustainable Business Model of a Comprehensive 3. (5) 42-46 Reduction of Environmental Impacts 1. (2) 2-3, 8-11 Biomass Enterprise, Business Strategy Aiming to Create New Value 3. (6) 42-43, 45 Material Balance, Reducing Industrial Waste 2. (1) 36 Environmental Management Promotion Structure 3. (7) 42-46 Reduction of Environmental Impacts 2. (2) 34-38 (Environment) Policy and Management 4 48-50 Preserving Biodiversity 2. (3) 36-37, 42-46 Strengthening Environmental Compliance, Reduction The Status of Environmental Management from Economic and Social Perspectives of Environmental Impacts Dialogue with Stakeholders, Environmental 1. (1) 38 Environmental Accounting 3. (1) 21-24, 37 Communication 1. (2) — — 3. (2) 48-50, 65-69 Preserving Biodiversity, Responsibility to Communities Forest Management and Raw Material Procurement Social Issues and the Nippon Paper Group’s Responsibility, Strengthening Environmental 4. (1) 12-13, 26, 34-35 Value Creation Flow, (Raw Materials) Policy and 25-32, 36-37, 48Compliance, Environmental Communication, Management, Environmental Action Plan 2 50, 55-56, 65-69 Preserving Biodiversity, Providing Environmentally and Socially Conscious Products, Responsibility 4. (2) 26-27 (Raw Materials) Policy and Management, Current to Communities Status of Raw Materials Procurement Providing Environmentally and Socially Conscious Other Issues 4. (3) 55-56 Products 1 5 Period Covered Business Strategy Aiming to Create New Value, 4. (4) 10-11, 45, 50, Reducing Industrial Waste, Initiatives Leveraging 2 75 Third–Party Comments 55-56 Our Resources and Technologies, Providing Environmentally and Socially Conscious Products 4. (5) 40 Advancing Energy Efficiency in Logistics Comparison Table (the United Nations Global Compact) Principles Corresponding Contents Page(s) Signatory to and Participation in the United Nations Global Compact 6-7, 18 Message from the President, The United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of 22, 24-25, (Raw Materials) Policy and Management, Sustainable Procurement of Raw Materials, internationally proclaimed human rights. 53-60 Human Rights, Employment and Labor Responsibility Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in 26, 28-29, 58 (Raw Materials) Policy and Management, Sustainable Procurement of Raw Materials, human rights abuses. (Human Rights, Employment and Labor) Policy and Management Labor Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and Principle 3 the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 58, 64 (Human Rights, Employment and Labor) Policy and Management, Industrial Relations Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of 26, 28-29, 58 (Raw Materials) Policy and Management, Sustainable Procurement of Raw Materials, forced and compulsory labor. (Human Rights, Employment and Labor) Policy and Management Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child (Raw Materials) Policy and Management, Sustainable Procurement of Raw Materials, Principle 5 labor. 26, 28-29, 58 (Human Rights, Employment and Labor) Policy and Management Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination 58, 61-64 (Human Rights, Employment and Labor) Policy and Management, Creating in respect of employment and occupation. Workplaces that Support Diverse Human Resources Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to 26, 28-29, (Raw Materials) Policy and Management, Sustainable Procurement of Raw Materials, environmental challenges. 33-50 Environmental Responsibility Message from the President, The Sustainable Business Model of a Comprehensive Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater 6-7, 8-11, Biomass Enterprise, Business Strategy Aiming to Create New Value, Forest environmental responsibility. 25-32, 33-50 Management and Raw Material Procurement Responsibility, Environmental Responsibility Business Strategy Aiming to Create New Value, Reducing Industrial Waste, Initiatives Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and 10-11, 45, 50, Leveraging Our Resources and Technologies, Providing Environmentally and Socially diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 55-56 Conscious Products Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms 19-20, 26 CSR Management, Compliance, (Raw Materials) Policy and Management including extortion and bribery. 74 Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 Third-Party Comments / Action in Response to Third-Party Comments Third-Party Comments The first point for which this year’s report deserves praise is its simple statement, in the editorial policy, that it was prepared in accordance with the Core option of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (Version 4) – the G4 guidelines issued by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). This statement is the self-declaration, based on G4 rules, that this report was prepared in accordance with one of the G4 guideline options. The significance of the Nippon Paper Group’s having included it in its report, however, is immeasurable. In general, Japanese corporate groups are managed in a decentralized fashion, with the individual companies operating under their own management. Other than financial information necessary for preparing consolidated financial statements, internal information (including human Yoshinao Kozuma resource information) of individual group members is usually not centrally managed. This means it Professor, Faculty of Economics, Sophia is often difficult for Japanese corporate groups to prepare reports “in accordance” with the G4 University guidelines, which presume an information boundary at the consolidated level. That the Nippon Profile Paper Group’s sustainability report was prepared “in accordance” with the Core option of the G4 After leaving the doctoral guidelines means that CSR initiatives undertaken for Nippon Paper Industries are basically being program at the Sophia implemented for the Nippon Paper Group, and that systems for collecting and managing ESG University Graduate School of Economics, Professor information on a consolidated basis have been established and are being used. This fact by itself Kozuma became a research assistant at the Nagoya is deserving of nothing but praise. Institute of Technology and Looking back on how the Group has evolved, it can be seen that it was an early adopter of worked at the Limperg Instituut, Inter-University supply-chain management for the forest resources that are its raw materials, and that the Group Institute for Accounting and has led the other companies in disclosing its value chain map and business model. Furthermore, Auditing, in the Netherlands, as a guest researcher funded in its transition to its “comprehensive biomass enterprise” business model, the Group is by the Dutch government. He became an associate demonstrating a direction that is extremely compatible with a sustainable society. professor at the University of Another point for which the Nippon Paper Group deserves praise is its establishment of the Shizuoka School of Administration and basic policy for preserving biodiversity. Because of its reliance on forests as a basic management Informatics, and then took up his current position as resource, the Nippon Paper Group has a significant biodiversity risk exposure. To date, it has professor in the Faculty of collaborated with the Wild Bird Society of Japan on protection of the Blakiston’s fish owl, and Economics at Sophia University. He has held undertaken initiatives on other fronts, as well. The new basic policy formally establishes the Nippon successive positions as the Paper Group’s position on preserving biodiversity – which has been the basis for the activities chair or member of various CSRor environment-related mentioned above –and is a reaffirmation of the Group’s organization for advancing these kinds of advisory panels, study groups, and research activities. It provides an important foundation for structuring actual initiatives, such as conducting conferences for the Ministry biodiversity surveys and establishing environmental forest areas, sanctuaries, and protected areas; of the Environment; the Ministry of Economy, Trade adjusting operations in response to ecosystem concerns; and acquiring forest certifications. and Industry; the Ministry of Of course, there are areas in which improvement is required. For example, several objectives of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism; the Cabinet the Green Action Plan 2015, which was ambitious in terms of PDCA objectives and performance Office; and the Japanese Institute of Certified Public management, were not achieved. Furthermore, there has been a slight rise in the occupational Accountants. accident frequency rate, and the employment rate for people with disabilities has remained below the statutory rate since the rate was raised in 2013. Greater efforts are required in all of these areas going forward. Action in Response to Third-Party Comments The Sustainability Report discusses initiatives the Nippon Paper Group is taking in response to important social issues. The Sustainability Report 2016 discloses the process for identifying material issues and includes discussions of materiality indicators, objectives, and performance. Furthermore, the report carries more corporate governance coverage, given the establishment of our Corporate Governance Policy, and conversations with a customer and supplier to provide other perspectives on our materiality initiatives. It also discusses our Green Action Plan 2015 results and reports on our next environmental action plan, Green Action Plan 2020. In putting the report together, we again emphasized clarity in using plain language, and uncomplicated diagrams and tables. Professor Kozuma praised our decision to produce a report in accordance with the Core option of the GRI’s G4 guidelines, and our initiatives in preserving biodiversity. However, there are also issues, such as our employment rate for people with disabilities, which Professor Kozuma also Shuhei Marukawa raised as an area needing improvement last year, that require further attention. We recognize that Executive Vice President, we must earnestly listen to the opinions of stakeholders the points raised by Professor Kozuma Representative Director being one example – and fulfill the responsibilities of an enterprise coexisting with society. As a and General Manager of the CSR Division comprehensive biomass enterprise shaping the future with trees, we will persist in efforts to create Nippon Paper Industries new value and contribute to better living and cultural progress, while fulfilling our social Co., Ltd. responsibilities, so that we may continue to be an enterprise that is indispensable to society. We welcome candid opinions and impressions regarding this report. Nippon Paper Group Sustainability Report 2016 75 Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd. Head Office: 4-6 Kandasurugadai, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 101-0062, Japan Issued: December 2016 Previous issue: December 2015 Next issue: December 2017 Inquiries: CSR Department Phone: +81-3-6665-1015 Fax: +81-3-6665-0309 Website: http://www.nipponpapergroup.com/english/csr/ The cost of the paper used in this report includes a portion of expenses for the use of timber discarded in forests following tree thinning. Cover Photograph The Paper Used in This Report Covers: U-Lite Green 70 (PEFC) , Base weight: 157 g/m 2 Birds Living in Nippon Paper Industries’ Text pages: U-Lite Green 70 (PEFC) , Base weight: 104.7 g/m2 Company-owned Forests ① ● ● ⑤ 1. White-tailed eagle 2. White-backed woodpecker 3. Narcissus flycatcher ② ● ● ⑥ 4. Long-tailed rosefinch 5. Steller’s sea eagle 6. Hawfinch ③ ● ● ⑦ 7. Siberian bluechat 8. Japanese crane Photo courtesy of the Wild Bird Society of Japan ● ④ Katsura tree ⑧ ● Waterless printing with vegetable oil ink.
