SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 VISION CONTENTS It is a human right to feel safe. MISSION Saab in brief 1 To make people safe by pushing intellectual CEO comment: Saab is part of society 2 and technological boundaries. The year in brief 3 It is a basic human need and a human right Sustainability strategy to feel safe. Safety is subjected to many and priority issues 4 different types of threats, however. This Goals and results 5 includes military threats, terrorism, accidents or natural disasters. Stakeholder engagement 6 Saab develops innovative, cost-efficient Focus areas: high-tech systems to increase security Responsible business 7 for societies and individuals. At the same Reduce environmental impact 13 time there is a realisation throughout the business that some of the systems and Employer of choice 18 solutions that contribute to greater security Contribute to society 23 are not only used in a state of peace, but Governance of sustainability work 29 could also be used in conflict. This entails a GRI index 30 large responsibility. By acting responsibly in everything we do, we build the confidence of customers, employees and society and contribute to a safer world. SAAB IN BRIEF Saab is a global defence and security company that develops, manufactures and sells some of the world’s most advanced systems. This includes everything from monitoring sovereign airspace to supplying air traffic management systems at airports. Saab focuses on five core areas where training and support are integral parts. FIVE CORE AREAS Aeronautics Advanced weapon Command and Sensors Underwater Development of systems ­control systems Airborne surveillance ­systems advanced military Anti-tank weapons, Systems to control systems, air defence, The A26 submarine and civil aviation missiles and and co-ordinate surveillance and and autonomous technology, including ammunition as well ­military operations ­surface-based air vehicles as well as the Gripen combat as integrated combat as well as traffic defence. detection, weapon, aircraft system, which systems and network management on land, self-protection and has a strong position solutions. at sea and in the air. communication in the market. ­systems. 27,2 Sales, SEK billion 34 Countries where Saab operates 14,685Number of employees 500 Approximate number of products Saab offers SA AB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 – 1 CEO COMMENT SAAB IS PART OF SOCIETY In 2015, the UN adopted 17 new sustainable development goals to create a more sustainable world economically, environmentally and socially. Through solutions in military defence and civil security, Saab contributes to a safer and more sustainable society. For Saab, sustainability is a competitive advantage. Sustainable business drives innovation and profitability. Young people today and in the future will seek out modern, forward-thinking employers. Customers, investors, suppliers and society as a whole are interested not only in how we perform in strictly financial terms, but also environmentally and socially. To stay on the forefront technologically and as a business for decades to come, we have to choose sustainable alternatives. EDUCATION HELPS SOCIETY TO GROW We contribute to the social development of the communities where we work with a premium on education and individual development. On a fundamental level, education is by far the most important tool to drive growth and to make people and societies stronger. We support education at both a basic and a higher level. We are also engaged in initiatives to attract more young people, especially women, to engineering, which is critical for Saab to continue to attract the best people in the future. EFFECTIVE CLIMATE WORK Concern for the environment is a strategic choice, since natural resources are a prerequisite for Saab and other manufacturers. Developing innovative solutions that help to reduce environmental impacts is therefore a strong driver for us. We are committed, for example, to reducing our greenhouse gas emissions. In 2015, we received confirmation that Saab has been effective in addressing climate change when we achieved the highest score in the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index, where companies are judged on how transparently they describe their environmental work as well as manage risks and opportunities in the area. RESPONSIBLE ACTIONS Saab should always be seen as a long-term, open and reliable partner. Sustainable business is good for Saab. We act responsibly, according to the company’s values, code of conduct, rules and processes. Two areas of major importance are the rules and internal processes on anti-corruption and the export of defence products. These are also the areas where we 2 – SA AB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 THE YEAR IN BRIEF 9,507 Number of Saab’s employees who have completed ­web-based anti-corruption training 8 Saab’s ranking in Universum’s survey of popular employers draw the most attention. One area where we intensiamong Swedish ­engineering fied work during the year is sustainable relationships students in our supply chain. Saab launched, among other things, a code of conduct specific for our suppliers. 17% DIFFERENCES ARE ENRICHING As CEO, I constantly stress the importance of diversity Reduction in greenhous gas in everything we do. Communities and companies emissions related have everything to gain when we utilise each other’s backgrounds and experiences. Gender equality is an to sales since 2007 important part of diversity work, and Saab has been working for years to increase the number of women in management positions. This aim is now being complemented by goals to increase the total percentage 7% of women at Saab. THE WORK CONTINUES Operating margin In 2011, Saab endorsed the UN Global Compact to further strengthen its work with anti-corruption, labour, the environment and human rights. To give these issues even greater emphasis, Saab in 2015 formed a Corporate Responsibility Council, led by our Executive Vice President. This is Saab’s second sustainability report according to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). We are continuously developing and integrating sustainable SAAB’S DISTRIBUTION aspects throughout the business. OF ECONOMIC VALUE 511 74 Håkan Buskhe, President and CEO Dividend to owners, Interest paid to credit providers, SEK million SEK million 9,4 Employee wages, 12.9 Supplier costs, SEK billion SEK billion 2.3 Government taxes, 6.8 Research and development, SEK billion SEK billion SA AB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 – 3 XXXXXXXX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY AND PRIORITY ISSUES Saab has divided its sustainability work into four focus areas and identified priority issues for each area. These issues will be integrated into day-to-day operations. In this way Saab can create long-term profitability and confidence in its business, which contributes to the vision that everyone has the right to feel safe. RED BL E ME UCE SI SS NT AL RE E SP ON BU ON VIR CT EN MPA SIN I EXPERTISE IT IS A HUMAN BUSINESS TRUST RIGHT TO STRATEGY DRIVE FEEL SAFE NT O Y C O SO OI E R RI CE TO B CI U T PL EM C H ET E Y OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REDUCE ENVIRONMENTAL EMPLOYER OF CHOICE CONTRIBUTE TO SOCIETY IMPACT • Zero tolerance for corruption • Reduce climate impact • Develop leaders and • Innovation and spreading • Export compliance • Phase out hazardous ­employees knowledge • Responsible supplier ­chemical substances • Employee engagement • Increased security and ­relationships • Environmentally sustain• Performance-driven culture defence capabilities • Information security able innovations • Health and safety • Social engagement with a • Gender equality and focus on promoting education diversity and an interest in ­technology 4 – SA AB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 XXXXXXXXX GOALS AND RESULTS ZERO TOLERANCE FOR CORRUPTION RESPONSIBLE SUPPLIER RELATIONSHIPS Saab will have clear and easily accessible rules Saab will work continuously with suppliers on social and processes to prevent corruption and conflicts and environmental responsibilities. of interest. All employees will regularly receive anti-corruption training. RESULT 2015 Saab launched a supplier code of conduct and RESULT 2015 updated contract templates with a clause on the More than 9, 000 of Saab’s employees have comcode of conduct. pleted the web-based anti-corruption training. Just over 1,000 employees have completed the ­in-depth anti-corruption training since 2011. REDUCE CLIMATE IMPACT PHASE OUT HAZARDOUS CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least Phase out hazardous chemical substances with 20 per cent from 2007 to 2020 related to sales. unacceptable risks and such that could be subject to regulation by authorities and customers. RESULT 2015 Saab reduced greenhouse gas emissions by RESULT 2015 17 per cent from 2007 related to sales. The phase-out work continued according to plan. During the year, Saab launched a new cleaning facility to phase out trichloroethylene and a new surface treatment m­ ethod to replace chromates, which is scheduled to be fully in operation in 2016. GENDER EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Saab strives to be an inclusive workplace where At least 85 per cent of the employees should be very ­gender equality and diversity are widely accepted. satisfied working at Saab. In Sweden, Saab wants at least 35 per cent female Saab will rank among the top five in Universum’s managers and at least 30 per cent female employees ranking of future employers among Swedish by 2025. Globally, Saab wants at least 30 per cent engineering students. female managers and at least 25 per cent female employees by 2025. RESULT 2015 82 per cent of Saab’s employees were very satisfied RESULT 2015 working at Saab. In Sweden, Saab had 27.2 per cent female managers Saab ranked eighth in Universum’s survey of and 23 per cent female employees. Globally, Saab popular employers among Swedish engineering had 23.5 per cent female managers and 22.4 per cent ­students. female employees. SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT RESULT 2015 Saab will contribute to social development in Saab continued during the year to promote education markets where the company is active, mainly with and an interest in technology, including with the the help of Saab’s employees and technologies and help of employees who volunteer as math tutors and with a special emphasis on promoting education through activities to interest girls in engineering. and an interest in technology. For more examples, see page 27. SA AB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 – 5 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Continuous dialogue and meetings with various stakeholder groups are essential in order to understand the expectations on Saab as a sustainable company. Stakeholders’ expectations, along with Saab’s own strategic assessment, serve as a basis for the priorities chosen for Saab’s sustainability work (see page 4) and hence the contents of the sustainability report. The issues are evaluated from a stakeholder and business perspective and how they affect Saab’s ability to create and maintain value. Saab receives input from stakeholders through a number of different channels, some of which are listed below. In addition to regular contact with stakeholders, Saab sent out brief surveys on the company’s sustainability work in 2014 and 2015 to a selected number of stakeholders, including employees, students, investors and customers. Saab also monitors trends in sustainability and participates in a number of collaborations and organisations that provide valuable contributions to the work (see page 29). DIALOGUE THROUGH SOCIAL MEDIA EXPECTATIONS The sustainability issues that most stakeholders To strengthen its image as a defence and security company, Saab engaged with the public on security and public safety through social media. After point to as especially important for Saab’s business employees from Saab shared what security means to them, a contest was are zero tolerance for corruption and compliance launched asking the public for their views in 300 words or less. The prize with export regulations. Many also want to know was something many people dream of and which demonstrates Saab’s more about how Saab works with environmentally high technology: a flight on the Gripen fighter. Of the 2,000 entries, Lars sustainable innovations. Löfdahl from Örebro was selected as the winner. Each stakeholder group also has expectations on Saab based on their particular interests. Customers and business partners expect Saab to offer cost-­ efficient solutions designed based on their needs. They want a relationship that can develop over time Stakeholder group Main forms of engagement and that is based on mutual trust and a shared view of regulatory compliance, international agreements Owners and • Separate meetings with investors on sustainability issues. and business ethics. Employees expect Saab to make ­investors • Annual General Meeting. use of their competence and offer development • Sustainability surveys from investors and analysts. opportunities. Owners and investors expect a • Continuous engagement with investors and analysts. consistent return and that Saab will be transparent in its communications with the capital market. Employees • Continuous engagement through day-to-day operations. Society as a whole expects the business to be run in • Performance reviews. a responsible manner and contribute to security. • Annual employee survey. This includes responsibility for the environment and • Leadership development programme. that Saab’s operations contribute to positive social development locally and globally. Students and • Career days and similar events. potential • Collaborations with universities and institutes of technology. ­employees • External surveys on students’ expectations of future employers. Customers • Customer surveys. • Personal meetings, trade shows and conferences. Society in general, • Participation in defence forums and debates, such as Almedalen including decisionand Folk och Försvar (Security and Defence) in Sälen. makers and • Collaborations with public organisations and authorities, ­interest groups such as the EU and UN. • Volunteering and work with non-profit organisations. Suppliers and • Continuous contact with suppliers and partners. partners 6 – SA AB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Priority issues • Zero tolerance for corruption • Export compliance • Responsible supplier relationships • Information security SA AB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 – 7 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS ZERO TOLERANCE FOR CORRUPTION Saab strives to be a reliable long-term partner that promotes an open and transparent market. Corruption is destructive to society and b ­ usiness, something Saab can never accept. Saab has zero tolerance for corruption and has a solid organisation, ­well-established procedures and tools to prevent risks. Organisation and resources Established organisation to monitor and improve Global collaborations anti-corruption work. Rules and processes Active participation in interRules and processes to prevent national collaborations to prevent corruption and handle gifts corruption in the industry. and hospitality. ZERO TOLERANCE Whistleblower system FOR CORRUPTION Risk analysis External system to anonymously Each deal shall be preceded report violations. by a corruption risk analysis. Marketing consultants Training Special process for hiring marketing All employees at Saab receive ­consultants and other partners in anti-corruption training. Employee the selling process, including groups exposed to greater risk receive company analyses (due diligence), ­in-depth training. training and monitoring requirements. Like many other companies that do business in RISK ANALYSIS many parts of the world, Saab sometimes comes Exporters are often exposed to corruption risks. across attitudes that are inconsistent with its ethical Saab therefore requires that a corruption risk analysis values. For this reason, Saab has built up an extensive is performed prior to each deal. Among the factors organisation, processes and tools for risk management. that affect the risk are where a deal takes place, who the customer is, how the procurement is handled, RULES AND PROCESSES how Saab found out about it, the business model and Saab is guided by its fundamental values, the compathe contract value. If the risks that are identified ny’s Code of Conduct, current laws, industry-wide cannot be minimised and managed satisfactorily, codes of conduct and clearly defined internal proSaab will withdraw from the deal. cesses to prevent corruption risks. The basic rule is simple: Saab has zero tolerance for corruption. STRICT SCRUTINY OF MARKETING CONSULTANTS In 2015, Saab conducted a review of its Code of To gain entry to new markets, multinational compaConduct and launched a separate supplier code of nies often hire marketing consultants and other conduct. Saab also reviewed and updated its internal partners in the selling process. Saab does as well. rules on gifts and entertainment as well as sponsorHiring of third parties in the sales process is someships. times important in order to understand how a market works, but can also result in increased 8 – SA AB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 9,507 exposure to corruption risks. Saab therefore applies option of reporting online or by phone. The system a strict process whereby co-operations with marketis managed by an independent party and guarantees ing consultants and other partners in the selling the employee’s anonymity. Complaints submitted to process must be evaluated and approved by a central the system are handled by a team of representatives function that handles all such relationships. These from Ethics and Compliance, Human Resources, Number of employees who partners also have to undergo special training and Security and Internal Audit. have completed web-based pledge to abide by Saab’s ethical values and guidelines. Contracts contain specific commitments with GLOBAL COLLABORATIONS ­anti-corruption training. regard to business ethics and permit continuous Saab actively participates in international industry monitoring of the partners through reporting associations to develop common anti-corruption requirements and audit rights. The company implerules, share experiences, and evaluate and improve mented a programme in 2015 where Internal Audit their work (see page 29). reviews a number of randomly selected contractual relationships each year to verify compliance with the ORGANISATION process and that the patrner is operating in line with Saab’s corruption prevention efforts are constantly Saab’s values and current contractual terms. Saab’s developing, and a number of functions are involved long-term aim is to reduce the number of marketing in the work. consultants and other partners in the selling process Through the Audit Committee, the Board of and instead increase its own staff in selected markets. Directors is responsible for overseeing Saab’s Code of Conduct and has ultimate responsibility for TRAINING ­monitoring and evaluating business ethics work. In addition to training on the Code of Conduct, all The Ethics and Compliance Board leads and employees receive separate, web-based anti-corrupdraws up guidelines for the work, makes decisions tion training. At year-end 2015, 9,507 employees had on ethical issues and follows up whistleblowing completed the training. Employees in the marketing cases. The board meets at least eight times a year and and sales organisation also receive mandatory largely consists of members of Group Management. in-depth training covering, among other things, The Ethics and Compliance function is respongeneral risk awareness, internal processes and the sible for monitoring, co-ordinating and developing company's tools for managing corruption risks. corruption prevention work and contributing Starting in autumn 2013, a new inventory was expertise in the area. At year-end 2015, the function performed with the aim of broadening the target consisted of two people. group to include employees from other parts of the Market Network Management (MNM) is a organisation, e.g., Project Management, Commerfunction consisting of around ten employees that cial and Procurement. This inventory added another collaborates with the market and product functions 300 employees. This training will continue in 2016. to manage marketing consultants and other third In total, over 1,000 employees have completed the parties. in-depth training on around 90 occasions since June This process includes corruption risk analysis, 2011. due diligence, contracting and training for business Business ethics and risks are a recurring theme partners. MNM also provides training and develops at board and management team meetings, Grouptools for Saab’s anti-corruption work. wide management conferences and meetings at the Saab’s Internal Audit monitors implementation business area level. of the company’s corruption prevention processes. WHISTLEBLOWING SYSTEM Employees who become aware of or suspect non-­ compliance with laws or Saab’s Code of Conduct are expected to report this through the whistleblowing system. In early 2015, Saab launched a new system to complement ordinary line reporting and provide the SA AB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 – 9 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS COMPLIANCE WITH EXPORT RULES For Saab, it is essential to follow the rules on the export of defence products. This is critical in order to maintain trust in the business. One of the fundamental principles of the UN charter is of national sovereignty and the right to respond to acts of aggression. A military defence is the ultimate expression of this. For Sweden, a domestic defence industry is an important component in its defence capabilities, allowing it to be independent and participate in international collaborations in defence technology. Without the ability to sell to and co-­ operate with other countries, Sweden could not maintain its technological expertise and defence capabilities. At the same time, the export of defence materiel carries with it a great responsibility and is therefore governed by strict rules. The largest part of Saab’s exports is from Sweden, where the Swedish as well as for providing advice to the businesses on Agency for Non-Proliferation and Export Controls operational issues. In addition, each business area (ISP) determines on behalf of the government which has its own export control organisation to manage defence products Saab may sell to which countries. the work at an operational level. To encourage collaboration and prioritise needs, Saab also has an WHAT SAAB SELLS TO WHOM export control council with representatives from The export of defence materiel requires a special various parts of the business. permit. Such permits are issued if there are security Saab continuously provides internal training on and defence policy reasons for the export and if it is export controls for employees who come in contact consistent with Swedish foreign policy interests. with controlled products or technologies, e.g., Decisions on export permits are made on a case-­bymarketers, salesmen, buyers, project managers, and case basis where ISP weighs a number of criteria in development and production personnel. Web-based a comprehensive assessment. ISP also takes into introductory training is also available to Saab’s account the type of product involved. employees. For export control officers and other key employees within Saab, an internal conference is SAAB’S INTERNAL WORK held biannually, where expert speakers in various Saab maintains Group-level policies and tools to areas are invited in to share their knowledge. Saab help its businesses follow the export control laws that also works with other industries through various apply to the company’s products and activities. trade organisations in Sweden, the EU and the US Together with a small staff, Saab’s head of export and holds talks on legal issues for university students control is responsible for the company’s overarching in Sweden. policy, directives and governing policy documents LEGAL REVIEW In 2015, a Swedish parliamentary committee presented a proposal to tighten export controls to non-democratic nations. As a company, Saab thinks it is positive that the committee recommended that future decisions should be based on case-to-case evaluations that balance several criteria against each other and where defence and security criteria that favour an export permit continue to carry the heaviest weight. In response to the proposal, Saab noted, however, that if the committee’s proposal were to take effect, it would distort the Swedish defence industry’s competitive position and could lead to • fewer opportunities to participate in international materiel collaborations, which are a key element in current Swedish defence strategy • a reduced ability to maintain and develop high-tech expertise in Sweden • diminished operational capabilities within the armed forces, since Saab’s ability to maintain and develop important systems and platforms would decrease • and lower investment by the company in research and development in Sweden. Saab has also pointed to the need for international harmonisation of export laws, so that they have the greatest impact and ensure competitive neutrality. It is against this backdrop that Saab got involved in the drafting of the UN Arms Trade Treaty to regulate the global arms trade. 10 – SA AB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESPONSIBLE SUPPLIER RELATIONSHIPS For Saab, strong supplier relationships are vital in order to provide customers with world-class products. The suppliers are seen as an extension of the own business and Saab expects them to take ethical, social and environmental responsibility. In many cases, Saab has long-standing relationships with respected suppliers. To clarify the expectations Saab has of its suppliers, the company introduced a separate supplier code of conduct in 2015 based on the UN Global Compact’s ten principles on human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. The code also expresses Saab’s expectation that its suppliers will place similar demands on their own suppliers. SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT In connection with the launch of the supplier code of conduct, Saab amended its contract templates to include a clause on the code of conduct, which is now included in all new contracts and contracts that are negotiated. Saab also began to update its procurement process with an expanded questionnaire for suppliers and a model to classify suppliers based on the risk that they will not live up to the requirements. SAAB’S SUPPLIERS Saab annually buys products and services from over 5,500 suppliers. The large share of the purchases is from Sweden and an overwhelming majority of the suppliers are in Europe. Saab has relatively few first tier suppliers in countries where national laws and internationally accepted principles and norms on human rights, labour, anti-corruption and the environment are not fully accepted. The company therefore sees the biggest risks further down the supply chain. Saab primarily buy components and technologies associated with the company’s systems, and to CONFLICT MINERALS a lesser extent various services. Conflict minerals are minerals that are extracted in conflict zones and sold in order to finance further MONITORING conflict, leading to oppression and violence against With a special supplier code of conduct in place, local populations. Saab will increase the focus on compliance in 2016. Saab’s aim is to eliminate conflict minerals in its To increase competence internally on sustainability products. During the year, Saab continued to and monitoring the supply chain, Saab established a develop routines to provide information on to which group at the end of the year in which procurement extend the company’s products contain these minrepresentatives from Saab’s business areas and a reperals as well as their origin. The new supplier code resentative from Saab’s Corporate Responsibility of conduct contains a special section on conflict function participate. The group serves as a centre of minerals. In addition, Saab has established a conflict excellence for the business areas on these issues. mineral policy and guidelines for control and comIf a supplier does not live up to the requirements pliance with the policy. in the supplier code of conduct, Saab's position, as far as possible, is to encourage improvements by working along with them. Serious violations and an unwillingness to co-operate can, however, affect the DIVERSITY AMONG SUPPLIERS relationship with the supplier. Saab in South Africa promotes diversity among its suppliers by supporting small businesses run by young people, women or other groups that previously faced discrimination. In addition to financial assistance, Saab provides these companies with mentorships, networking opportunities and help with technology and marketing. In 2015, Saab supported ten companies. The goal is to have them stand on their own within three years. By helping small companies to grow and become profitable, Saab contributes to economic growth and creates job opportunities in South Africa. SA AB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 – 11 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS INFORMATION SECURITY As a defence and security company, managing information from the standpoint of the need for availability, accuracy, confidentiality and traceability is a given. Developments in information technology are conBROAD EFFORT stantly creating opportunities for new products, In 2015, Saab introduced a comprehensive prohigher productivity, more efficient processes and gramme to formulate a new Group information and shorter lifecycles. The rapid pace of change is also IT security strategy to meet the security challenges making societies and companies more vulnerable, in of today and tomorrow. The programme contains a turn creating major security challenges. Threats and number of projects to determine which assets are risks in information and IT security are highly commost worth protecting, identify threats and vulneraplex. The effects of an attack can also have significant bilities, evaluate risks, and develop action plans to consequences for critical businesses, critical IT modernise and improve IT security and adapt systems and protection of information. information security. To take advantage of the opportunities that new information technology offers requires that business SECURITY-CONSCIOUS EMPLOYEES and technological development go hand in hand Notwithstanding the technical vulnerabilities, with information and IT security. Information and people are often the weakest link. To ensure that they IT security risks have to be treated in the same way handle information in compliance with current as other business risks. Continuous and systematic laws, all new employees receive extensive security information and IT security work is critical for Saab training. As part of the effort to raise employees’ to maintain its competitiveness, profitability and security awareness, Saab added several new training public trust in a challenging market. programmes during the year. EXPERTS ON INFORMATION SECURITY Saab’s wholly owned technical consulting firm Combitech has information security as one of its areas of expertise. Combitech does everything from creating secure processes and crisis readiness in an organisation to devising security requirements and solutions, reviewing software code and conducting penetration tests. The company has also created a turnkey information security service for customers round the clock, 365 days a year. 12 – SA AB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 XXXXXXXXX REDUCE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Priority issues • Reduce climate impact • Phase out hazardous chemical substances • Environmental sustainable innovations SA AB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 – 13 REDUCE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REDUCE CLIMATE IMPACT Saab is working systematically to reduce its impact on the environment and climate. The objective is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 20 per cent from 2007 to 2020 related to sales. At year-end 2015, the reduction was 17 per cent. 20% To achieve the objective to reduce greenhouse gas REDUCE ENERGY CONSUMPTION IN FACILITIES emissions by 20 per cent by 2020, Saab works continContinuous work is being done to optimise energy uously to reduce energy consumption in its facilities consumption in Saab’s facilities. This includes instaland emissions from travel. (Note, however, that lation of energy-efficient lighting, optimisation of results fluctuate from year to year also depending on heating equipment and the replacement of ventilation equipment with a system that recovers energy. Reduction in electricity annual sales revenue and changes in the mix of fuels suppliers use.) Continuous communication and From 2009 to year-end 2015, electricity consump­consumption at Saab’s employee training are an important part of this tion was reduced by 20 per cent in Sweden. Big envifacilities in Sweden work. ronmental gains have been achieved at the facilities since 2009. in Göteborg and Huskvarna. In Göteborg, energy STRATEGY FOR CLIMATE WORK consumption was reduced by more than half during The largest share of Saab’s total carbon dioxide emisthe year. Contributing factors included co-location, sions comes from business travel. As it becomes upgrades to property systems and a detailed energy more international, Saab must strike a balance strategy that involves employees as well as suppliers between the need to travel and the need to reduce and contractors. In Huskvarna, carbon dioxide emisclimate impacts. Saab does this by trying in various sions will be reduced by an estimated 700 tonnes per ways to travel efficiently. Business travel was reduced year through the transition to district heating based during the year by 6 per cent, mainly in terms of air on waste and biofuel. In Linköping, a brand new, travel, but also by rental car. Use of information ­energy-efficient office building was opened to replace technology to hold meetings electronically has older buildings. Saab's largest heating provider used increased. Saab worked during the year to develop a a favourable mix of fuels during the year, which Energy consumption reduced emissions of carbon dioxide. in Saab's facilities clearer strategy for climate work and will introduce GWh prioritized activities and action plans in coming 200 years. REPORT GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS In 2015, the company purchased a number of Saab has been reporting greenhouse gas emissions electric cars for shorter transports. The meeting since 2006 to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), 150 portal, which was introduced in 2014, was expanded an independent organisation that collects climate to include information on efficient travel as well as on data from companies around the world. In 2015, 100 the advantages of ecodriving. Saab’s web-based travel Saab successfully achieved the highest score of 100, reservation system clearly states that the climate prowhich secured a position on CDP’s Nordic Climate gramme must be followed and recommends carpoolDisclosure Leadership Index (CDLI), proof of the 50 ing. Discussions are held continuously with car rental effectiveness of its climate work. Ratings are based and taxi providers on increasing the use of green cars on how well companies co-ordinate their work, 0 and ensuring that travel is accurately monitored. manage risks and opportunities in the area, and how 11 12 13 14 15 transparently they describe the work. Information Electricity Heat on CDP and Saab’s complete report can be found at www.cdproject.net. Emissions of carbon dioxide from Saab-group 2015 Emissions of greenhouse gases within the Saab-group tonnes CO2 tonnes CO2 / MSEK sales 80,000 4 70,000 60,000 50,000 40,000 2 30,000 Own furnaces, turbines and chemical processess, 3% 20,000 Company owned/controlled Fulfilment of the climate target depends vehicles and aircrafts, 20% 10,000 not only on actual greenhouse gas Purchased electricity, 20% emissions but also on annual sales and 0 0 Purchased heat, steam changes from year to year in the fuel mix 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 and coal, 13% used by the company's main heating and Total Emissions Relative Target for GHG-emissions – Purchased business trips, 36% electricity providers. Note that Saab's 20% decrease between 2007 and 2020 Purchased transport of goods, 6% Relative Emissions greenhouse gas emissions consist almost Rented premises, 1% exclusively of carbon dioxide. 14 – SA AB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 REDUCE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT PHASE OUT HAZARDOUS CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES Based on its environmental policy, objectives, and international regulations, Saab works continuously to minimise risks and its impact on the environment. An important part of the work is to identify and phase out hazardous chemical substances with unacceptable risks and such that could be subject to regulations by authorities and customers. Saab’s business areas submit annual plans on phasing LAND REMEDIATION out hazardous substances. These plans are updated Saab works actively to identify and map contamiWaste and monitored by the Group Environmental Council nated land and water areas. In 2015, two large tonne and special workgroups. The strategic plans serve as status reports were produced and remediation 5,000 the basis of Saab’s phase-out projects and are continuwork was done in Eskilstuna, Karlskoga, Motala ously tracked. Saab’s search for alternative materials and Östersund. and processes will continue for many years. Several 4,000 projects are underway to replace paints that contain WORK ON SEVERAL FRONTS chromates as well as cadmium and lead in specific Saab works with monitoring, needs analysis, trainproducts. ing and communication together with suppliers and 3,000 During the year, Saab launched a new surface other companies in the industry to reduce the use treatment method, which replaced a 33 cubic meter of hazardous substances and the risks in their hand­ surface treatment bath containing hexavalent chroling. The company also participates actively in 2,000 mium compounds with a more environmentally several national and international groups to friendly alternative. The process is expected to be develope the work within the area of hazardous subfully in operation in 2016. In addition, Saab opened stances and the environment. During the year, Saab 1,000 a new cleaning facility to phase out trichloroethalso became a member of the International Aerospace ylene. Environment Group (IAEG) to increase the capabiliIt is important to note, however, that certain hazties in several important environmental areas. 0 ardous chemical substances still have to be used to With respect to chemical products used in mainHazardous Non-hazardous meet security and technical performance requiretenance and which contain hazardous substances, Waste Waste ments in the aviation and defence fields. Saab has initiated a dialogue with customers and Saab compiles annual data on the amount of other stakeholders to find less hazardous alternaOther (pre-treated) Landfill waste generated in its business. The compiled figures tives. New tools have been implemented during the Incineration are based on waste volumes from Saab’s main locations. year to monitor chemical substances in materials Recovery incl. energy and products. Composting Recycling COMMON OBJECTIVES Through Saab’s environmental work, all employees can feel secure that the company is meeting the demands of customers, regulations and other stakeholders. They can also feel proud that Saab contributes to a more sustainable society through efforts and innovations in various areas that reduce our environmental impact. Based on its environmental policy and the UN’s global sustainable development goals, Saab works continuously to minimise risks and its impact on the environment. We do so through continuous improvements in our environmental performance, in everything from how we lead and manage our businesses to operational decisions. During the year, Saab formed five internal collaboration groups in the areas of climate change, chemical handling, product-related environmental issues, environmental management and contaminated areas. The aim is to make our environmental work more efficient through increased co-operation between the business areas, so that it is easier to divide up the work and take advantage of synergies and knowledge transfers. Each year, Saab holds internal environment days, where the focus is on sharing experiences through In 2015, Maria Sahlin took over as the new Head of Environment at Saab. presentations and workshops. Saab developed a new, shorter environmental training in 2015 that serves as a refresher course for managers with delegated environmental responsibility and as shorter training for managers without delegation. A review was also done of the existing web-based environmental training for all employees. SA AB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 – 15 REDUCE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABLE INNOVATIONS An important part of Saab’s work to reduce its environmental impact is research and development collaborations aimed at creating sustainable solutions. Through new, resource-efficient technology, Saab can help to reduce environmental impacts, which is necessary in order to compete in a global market in the future. INNOVATIVE AIRCRAFT WING Saab is one of the main suppliers to Clean Sky, a Joint Technology Initiative financed equally by the EU and the industry to reduce carbon dioxide, hydrocarbons and nitrogen oxide emissions as well as noise from aircraft. In collaboration with its partners, Saab has designed an aircraft wing that uses innovative technology to reduce wind resistance, thereby cutting fuel consumption. The wing will be test-flown on an Airbus aircraft in the latter part of 2017. HULL CLEANING Saab has developed a new remotely operated underwater vehicle being used by the Danish company C-leanship to clean the hulls of some of the world’s largest ships without damaging their paint. Removing organic material that attaches to the hull reduces the vessel’s environmental impact by dramatically lowering fuel consumption, but also by reducing the spread of microorganisms between various bodies of water. Moreover, it reduces the need to drydock vessels to repaint them, which cuts the shipping company’s costs and the use of environmentally harmful processes. ENERGY-EFFICIENT TRAVEL IN MEGACITIES Saab’s wholly owned technical consulting firm Combitech is participating in an innovative project to study how people can travel more energy-­efficiently in ­megacities and thereby reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The project, managed by KTH Royal Institute of Technology, will result in an environmentally friendly bus line in the city of Curitiba, Brazil. Combitech is one of the financiers of the project together with Volvo Buses, Saab and VINNOVA, Sweden’s innovation agency. Various stakeholders in Curitiba are involved as well. Combitech’s role is to collect and analyse the data. By analysing the information, it can be determined whether it makes more sense to power the buses electrically or by diesel. 16 – SA AB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 INTELLIGENT AIR TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT More efficient traffic management and vehicle usage can help to reduce carbon dioxide emissions as well as runway de-icing fluids and other chemicals at an airport. Saab is contributing a number of services and products that improve safety, provide a better overview and status updates, and simplify planning for all types of businesses that operate at an airport. SESAR AIR TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT FOR BETTER ENVIRONMENT The EU has initiated a project to develop and improve air traffic management systems in Europe in order to reduce climate change. Saab’s contributions to the project, which is called Single European Sky ATM Research (SESAR), are in the areas of remote control towers, traffic flow management, integrated tower solutions and faster turnaround times. BIOFUEL TESTED ON GRIPEN Military organisations in Sweden and the US are evaluating biofuels for various military aviation applications. Saab is participating by providing Gripen as a test platform. Qualification of the various aircraft components – the engine, auxiliary power and materials used in the fuel system – will be completed in 2016. Test flights are planned using Gripen in 2017. GREEN SHIPPING ROUTES The Green Routes concept assists ship captains in making the right decisions at the right time. With the right information, a captain can reduce speed and still reach port on time, avoid costly anchoring and conserve fuel. Routes are designed not only to optimise speed, but also factor in other parameters, such as weather conditions and sensitive seabird areas. When a number of factors have been weighed in, a Green Route is set according to a global standard (IEC 61174 ed4). Green Routes is an international system where Saab is contributing its existing port and sea traffic management systems. The concept can also be used for vessel safety as an anti-collision tool. SA AB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 – 17 XXXXXXXX EMPLOYER OF CHOICE Priority issues • Develop leaders and employees • Employee engagement • Performance-driven culture • Gender equality and diversity • Health and safety EMPLOYER OF CHOICE DEVELOP LEADERS AND EMPLOYEES Attracting, retaining and developing employees is critical to Saab’s business strategy. For employees to reach their potential requires skilled and committed leaders. After having completed a development programme for all of Saab’s leaders, it was time in 2015 for a special initiative for other employees called “Employee Boost”. The aim is to strengthen the performance-driven culture and give employees a better understanding of where Saab is headed and what is expected to achieve the company’s goals. Another aim is to encourage every employee to seize the opportunity to impact the future, their own and the company’s. The programme covers four areas: having a better business understanding, being more performance-driven, understanding the importance of internationalisation and diversity, and being a motivated and engaged employee. BROAD OFFERING OF DEVELOPMENT ­OPPORTUNITIES Saab offers many forms of skills and leadership development, internally and externally. Some training is mandatory for all employees and is offered flexibly and cost efficiently through e-learning. All the courses are available through Saab’s competence PROGRAMME FOR RECENT GRADUATES portal. A large part of human resource development Saab Graduate Leadership Programme is a customplays out on a daily basis and in co-operation with ised global trainee programme for recent graduates colleagues. Saab also endorses learning through netand young professionals with the potential and works and mentorships. Opportunities are available desire to become future leaders within Saab. to try out different jobs within the Group, nationally Through the programme participants gain experience and internationally. working in different parts of the Group, at home and abroad. They also receive leadership training, IDENTIFY TALENTS personal development and the opportunity to build Saab has an established process to identify and a network of contacts within the Group. develop top talents – Talent Management Review. It includes job rotation within the Group, internal training and various leadership development programmes. 157 Saab’s fundamental values Number of master’s students Expertise – We combine a strong tradition of at Saab in Sweden in 2015. knowledge with continuous learning. 421 Trust – We are honest and reliable citizens of the world and we keep our promises. Number of summer jobs at Drive – We have a passion for new ideas, we are Saab in Sweden in 2015. open to change and take pride in being responsive and flexible. SA AB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 – 19 EMPLOYER OF CHOICE EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Employees who feel proud of and committed to their work and the company perform better and are good ambassadors for Saab as an employer. 82% In the annual employee survey, no less than 82 per MEANINGFUL CONTRIBUTION cent of respondents said that they are very satisfied The culture at Saab and pride to be part of the comworking at Saab – a high number compared to many pany are strengthened through opportunities to do other companies. Their sense of pride in working at something meaningful outside of work. In co-operaShare of Saab’s Saab is also high. Among the things they are most tion with Mattecentrum, employees volunteer to employees who are proud of is Saab’s high technology and breadth of help students with their math homework in their very satisfied ­working expertise, but also a corporate culture that offers a free time. at Saab. work-life balance. In 2015, Saab started a special Employees at Saab’s facility in Nanyuki, in central development programme to increase employee Kenya, support a local orphanage. During the year, engagement (see page 19). Saab also gave employees in Sweden the chance to AMBASSADORS FOR SAAB Proud employees are also the best ambassadors for donate to the orphanage through a payroll deduction. The aim is to create even more opportunities for employees to get involved in supporting educa#8 tion for children and young people, which also gives Saab’s ranking in Saab as an employer. Several Saab employees speak about the company and what they do to students, them valuable experience, a sense of pride and an Universum’s survey classes and teachers. The hope is to attract the right opportunity to network. of the most popular talents and, among younger age groups, to foster an For more on Saab’s social engagement, employers among interest in technology. see pages 27−28. Swedish engineering Saab’s employees represent the company and students. brand in their daily work. By living up to Saab’s values, HR policy and Code of Conduct, all employees help Saab to build trust in its business. During the year, the code of conduct and HR policy were both updated. ATTRACT TALENTS Forecasts point to a future shortage of qualified technical personnel and engineers. As a high-tech company, it is therefore in Saab’s interest to foster an interest in technology among young people, and in higher age groups to showcase Saab as an employer in order to attract the right talents. Important gateways for students are summer jobs and thesis work. In Sweden, Saab’s goal is to accept at least 400 summer workers and 150 m ­ aster’s students each year. At the same time that they gain valuable experience, they benefit the ­company by helping to drive development forward. 20 – SA AB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 EMPLOYER OF CHOICE PERFORMANCE-DRIVEN ­CULTURE A performance-driven culture focused on what is achieved and how it is done is critical to succeed in global competition. It also contributes to motivation and the opportunity for every employee to achieve their potential. 87% Every employee has an Individual Performance Management Plan. Together with their manager, they identify individual goals, which are also tied to Saab’s business goals. It is crucial that every Share of Saab’s employees employee understands how their work contributes who have had discussions to the company’s overarching goals and that perabout their goals, development sonal responsibility also comes with the opportunity and performance. Saab’s aim for personal development. Performance reviews is to raise this figure as close to cover not only whether the employee achieved their 100 per cent as possible. The goals, but also how, e.g., whether it was done in accordance with Saab’s values. fact that some employees are A new online platform which stores individual new or have recently returned development plans, Saab Performance Web, was tested after an absence when they in 2015. In addition to simplifying follow-ups, it will respond to the survey will make it easier to identify talents and increase internal affect the results, however. mobility. The platform will be launched on a broad basis in 2016. HEALTH AND SAFETY Saab’s vision that it is a human right to feel safe naturally applies to its own employees as well. By working actively with occupational health issues, Saab reduces the risk of accidents, ­illnesses and workplace injuries in the short and long term. Saab intensified its work with occupational health DIALOGUE ON HEALTH and safety during the year. The goal is to have a Saab encourages its employees to stay active and Group-wide global occupational health and safety healthy, including by supporting local sports clubs process in place by 2020 and to increase internal and utilising the wellness services offered by local awareness of these issues. occupational health providers. Other health-related activities were implemented during the year at the REPORTING AND MONITORING business area level. This was reflected in the year’s In 2015, Saab created a better system to report workplace injuries and incidents, which will be implemented in 2016. Incident reporting is especially employee survey, where the share of employees who felt that Saab encourages health and well-being increased from 69 per cent to 71 per cent. 76% important, since it identifies where the risks are and As part of Employee Boost (see page 19), Saab’s Share of employees who provides an opportunity to prevent them at an early managers will be encouraged in 2016 to discuss feel that Saab has a positive stage. Furthermore, Saab Management Review was health issues with their employees based on newly attitude toward the need for updated with a more extensive section on health and produced material. The aim is to start discussions a work-life balance. safety. This will make it easier to track occupational and activities that can help Saab meet its goal of being health and safety work at various levels of the a healthy workplace. Maximising performance company. In 2016, managers and HR will receive requires a work-like balance. The year’s employee training in how Saab identifies and assesses occupasurvey showed that 76 per cent of employees feel tional health and safety risks. Saab will also develop that Saab has a positive attitude toward the need for a more structured approach to assessing such risks a balance between work and a personal life. in different countries. Absenteeism, % Total Women Men Sweden 2.6 4.2 2.1 SA AB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 – 21 EMPLOYER OF CHOICE GENDER EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY There is strength in diversity. Mixing people, ideas, experiences and cultures creates a dynamic and more innovative company with higher profitability. A strategic goal for Saab has been to increase the share of female managers to at least 30 per cent by year-and 2015. At the end of 2015, Saab had 27.2 per cent female managers in Sweden, so significant progress has been made since 2007, when it was 13 per cent. The expectation is that 30 per cent will be reached in 2016. At the end of the year, Saab set new strategic goals to further increase the share of female managers in Sweden and globally. This is complemented by a goal to increase the total share of female employees at Saab. In Sweden, the goal is to reach at least 35 per cent female managers and at least 30 per cent female Diversity is an important part of Saab’s global employees by 2025. Globally, the goal is to reach recruitment process and is also included in its at least 30 per cent female managers and at least leadership training. 25 per cent female employees by the same year. For Saab, it is vital that all employees understand the importance of diversity in the workplace and appreciate each other’s unique contributions to the company. Saab is helping them in this respect through an initiative called Employee Boost (see page 19), which is led by managers at every level of the entire company. 27.2% 23% 3/9 BALANCE BETWEEN MEN AND WOMEN Share of female Share of female Share of women on Employees in the defence and security industry are managers in Sweden. employees in Sweden. Board of Directors. overwhelmingly men, and Saab is no exception. To reduce this gender imbalance, Saab is working on a number of initiatives to encourage women to apply for engineering educations and then at Saab. In Sweden, one example is “Introduce a Girl to Engineering Day” (IGEDay), where Saab and other com23.5% 22.4% 4/12 Share of female Share of female Share of women in panies opened their doors in 2015 to girls between managers globally. ­employees globally. Group Management. the ages of 12 and 19 to inspire them to study research, technology, engineering and mathematics. Just as important is to attract established talents to Saab, including female engineers. INCLUSIVENESS IN SOUTH AFRICA Saab in South Africa has started several projects to include people who have previously been locked out of the job market due to apartheid. Among other things, the company has introduced a number of development programmes to enable young people to break into the job market. For example, Saab has hired young people with disabilities, who receive an education and mentoring in order to fully contribute to the business. The company also provides training for a number of unemployed young people each year in the so-called ICP standard, a sought-after skill in South African industry. The project is in line with the South African government’s action plan to address social and economic imbalances dating back to the country’s past, Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment (B-BBEE). The programme does not discriminate against white South Africans and embraces diversity and inclusiveness. Saab is making great progress and has reached level 4 B-BBEE status. According to data from the International Labour Organisation (ILO), South Africa had an unemployment rate of just over 25 per cent and a youth unemployment rate of just over 52 per cent in 2015. By helping to reduce these numbers, Saab contributes to economic growth in South Africa and for the company. 22 – SA AB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 CONTRIBUTE TO SOCIETY Priority issues • Innovation and spreading knowledge • Increased security and defence capabilities • Social engagement with a focus on promoting education and an interest in technology CONTRIBUTE TO SOCIETY INNOVATION AND SPREADING ­K NOWLEDGE With its high-tech operations, Saab plays an important role in driving ­technological development in society. Saab’s businesses and employees in a large number of locations create jobs and opportunities to collaborate and spread knowledge. Saab invests a large share of its revenue in research submarines. In 2015, Saab also continued to invest and development (R&D). Investing in innovation is in its collaboration with Boeing to design a trainer necessary for us to stay competitive and on the forejet for the US Air Force’s T-X program. front of technology. Among the major R&D projects The total value of selfand customer-financed in recent years that Saab has invested in are the furR&D amounted to SEK 6,8 billion in 2015, correther development of Gripen, a new-generation airsponding to 25 per cent of sales. borne surveillance system and a new generation of SPINOFFS Some of Saab’s development projects result in product ideas that fall outside the core business. For more than a decade, these ideas have been consolidated in Saab Ventures, which works together with outside investors to further develop the ideas and find a natural home for the business. One successful example is C-leanship, a remotely operated underwater vehicle equipped with high-pressure water jets to clean ship hulls, which reduces fuel costs for shipping companies while at the same time helping to keep the world’s oceans clean. Another example is ReVibe Energy, which is based on technology developed by Saab to power wireless sensors. Saab’s expertise in 3D mapping has also led to spinoffs. To date, this area has produced two companies: C3 Technologies and Vricon, with more on the way. INDUSTRIAL COLLABORATIONS AND TECHNOLOGY TRANSFERS When Saab does business with other countries, the customer often demands some form of industrial co-operation, many times involving technology transfers. This is common with large defence contracts. For Saab, there are benefits to spreading knowledge through such transfers. People from different companies get the opportunity to meet, which encourages new ideas that could benefit everyone involved. Many times this generates new businesses that otherwise would not have arisen. One example from 2015 is the start of an industrial collaboration tied to the Gripen contract in Brazil. An initial group of 50 Brazilian engineers came to Sweden to work at Saab for a year. The collaboration will continue for several years and eventually around 350 Brazilian engineers will make it to Sweden. In addition to the demands from customers for industrial collaborations in connection with major orders, Saab naturally participates in many other forms of industrial collaboration, including close development alliances with customers and suppliers. These co-operations help all the parties involved and contribute to innovation. Several of Saab’s employees, for example, are working closely with Boeing in USA to develop a trainer aircraft. 24 – SA AB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 RESEARCH AND INNOVATION CENTRE Saab is also building relationships through a global innovation pro­gramme, which is mainly designed for countries where Saab wants to establish a long-term presence. Saab brings the way the company works with R&D in Sweden to new markets by buil­ding relationships with researchers, companies and governments. One example is the Swedish Brazilian Innovation & Research Center (CISB), which identifies, develops and supports research and development in advanced technology, specifically in the areas of the environment, defence, and transport. The organisation has 17 members and over 100 partners. Many potential customers want to share the technologies and capabilities that Saab can offer, at the same time that Saab gets an opportunity to participate early on in customer projects. INNOVATION AWARD FOR PIONEERING TECHNOLOGY Together with Raytheon, Saab received the Aviation Week Laureate for Innovation for the introduction of the semiconductor material gallium nitride (GaN) in military radar and electronic warfare systems. GaN is noted for its resistance to overheating and semi-conductive properties. Saab has used the material in antennas in the next-generation Giraffe 4A radar system. This has resulted in an extended range, higher output and increased reliability. UNIVERSITY COLLABORATIONS An innovation-driven company like Saab has to work with universities and the academic community. The schools that Saab primarily works with are Linköping University, the Royal Institute of Technology and Chalmers University of Technology in Göteborg. Structured collaborations between the company and schools cover everything from education to research. They also provide a way to identify skilled students, while giving employees an opportunity for professional development. Saab has a number of PhD candidates as well as several adjunct professors. Saab CEO Håkan Buskhe is shown here with Chalmers CEO Karin Markides. SA AB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 – 25 CONTRIBUTE TO SOCIETY INCREASED SECURITY AND DEFENCE CAPABILITIES Society is faced with many different types of threats. Some can be military, while in other cases they involve terrorism, accidents or natural disasters. Saab contributes through products, services and solutions that make society and people feel safe. Saab develops and improves innovative and cost-­ At the same time, there is a realisation throughout efficient high-tech systems that make it possible for the business that some of the same systems and more people to feel safe and for nations to protect solutions that contribute to greater security are also their populations. A competitive defence industry is used in conflicts, which entails a great responsibility an important aspect of defence and security policy as evidenced by the extensive controls and regulaand contributes to a country’s defence capabilities. tions (see page 10). THE ILLUSTRATION BELOW SHOWS A SELECTION OF SAAB’S BROAD RANGE OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES FOR CIVILIAN AND MILITARY USE 5 6 1 2 3 4 7 9 8 11 12 10 16 14 17 13 19 20 15 18 1. Technical consultancy. 9. Subcontractor to manufacturers of 16. Ground-based surveillance radar, 2. Research collaborations with universities. ­commercial aircraft. e.g. Giraffe. 3. Dispatch system for security companies. 10. Runway lighting for airports. 17. Field hangars. 4. Protection against Chemical (C), 11. Air traffic control towers, e.g. 18. Military training systems. Biological (B), Radioactive (R) or Remote Tower. 19. Anti-aircraft missile systems, e.g. RBS 70. Nuclear (N) weapons (CBRN). 12. Airborne surveillance system. 20. Camouflage equipment, e.g. Special 5. The Gripen fighter aircraft system. 13. Naval vessels, e.g. Visby class corvette. ­Operations Tactical Suits (SOTACS). 6. The Erieye airborne radar system. 14. Remotely operated underwater vehicles, 7. Systems for weather stations. e.g. Double Eagle for mine disposal. 8. Security systems for prisons. 15. Development of next generation submarine, A26. 26 – SA AB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 CONTRIBUTE TO SOCIETY SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT Engagement in the local community increases familiarity with and trust in Saab’s operations and fits with the company’s values. Social contributions are mainly provided with the help of the company’s employees and technologies, with a special emphasis on promoting education and an interest in technology. Saab is dependent on a well-functioning society to survive. This is why Saab wants to stay socially involved in the markets where the company does business. Besides increasing the local community’s trust in the company, social engagement leads to valuable experience and networking opportunities for the employees who get involved. For more examples, visits www.saabgroup.com ENCOURAGE GIRLS TO STUDY ENGINEERING IGE stands for Introduce a Girl to Engineering. The aim is to increase interest in technology and engineering among young girls. On IGE day, which in 2015 was held on March 26, girls between the ages of 12 and 19 have the opportunity to visit companies, organisations and colleges to see what it is like to work as engineers. Saab welcomed ­secondary-school girls to several of its locations in Sweden and was also the main sponsor of the event. Saab in South Africa had a similar initiative. BOARDING SCHOOL FOR ORPHANS Saab supports an orphanage, Likii Special Unit, in Nanyuki, in central Kenya, where it has operations. Likii Special Unit takes care of around 120 orphans and disabled children who have been abandoned by their biological parents. Saab employees in Nanyuki have also gotten involved supporting the orphanage. During the year, Saab gave employees in Sweden the chance to donate as well through a payroll deduction. HOMEWORK HELP Children on the Move is a drop-in centre for at-risk children in South Africa, where they can come after school for a snack and homework help. The centre also works to prevent HIV and spread awareness about the disease. Saab’s employees in South A ­ frica served as volunteers at the centre during the year and the company provided financial support. Employees in Sweden and South Africa also a­ rranged their own collections of money and supplies for the centre. SA AB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 – 27 SAABS TEKNISKA GYMNASIUM Saabs Tekniska Gymnasium in Arboga is a national, three-year engineering programme run collaboratively by Saab’s local units and Vasagymnasiet. Saab’s employees serve as teachers and technical advisors. Saab is also responsible for study visits, language study abroad, traineeships and summer jobs. MATH TUTORS Employees at Saab in Sweden serve as math volunteers in their free time, helping children and young adults with their homework. In some locations volunteering is arranged through the organisation Mattecentrum and in others through direct contact with a local school. SOLAR LAMPS TO HELP DO HOMEWORK Saab has donated solar lamps to students at a school in Laikipia district, in central Kenya, to help them do their homework and raise their grades. The school has 800 students, mainly from neighbouring Massai tribes. TECHNOLOGICAL SOLUTIONS TO FIGHT POACHING As part of a pilot project to prevent rhino poaching in a preserve in Kenya, Saab employees developed the first stage of a security solution. Saab is participating together with Linköping University, Stimson center and other companies. Since poaching is an important source of financing for transnational criminal syndicates and terrorist organisations, stopping it can help make the world safer. VISIT A SUBMARINE Saab supports the Naval Museum’s submarine hall in Karlskrona, Sweden, where visitors can go aboard the HMS Neptun, an intact Swedish submarine from the Cold War. In addition to showcasing Saab’s heritage in Swedish industrial history, the collaboration with the museum helps to stimulate an interest in technology and innovation. 28 – SA AB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE OF SUSTAINABILITY WORK The Board of Directors adopts the Group’s Code of Conduct and Group Management establishes goals and indicators for the sustainability work. In 2015, Saab established a ­separate Corporate Responsibility Council, which proposes priorities to Group Management. The Council is comprised of representatives from Saab’s Group Management and led by the Executive Vice President. The Corporate Responsibility function develops the overarching sustainability strategy and coordinates the work within the Group. ZERO TOLERANCE FOR CORRUPTION EMPLOYER OF CHOICE The Ethics and Compliance Board leads and draws Saab’s Head of Group Human Resources has overarup guidelines for the work, makes decisions on busiching responsibility for HR work within the Group. ness ethics issues and follows up whistleblowing Development of the Group’s HR work is done in cases. The board meets at least eight times a year and close collaboration with the HR functions within is led by Saab’s General Counsel, who reports the each business area and is led by the HR staff. work to the Board of Directors’ Audit Committee. The Ethics and Compliance function and Market CONTRIBUTE TO SOCIETY Network Management also play important roles Saab’s social contributions are guided by its vision with respect to business ethics (see page 9). and business idea. According to the sustainability strategy, activities to promote social development REDUCE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT are focused on encouraging an interest in technolWithin the business areas environmental work is led ogy and education mainly with the help of Saab’s by the head of each business area, who bears ultiemployees and technology. mate responsibility. The goals set at the Group level are broken down for each business area and subsidiary. The Group Environmental Council co-ordinates and monitors Saab’s environmental work. POLICIES Saab’s sustainability work is governed by established policies and similar documents, such as the Code of Conduct, HR policy, environmental policy, occupational health and safety policy, procurement policy, diversity policy, business travel policy and security policy. The Code of Conduct contains sections on business ethics, information security, social responsibility, the workplace, the environment etc. The Code is available in Swedish and English. During the year Saab also established a Supplier Code of Conduct based on the UN Global Compact’s ten principles and the International Labour Organization’s core conventions. Saab does not have a separate policy for human rights, since it is covered in its other policies. All Group-wide policies are available to all employees on Saab’s intranet. Saab’s global enterprise systems and central processes and guidelines are also available on the intranet. Saab is certified according to the ISO 14001 environmental management system. ALLIANCES AND MEMBERSHIPS Saab has participated since 2011 in the UN Global Compact and has pledged to follow its ten principles on human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. As guidance for its sustainability work, Saab follows the OECD’s guidelines on multinational enterprises. In addition, Saab has chosen to participate in a number of sustainability initiatives and organisations. Examples include: • Member of the business ethics committee of the Aerospace and Defence Industries Association of Europe (ASD). • Member of the steering committee of the International Forum on Business Ethical Conduct (IFBEC). • Environmental collaborations through the Swedish Security and Defence Industry Association (SOFF). • Environmental collaborations within Europe through the Aerospace and Defence Industries ­Association in Europe (ASD) and globally through International Aerospace Environmental Group (IAEG). • Global Compact Network Nordic Countries. SA AB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 – 29 GRI INDEX Saab has chosen to report its sustainability work in 2015 according to the Global Reporting initiative’s (GRI) G4 core level guidelines. This means that at least one indicator has been identified for each material aspect. The report comprises all of the Group’s operations for the financial year 2015, unless indicated otherwise. This is Saab’s second sustainability report. The report is STANDARD DISCLOSURES STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Governance and indicators Page Global Compact G4-1 Statement from the CEO 2 ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of organisation 1 G4-4 Primary brands, products and services 1 G4-5 Location of the organisation’s headquarters 32 G4-6 Number of countries where the organisation operate Inside back cover G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Saab Annual Report 2015, page 32 G4-8 Markets served Saab Annual Report 2015, Inside front cover G4-9 Scale of the organisation 1 G4-10 Workforce 22, Inside back cover G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective In Sweden 100%, no information available on Principle 3 ­bargaining agreements rest of the world G4-12 The organisation’s supply chain 11 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period Saab Annual Report 2015, page 1 G4-14 Precautionary approach 29 G4-15 External charters, principles, or other initiatives 2, 10, 14, 16 17, 22, 24, 25, 29, 30 G4-16 Memberships of associations and national or 29 international advocacy organisations IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 Entities included in the organisation’s consolidated ­financial Saab Annual Report 2015, page 35. The share of female statements or equivalent documents managers and employees in Sweden is reported excluding Kockums. Other deviations where data are available for only part of the operations are updated in the sustainability report G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the aspect bound4, 6 aries and how the organisation has implemented the reporting principles for defining report content G4-19 Material aspects identified in the process for defining report 4 content G4-20 Aspect boundaries within the organisation All the material aspects Saab has identified have an internal impact G4-21 Aspect boundaries outside the organisation All the material aspects Saab has identified have an external impact G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information provided in ­previous Non-applicable reports G4-23 S ignificant changes from previous reporting periods in Non-applicable the scope and aspect boundaries STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 Stakeholder groups 6 G4-25 Identification and selection of stakeholders 6 G4-26 The organisation’s approach to stakeholder engagement 6 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through 6 stakeholder engagement REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period 30 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 30 G4-30 Reporting cycle 30 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 32 G4-32 GRI Content Index 30–32 G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking 30 external assurance for the report GOVERNANCE G4-34 Governance structure of the organisation 29 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Code of Conduct 29 Principle 10 30 – SA AB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 issued in connection with Saab’s annual report and has not been ­independently audited. For each indicator and DMA (Disclosure on Management Approach), page references are provided to this report and Saab’s annual report. The table also describes how Saab’s work supports the UN Global compact’s ten principles. SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Material aspects Governance and indicators Page Global Compact ECONOMIC IMPACT Economic Performance DMA Economic performance 3, Saab Annual Report 2015, page 30 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 3 Indirect Economic Impacts DMA Indirect economic impacts 24 G4-EC8 S  ignificant indirect economic impacts, including the 24–25 extent of impacts ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Energy DMA Energy 14, 29 Principles 8, 9 G4-EN3 Direct and indirect energy consumption by primary energy 14 Principles 8, 9 source G4-EN5 Energy intensity 14 Principle 8 G4-EN6 Reduction in energy consumption 14 Principles 7, 8 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 16–17 Principles 7, 8 Emissions DMA Emissions 14, 29 Principles 7, 8 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 14 Principle 8 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 14 Principles 8, 9 (Scope 2) G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) 14 Principle 8 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 14 Principles 7, 8, 9 G4-EN19 Reduction in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 14, 16–17 Principles 7, 8 Effluents and waste DMA Effluents and waste 15 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 15, Weights in some cases are estimated because non-­ Principles 7, 8 hazardous waste is not always weighed when collected. Estimates in these cases are based on emptied volumes Products and Services DMA Products and services 14–17, 29 Principles 7, 8 G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of 14–17 Principle 8 products and services Compliance DMA Compliance 14–17, 29 Principle 8 G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of Saab has not had any significant fines or other sanctions Principles 7, 8 non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental due to non-compliance with environmental laws laws and regulations Supplier Environmental DMA Supplier environmental assessment 11 Principle 8 Assessment G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using 11, The questionnaire sent to potential suppliers includes Principle 8 ­environmental criteria questions about environmental criteria SOCIAL IMPACT – LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Occupational Health DMA Occupational health and safety and Safety G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost 21, Saab reported absenteeism only for Sweden in 2015 days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender Training and Education DMA Training and education 19–21, 29 G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, 19, Saab did not report number of hours, since the ­company and by employee category did not feel it is a good measure of quality G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance 21 Principle 6 and career development reviews, by gender and by employee ­category Diversity and gender equality DMA Diversity and gender equality 22, 29 Principle 6 G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of 22 Principle 6 employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Supplier Assessment of DMA Supplier assessment for labour practices 11 Principle 4 Labour Practices G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using 11, The questionnaire sent to potential suppliers includes Principle 4 labour practices criteria questions about labour practices SA AB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 – 31 SOCIAL IMPACT – Governance and indicators Page Global Compact HUMAN RIGHTS Supplier Human Rights DMA Supplier human rights assessment 11, 29 Principle 2 Assessment G4-HR10 Percentage of significant suppliers that were screened 11, The questionnaire sent to potential suppliers includes Principle 2 using human rights criteria questions related to human rights SOCIAL IMPACT – SOCIETY Anti-corruption DMA Anti-corruption 8–9, 29 G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for 8–9 Principle 10 risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies 8–9 Principle 10 and procedures Supplier Assessment for DMA Supplier assessment for impacts on society 11 Impacts on Society G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using 11, The questionnaire sent to potential suppliers includes Principle 10 ­criteria for impacts on society questions about impacts on society SOCIAL IMPACT – ­PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Marketing Communications DMA Marketing communications 9–11 G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products 10, 26 Customer Privacy DMA Customer privacy 12 G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding 12, For strategic reasons Saab does not report data breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data CONTACT INFORMATION Evalena Persson Headquarters Director Corporate Responsibility Coordination Saab AB E-mail: evalena.persson@saabgroup.com P.O. Box 12062 SE-102 22 Stockholm, Sweden Lennart Sindahl Visiting address: Gustavslundsvägen 42, Bromma Deputy CEO and Chairman CR Council Telephone: +46 8 463 00 00 E-mail: lennart.sindahl@saabgroup.com Linköping Saab AB P.O. Box 14085 SE-581 88 Linköping Visiting address: Bröderna Ugglas gata, Linköping Telephone: +46 13 18 00 00 Corp. id no. 556036-0793 www.saabgroup.com 32 – SA AB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Luleå SAAB IN THE WORLD Krokom Östersund Number of employees Number of employees 31 Dec, Number of employees 31 Dec, by location 2015 by country 2015 Linköping, Sweden 5,246 Sweden 12,036 Göteborg, Sweden 1,266 South Africa 629 Järfälla, Sweden 1,154 USA 540 Karlskoga, Sweden 785 Australia 308 Gauteng/Centurion/­ UK 211 Pretoria/Johannesburg/ Netherlands 143 Bedfordview, South Africa 567 Czech Republic 129 Karlskrona, Sweden 542 Germany 112 Arboga, Sweden 516 Norway 84 Västerås East Syracuse, USA 396 Järfälla Denmark 71 Arboga Sundbyberg Malmö, Sweden 375 Haninge Switzerland 60 Växjö, Sweden 322 Karlskoga Alvik Canada 58 Jönköping, Sweden 301 Nyköping Finland 57 Huskvarna, Sweden 284 Kenya 44 Linköping Adelaide, Australia 222 Trollhättan Other 203 Östersund, Sweden 191 Total 14,685 Gamleby Fareham, UK 162 Göteborg Jönköping Huskvarna Trollhättan, Sweden 135 Gamleby, Sweden 113 Växjö Slavkov, Czech Republic 110 Kista, Sweden 95 Stockholm, Sweden 93 Karlskrona Apeldoorn, Netherlands 88 Uttenreuth, Germany 74 Malmö Sundbyberg, Sweden 72 Sönderborg, Denmark 71 Nyköping, Sweden 71 Western Cape/Cape Town/Hermanus/Bredasdorp, South Africa 63 Thun, Switzerland 60 Rockingham, Australia 50 Halden, Norway 49 Lillington, USA 47 Haninge, Sweden 47 Krokom, Sweden 45 Luleå, Sweden 43 Karlstad, Sweden 41 Other 989 Total 14,685 Production Hallvarsson & Halvarsson in co-operation with Saab. Photo: Sandra Birgersdotter, David Blome, Micro Knecht, Saab’s Picture Bank and other. Print: Larsson Offset 2016.
