UNITED NATION GLOBAL COMPACT 2016 Energy drives everything. More than a century ago, the vision of our predecessors laid the groundwork for turning us into key players in the present Mauritian economy. Today, we are over 4,500 people sharing the same vision and zeal. In every action we take, we strive for higher levels of performance. From being instrumental in the creation of the country’s hospitality industry to leading the establishment of our national carrier, Air Mauritius, whilst pursuing our swift expansion across the globe, it is that same focused energy that drives us forward. 2 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Rogers Rogers ANNUAL REPORT 2016 3 53 Rogers at a Glance Offices in 4,545 Employees Our commercial property arm, Ascencia was listed in 2008. The following year, the logistics businesses were grouped under a single organisation and brand, Velogic. Our equity base was restructured in 2012 in a 13 countries material transaction that saw ENL Land acquire a majority stake in the Company while spinning off Cim Group. Corporate Profile Our Company upholds the importance of responsible, sustainable and transparent Rogers and Company Limited is a listed international practices in promoting growth of the business services and investment company with specialist and its role in the region. We firmly believe that expertise within 4 markets: FinTech, Hospitality, Logistics our long-term success rests on our corporate and Property. Our operations within each served market values of Leadership, Agility and Dynamism, are organised into sectors with 53 offices across which are driven by a skilled and diverse 13 different countries. workforce of over 4,500 direct employees. The Group’s investments contribute to providing Since our establishment in 1899, we have shown employment to more than 10,000 people. entrepreneurial zeal which is at the heart of the economic development of Mauritius. Our Company played a notable role in the creation in 1962 of the leading hotel group on the island, Beachcomber Hotels, and in 1967 of the national carrier, Air Mauritius. 8,167 Rogers has also spearheaded the inception of the logistics sector in 1975, the Global Business sector development Total revenue in 1992 and the business process outsourcing industry since 1999. Rs m In 2004, the Domaine de Bel Ombre inaugurated two Heritage luxury hotels and a championship golf course in unique surroundings. The Domaine has since developed further with nature tourism activities and Villas Valriche, a luxury residential estate counting among the largest IRS schemes on the island. 4 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Rogers Rogers ANNUAL REPORT 2016 5 UK GERMANY Regional Force Rogers continues to expand by serving clients at an international level and ensuring that the expected benchmarks and productivity are delivered. Opportunities to further develop our services in our four served markets are real. INDIA SINGAPORE COMOROS MAURITIUS REUNION ISLAND SOUTH AFRICA 6 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Rogers Rogers ANNUAL REPORT 2016 7 Group Structure FINTECH HOSPITALITY LOGISTICS PROPERTY Sectors Financial Services Hotels Logistics Solutions Property Investments2 Technology Services Travel1 Property Development & Leisure Agribusiness3 Activities Rogers Capital Veranda Leisure & Hospitality Velogic Ascencia (VLH) Kross Border Compagnie Sucrière Rogers Aviation de Bel Ombre (CSBO) Enterprise Information Solutions Les Villas de Bel Ombre (EIS) Compagnie Sucrière de Bel Ombre (CSBO) Leisure Case Noyale Leisure Key Investments Swan General New Mauritius Hotels Mall of Mauritius at Bagatelle Ltd. Swan Financial Solutions Air Mauritius Le Morne Development AXA Customer Services Ltd. Mautourco Corporation (LMDC) White Sand Tours BlueConnect Note 1: Travel was reported as Aviation up to 30 June 2016. Note 2: Property Investments was reported as Property up to 30 June 2016. Note 3: Property Development & Agribusiness was reported as Real Estate & Agribusiness up to 30 June 2016. 8 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Rogers Rogers ANNUAL REPORT 2016 9 Interview with the CEO Philippe Espitalier-Noël The international scene was largely dominated by The CEO of Rogers reviews the decision of the United Kingdom to leave the the financial year that has gone European Union. Although the full picture of the postby and outlines the Group’s Brexit landscape is yet to emerge, we are already experiencing the impact of a weakening GBP in our performance, strategy and key hotels and sugar packing activities. priorities going forward. In spite of the macroeconomic context, the overall performance of the Group has been in line with expectations. Revenue has improved by 14% to Rs 8,167 million during the past year and profit levels How would you reflect on the year for most of our operations have witnessed satisfactory that just passed? growth. During the financial year 2015-2016, we continued to From a strategic perspective, we continued to advance see modest and uneven growth in the global economy. our growth strategy and develop our leadership talent At a national level, the hospitality sector at large has to ensure Rogers is well-positioned for long-term benefited from the spillover effects of growth in tourist success. arrivals. However, the renegotiation and signing of a protocol amending the 33-year-old India-Mauritius tax treaty will have a non-negligible impact on our position as a preferred jurisdiction to invest in the Indian market and on our past model for the Global Business sector. 10 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Rogers Rogers ANNUAL REPORT 2016 11 How is corporate responsibility and Major developments have been announced To conclude, what are your key priorities and sustainability relevant to the future strategy of recently for the Domaine de Bel Ombre. expectations going forward? the Group? Could you tell us more about this? We are working diligently on pursuing our strategic vision, which is I must say that to date, our CSR approach and programmes have met A quantum shift has been under way since the turn of the millennium centred on consolidating our position in our four served markets, which the targets that were set for the benefit of all our stakeholders. We to transform the Domaine from a traditional sugarcane-growing region are FinTech, Hospitality, Logistics and Property. We are committed to have decided to focus our efforts on one specific cause at a time – the into a preserved high-end tourism, leisure and cultural destination. building on the strength of our valuable experience and established fight against HIV/Aids from 2007 to 2013 and currently the protection Some Rs 12 billion have already been invested to date and we are competence within these markets, and we will put in the necessary of our coastal and marine ecosystems – to increase our chances of rolling out a compelling vision and an ambitious three-year plan resources to grow the depth and size of each of our sectors. The bringing about meaningful change. towards 2020. The roadmap for achieving a balanced and sustainable rationale of this is to provide the adequate level of managerial attention economic, environmental, social and cultural development through an and the required means to our activities in each of our served markets In so doing, we feel that we have provided valuable support to integrated string of concrete actions is being implemented. in order to achieve a balanced development. public authorities and other relevant parties including NGOs and our own people within the Group in addressing these issues; we have in This comprehensive programme will provide an integrated approach We have well-developed entrepreneurial capabilities in each of these the process gone beyond the mandatory 2% CSR spend whenever to the planning, management and promotion of the land and marine markets and have become more nimble and agile. We are backed in possible and where it made sense. Our initiatives involve a long-term environment of Domaine de Bel Ombre to balance the conservation of our endeavour by the support of our parent company, the ENL Group, commitment to make a difference. We regret the recent changes natural resources with the impact of human activities. An Interactive which also provides us with the flexibility required to achieve our announced to the CSR framework and are concerned that this could Land and Marine Resource Centre will be deployed in conjunction long-term goals. Our capability for swift decision-making is helping us stall the progress made and could prevent us from achieving our with new experiences for visitors while ensuring sustainable use and greatly in consolidating our businesses. targeted impacts. conservation of the rich biodiversity of the area. The development of Rogers continues to be focused on achieving The Group has also rolled out a new A lagoon management plan will also serve as a blueprint in managing balanced revenue generation from domestic and international clients. communication campaign – ‘Focused Energy, and restoring the marine environment in consultation and cooperation Our philosophy is to improve our productivity and performance against with the surrounding community, marine biologists, hoteliers and other international benchmarks. We have significant development plans in the Every Day’… stakeholders. This will be coupled with land biodiversity conservation short term for each of our sectors and are creating additional capacity ‘Energy drives Everything’ is not just another slogan. This new campaign efforts encompassing such initiatives as the development of several to support our ambitions for 2020. is a reaffirmation of the identity of our Group and our brand’s DNA, nature trails, a biodiversity corridor along the course and estuary of I am confident that we can deliver even greater success in the future. embodying our values, our financial strength and vision for the future. Citronniers River, a native tree arboretum, the removal of invasive species to make way for native riverine ecosystems as well as the It is the Energy deployed by our people that is making the difference. enhancement of existing mangrove areas. Rogers is now an international investment and services company whose strength stems from the energy of a unified, competent and wellThis is a wide-scale project with a real estate component and includes balanced team. This campaign is commensurate with our ambitions the development of a second golf course that will be complementary and projects a clear image of our dynamic brand both internally and to our award-winning Heritage Golf Club. To fulfil the vision to create with our partners, clients, investors and the public at large through unique experiences and distinctive values for Domaine de Bel Ombre, expressing the energy that has been driving us for more than a century. we highly value meaningful stakeholder dialogue and concerted action. 12 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Rogers Rogers ANNUAL REPORT 2016 13 Energy drives sustainability. 14 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Rogers Rogers ANNUAL REPORT 2016 15 Corporate Social Responsibility Programme for the Protection of the Coastal Areas of Mauritius The Rogers Group continued its involvement in projects geared towards promoting Awareness, Education and Support in order to reduce the Sustainable Development negative human impact on the environment of coastal areas: Our Strategy Mobile Marine Education Unit – Third Year of the ‘Bis Lamer’ Project with Reef Conservation During the year under review, the companies within the Rogers Group have scaled up their social and environmental responsibility efforts through an The NGO, Reef Conservation remains our main partner in the Protect our Coast strategy with its team of professional marine biologists, project increased number of projects and programmes. Where the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds derived from the 2% comprehensive income coordinators and educators. proved insufficient, additional resources were budgeted or alternative means were used to support environmental and social causes. Moreover, ‘Bis Lamer’ is a class on wheels equipped with interactive tools and laboratory equipment. To date, the project has exceeded its target in terms of Rogers focused its attention on developing and planning sustainable projects that will demonstrate our strategy to do business differently: by walking education about marine and environmental issues, having reached 10,768 students and 4,346 adults. Some 125 schools and 70 public areas such as the talk in order to strike a balance between economy, environment and society. community centres, shopping malls and beaches were visited. Moreover, 52% of Rogers’ staff have received training courses on marine and lagoon life. Domaine de Bel Ombre Lagoon and Land Survey Sustainable development and environmental stewardship come with the responsibility of carefully studying and assessing the ecosystems of a region such as Bel Ombre before moving on with rehabilitation projects. Reef Conservation’s biologists, Diospyros’ ecologists and the Mauritian Wildlife Foundation’s conservationists were contracted to evaluate the land and marine fauna and flora and propose appropriate protective and restorative measures. The main upcoming projects are a lagoon management plan, a biodiversity corridor and an interactive research centre on coastal ecosystems. Community Involvement & Permaculture Governance Economic Prosperity The sustainable development plan for Bel Ombre necessarily contains a significant social component. Consultations were organised with all the • Responsibility of the Board • Financial Processes stakeholders in the region and environmental consultants specialized in permaculture and community involvement were also contracted to take on • Sustainable Development Strategy board the input of the inhabitants of Bel Ombre. This enriching exercise has allowed to bring out the dreams of the villagers for their region and the • Ethics & Transparency idea to recreate a typical Mauritian village to showcase local savoir-faire. • Shareholders’ rights Rogers National Museum & Porlwi by Light Foundation Various media are required to effectively spread the message about protecting our coasts among the population. The movie dedicated to the history of our extinct national bird, the dodo benefited from the crowd-pulling effect of Porlwi by Light, which additionally contributed to rekindle visitor interest in our Natural History Museum and the Blue Water exhibition. The Lagoon Dos and Don’ts panels on the museum’s ornate gates were also viewed by hundreds. Environment Social • Environmental Resource • CSR Contributions Management • Welfare & Rights of Employees • Energy & Water and Clients • Waste 16 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Rogers Rogers ANNUAL REPORT 2016 17 Protection of Marine Turtles in Mauritius CSR in our Sectors The national network for the protection of endangered sea turtles on the Mauritian shores, composed of NGOs, private sector and relevant Other Initiatives carried out by our Business Units authorities, has worked tirelessly to educate coastal populations while tightening the enforcement net against poachers. A child education Aviation leaflet has already been finalized and released in schools. The Aviation Sector has supported ongoing efforts for the prevention of coastal and marine pollution in Mauritius and has provided training to its Beach Clean-Up Series employees on this important issue. Educating beach users about proper litter disposal is part of the Hotels necessary efforts to protect the lagoon and its marine life. Youth Heritage Resorts has worked with children supported by the NGO, Caritas in the South: 154 kids received value education sessions combined with United for Environment with the support of Rogers, Heritage Resorts an introduction to golf or foot-golf. Outings to Casela and Curious Corner of Chamarel were organised and support was given to a dance academy. and CSBO staff organised a beach clean-up event at Le Batelage, Clothes and bed/bath linen were also donated before and after a flooding event in Bel Ombre. Similarly, Veranda Leisure & Hospitality has supported Bel Ombre. This trash collection initiative had an educational aimed and the elderly under the care of the Human Service Trust in the North through the donation of clothing and linen and has provided vulnerable children served to support ‘Stop Polisyon’, a song in Mauritian Kreol launched with an after-school teacher and a football trainer. To improve the environment, the Grand Gaube beach was cleaned up and efforts were made in at Rogers House in April by the Vice President of the Republic. The clip conjunction with the NGO, PAWS to encourage the sterilization of stray dogs and cats. is regularly shown on national TV and can be viewed on YouTube at https://youtu.be/qVbsRdtFD8s Logistics Global Women’s Forum Velogic has improved existing procedures for the management of industrial waste and risks linked to the business sector’s activities. The staff were trained in waste sorting by Mission Verte and guided in implementing a comprehensive waste management system. Contributions to the community The Women’s Forum Mauritius was a tremendous opportunity for were also made in the fields of arts, sports and vocational training of disadvantaged youth through the following NGOs: Atelier Mo’zar, Faucon Flacq mobilising support for driving a game-changing agenda for the Sporting Club, Foundation for Excellence in Sports and Educational and Vocational Foundation. sustainable economic, environmental and social development of the Domaine de Bel Ombre. This region is facing environmental threats Property such as climate change, which is inextricably linked to coastal and marine resilience. The serious deterioration of our island’s coastal Ascencia has continued its support to the seabird translocation project of the Mauritian Wildlife Foundation (MWF). The restoration of a lost seabird ecosystems and the challenges posed by sea-level rise and coastal community on Ile aux Aigrettes is a long-term commitment that aims to ensure the survival of threatened seabird species. The MWF’s scientists are erosion have prompted us to seek support for our planned projects to improving the knowledge on this challenging reproductive method and on the species visiting our islands. set up a biodiversity corridor along Citronniers River’s course, create an Interactive Land and Marine Resource Centre and implement a lagoon Real Estate and Agribusiness management plan. Compagnie Sucrière de Bel Ombre is a signatory to an agreement for the establishment of a Protected Area Network covering its reserves at Sponsorship of Cité Sainte Catherine in Collaboration with ENL Frederica, Case Noyale and Seven Coloured Earth. An additional 2.8 hectares of endemic flora was restored during the period under review; to further and FAIL Foundation educate its staff on the importance of such rehabilitation works, a team building activity was organised wherein invasive ‘vanille marron’ plants were removed. Moreover, opening these unique, preserved forest grounds for trail running and cycling events is a way to share its value and beauty with Following the completion of the OLEA project, which provided support the general public. Other initiatives supported were the upgrading of a sheltered activity area at Saint Jacques RCA in Chamarel, an Adolescent Life to 50 impoverished families in the Moka region, a new poverty Skills Education Programme and other projects targeting vulnerable groups. alleviation programme has been launched at Cité Sainte Catherine, Saint Pierre. Building on the experience acquired from OLEA, Rogers Technology has teamed up with ENL and FAIL Foundation to design and support a 3-year Integrated Community Development Programme involving The efforts at EIS are focused on reducing their resource use by replacing all light bulbs with energy-saving models and going paperless for meetings 250 families within this poverty-stricken region. and newsletters. In addition, they have invested in employee well-being and career development through providing additional study leaves, offering the services of an in-house doctor as well as organising recreational activities. 18 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Rogers Rogers ANNUAL REPORT 2016 19 Energy drives people. Corporate Office Our People The Rogers Corporate Office covers a range of functions such as Marketing & Communication, Finance and Investment, Human Resources, Legal, HR Demographics Headcount by Sector Projects and Development as well as Internal Audit and Risk Management. All these functions are essential to growing each sector and reinforcing our Real Estate Technology competitive strategy through portfolio initiatives, executive influence and specific shared services. 567 & Agribusiness 410 4,545 MARKETING & COMMUNICATION Aviation 509 The Marketing & Communication Department develops and executes the internal and external communication and marketing strategies of Rogers. Corporate 67 The department is responsible for events planning and management as well as applying the relevant traditional offline and online tactics to maintain Financial Services an appropriate level of engagement with stakeholders including business and trade journalists, industry and financial analysts, investors, shareholders, Logistics 143 Employees 1176 customers, employees, and the community at large. 13 Countries FINANCE AND INVESTMENT 4 Served Markets Hotels 1673 The Finance and Investment Department ensures that the Group’s financial reporting and compliance meet the requirements of International Financial 90% Reporting Standards (IFRS) and all relevant legislation. In addition, it provides support both to the Corporate Office and to the Group’s sectors in Headcount by Generations* accounting, taxation, treasury management, investment appraisal, project finance and strategic initiatives. Gen Z Baby Boomers HUMAN RESOURCES 10% 14% Rogers employs 4,545 people across 53 offices in 13 countries. Having a skilled and engaged workforce is key to successfully driving our business strategy. The Corporate Human Resources (HR) Department provides human capital solutions to the business sectors, including overseeing effective recruitment and onboarding of talented individuals, developing critical skills, sustaining engagement at work and facilitating change initiatives within the of our workforce is Group. The Corporate HR team also delivers external human capital consulting services ranging from learning and development solutions to engagement based in Mauritius Gen X surveys, and organisation development interventions. 29% 60% LEGAL Gen Y 47% Rogers Legal acts as the backbone of the Group with regards to legal, regulatory and compliance matters. It assists the Group on all strategic projects including advising on investments and disinvestments, drafting and vetting of contractual documents and registration and renewal of brands. In concert with external lawyers, it ensures that the legal interests of the Group are safeguarded. of our employees RISK AND AUDIT are below 35 years By Employee Category Managers The Risk & Audit Department provides assurance to the Board that adequate controls are in place to safeguard the Group’s income and assets. In 8% 3% addition, it ensures that risks are identified, assessed and mitigated so as to enable operational and financial success. A risk-based internal auditing approach is used to determine the most efficient use of the department’s resources and to ensure that the most significant residual risks are addressed Rogers expanded its as a matter of priority. In addition, the department acts as a business advisor and assists Management where possible in achieving its strategic goals. employee base by Operatives Staff 52% 40% in the past year * Please refer to page 85. 22 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Rogers Rogers ANNUAL REPORT 2016 23 Our People Gender Distribution Gender by Sector 50% Aviation 48% 52% Corporate 39 % 48% 52% 61 % Financial Services Male 41% 59% Female Hotels 62% 38% Females Males Logistics 72% 28% Real Estate & Agribusiness 70% 30% Technology 42% 58% Generations by Sector Aviation 14% 11% 42% 40% 4% Corporate 21% 37% 39% 3% Financial Services 4% 20% 69% 7% Hotels 7% 28% 50% 15% Logistics 23% 28% 35% 39% 4% Real Estate & Agribusiness 38% 30% 27% 5% Technology 3% 11% 71% 15% * Baby Boomers (From 1941 to 1964) Gen X (From 1965 to 1979) Gen Y (From 1980 to 1994) Gen Z (From 1995 to 2010) 24 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Rogers Rogers ANNUAL REPORT 2016 25 Our People HR Development % Employees Trained by Sector Rogers Group 55% Aviation 48% 2,500 22m Corporate 81% Our investments Rs 55% in training covered 74% Financial Services Employees trained for Invested in Training Hotels 85% a total of 43,500 man-hours & Development across the Group of our employee base 20% Logistics Real Estate & Agribusiness 31% Technology 25% Training Investment by Sector (Rs m) Aviation 1.5 Training Investment by Focus Area Corporate 3.6 IT & Digital 9% Financial Services 2.1 Hotels 6.9 People Logistics 2.9 & Leadership Technical skills skills 39% Real Estate & Agribusiness 1.5 52% Technology 3.5 26 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Rogers Rogers ANNUAL REPORT 2016 27 Corporate Governance Report 1. COMPLIANCE STATEMENT 3.2 Share Ownership For the year under review, Rogers and Company Limited (“Rogers” or the “Company”) has complied with the provisions of the Code of Corporate As at 30 June 2016, the Company had 2,613 shareholders. Governance for Mauritius (the “Code”). A breakdown of the categories of shareholders and the share ownership as at 30 June 2016 are set out in Tables 2 and 3 respectively. 2. GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Table 2: Breakdown of shareholders by category The governance framework and committee structure set up by the Board of Rogers to help it fulfil its obligations are as follows: Category Number of shareholders Number of shares owned % of total issued shares Individuals 2,238 35,706,390 14.17 Insurance and assurance companies 20 15,863,432 6.29 Rogers and Company Limited Pensions and provident funds 54 27,708,704 10.99 Board of Directors Investment and trust companies 40 21,319,271 8.46 Other corporate bodies 202 151,447,503 60.09 Corporate Governance Committee Risk Management and 2,554* 252,045,300 100.00 (CGC) Audit Committee (RMAC) * The above number of shareholders is indicative, due to consolidation of multi-portfolios for reporting purposes. The total number of active shareholders as at 30 June 2016 was 2,613. 3.3 Ownership Restrictions Delegated authorities: Delegated authorities: Recommends to the board: The constitution of Rogers provides that no shareholder, other than those existing before its adoption, shall hold more than 10% of the issued share >> Assists the Board in its duties relating to risk management, capital of the Company without the prior authorisation of the Board. >> Corporate governance provisions to be adopted safeguarding of assets, the operation of adequate systems, 3.4 Shareholder Communication and Events >> Executive remuneration and control processes and the individual directors’ remuneration preparation of accurate financial Rogers communicates with its shareholders through its Annual Report, Investors’ News, published unaudited quarterly results, dividend declarations >> Board and senior management reports and statements in and Annual Meeting of Shareholders. The Executive Team of Rogers meets the investor community twice yearly to brief them on the Company’s appointments compliance with legal requirements strategy, financial performance, investments and disinvestments. and accounting standards. With a view to improving the decision-making process and accountability within the Group, Rogers has adopted the following governance framework with regards to its subsidiaries: a) separate sub-holding Boards have been set up at sectorial level; b) separate Corporate Governance and Risk Management and Audit Committees have also been set up at the level of Ascencia Limited due to the nature, size and specificity of its business; and c) the governance, risk and audit issues relating to the business activities of the subsidiaries of Rogers operating in the hotels, logistics, property (excluding Ascencia Limited), and Fintech sectors are overseen by the CGC and the RMAC. 28 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Rogers Rogers ANNUAL REPORT 2016 29 3.5 Dividend Policy 4.3 Board Charter Rogers has no formal dividend policy. Payment of dividends is subject to the profitability of Rogers, its foreseeable investment, capital expenditure The Board is of the view that the current legislation, rules, guidelines and Code already defines the responsibilities of the Directors and there is no and working capital requirements. need to adopt a Board Charter which will be a repetition of these duties and responsibilities. 4 BOARD 4.4 Director Induction and Board Access to Information and Advice On appointment to the Board and/or its Committees, Directors receive a comprehensive induction pack from the Company Secretary and an 4.1 Composition of the Board induction programme is organised to introduce the newly elected Directors to the Group’s businesses and Senior Executives. Rogers was headed by a unitary Board comprising twelve Directors,. All Directors have access to the Company Secretary and to the Senior Executives to discuss issues or to obtain information on specific areas or items to be considered at Board meetings or any other area they consider appropriate. The Chairman of the Board is elected by his fellow Directors and is responsible for leading the Board and its effectiveness. The functions and responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate. The Chief Executive is contractually responsible for: Furthermore, the Directors have access to the records of the Company and they have the right to request independent professional advice at the expense of the Company. The Board and its Committees also have the authority to secure the attendance at meetings of third parties with relevant a) developing and recommending the long-term vision and strategy of the Group; experience and expertise as and when required. b) generating shareholder value; c) maintaining positive, reciprocal relations with relevant stakeholders; 4.5 Board Performance Review A Board evaluation exercise was carried out in June 2016 in the form of a questionnaire covering such aspects as the performance of the Board, its d) creating the appropriate human resources framework to identify the right resources, train them, drive them to higher performance and maintain a procedures, practices and administration. The outcome of the exercise was considered by the Corporate Governance Committee in August 2016 and conducive team spirit; thereafter by the Board in September 2016. Whilst the evaluation has underlined the Board’s areas of strengths, this exercise has also helped identify e) formulating and monitoring budgets and financials of the Group; and areas for improvement, the implementation of which has been planned for the second quarter of the financial year ending 30 June 2017. Overall, the Directors were of the opinion that the Board functioned well. f) establishing the optimum internal control and risk management framework to safeguard the assets of the Group. The Board has a broad range of skills, expertise and experience ranging from accounting, banking and commercial to tourism, logistics, financial and legal matters. In line with the Code, all Directors stand for re-election on a yearly basis. 4.2 Role of the Board The Board is accountable and responsible for the performance and affairs of the Group. Its role includes the determination, review and monitoring of the Group’s strategic plan, monitoring of the Group’s financial performance against budget, approval of key acquisitions/disposals and capital expenditure. The Board is also responsible for the Group’s risk management and internal control processes. The Board promotes, encourages and expects open and frank discussions at meetings. Board meetings provide a forum for challenging and constructive debate. Directors are expected to attend each Board Meeting and each meeting of the Committees of which they are members, unless there are exceptional circumstances that prevent them from so doing. The Chairman and the Chief Executive, in collaboration with the Company Secretary, agree the meeting agendas to ensure adequate coverage of key issues during the year. 30 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Rogers Rogers ANNUAL REPORT 2016 31 4.6 Interests of Directors Committee Key Responsibilities All Directors, including the Chairman, declare their direct and indirect interests in the shares of Rogers. They moreover follow the Model Code for Risk Management and Audit Committee (a) Ensure that: • All risks are reviewed and managed to an acceptable level in the business. Securities Transactions as detailed in Appendix 6 of the Stock Exchange of Mauritius Listing Rules whenever they deal in the shares of the Company. • All internal accounting, administrative and risk control procedures are designed to provide ongoing assurance that assets are safeguarded. •T  ransactions are executed and recorded in accordance with the Company’s policy. 4.7 Indemnities and Insurance (b) Review: • Important accounting issues. A directors’ and officers’ liability insurance policy has been subscribed to and renewed by Rogers. The policy provides cover for the risks arising out of • Changes in legislation that will give rise to changes in practice. the acts or omissions of the Directors and Officers of Rogers Group. The cover does not provide insurance against fraudulent, malicious or wilful acts • Compliance with regard to specific disclosures in the financial statements. or omissions. • Quarterly, preliminary and annual reports as well as any other financial reports. 4.8 Share Option Scheme 6 STATEMENT OF REMUNERATION PHILOSOPHY There is no employee share option scheme at the level of the Company. 6.1 Non-Executive Directors’ Remuneration 5 BOARD COMMITTEES The fees paid to Non-Executive Directors have been recommended to the Board by the CGC (acting as the Remuneration Committee) based on a survey carried out by an independent consultant in 2004. Such fees have since been reviewed in 2007 and anew in December 2012. The Board has set up a Corporate Governance Committee and a Risk Management and Audit Committee to assist in the discharge of its duties. The fees are calculated in the following manner: (a) a basic monthly fee; and (b) an attendance fee. Committee members are paid a monthly fee only. The functions and responsibilities of each committee are outlined in the committee’s written terms of reference which have been approved by the The Chairman of the Board and the Chairmen of the Board Committees are paid a higher monthly fee. Board. These terms of reference meet the requirements of the Code and are reviewed each year. They are available on the Rogers’ website. The Chairmen of both committees report orally on the proceedings of their respective committees at the Board meetings of Rogers. The minutes of 6.2 Executive Directors’ Remuneration the meetings of the RMAC are included in the Board pack distributed to Board members in advance of Board meetings. The Executive Directors are not remunerated for serving on the Board and its Committees. Their remuneration package as employees of the A summary of the key responsibilities of these committees as well as their composition are set out in Table 8. Company, including their performance bonus are aligned to market rates. Table 8: Key Responsibilities of Committees and their Composition The performance bonuses which are payable are subject to the performance of the Company as well as the job holder and could go up to 50% of the annual basic salary. Committee Key Responsibilities Corporate Governance Committee (a) Make recommendations to the Board on all corporate governance provisions to be adopted so that 6.3 Employee Remuneration (also serves as Remuneration and Nomination Committees) the Board remains effective and complies with prevailing corporate principles and practices. (b) Ensure that the disclosure requirements with regard to corporate governance, whether in the Salaries are generally determined by a combination of internal equity, external competitiveness and performance of the employee. Every two years, Annual Report or other reports on an ongoing basis, are in accordance with the principles of the remuneration surveys are carried out so as to benchmark with practices in the relevant industries. This is used to review and update internal salary applicable Code of Corporate Governance. scales and benefits bands across the Group. (c) Make recommendations to the Board on all new Board appointments. (d) Review through a formal process the balance and effectiveness of the Board. (e) Develop a policy on executive remuneration and for fixing the remuneration and benefit packages of individual Directors, within agreed terms of reference, to avoid potential conflicts of interest. (f) In relation to the remuneration of non-executives, make recommendations to the full Board. 32 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Rogers Rogers ANNUAL REPORT 2016 33 Risk Management and Audit Committee Report 8. OTHER GOVERNANCE MATTERS Dear Shareholder, On behalf of the Risk Management and Audit are constantly monitored whilst mitigating 8.1 Profiles of Senior Executives Committee (RMAC), I am pleased to present actions are taken with the collaboration of the report for this financial year 2016. This Management and our internal audit team. Are detailed in the Annual Report 2016. report details the roles and responsibilities The RMAC continues to review closely any of the Committee and the work carried out control failures identified in internal audit during the year. I trust that it will be valuable reports or otherwise and monitors the 8.2 Statement of Interests of Senior Officers (excluding Executive Directors) to shareholders and stakeholders in their progress on Management's implementation appreciation of the accomplishment of the of recommendations and action plans. Where Are detailed in the Annual Report. 2016. Committee’s objectives. required, sectorial Chief Executive Officers The Group is characterised by a high risk are welcome to give an insight on challenges 8.3 Code of Ethics awareness culture, established by strong faced and the strategies used to manage those processes and efficient decision-making, risks. The detection of a fraud of Rs. 9.5 m Rogers has adopted a Code of Ethics which spells out the general obligations and business etiquette employees are encouraged to abide by. A which aims at assisting in the identification and (P&L impact) at one of the Group companies Malpractice Reporting Policy was also adopted in 2010 and an Equal Opportunities Policy has been adopted by the Group. No breach of ethics or management of risks. The RMAC has continued during the year was satisfactorily and promptly malpractice was reported for the year under review. to play a key oversight role for the Board by dealt with by management. This isolated placing significant emphasis on sustaining the breakdown in one of the internal controls in standard of the financial reporting process, as place highlights the need for Management to 8.4 Health and Safety Policy “The Group is well as assessing Management’s judgement on major accounting treatments and the work remain vigilant at all times. characterised by a The ANSI/AIHA Z10-2012 safety management system (SMS) is being used currently across the Group. As there are demands demands for more The progress made towards the achievement carried out by third parties. of the Group’s strategic plan is also measured. internationally recognised SMS from partners abroad, the Company is evaluating the impact and relevancy of switching to ISO 450000 standard. We have considered a number of challenges In its work, the RMAC has sought to balance high risk awareness from the Group’s businesses by placing significant focus on safeguarding the independent oversight of the business with the support and guidance of Management. culture and the effectiveness and independence of the internal and external audit processes. Special The progress from last year shifted towards creating a greater awareness on financial RMAC continues to consideration was given to improving the Group’s internal control, governance and risk controls so as to improve the internal control environment. Events occurring during the year management systems. play a key oversight A high-level review of strategic risks was that are below the risk threshold are dealt with by Management and if needed, a management undertaken this year whereby sectors presentation is made to the members of the role for the Board.” have updated their risk registers to reach RMAC for their understanding and to provide the ‘Top 5’ risks. The impact on our risk assurance that such risks have been remedied landscape is closely being scrutinised and and will not occur again. monitored by Management and its aim is to We have taken cognizance of the new Code of provide an update on the identification and Corporate Governance for Mauritius (2016) mitigation strategies of risks. Through the which encourages high-quality corporate Group’s Business Risk Registers, we reviewed governance with greater flexibility coupled Management’s plans and mitigating actions with the methodology “apply and explain”. The to ensure that all key risks are appropriately first time application of the Code for Rogers and systematically prioritised, resourced and will fully be implemented during the financial treated. RMAC members use their experience year 2017 and we are planning to update the gained in other businesses to challenge and RMAC charter accordingly. advise Management and in this way, key risks 34 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Rogers Rogers ANNUAL REPORT 2016 35 2016 in overview Outlook & Conclusion The RMAC carried out its duties as required by Section 3 of the charter of the RMAC and in accordance with its annual plan adopted to manage the Based on the activities carried out in 2016, the RMAC believes that there were no material shortcomings in the design and effectiveness of internal discharge of its responsibilities. The schedule of business covers the key areas within the Committee’s remit and ensures that members have the controls, governance and risk management during the year. The RMAC discharged its responsibilities according to its mandate. Looking ahead, the information they need to give proper consideration to all matters brought before them. RMAC will remain focused on the audit, assurance and risk processes across the Group and maintain its oversight of financial, environmental and Set out below are some highlights for the financial year 2016. other regulatory requirements. The takeaways for the financial year 2017 will be anchored on: • Monitoring the mutual relationship with the internal audit function by providing oversight of internal audit; FINANCIAL REPORTING EXTERNAL AUDIT • Supporting independence and developing a highly competent internal audit function aligned with the needs of corporate governance and mutually determine important risks and objectives; >> Review of quarterly reporting. >> Assess the effectiveness and performance of external >> Review the Annual Report 2015. auditors and their continuing independence with regard • Supporting the risk management work achieved so far and the progress in maturity; to audit and non-audit services. >> Take note and analyse the Group’s performance and • Setting risk tolerance and risk appetite measures and targets for the Group; position. >> Review Consolidated Management Letters’ points and assess issues and action plans. • Establishing a risk reporting and escalating protocol for most critical and lowest risks; >> Take note of the abridged audited financial statements. >> Take note of updated accounting policies following recent • Evaluating the effectiveness of the RMAC; and >> Recommend adoption of such statements to the Board of requirements by IFRS and impact on Rogers’ financial Directors prior to publication and filing. • Setting the foundation for an integrated reporting framework. statements. >> Review significant matters and judgements including the >> Take note of the Interim Financial Reports issued. On behalf of the RMAC and in my personal name, I wish to thank the CEO and the Management of all the Group’s businesses, our external auditors, valuation of investment properties. >> Take note of the litigation registers for the Group and BDO & Co., the internal audit team and the RMAC members for their contributions which have enabled the Committee to discharge its duties and possible financial impact. responsibilities to the best of its abilities. On behalf of the RMAC, 2016 Activities HEALTH & SAFETY RISK GOVERNANCE & INTERNAL CONTROL >> Ensure that the health, safety and environmental risk >> Appoint the Head of Internal Audit & Risk Management/ identification processes lead to sound management assess future HR needs in line with the proposed internal strategies with the Group’s various fields of activities. audit plan. Alain Rey >> Take note of the consolidated Group’s health & safety >> Review Executive Summaries/special engagement report (OSH cover and major issues in the Group and its reports and assess adequacy of recommendations/action Chairman, Risk Management and Audit Committee subsidiaries). plans and follow up of action plans. 31 August 2016 >> Take note of legal proceedings. >> Ensure roles and functions of external and internal audits are clarified, co-ordinated and effective. >> Ensure highest standards of behaviour within the Group. >> Evaluate effectiveness of internal control and risk management system. >> Ensure adherence to the Rogers Guidelines & Policies Manual (RGPM). 36 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Rogers Rogers ANNUAL REPORT 2016 37 Risk Governance & Internal Control Risk Management RMAC structure and effectiveness “At Rogers, we believe that effective risk management is critical to the The RMAC aims at enhancing the diversity of its members’ area of expertise. It operates within a formal charter: It is chaired by an Independent NonExecutive Director along with other members who are also Independent Non-Executive Directors. They are chosen on the basis of their corporate achievement of our strategic objectives and the long-term sustainable leadership skills, experience and expertise which they acquired by holding senior office in businesses. They discharge their duties to the best interest growth of our business”. of the Group as a whole. Philippe Espitalier-Noël, CEO Financial RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK RMAC Regulatory Establish This step defines the external and internal At Rogers, risk management is embedded in our dayEXPERIENCE the Context environment in which the Group operates. to-day activities and plays a fundamental role on how Capital markets we work across the Group. Our risk management Permanent Members Legal & Regulatory framework is a key component of our business model and is designed primarily to protect our shareholders, Alain Rey Self-assessment workshops are carried out Mergers & Acquisitions people, assets, reputation and clients’ interests. within the various sectors. The purpose is to Philippe Forget Risk develop a consistent and sustainable approach Agriculture & Agro-Industry Identification Given our diversified activities, geographical locations aimed at identifying events which could Vivian Masson impact the Group’s ability to achieve its and legal framework in which we operate, risk Risk Management strategic objectives. awareness and risk management are essential to all our Patrick de Labauve d’Arifat actions. Wide base of Non-Executive Director experience Right balance of Strategy In order to ensure that our risk management Risk Risks identified are assessed in terms of skills, experience Analysis framework meets our business needs, the Board, SKILLS and expertise to Financial acumen impact and probability during the voting session. In Attendance together with Management ensure that our approach make a meaningful Governance contribution to risk management remains proactive, methodical Chief Finance & Statistical science and integrated. Our risk management process aims at to the Rogers Group Investment Executive Research & Development Based on the outcome of the risk analysis, identifying new and emerging risks at an early stage. Risk the risks are rated in terms of inherent risks, Head of Internal Audit International business Evaluation residual risks (current), residual risks (desired) Overall accountability for risk management lies with & Risk Management Attendance and residual risk gap. the Board which articulates the risks that the Group is External auditors Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Member since willing to take in pursuit of its strategies through the Alain Rey 07-Dec-12 Group’s risk appetite. Risk appetite is a vital, forwardSectors’ Chief Executives Philippe Forget 10-Dec-15 looking perspective since it guides Management in Identification of risk mitigation strategies and ATTENDANCE Risk Vivian Masson 10-Dec-15 Treatment controls to reduce the residual risk gaps. assessing the level of acceptable risks while developing Sectors’ Chief its strategies. The risk appetite also sets shareholders’ Patrick de Labauve d’Arifat 23-Jan-13 Finance Officers expectations with regard to the level of risk that Gilbert Espitalier-Noël Resigned (9-Jul-15) Health & Rogers is willing to take. Guy Adam Co-opted Reporting is done at sectorial level and Safety Manager at the RMAC. Ziyad Bundhun Co-opted Reporting Major risks faced by the Group, together with the Naderasen Pillay Veerasamy Co-opted Monitoring identified mitigating measures are regularly assessed Management monitoring of the framework’s & operation and ongoing review of the risk to ensure that the Group’s risk profile is as expected. Reviewing landscape by Risk champions. These risks are depicted on page 108. 38 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Rogers Rogers ANNUAL REPORT 2016 39 Risk Governance & Internal Control Risk Governance & Internal Control Risk Maturity Level Our Lines of Defence As compared to last year (“repeatable”), Rogers has positioned itself to the ‘defined’ risk maturity level. In order to assess and oversee the risk Risks are changing constantly in our rapidly moving times. It is therefore essential for risk management to be implemented quickly and in an effective management process at business and executive levels, a formalised governance structure has been implemented. Thus this governance structure way without subsequent operating costs. For this to be achieved, an agile framework has been integrated throughout the Group. The framework aims at assessing the risks associated with the evolution and implementation of any new policy, programme or service. is based on a four lines of defence approach to risk management and designates the various roles, responsibilities and accountabilities for risk management, risk reporting and risk escalation across the Group. It incorporates the oversight, management and assurance of risk management, The Group will achieve its strategic objectives through the collaboration and implementation of its framework and associated risk profiles and action essentially giving four independent views of risks in the organisation. The risk management process has been instilled in the culture of the Group and plans by putting in place a culture of constancy and precision in risk planning and subsequent action plans. Our aim is to continuously climb the ladder its implementation is a major contributor to its effectiveness and this is ensured by the Board and senior Management. The Board of Directors is also and we believe that Rogers has not yet reached an optimum risk maturity level. Embedding risk management ‘in everything we do’ is a long-term responsible for providing an oversight of the Group’s risk management activities. Our 4 lines of defence are illustrated as follows: process and requires constant monitoring and fine-tuning of the framework. PEOPLE, PROCESSES • The processes that are put in place and the systems and controls & 1 st line employed to manage risks and exploit opportunities. These TECHNOLOGY controls are operated by frontline employees. • Committees and functions that oversee the effective operations MANAGEMENT of Rogers’ internal controls framework, including the control & 2nd line activities performed in the first line of defence. OVERSIGHT • The second line of defence includes the established risk management activities and compliance functions. OPTIMISED • Internal audit provides independent, objective assurance and is MANAGED designed to add value and improve Rogers’ operations. INTERNAL AUDIT 3 rd line • It provides an independent view of how well risks are mitigated and controls are operating (actual residual risks). DEFINED REPEATABLE EXTERNAL • Increases the level of trust in the conclusions reached by ASSURANCE 4th line engaging an independent third party. INITIAL This model adapted to Rogers’ needs is both a bottom-up and top-down approach endorsing an effective communication flow amongst the different players. The Board of Directors acts as a ‘watchdog’ of the four lines of defence. It sets the tone by approving the risk management strategy and is accountable for Rogers’ internal control system. Changes in our risk profile are highlighted to the Board which regularly reviews and challenges whether the Group’s identified principal risks are being managed while ensuring that other potential risks, their impacts and the opportunities they may give rise to are an explicit part of its discussions. 40 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Rogers Rogers ANNUAL REPORT 2016 41 Risk Governance & Internal Control Risk Governance & Internal Control Inherent and Residual Risks Managing our Top 5 Risks The principal strategic risks (inherent) that Rogers are exposed to in absolute terms, i.e. in the absence of any Management actions are tabled below. The top 5 strategic risks for the Group are based on the residual risk gap (difference between the current level of risk and the desired level of residual Such risks have been identified during the risk identification phase. These are potential risks that could occur in the event of a lack of controls in place. risk). The following tables describe the top 5 risks facing the Group and the means that are adopted to mitigate them. We have also included a The inclusion of a risk does not mean that it has materialised or that it is not being managed it means that Management has identified this risk as an comparative from last year, in order to see how such risks have evolved over time. area of priority to ensure that controls are put in place to mitigate the risks. Inherent (principal strategic) risks 2015 2016 1. SKILLS ATTRACTION, PERFORMANCE AND RETENTION RISK RISK AS AT JUNE 2016 High key staff turnover and shortage of skilled/ ROOT CAUSE: COMMENTARY: • Ability to adapt to changes qualified employees are essential issues which • Industries’ attractiveness There are measures which have • Concentration affect the Group’s performance, success and • Poaching of staff been introduced, such as: • Contracting ability to match international benchmarks. • Inability to retain qualified employees • Talent acquisition and retention • Forex • Career growth • Training and talent development • Fundraising IMPACT: MITIGATION: • Transparent Performance • Health & Safety • Quality of service is affected Adequate rewards and recognition as well as Management System • Reputational damage provision of appropriate training and development • ICT infrastructure/IT infrastructure • Low client satisfaction opportunities to employees on a continuous basis. • Innovation • Business failure • Legal and regulatory compliance CONCERNED SECTORS: • Liquidity The Group • Market intelligence • Projects, strategic partnerships and acquisitions (domestic and international) 2. MARKET INTELLIGENCE RISK RISK AS AT JUNE 2016 • Skills attraction, performance and retention The Group’s lack of relevant and/or reliable ROOT CAUSE: COMMENTARY: • Stakeholder engagement information on competitors may result in prices The endless new entrants on the market and the There is a need to evaluate the • Theft, fraud and corruption or rates that customers are indisposed to pay. lack of benchmarking exercise. targeted markets thoroughly. SWOT analysis and risk assessment • Cyberthreats NEW exercises to be conducted • Development risk NEW accordingly. Greater use of experts IMPACT: MITIGATION: • Financial reporting NEW under co-sourcing arrangements • Erosion of customer base Benchmarking exercise and market surveillance when required. • Loss of competitive advantage are essential but most importantly are the new Each sector of the Group maintains its own business risk registers which are reviewed and updated regularly. After adequate controls have been put • Financial loss developments of projects to increase Rogers’ in place, namely the Group’s top residual risks are identified as follows: • Wrong strategic decisions taken competitiveness. 1. Skills, attraction, performance and retention CONCERNED SECTORS: 2. Market Intelligence The Group 3. Innovation 4. Liquidity 5. Legal and regulatory compliance 42 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Rogers Rogers ANNUAL REPORT 2016 43 Risk Governance & Internal Control Risk Governance & Internal Control 3. INNOVATION RISK RISK AS AT JUNE 2016 5 . LEGAL AND REGULATORY COMPLIANCE RISK RISK AS AT JUNE 2016 Rogers is not leveraging innovation in its ROOT CAUSE: COMMENTARY: Internal and external compliance procedures ROOT CAUSE: COMMENTARY: business model to achieve or sustain competitive Change in customer behaviour and buying There is a need to innovate and not being adhered to by relevant parties. • Lack of enforcement/communication of policies There is a need for non-financial advantage. patterns as well as the arrival of new international evolve, but it should be done in a This attitude exposes the Group to continuity and procedures. reviews and audits. Compliance players impact the Group’s capacity and capability cautious and systematic way. Not interruptions. • Rigid set of rules with International Standards and of exploiting the innovation space innovating and not evolving is a regulatory requirements of the greater set back and poses even different jurisdictions in which we IMPACT: MITIGATION: IMPACT: MITIGATION: higher risks. operate. Work closely with the • Erosion of customer base Regular clients surveys and investment in • Reputational damage Ensure compliance with regulations, compliance process owners. • Financial loss new system/technologies as well as the • Litigation exposure manual and sound operational processes. • Lost opportunities implementation of a quality management system. • Fines and penalties Litigation register is in place and is being • Reputational damage • Financial losses monitored and reported at Corporate level and RMAC. CONCERNED SECTORS: CONCERNED SECTORS: • Aviation The Group • Technology • Real Estate & Agribusiness Note: • Corporate Horizontal movement indicates no change in the risk gap Upward vertical movement indicates an increase in the risk gap 4. LIQUIDITY RISK RISK AS AT JUNE 2016 Downward vertical movement indicates a decrease in the risk gap Rogers’ Group is exposed to insufficient means ROOT CAUSE: COMMENTARY: of cash flow to meet its financial obligations. • Inexistence/non-adherence to the credit Regular review of the Group vetting exercise. strategic plan should enable better • Delay in receiving money due to economic cash flow planning. At the same recession and late payment interest not being time, this will help us identify charged have accentuated the problem. opportunities. IMPACT: MITIGATION: • Inability to continue as a going concern Assessing customer creditworthiness through • Financial loss bank guarantees. The application of a credit • Reputational damage vetting process by a committee, with frequent • Opportunity loss checks being performed on credit limits awarded to clients. Capital injection from shareholders. CONCERNED SECTORS: The Group 44 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Rogers Rogers ANNUAL REPORT 2016 45 Risk Governance & Internal Control Risk Governance & Internal Control Emerging Risks Internal Control “Change is the law of life. Those who look only to the past or present are certain Internal control and risk management are the backbone of good corporate governance. The Board provides the vision and sets out the strategic direction of the Group. It also provides effective leadership and control of the Group, whilst meeting the appropriate interests of its shareholders to miss the future.” and stakeholders. It assumes the ultimate responsibility for the effective management of risks across the Group, determining its risk appetite and John F. Kennedy tolerance as well as ensuring that each business area implements appropriate internal controls. The Board exercises this control by effectively delegating its risk management and systems of assurance regarding financial reporting and internal controls to the RMAC. Anticipating and forecasting risks is becoming more difficult and more complex with sudden changes in the environment and globalisation. At Rogers, we believe that we must always prepare ourselves for the unexpected. We recognize complex risks are increasingly interconnected, with the In line with the Mauritian Code of Corporate Governance, Rogers has set up a Risk Management and Audit Committee in 2002 whose main objectives potential to accelerate as they grow and we consider that it is time to turn the risk ‘telescope’ around. Emerging risks are difficult to quantify and are to ensure the existence and efficiency of a system of internal control which reflects the size of the Group as well as its diversity. The Group’s risk as a result of lack of data, the consequences and implications can be unclear. Through the updating of the risk registers, more particularly in the risk management systems aim at managing the risk of failure in the pursuit of business objectives rather than to eliminate that risk. The risk management identification phase, Management does provide insight of possible emerging risks affecting their businesses and these are rated in terms of severity systems, however, cannot provide 100% assurance against material misstatement or loss. and likelihood. A more comprehensive ‘watch list’ of those emerging risks will be developed to include a sensitivity analysis/’what-if’ scenarios. Core global emerging risk categories are depicted as follows: Internal Audit RISK CATEGORIES RISK DESCRIPTION The internal audit function is carried out by the Risk & Audit Department, an independent in-house business unit operating within a framework aligned with the various policies in existence within the Group. Our internal audit plan is prepared using a risk-based approach. All the elements in our risk • Adverse regulation landscape are taken into account while preparing the audit plan including changes in risk profiles and emergence of new risks. COMMENTS: GEOPOLITICAL • Governance deficiency OUR RISK BASED AUDIT METHODOLOGY • Trade/tariff war TESTING & ANALYSIS Sectors to analyse global market trends, evaluate possible impacts • Social instability and review key business drivers SOCIETAL • Terrorist attack and strategies. • Armed conflict SCOPE, PLANNING PRELIMINARY FIELDWORK REPORT ISSUANCE FOLLOW-UP ENGAGEMENT FIELDWORK An example could be the Brexit Identify new Update on controls Deliver findings Issue Progress & ACCEPTANCE • Fiscal crisis which might have an impact on developments Understand internal and issues Implementation Issue opinion ECONOMIC • Asset bubble the Mauritian economy and on Risk analysis controls Reports Assess risks – Audit testing • Financial system breakdown sectors such as Hotels, Aviation Determine needs Business Risk Identify and address Meetings with Table findings / and Logistics due to the fact that those charged of Mutually agreed upon Register issues recommendations Governance • Infrastructure failure the UK represents one of our timeline Develop approach to the RMAC major trading partners (in terms Discuss the path TECHNOLOGICAL • Transformational innovation forward • Large-scale cyberattack of export destination and tourism market, etc.). INDUSTRY-SPECIFIC EXPERIENCE AND WORK PROGRAMME • Sustained resource shortage ENVIRONMENTAL • Natural catastrophe TECHNOLOGY USED THROUGHOUT • Disease outbreak The Risk and Audit Department’s main objective is to provide independent and objective assurance as to the effectiveness of the risk management approach and of internal controls within the Group. Amidst these broad objectives, the department also aims at providing Management with reliable information, facilitate interactions with them and provide advice with a view to maintaining a balance between risks and controls throughout the Group. The adequacy and relevance of internal controls is supported by the Rogers Guidelines & Policies Manual (RGPM). 46 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Rogers Rogers ANNUAL REPORT 2016 47 Risk Governance & Internal Control Risk Governance & Internal Control The Board of Directors, Management and other personnel have put in place processes commonly known as internal controls to provide reasonable MONITORING PROGRESS assurance on the achievement of the objectives related to operations, financial reporting and compliance with laws and regulations. Internal audit directly examines internal controls and provides assurance in respect of the implementation, operation and effectiveness of risk management and The number of audits performed by the department has increased from year to year, mainly owing to the rapid expansion of the Group and the governance. Given the diversity across the Group, internal control is achieved mainly through the application of best practices which together acquisition of new businesses. During the forthcoming year, greater emphasis will be placed on financial services audits and emerging risks given the constitute the RGPM; these best practices ensure that consistent and uniform policies and procedures are applied across the Group. The internal Group’s level of activities. The department continuously aims at providing even more recommendations for more efficiency and productivity, and to audit process is constantly subject to changes given the need to keep pace with international trends and standards. A study conducted by help the Group as a whole achieve its strategic objectives. PricewaterhouseCoopers in the United States identifies some fundamental internal audit features as contributing significant value to companies. The Revenue No. of Audits Total Memos study identifies eight foundational attributes of internal audit and is said to be the basis of providing an effective internal audit function. 10000 25 250 Group Revenue (Rs m) 8000 20 246 200 SERVICE CULTURE COST EFFECTIVENESS STAKEHOLDER MANAGEMENT No. of Audits 6000 9,345 15 High-quality audits are undertaken by The Risk and Audit Department Effective stakeholder management 150 Memos the department while taking the specific needs is a business unit within Rogers. is focused on creating positive relationships 7,151 164 of each client into consideration. Our scope of As a profit centre, it has its own with stakeholders by efficiently managing 4000 10 100 121 work for each assignment is agreed with the annual budget which is approved their expectations and objectives. 6,187 relevant Management team prior to starting by the Board of Directors. There is an interaction and synergy 2000 5 50 the audit. It usually comprises of a mixture between external and internal auditors. of areas identified based on our risk analysis 0 0 0 and areas selected by Management where 13/14 14/15 15/16 13/14 14/15 15/16 they feel they require assistance in assessing or Financial Year Financial Year setting up internal controls. We are pleased to provide a feedback on how effective we were at achieving the risk management and internal audit initiatives that the Group set last year. PROCESS & TECHNOLOGY RISK FOCUS The risk-based approach methodology Please refer to page 108 in the Category Status adopted by the department is regularly Risk Management section. reviewed as a means to keep up Risk appetite with the latest trends and innovations in the internal audit profession. INTERNAL AUDIT Creating an organisation – wide risk-aware culture Embedding risk management function within each sector Completed PEOPLE & TALENT MODEL BUSINESS ALIGNMENT QUALITY & INNOVATION Occupational Health & Safety (OH&S) The Risk and Audit team is made up The Group aims at aligning its The Department maintains a of seven young, dynamic and high-calibre risk appetite and risk exposure professional relationship with Ongoing professionals, led by the in terms of its risk objective, its clients and is continuously Business continuity Head of Internal Audit and Risk Management. its current risk profile and its trying to innovate and improve current level of risk exposure. the quality of service. Malpractice reporting procedures Internal audit and risk management Dealing with emerging risks and opportunities (refer to page 112 for more details) 48 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Rogers Rogers ANNUAL REPORT 2016 49 Risk Governance & Internal Control FUTURE ORIENTATION We believe that it is important to consider future opportunities, prepare ourselves accordingly so that we can seize them. As a result of changes happening in the regulatory, legislative and compliance frameworks, the growing complexity of businesses, environmental changes and globalisation, business leaders are expected to think ‘bigger’. TOMORROW Future Orientation – our challenges: Embark on the risk governance reforms (new code of corporate governance) Add new richness to business insights NOW Remain a proactive and reliable business partner Develop and maintain the requisite skills Develop talents with deep business expertise Enhance on-the-job learning and development Align our risk management framework with our lines of defence Proficient use of data analytics and IT At Rogers, the Internal Audit and Risk Management team adheres to the standards and norms of the profession. We have taken cognizance of the new Code of Corporate Governance and we ensure that its elements will be factored into the approach, methodology and reporting dimensions of our work, applicable as from the financial year 2017. With the foreseeable future, the role of internal audit is evolving from an assurance provider to that of a proactive, valued business partner who is involved in pushing forward the companies’ strategic initiatives. In this role, we treat each entity of the Group as our ‘client’ and we aim at delivering value in every assignment completed. We aim at accompanying Senior Management in terms of services such as advisory and due diligence, whilst strictly preserving our independence. Our challenge is to maintain the ‘energy’ and ‘agility’ to cope with continuous businesses changes. The Head of Internal Audit and the Corporate Managers are committed to the development of the human capital of the Group. Through the ACA/ACCA training scheme, our engagement is not only to provide the Group with top-notch accountants but also to develop the managers, executives and leaders of tomorrow. A great emphasis is laid on the mentoring and coaching of our Audit Assistants and we provide all the support they need for their academic achievements. As part of the scheme, the Audit Assistants are seconded to the Finance and Accounts teams and on the other hand, the clients’ portfolio of the Corporate Managers is rotated on a regular basis so as to gain more experience and knowledge of the business. As mentioned earlier, risks will evolve continuously and so must we. We are constantly training and documenting ourselves so as to be on top of our game and to prepare for the challenges coming ahead. Other challenges for the years to come will be: • Management of big data and use of data analytics tools; • Reviewing of the audit delivery model; • Use of technologies to enhance, automate and continuously improving our audit methodology, process and risk management processes; and • Having a pool of certified internal auditors. We are setting industry standards and we have received the PWC Corporate Reporting Award in 2015. Our aim is to improve further. This demonstrates the seriousness, dedication and professionalism which we attach to this critical function. 50 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Rogers
