UN GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2015 www.cinop.nl Preface This report covers the Communication on Progress (COP) of CINOP in implementing the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. The document provides insight in our activities, procedures and values in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. CINOP is a social enterprise. This means our priority is to create In our business philosophy, sustainability and environmental social impact with our experience and services rather than responsibility are becoming core values for CINOP. Every year maximize revenues or profits. As social enterprise CINOP fully CSR becomes more important to CINOP. In 2015 CINOP has supports the ten principles of UN Global Compact. been asked by the city of ’s-Hertogenbosch to participate in the contest for most sustainable company of ’s-Hertogenbosch. The ten principles CINOP ended up in the top-3 most sustainable companies of 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of ’s-Hertogenbosch. internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights In our progress we are looking forward for the years to come. In abuses. 2015 we will allocate substantial resources, which are: 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and 1. Ensure inclusive and equitable quality educations and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; promote life-long learning opportunities for all. 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 2. Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and growth, full and productive employment and decent work 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment for all. and occupation. 3. Reduce inequality within and among countries. 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Yours sincerely, responsibility; and 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. By nature CINOP is dedicated to the concept of Lifelong Learning. It is our mission to support our partners and clients Mr Henny Morshuis in their task to educate and train both youth and adults for the CEO CINOP labour market and society of tomorrow. May 2016, ’s-Hertogenbosch, The Netherlands Through our projects CINOP aims to make a contribution to the learning and developing of people. For both clients as well as from a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) perspective. For example, in 2015 we developed a toolkit Dutch for refugees (free to use) who arrived in our country. Also volunteers recieve an extensive manual how to work with this language programme. 2 01. About CINOP CINOP is an independent, (inter)national expertise, research institutes, international research, projectmanagement, expert and bodies, EU authorities, NGOs. consultancy organisation specialised in Lifelong • Labour market: branchand industry Learning, Vocational Education & Training (VET), associations, employers’ and employee’s adult education and employability. associations, training and development funds, private companies. Based in ’s-Hertogenbosch in the Netherlands, the organisation currently employs about 150 Lifelong Learning as a mission professionals that are providing expertise CINOP believes in the continuous development and solutions to a wide range of clients in the of people. For us, learning does not stop after ‘golden triangle’ government-education-labour initial education. Every day people gather new market. National and internationally. knowledge and develop their skills; be it in a formal, non-formal or informal way. They do Working in the golden triangle so in further education, at the workplace or Throughout the years CINOP successfully as a citizen in the society. It is our mission to carried out numerous projects for both public contribute to the concept of Lifelong Learning and private organisations. Such as: and work with a joint goal in mind: enabling • Education: schools, educational institutions, people to use their talents and develop VET centres, private training providers, education. platforms, knowledge centres and umbrella organisations. • Government: national and local governments, semi-government, centres of www.cinop.nl Creating social impact via Lifelong Learning. 3 Together delivering sustainable solutions. Knowledge driven human capital Education & Training (ecbo). The centre To fulfil that mission we offer a knowledge has been set up to develop, disseminate driven pool of resources. Our employees and synthesise scholarly and practicehave different academic backgrounds and based information on VET – independently, specialties: from education specialists to systematically and to a high quality research professionals, projectmanagers, standard – for the benefit of the education language experts and socio-economic advisors. sector and society. Depending on type of project we decide which www.ecbo.nl combination of skills will be most effective to put in place. The CINOP organisation CINOP consists of various working units: • Public programmes • Consultancy practice CINOP is responsible for the implementation An important part of our business is realised of various policy programmes (primarily for by the CINOP consultancy unit. For both the national government in the Netherlands). governments, schools and labour market For example, we are managing the expertise parties we provide solutions on themes like centre handicap + study that supports the quality of VET, adult education, basic colleges and universities to make education skills, sustainable employability, labour accessible to students with disabilities. market mobility and career guidance. In Also regarding sustainable employability particular, our advisors are specialised in we carry out various programmes. For complex, multidisciplinary and innovative example, we manage the Knowledge Centre projects. on Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) and www.cinopadvies.nl are responsible for the development of the Dutch Qualifications Framework (NLQF). www.handicap-studie.nl www.nplll.nl • Centre for expertise in VET As a part of the CINOP organisation, an experienced group of researchers forms the Dutch Centre for Expertise in Vocational 4 • Connected learning in Europe UN Global Compact For years already, CINOP is participating in CINOP is member of the Board of the various European programmes that focus on Netherlands Network of the UN Global Lifelong Learning and internationalisation Compact (GC NL). The network is an initiative of in education. Since 2014 we are responsible Dutch business leaders to further stimulate the for part of the EU Erasmus+ programme. contribution of private business to sustainable Meaning we connect European and national development. Led and driven by signatory policy and practice in the fields of Vocational companies, GC NL will be guided in its efforts Education & Training (VET) and adult by the ten Global Compact principles and by the education. Other programmes are ECVET, Millennium Development Goals. Step by step, EPALE, EQAVET, Euroguidance and Europass. we work together to create a better world for With a shared aim to improve quality in future generations. education for students, adult learners, workforce and citizens. www.erasmusplus.nl www.cinoppubliekeprogrammas.nl BREAAM NL As an office based enterprise, the environmental responsibility that we take is maybe best shown by the fact that our office in ’s-Hertogenbosch • All over the world is one of the most sustainable buildings in the Within CINOP, a dedicated team of global Netherlands. With the BREEAM-NL certificate specialists is working for educational ‘very good’, CINOP is at the forefront of institutions, governmental authorities and sustainable real estate use. NGOs worldwide. CINOP Global carries out projects for the improvement of TVET in (developing) countries like Ghana, South Africa, Tanzania, Zambia, Indonesia, Saudi Arabia, Kenya, Rwanda, Colombia, Bhutan and Afghanistan. Adequate training in MVO Nederland practical and technical skills is the most CINOP is member of MVO Nederland. important challenge in TVET development. This Dutch network inspires, connects and Here we seek to apply the best methods, strengthens companies in the field of Corporate instruments, knowledge and practices Social Responsibility (CSR). The platform offers available in the EU. insights and tips to embed CSR in our business www.cinopglobal.com and further take responsibility for the impact of our activities on people and planet. Value driven CINOP is a value driven company. For our ISO 9001 clients and stakeholders we would like to be a CINOP is an ISO 9001 certified company. reliable and independent partner in delivering ISO addresses various aspects of quality sustainable and high-quality solutions in management and contains some of best known Lifelong Learning. Our corporate values: standards. Via this certification we ensure • Social responsible: support in learning and that our services consistently meet customer’s education; requirements and that quality is consistently • Entrepreneurial: in the most effective way; improved. • Partnership: with a joint goal in mind; • Sustainable: and respect for ‘People, Planet & Profit’; • Good governance: best possible process for making ‘correct’ decisions. 5 02. Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect respects the Universal Declaration of Human the protection of internationally proclaimed Rights (UDHR), across our activities and in human rights; and relationships with third parties (like knowledge Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit partners, financial donors, suppliers and clients). in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policy and Goals As our mission states, CINOP strongly believes In CINOP’s general Code of Conduct, employees in the concept of Lifelong Learning. With our (and associates) declare to: expertise we aim to contribute to the education • Show respect for cultural customs and and development of people and enable them will express our corporate values (social use their potential and develop their careers. In responsible, entrepreneurial, partnership, school, at the workplace, in the labour market sustainable). or in participating in social life. All around the • Abide to both local and international law and world, in a sustainable way. Because for us, show respect for the principles of neutrality every individual has unique talents and has the and impartiality. basic right to proper education (and work). No • Avoid involvement in any criminal activities, matter who they are or where they live. This activities that contravene human rights or specifically holds true for sometimes vulnerable those that compromise the work of CINOP. groups like low literate, disabled students, • Avoid any unnecessary risk to the safety, refugees or people without diplomas and/ health and welfare of youself and others, or jobs. Support via Lifelong Learning is part including partner organisations and of the company’s DNA. So by nature CINOP beneficiaries. For us every individual has unique talents and the right to proper education. 6 In addition CINOP employees are obliged to the initial training of nurses and midwifery in sign a specific Code of Conduct. This code Benin. deals with privacy, integrity and handling of public and private resources. Besides this there Internally in our workproces, CINOP has is a code to ensure proper use of internet and two counsellors (a woman and a man) who e-mail. Computing resources will not be used for may be contacted by employees if they any illegal or unethical purposes. are facing inappropriate behaviour such as sexual harassment, aggression or violence, Implementation discrimination or bullying. It may involve As part of our Corporate Social Responsibility harassment of colleagues or clients. policy (CSR), CINOP takes responsibility in the current refugee situation in Europe by Measurement of outcomes supporting refugees in learning Dutch when ISO 9001 ensures quality procedures to be in they arrive in the Netherlands. place, including periodical employee satisfaction Based on the universal right on education (and surveys and customer satisfaction surveys. work), CINOP is committed to ensure these The certificate was granted again in 2015 after refugees have fair chances to enter society and an external audit. For us, ISO is a process the labour market. It is not allowed for refugees of continual improvement that will provide to follow a language course until a status is the necessary management tools to improve granted. However, the need to learn a language working practices throughout the entire is large. Therefore CINOP developed a (free to organisation. ISO 9001 is also implemented for use) Toolkit Dutch which supports refugees to the foreign projects, judgement of associates, learn Dutch together with their mentors. following procedures on financial and content reports. The CINOP Complaints Committee did not receive any complaints from employees, business partners or clients in relation to In developing countries in Africa, Asia and Latin (potential) human rights violations, nor was America, adequate training in practical and the organisation involved in any human rights technical skills is the most important challenge incidents before or during the reporting period. in development of Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET). Via our projects Every year the CINOP councellors report worldwide, CINOP contributes to improving the (anonymously) on the cases they were involved quality of education which is essential for local in. No requests for counselling regarding social and economic development. Whenever inappropriate behaviour have been received in possible we also include attention for human 2015. rights. Human rights is considered as a cross cutting issue, especially in the projects related CINOP has a Risk Analysis system in place on to the development theme ‘security and rule fo both organisational and project level for every law’. The secretariat of the National Council of single business unit (including political and Bhutan was trained in the topic of human rights socio-economic risks). and visited the Netherlands Institute for Human Rights. In addition, speficic attention for human rights is included in NICHE projects in Indonesia where CINOP is involved in capacity building of the Police Academy, training for legislative drafters and improving an international law curriculum. Furthermore, various new global projects in which CINOP participates are directed at improving educational levels and strengthening employment. This ranges from support in capacity building at the Schools of Hygiene in Ghana to implementing female Colleges of Excellence in Majma’ah and Al Ahsa in Saudi Arabia and support in quality management in 7 03. Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom our recruitment procedures discrimination is of association and the effective recognition of the forbidden. We strictly select on suitability for right to collective bargaining; the job in terms of knowledge skills. CINOP Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced promotes hiring of employees (and students) and compulsory labour; with disabilities. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in In our Human Resources policy gender equality respect of employment and occupation. remains an important factor. This implies above all equal rights for men and women. In 2015 Through our (worldwide) projects aimed at the majority of our employees are women. the improvement of Vocational Education and CINOP has a significant amount of women in Training (VET) systems and adult education, managerial positions (i.e. our Management Team CINOP indirectly has a positive influence is equally divided between men and women). on the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour, the abolition of child labour CINOP actively facilitates and stimulates its and the elimination of discrimination in respect employees to participate in the Works Council of employment and occupation. that meets with the Management Team on a regular basis. Furthermore, a Supervisory As a reference to the positive correlation Board is in place who has regular meetings with between education and sustainability, CINOP the general director, managers and the Works endorses the UN definition to learning Council. as stated in the ‘UN Decade of Education for Sustainable Development 2005-2014’: Maybe even more important; the equality Education for Sustainable Development (ESD) principle also holds true in our work for clients. is fundamentally about values, with respect at Via our projects CINOP aims to give both the centre: respect for others, including those of male and female students equal opportunities present and future generations, for difference and with regard to universal access to education diversity, for the environment, for the resources and (future) employability. In particular in our of the planet we inhabit. Education enables us international projects gender is a cross cutting to understand ourselves and others and our links theme in our projects. This becomes visible with the wider natural and social environment, in all NICHE projects implemented in African and this understanding serves as a durable basis and Asian countries. For example in curriculum for building respect. Along with a sense of justice, development, organizational learning and responsibility, exploration and dialogue, ESD aims human resources development. to move us to adopting behaviours and practices that enable all to live a full life without being CINOP is communicating with the Dutch deprived of basics. Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Dutch donor organisations and Dutch development aid Assessment, Policy and Goals organisations about the achievements of the CINOP employs professionals from various Millennium Development Goals, in particular cultural, social and/or religious backgrounds. with respect to universal access to education Not only because we believe this contributes to and gender equality. These goals are also part of the diversity of our staff, but also because our the National Dutch UNESCO Committee where organisation sometimes needs this expertise we are member of the Workgroup Education. and these backgrounds in specific projects. In 8 In our projects worldwide gender equality receives special attention. CINOP is member of the UNEVOC Network and CINOP personnel has substantial influence forms the UNEVOC Centre in the Netherlands. on their own jobs and the way they operate. The network is an exclusive global platform Employees systematically meet with their for Technical and Vocational Education and managers and a system of progress interviews, Training (TVET) with the aim to further written plans and reports concerning personal mainstream South-South and North-Southdevelopment is in place. South cooperation. As an UNEVOC centre we are dedicated to achieve UNESCO goals in the Since 2013 employees are able to work according area of TVET. to the ‘any concept’: any time, any place, anywhere. This means that employees have Implementation a large degree of flexibility and freedom in CINOP has its own Collective Labour executing their work. Agreement; every year new negotiations take place, supported by Dutch labour union AOb Measurement of outcomes (Algemene Onderwijsbond). Employees can CINOP has a database with gender segregated become a member of this union who represents data of all employees and their specific their rights in labour and employment issues. functions. In our Corporate Social Responsibility Report data is published on gender, age, CINOP has an active Works Council in fulltime/parttime functions, absenteeism, which employees from all working units are etcetera. represented. They are actively involved by the board on issues concerning labour conditions All employees have yearly progress and and equality for employees. performance interviews with their manager. The appraisal is based on projects for clients, In 2015 an employee satisfaction survey is cooperation within the team, commercial carried out. Outcomes and improvement performance and personal development. possibilities are discussed with management and employees. The results are published on intranet. Employee satisfaction on their function and organisation was 86%. 9 04. Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a certificate that assess criteria like architecture, precautionary approach to environmental materials, finishing, waste, energy and climate challenges; system. Since 2013 CINOP is working in a new Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote office building. Sustainability and BREAAM greater environmental responsibility; and standards were a crucial condition in the design Principle 9: encourage the development and of the building and the way it is used by its diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. residents. Since we have received the BREAAM rating ‘very good’, the CINOP building is the The Dutch Green Building Council is an most sustainable office in ’s-Hertogenbosch. independent organization that has developed In the Netherlands only a few other officea sustainability label for new Dutch buildings based enterprises have received the same called BREEAM-NL. BREAM is the world’s classification. Of course, it is our ambition to most widely used environmental assessment further implement sustainable real estate use method for buildings. Clients can receive a and environmental performance. With our BREAAM-NL classification we are at the forefront of sustainable real estate use. 10 Environmental responsibility is furthermore As a continue process, CINOP is seeking and reflected in our digital flexwork concept and hiring (preferred) suppliers based on their ability policies regarding Human Resources and to demonstrate and certify that their products purchasing. Of course, with the underlying and services are produced with care for the goal to support a sustainable use of the world’s environment. By preference, we work together limited resources and care for the environment with local suppliers who take responsibility in we live and work in. the local community. For example, together with van Kaathoven Groep we are consequently Assessment, Policy and Goals try to reduce waste flows. We have separate Our flexwork concept enables and stimulates collection of paper, plastic, food, copiers, employee to work at home when possible. This batteries, organic, food and oil. Also in 2015 we to reduce travel cost and environmental impact. switched to a new cleaning supplier, Schoon Furthermore, our mobility programme provides Gewoon. Schoon Gewoon has a flat organisation employees incentives to use public transport form and promotes interval entrepeneurship. (instead of car use) or electric cars. This new organization form offers equality and fair profit share for it’s employees. Sustainable CINOP has an internal Corporate Social employability is a key performance indicator for Responsibility (CSR) Committee organising Schoon Gewoon. activities to make employees aware of the concept of ‘People, Planet & Profit’. This is made Procurement and purchase of materials for explicit in rules and regulations regarding the projects in African countries, Latin America and use of the building, catering (food & beverages), Asia, is mainly done in the respective countries office supplies, waste management and other to reduce prolonged transportation by land and commodities. air. Implementation As specialist in learning and education, we will The CINOP building is the most sustainable contribute to environmental awareness via our office in ’s-Hertogenbosch. The choice to locate projects where possible. For example, in 2014 the office directly opposite to the central train CINOP was active in Benin. Here the University station also has to do with sustainability. It is of Parakou is faced with the need to improve our goal to stimulate the use of public transport agricultural production systems and to assure as much as possible for both employees as food security in the light of changing climate well as visitors. Employees can also use a conditions. CINOP helped the university with ‘greenwheels’ option (car sharing) in the institutional capacity building, new training mobility programme. CINOP employees who offers and improve their competencies, by work outside Europe, have agreed to combine developing the curricula, taking into account their missions to different countries, to reduce food security and climate change. the number of flights. 11 Our catering only uses local products to reduce food miles. Also in 2015, CINOP continues to be active Measurement of outcomes in the Dutch network on sustainability in BREEAM sets the standard for best practice in Vocational Education and Training (Duurzaam sustainable building design, construction and Middelbaar Beroepsonderwijs (DMBO)). Goal operation and has become one of the most is to achieve knowledge transfer in stimulating comprehensive and widely recognised measures and implementing sustainability in VET at of a building’s environmental performance. schools and in curricula. CINOP operates under the BREEAM-NL rating www.duurzaammbo.nl ‘very good’. 12 05. Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against Implementation corruption in all its forms, including extortion and CINOP stimulates employees and managers bribery. to be honest and fair in business and financial transactions. In order to prevent any corruption, CINOP is committed to the UN Convention extortion or bribery, CINOP has strict Against Corruption (UNCAC) and condemns any administrative and control procedures in place. form of corruption. Employees, associates and especially financial staff are knowledgeable about the issues of Assessment, Policy and Goals corruption. In CINOP’s Code of Conduct, employees (and associates) officially declare that they Measurement of outcomes use information, funds and resources, either As required by law, CINOP has an external originating from projects or provided by CINOP, accountancy firm to audit and check all in a responsible manner and take responsibility procedures and transactions to control for all money and property, following the compliance with the financial rules and appropriate policy and procedural requirements. regulations. No complaints with regards to Especially international projects in countries corruption, bribery or extortion were received with perceived high levels of corruption during 2015. are closely monitored on possible cases of corruption. 13 14 15 CINOP P.O. Box 1585 5200 BP ’s-Hertogenbosch The Netherlands +31 (0)73-6800800 info@cinop.nl www.cinop.nl
