www.piraeusbankgroup.com Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 The collection and presentation of the content in the 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report are the product of the work of all units of Piraeus Bank and its subsidiaries in Greece and abroad. Concept & Design: MNP Actualization, Layout & Production Management: EZ-dot Printing: Pressious Arvanitidis Athens, August 2016 The 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report of Piraeus Bank was printed on Munken Polar paper, obtained by environmentally-friendly processes. The Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC®). Its mission is to promote environmentally responsible, socially beneficial and economically viable management of the world’s forests. The 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report of Piraeus Bank is available online at: www.piraeusbankgroup.com/en/investors/financials/annual-reports and as an iOS & Android tablet Application at “Piraeus Group Kiosk”. Hard copies of the Report are available upon request to the Business Planning & IR Group: 4, Amerikis Str., GR-105 64, Athens, T: +30 210 3335026 Investor_Relations@piraeusbank.gr Last update of Piraeus Bank Corporate Responsibility Report: June 29, 2016 It is the speaker who gives speech value, not the other way around. Words, phrases and ideas take on new weight, new power when delivered with conﬁdence and conviction. Thankfully, trust is built up over time. Piraeus Bank was at your side once more in 2015, as large and us to be. But as reliable as ever, and always speaking in clear, serious and simple terms. 5 CHAIRMAN' s NOTE In 2015, intense developments in the domestic environment gave prominence to the importance of the robustness of the banking system for the economy and consequently, for society. During the past year, the Greek banking system entered unchartered waters, having to face significant headwinds and unprecedented events for our country, such as the bank holiday and the restrictions in the movement of capital. The year ended with the 4 systemic banks’ recapitalization process, which created significant capital reserves, thus contributing to a gradual restoration of confidence. In 2016, this effect was offset to some extent, following the adverse conditions in global markets. Despite the challenges in the economic environment, Piraeus Bank’s basic axis continued to be further upgrading of its activities which support society, culture and the environment. A profound development in the first half of 2015, which occurred in the midst of the heightened uncertainty in the country followed by significant deposit outflows, was the strengthening of the bonds with depositors and the level of customer service provided by the Bank’s employees, which constitute a a valuable asset for the future. The Bank devoted all its mechanisms and infrastructure to the benefit of its customers, both prior and post the imposed capital controls. The aim was to provide the customers with the best possible service and assistance to cover their needs regarding their savings, granting priority to vulnerable social groups. Advanced technological infrastructures, flexibility and speed, combined with our employees’ expertise and professionalism were the driving forces behind the solutions provided to our customers, which, even in the most challenging of times, were extremely well received, as they continue to be to this day. Consistent with our efforts to tackle the consequences of the economic crisis, we continued assuming initiatives regarding planning and providing targeted solutions. The Bank’s commitment to support local communities where it operates lies within this context and is not restricted to bank financing, but also extends to providing expertise through specialized training and business/commercial plan per region, adapted to our customers’ individual needs in each area and focusing on agricultural development. Concurrently, through the network of special thematic technological Museums of the Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation (PIOP) which operate as vibrant hubs of culture in the Greek periphery, we contribute to the preservation of culture and industrial heritage. We support local communities both on a financial and a cultural level, planning scientific events and educational programs. The network of Museums contributes to the economic development of 6 local communities as well as increasing tourism in remote or island regions. It is important to stress that since 2004, Piraeus Bank has been voluntarily participating in the United Nations Global Compact. The guiding Ten Principles of the Compact, which concern the respect of human and labour rights, the protection of the environment and the fight against corruption, constitute the context on which we base our efforts. We continue the programs for the reduction of our environmental footprint, as well as for the tackling of climate change and the protection of biodiversity. All the above actions are owed to the valuable contribution of the executives and employees of the Group and confirm their quality and dedication to our common vision, to our common goals towards balanced development. In the Annual Report which follows we describe the principles of corporate responsibility that we adopt. These include the actions and initiatives we undertook in 2015 as well as our future goals, always according to the standards of the Global Reporting Initiative, which is extensively referred to in this report. Finally, in a period when private funds are limited, we continue to support the transition to a Green economy and entrepreneurship without exclusions. In fact, for this reason, we are the only Greek bank that has signed the Positive Impact Manifesto of the UNEP Financial Initiative (UNEP FI). In the beginning of July 2016, Piraeus Bank completed 100 years of presence in the Greek banking system. We continue our course, with equal faith and the same philosophy: Consistency, quality, diligence, priority in the needs of customers and the economy and respect to the interests of all shareholders. We are ready to respond to the new needs deriving from a demanding domestic and European economic conjuncture, facing the future with optimism. Michalis Sallas Chairman of the Board of Directors Corporate Responsibility Report 7 CONTENTS Information Regarding the Content Corporate Governance of the 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report 47 11 Customer and Supplier Relationships Selected Figures Associated with 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report 61 25 Human Resources Participation in Global Initiatives and 81 Harmonisation with International Standards Society, Culture and the Environment 33 115 Stakeholders’ Dialogue Appendix: Gri Index and Iso 26000 39 167 8 ΔΙΑΧΩΡΙΣΤΙΚΟ ΚΕΦΑΛΑΙΟΥ The sea isn’t blue. It’s transparent. Corporate Responsibility Report 11 INFORMATION REGARDING THE CONTENT OF THE 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT The present Corporate Responsibility Report covers the calendar year 2015 and forms part of the Piraeus Bank Group Annual Report, the content of which pertains to all Group activities. The Corporate Responsibility Report aims to provide complete and symmetric presentation of certain important non-financial aspects of the organization’s work in relation to its management structure, its customers, suppliers, employees, society and the environment. It also serves the purpose of gradually and fully implementing the corporate responsibility principles already in effect at Piraeus Bank to all group subsidiaries as well as extending the relevant know-how required. The Report is structured with the aim of conforming to the Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative G4 (GRI-G4) to determine its content (Materiality, Stakeholder Dialogue, Viability Sustainability Context, Completeness), the report-writing guidelines (Balance, Clarity, Accuracy) and the method of reporting data (Timeliness, Comparability, Reliability). Piraeus Bank Group has been implementing the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines for the 9th consecutive year, believing that this model defines a clear framework of principles that facilitates the disclosure and communication of corporate responsibility issues for both the Bank Group itself and all stakeholders. The Table of Global Reporting Initiative (page 165) contains all the information for the key GRI G4 indices required for the basic level “In Accordance – Core”, as well as the corresponding indices of financial supplement (G4 Sector Disclosures: Financial Services). Since 2013 the Group has also been abiding by the International Standard Guidelines for Social Responsibility ISO 26000, (page 173) with the aim of strengthening and optimally incorporating social responsibility into the Organization’s values and principles. This international standard contains guidelines for implementation and promotion of the basic principles of Corporate Responsibility in a company’s activities, in key issues such as: corporate governance, human rights, labor practices, the environment, fair operating practices, consumer issues and participation in growth of society. Piraeus Bank Group voluntarily follows the directions for the publication of annual and progress reports as indicated by the UN Global Compact, and posts its Annual Report on the relevant website (www.unglobalcompact.org). The present Piraeus Bank Group Report has been assured by Ernst & Young. The detailed Independent Assurance Statement is included in page 17 of the present Corporate Responsibility Report. 12 Information regarding the content of the 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report piraeusbankgroup.com> Collection and Processing of CRR data el>investors>financials> annual-reports For the collection and processing of the 2015 data, electronic database management systems were applied and internal processes have been adopted to ensure the validity and reliability of information. The 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report aims to cover all Group activities; however, some of the data reported and quantitative measurements are focused on specific areas of its activities. Wherever this applies, reference is made to the relevant Report sections. Dialogue with stakeholders and promotion of Corporate Responsibility issues Communication and dialogue with stakeholders constitutes a strong tool for promoting key issues related to Corporate Responsibility. By adopting this mechanism, one can distinguish those CSR issues that have the most substantial and timeless effect on society. These issues constitute the basis for the development and activation of mechanisms for sustainable improvement of an organization’s operations. Towards this direction, in 2015 as well, apart from the regular communication and collaboration framework that has been established with each group of stakeholders, as described on pages 3943, Piraeus Bank has also adopted an evaluation process by means of a survey in order to define and record current related to Corporate Responsibility issues based on principles of Materiality, Stakeholder Dialogue, Viability Sustainability Context and Completeness. In this, participants were asked to assess, on a standardized scale, an extensive range of corporate responsibility issues regarding the level of materiality (from 1=very low to 5=very high). The questionnaire was addressed to an extensive sample of 202 participants, both internally and externally of the Group. Materiality survey based on questionnaire 22 issues were assessed, relating to interested parties and to society as a whole (environment, culture). Through this process, the 22 issues have been ranked based on their materiality, with participants noting areas of improvement and/or changes, which will be taken into consideration by the Group. The issues incorporated in the survey’s questionnaire constitute aspects of corporate responsibility which may possibly have a positive or negative effect on stakeholders, such as customers, employees, suppliers, NGOs. These issues have emerged from Piraeus Bank’s systematic communication with the interested parties and are defined by the actuality, current crisis conditions, existing corporate responsibility practices as well as surveys and corporate responsibility indices pertinent to the Bank. All material issues might change over time, as does what we know about them, and new issues may arise. Piraeus Bank re-evaluates their materiality once a year, in the context of compiling the Annual Report. From the analysis of the survey results it was concluded that each category of respondents has a different perspective on each issue. This parameter was taken into account to prevent the exclusion of any issue as immaterial; however, from the weighted average of all respondent categories and of total survey questions, the following 11 issues are distinguished in order of materiality, and are presented in more detail in this Report. Specifically: 1. The Bank serves customers in a responsible 2. Continuous improvement of products/services and honest manner. (Q1) to benefit customers. (Q2) Responsible handling of customers includes proThe Bank must adopt methods of detecting posmotion of products and services in an honest mansible adverse effects on customers and implement ner as well as ensuring that all the products are corrective measures. safe, whatever their origin. Corporate Responsibility Report 13 3. The Bank responds responsibly to the chal7. Assurance of a healthy work enivironment. lenges posed by the economic crisis and capital (Q10) controls. (Q3) Provision of support programmes for employees The Bank responds to the present challenges with a and their family members. strong sense of responsibility by promoting a spirit of collaboration and taking measures to support the reorganization of sustainable businesses and 8. Business initiatives for the protection of biodisectors, with the aim of enhancing the productivversity. (Q13) ity and competitiveness of the economy as well as strengthening employment. Support of programs and business initiatives aimed at protecting biodiversity and ecosystems. 4. Reduction of the environmental impact from the Bank’s operation. (Q12) 9. Social policy implementation. (Q7) Implementation of an Environmental Policy aimed The Bank's operational needs are covered by inat reducing the impact of the Bank’s operation on ternal reallocation of existing Human Resources. the environment by means of recycling programs Thus, job positions are maintained, supporting loand more effective natural resource management. cal economies and social coherence. 5. Provision of equal opportunities and ensuring 10. Support of local communities. (Q20) human rights. (Q9) Support of employment, economic and tourist acEstablishment of human resource management tivities and the overall development of local compractices in accordance with the UN Global Communities. pact, provision of equal opportunities for all employees, acceptance and integration of diversity in 11. Employees' continuous training. (Q6) the workplace. Encouraging continuous learning based on strategic and business priorities, so that through training 6. Support of the Greek cultural heritage. (Q16) programs, the Bank actively supports the effective Support of the preservation and enhancement of management of operational risk, the good customGreek cultural heritage. er's experience and the development of its work. The first chart below depicts the materiality report results of the sample survey regarding the 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report. The horizontal axis represents how Group stakeholders and participants perceive the materiality of each issue and the vertical axis represents the evaluation given by Piraeus Bank Group. The Bank has chosen to ensure 9 of the above issues which are listed in the pillars of Corporate Responsibility (Q1, Q2, Q3, Q6, Q9, Q12, Q13, Q16, Q20). For each of the issues assessed, the aspect boundary has been determined as well as whether it is material only within the Piraeus Bank Group or outside, or both. This is illustrated in detail in the second chart. Questions and views on the Report and its content may be submitted at: Investor_Relations@ piraeusbank.gr. 14 Ετήσια Έκθεση 2015 1 Materiality analysis Low Medium High Q3 High Q1 Q6 4.5 Q5 Q10 Q7 Q9 Q2 Q8 Q18 Q20 Q12 Q22 Q16 Q21 4.0 Q15 Q4 Q14 Q19 Medium Q17 Q11 Q13 3.5 Piraeus Bank Group 3.0 Low 3.0 3.5 4.0 4.5 Stakeholders Q1 The Bank serves customers in a responsible and Q12 Reduction of the environmental impact from the honest manner. Bank’s operation. Q2 Continuous enhancement of products/services Q13 Business initiatives for the protection of biodiversity to the benefit of customers. and ecosystems. Q3 The Bank responds responsibly to the challenges Q14 The Bank addresses the effects of climate change. posed by the economic crisis and capital controls. Q15 Environmental awareness. Q4 The Bank contributes to the enhancement of the Q16 Support of Greek cultural heritage. level of customers’ banking literacy. Q17 Relationship between Culture and the Environment. Q5 The Bank cultivates a uniform Group culture. Q18 Operation of the Museum Network in the Greek Q6 Continuous employee training. periphery. Q7 Implementation of a social policy. Q19 Cultural and scientific actions. Q8 Uniform procedure for employee performance Q20 Support of local communities assessment. Q21 Training and life-long learning. Q9 Provision of equal opportunities and ensuring Q22 Research programs and the Historical Archive. human rights. Q10 The Bank ensures a healthy work environment. Q11 Volunteerism. 2 Τίτλος ενότητας Corporate Responsibility Report 15 Material Aspect Boundaries Q1 Q2 Q3 Q7 Q9 Q12 Q6 Q10 Q20 Q13 Q16 Q1 Piraeus Bank Group Q6 Piraeus Bank Group Group Subsidiaries,Employees Group Subsidiaries, Employees Environmental organizations/ Partners and PIOP agencies agencies, Partners and PIOP agencies Suppliers, Market,Institutional Bodies Suppliers, Customers, Market Q10 Piraeus Bank Group Institutional Bodies Group Subsidiaries, Employees Q2 Piraeus Bank Group Environmental organizations/agencies, Employees Partners and PIOP agencies,Suppliers, Environmental organizations/ Customers, agencies, Partners and PIOP agencies Q9 Piraeus Bank Group Suppliers, Customers, Market Institutional Bodies Employees Q3 Piraeus Bank Group Environmental organizations/agencies Partners and PIOP agencies Group Subsidiaries, Employees Suppliers, Customers, Market, Institutional Environmental organizations/ Bodies agencies, Partners and PIOP agencies Q16 Piraeus Bank Group Suppliers, Customers, Market Institutional Bodies Group Subsidiaries Employees Q7 Piraeus Bank Group Environmental organizations/agencies Group Subsidiaries, Employees Partners and PIOP agencies, Customers Environmental organizations/ Q13 Piraeus Bank Group agencies,Partners and PIOP agencies Suppliers, Customers Employees Environmental organizations/agencies Partners and PIOP agencies, Suppliers, Q12 Piraeus Bank Group Customers Employees Q20 Piraeus Bank Group Environmental organizations/ Employees agencies, Partners and PIOP agencies Suppliers, Customers, Market Environmental organizations/agencies Institutional Bodies Partners and PIOP agencies Suppliers, Institutional Bodies 16 Corporate Responsibility Report 17 ERNST & YOUNG (HELLAS) Tel: +30 210 2886 000 Certified Auditors – Accountants S.A. Fax:+30 210 2886 905 8B Chimaras street, Maroussi ey.com 151 25 Athens, Greece iNDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT TO THE MANAGEMENT OF PIRAEUS BANK SA The “2015 Corporate Responsibility Report” (“the Report”) of Piraeus Bank S.A. (“the Bank”) has been prepared by the Bank’s Management which is responsible for the collection and presentation of the information contained therein. Our responsibility is limited in carrying out a limited assurance engagement on specific scope on the Report, as well as the review of the Report’s “in accordance”-Core option adherence against the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (“GRI G4”). Our responsibility in performing our assurance engagement is solely to the management of the Bank and in accordance with the terms of reference agreed between us. We neither accept nor we assume any responsibility and for any other purpose to any other person or organization. Any reliance any third party may place on the Report is entirely at its own risk. WORK SCOPE AND CRITERIA The assurance engagement has been planned and performed in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (ISAE3000), in order to provide a limited level assurance opinion on: 1. The accuracy and completeness of quantitative data and the plausibility of qualitative information related to the GRI G4 General Standard Disclosures, required for the “In accordance – Core” option. 2. The accuracy and completeness of quantitative data (performance indicators) and plausibility of statements (GRI G4 Disclosures on Management Approach – GRI G4 “DMA”) related to the GRI G4 Specific Standard Disclosures, which correspond to nine(9) material issues, as presented in the Bank’s materiality analysis. 3. The Report’s “In accordance” – Core adherence against the related GRI G4 requirements. The GRI G4 General and Specific Standard Disclosures under the scope of our engagement are indicated in the Report’s GRI G4 Content Index, found on pages 165-174. 18 WHAT WE DID TO FORM OUR CONCLUSIONS In order to form our conclusions we performed (but were not limited to) the steps outlined below: • Performed interviews with Management execument buildings) or from the Group’s subsiditives in order to understand the Bank’s corpoaries, to test completeness of coverage (derate responsibility processes, policies and acpending on assigned boundaries) of reporting tivities during the reporting period. entities and to examine for selected reporting • Reviewed information in order to substantiate entities the checks which have been applied at data and statements regarding the Bank’s suscorporate level. tainability performance during 2015, as these • Reviewed relevant documentation and reportare presented in the Report. ing systems, including collation tools, templates • Reviewed the Bank’s processes for determining used, and guidance documents. material issues to be included in the Report, the • Reviewed the Report for the appropriate prescoverage of these material issues within the Reentation of the GRI G4 General and Specific port, as well as material issues covered by meStandard Disclosures under the scope of our dia, and sustainability reports of selected peers. engagement, a procedure which also included • Interviewed specialists responsible for managdiscussions about limitations and assumptions ing, collating and reviewing data related to the relating to the way data are presented. GRI G4 General and Specific Disclosures under • Reviewed the GRI G4 Content Index found on the scope of our engagement, for internal and pages 165-174 as well as the references includpublic reporting purposes. ed therein, against the GRI G4 requirements for • Reviewed data reported to corporate level from the “In accordance – Core” option. the reporting entities (branches and manageLEVEL OF ASSURANCE Our procedures were designed in order to obtain a limited level of assurance (as set out in ISAE 3000) on which we formed our conclusions. The extent of these procedures is less than those designed to obtain a reasonable level of assurance and therefore a lower level of assurance is obtained. LIMITATIONS OF OUR REVIEW • Our review was limited to the Greek version of of third party activities or performance, nor atthe Report. In the event of any inconsistency in tending any stakeholder engagement activities. translation between the English and Greek verIn addition, it did not include any review of the sions, as far as our conclusions are concerned, accuracy of survey results assigned to third parthe Greek version of the Report prevails. ties, nor Information Technology systems used • Our review was limited to information related to by third parties, but was instead limited to the the GRI G4 General and Specific Standard Disproper transposition of the final survey results closures under the scope of our engagement, –under the scope of our engagementto the and did not include financial data nor the corReport. responding narrative text in the Report. • Our review did not include testing of the Infor• We do not provide any assurance relating to mation Technology systems used or upon which future information such as estimates, expectathe collection and aggregation of data was tions or targets, or their achievability. based by the Bank. • The scope of our work did not include any review CONCLUSIONS Based on our review and according to the terms of reference and the limitations of our work, we report the following conclusions. Our conclusions are based on the appropriate application of the selected criteria and should be read in conjunction with the “What we did to form our Corporate Responsibility Report 19 conclusions” section above. 1. How complete and accurate are the quantitative data and how plausible is the qualitative information related to the GRI G4 General Standard Disclosures under the scope of our engagement? • Nothing has come to our attention that causes that would materially affect the way they are us to believe that any reporting unit or Group presented. subsidiary company, according to the set • W  e have reviewed information and explanations boundary and time period stated in the Report, on selected Management statements related is not included in the quantitative data of the to the GRI G4 General Standard Disclosures, as Report related to the GRI G4 General Standard these are presented in the Report, for which no Disclosures under the scope of our engagement. misstatements came to our attention. • Nothing has come to our attention that causes • N  othing has come to our attention that causes us us to believe that errors or inaccuracies exist to believe that the Group’s materiality analysis, in the collation of the quantitative data related as found on pages 11-15, is inaccurately to the GRI G4 General Standard Disclosures presented based on the procedures followed by under the scope of our engagement, or in the the Bank. transposition of these data to the Report, 2. How complete and accurate are the quantitative data (performance indicators) and how plausible are the statements (GRI G4 Disclosures on Management Approach) related to the GRI G4 Specific Standard Disclosures under the scope of our engagement? • Nothing has come to our attention that causes Specific Standard Disclosures under the scope of us to believe that any reporting unit or Group our engagement, or in the transposition of these subsidiary company, according to the set data to the Report that would materially affect boundary per material issue and the time period the way they are presented. stated in the Report, is not included into the • W  e have reviewed information and explanations quantitative data (performance indicators) on selected Management statements (GRI G4 of the Report related to the GRI G4 Specific Disclosures on Management Approach) related Standard Disclosures under the scope of our to the GRI G4 Specific Standard Disclosures, as engagement. presented in the Report and no misstatements • Nothing has come to our attention that causes came to our attention. us to believe that errors or inaccuracies exist in the collation of the data related to the GRI G4 3. Does the Report meet the GRI G4 requirements of the “In accordance – Core” option? Based on our review, nothing has come to our accordance – Core” option, as presented in the attention that causes us to believe that the GRI G4 Content Index, found on pages 165-174. Report does not meet the requirements of the “In INDEPENDENCE EY (ERNST & YOUNG (HELLAS) Certified Auditors Accountants S.A. has implemented a set of audit quality control policies and practices which meet the requirements of the International Standards on Quality Control issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB), including the International Standard of Quality Control 1 (ISQC 1). We conducted our engagement in compliance with the requirements of the IFAC Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (“the Code”), which requires, among other requirements that the members of the engagement team, as well as the assurance Firm, are independent of the client, including not being involved in writing the Report. EY has systems and processes in place to monitor compliance with 20 the existing independence rules as they are defined by the Code. EY and all professional personnel involved in this engagement have met these independence requirements. ASSURANCE TEAM The professionals which participated in the engagement are members of and are supported by the EY Climate Change and Sustainability Services Global Network, which undertakes similar engagements in Greece and at a global level. Athens, 29 June 2015 For and on behalf of ERNST & YOUNG (HELLAS) Certified Auditors Accountants SA. Vassilios Kaminaris Corporate Responsibility Report 21 22 Green is a better colour than grey. Corporate Responsibility Report 25 SELECTED FIGURES ASSOCIATED WITH THE 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 26 Επιλεγμένα στοιχεία Έκθεσης Εταιρικής Υπευθυνότητας 2015 Ετήσια Έκθεση 2015 3 Selected figures associated with Corporate Responsibility Human Resources Society Customers Shareholders Internal coverage of Contribution to society, Active Group customers 82 staffing needs culture and the 5.6mn thousand 84% environment 1,5% Customer satisfaction Employees of annual recurring preIndex (Greece) Meetings/Briefings with 19 tax and provision profit of total respondent customers investors and analysts thousand Volunteer actions 93% 818 Training man-hours 147 Green Banking customers 846 Volunteers 21 thousand 13 thousand thousand Reporting date of data 31.12.2015. Corporate Responsibility Report 27 The Environment The development of the Environmental and Social Management System in financing began in 2015 along with the further integration of social and environmental criteria in the policy of the Bank. Piraeus Bank is the first Greek bank with all its branches and all Administration Buildings certified since 2011, according to regulation EMAS1 and ISO 14001:2004, as well as one of the largest organisations that has this demanding environmental certification. • Net financial profit from the implementation of • I n 6 buildings of the Group, more than 770 emenvironmental programmes in the Bank exceeds ployees used environmentally certified cleaning €5 mn annually. products. • With the electronic signature service ‘e-Sig•T  wo years of actions were completed for the nature’ 30,000,000 sheets of paper are saved restoration and sustainable management of every year; or 3,600 trees. Lake Stymfalia, in the framework of the Euro• 16% increase in paper recycling per employee. pean co-funded project LIFE-Stymfalia and in • 12% of the consumed paper was from sustainco-operation with PIOP. ably managed forests (FSC certified paper). •U pgrading of the Climate Risk Management • Approximately 1,000 tonnes of paper and Model, with emphasis on the sectors of Agricul21,300 toners were recycled. ture and Manufacturing. • 2% annual reduction of electricity consumption •T he climate exposure of the bank's business borper m2. rowers. • 3% annual reduction of total CO2 emissions per •9 75 MW of RES capacity funded by Piraeus Bank employee. Group until the end of 2015, preventing the • 75 branches and administration buildings were emission of over 2,124 mn tonnes of CO2 into renovated with energy and water saving interthe atmosphere. ventions. •7 ,000 new jobs created and maintained from • Building Energy Management Systems (BEMS) the targeted funding by Green Banking for the were installed in 63 branches. period 2011-2015. With the LIFE-Stymfalia project, the Bank undertakes actions to preserve and promote biodiversity as well as to provide innovative solutions for the financing of protected areas. CULTURE • 7 thematic museums in operation at select sites expansion of its thematic titles with emphasis in Greek regional areas (Soufli, Dimitsana in on environment. Arcadia, Lesvos Island, Tinos Island, the moun• I mplementation of the PIOP action plan for tainous region of Korinthia, Volos, Sparta) while Thessaloniki with 1,681 participants. 2 new museums are expected to launch within •C  ompletion of participation in the Local Plans 2016: the Chios Mastic Museum and the Silverfor Employment (TOPSA) in Arcadia, Nemea and smithing Museum in Ioannina. Corinth in the framework of a closer collabora• 147,913 visitors in 2015, of which 72% free of tion with the local communities. charge. • Energy  upgrading and EMAS certification of Pi• Operation of Historical Archive as a multi-purraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation (PIOP) pose cultural center for multiple recipients. Museums. • Enhancement of PIOP Library’s operation and •1  4 exhibitions. 1 Eco-Management and Audit Scheme. 28 Selected figures associated with the 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report • 115 cultural actions and 129 partnerships with • S cientific support to the Hellenic Ministry of Edother institutions. ucation, Research and Religious Affairs program • 151 educational actions and programs and 129 for promotion of Greece’s Intangible Cultural anniversary educational programs for minors Heritage (UNESCO). UNESCO certification of and adults. PIOP as advisory body on matters of intangible • 12 standard educational programs and 15 educultural heritage. cational programs. •1  ,526 volumes of PIOP publications were donat• 27 series of actions and 10 “horizontal” actions ed to libraries, social groups and organizations. – realized for the same purpose at all the Mu•1  21 educational folders were sent to schools. seums. •1  ,167 volumes (12 titles) of PIOP publications • Completion of the project “Pausanias 2.0: From were provided as university textbooks at signifithe School to the Museum”. cantly lower prices. • Partnerships with other institutions, such as the •P  articipation of PIOP executives in national and Eugenides Foundation, the Science Center & international scientific and educational agenTechnology Museum NOESIS and the “Diazoma” cies. Association Citizens for Greek Ancient Theatres. • Design and implementation of a research program to codify, record and map the cultural sites in the protected areas included in the Natura 2000 “Cultural Sites”. • Design of a digital strategy for PIOP and of a more specialized digitization plan for the Foundation’s research programs. Corporate Responsibility Report 29 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PRINCIPLES Corporate Responsibility is the means by which businesses voluntarily incorporate social and environmental concerns into their business activities and in their interaction with other stakeholders. It regards the actions of businesses over and above their legal responsibilities towards society and the environment2. Piraeus Bank is committed to including social, environmental, and cultural actions in business practices and assumes initiatives over and above the legal obligations with the aim of enhancing social welfare and progress. 1. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OPTIMISATION • Transparency in governance and operational governance and operation. structures, as well as in the processes of part• Symmetric and systematic information disseminers’ and providers’ assessment and selection. nation to the investment and business commu• Adoption and realisation of best practices of nities, media and NGOs. 2. ALIGNMENT OF BUSINESS TARGETS WITH SOCIAL PROGRESS AND SOLIDARITY • Effective customer service before and after the aim of promoting competitive fields with product and service sales, with emphasis on the potential and prospects for growth. Bank’s consulting role. • Strengthening of entrepreneurial initiatives with 3. ADOPTION OF BEST WORKPLACE PRACTICES Development of a humane and responsible organisation, where competent, committed and inspired employees work collectively to lead the market through diversity, innovate by adding value and ensure the prosperity and sustainable development of the Group. 2 EUROPEAN COMMISSION, A renewed EU strategy 2011-14 for Corporate Social Responsibility, 25.10.2011. 30 Corporate Responsibility Principles 4. HARMONIOUS RELATIONSHIP WITH SOCIAL PARTNERS Returning part of the value generated by the Bank to its social partners within a strategically designed and systematic framework of social actions. 5. PROMOTION OF CULTURE • Active contribution to the promotion of Greece’s (PIOP). cultural identity through the creation, operation • S afeguarding and highlighting of Piraeus Bank’s and maintenance of the network of thematic Historical Archive. technological museums of the Piraeus Bank •P  rovision of scientific advisory material to pubGroup Cultural Foundation (PIOP), which act as lic and local community bodies in shaping culcultural focal points in the Greek region, and tural policies. by organizing scientific events and educational •O  peration of a specialized library. programs for adults and minors. • I nterconnection of Culture and the Environment • Continued implementation of research proby means of the thematic field: ”Cultural Sites”. grams and publications relevant to the purposes of the Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation 6. ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION USING NATURAL RESOURCES RESPONSIBLY AND SUPPORTING ENVIRONMENTALLY BENEFICIAL BUSINESS ACTIVITIES • Systematic support of green entrepreneurship and biodiversity and enhancement of the social through integrated services to customers. A key fabric. concern is the development and support of an • Development of evaluation tools and procedures extensive range of green products and services. to manage climate change risk. • Development of strategies to improve the • Support to individuals and enterprises and prepaGroup’s environmental performance and reduce ration of market to better adapt to the effects of its operational environmental footprint. climate change. • Development of innovative solutions for business Corporate Responsibility Report 31 Piraeus Group corporate responsibility strategic targets A To strengthen corporate i.  o strengthen internal monitoring with the compliance framework T governance and the adoption of best international practices ii. To strengthen the Group’s transparency and accountability iii. To promote extroversion B To engage Human Resources i. To apply best practices in the workplace to allow for employee skill development ii. To create a common Corporate Responsibility culture iii. To place emphasis on continual environmental/social education and training of employees iv. To promote volunteerism and the notion of contribution to society C To develop a relationship i. To inform shareholders and investors about the Group’s strategy of cooperation with our and Corporate Responsibility issues Shareholders and Partners ii. To promote synergies and support civil society in order to achieve social and environmental targets iii. To educate/train our customers in relation to their banking transactions and inform them about issues of society, culture and the environment iv. To establish a framework of environmental/ social approaches with our suppliers v. To strengthen society and vulnerable groups in particular D To support the Knowledge i. To organize entrepreneurship schools/programmes in fields such Society as agricultural development ii. To collaborate with Greek tertiary education institutions/universities in the framework of student internships iii. To support education providers iv. To facilitate studies by means of targeted educational scholarships Ε To promote the Cultural Heritage i. To promote Greece’s production history by means of thematic of Greece museums, publications and other activities ii. To provide scientific knowledge regarding our cultural heritage iii. To interconnect culture and the environment iv. To protect and promote the Group’s Archive material v. To educate and sensitize citizens about our cultural heritage and for a more prosperous future. F To protect the Environment i. To reduce the environmental footprint of the Group’s operation ii. To develop strategies to deal with the Bank’s omit it from climate change iii. To participate in the restoration and protection of biodiversity and ecosystems G To promote green i. To create products and services that support businesses which entrepreneurship contribute to the fight against climate change, loss of biodiversity and have as a main priority the creation and preservation of jobs ii.  To support businesses and individuals whose investments are beneficial to society and the environment while ensuring the financial viability of such investments H To support the young generation i. To enhance youth entrepreneurship ii. To contribute to the efforts towards retaining the young generation in Greece iii. To create special youth training programmes I To promote innovation i. To invest in innovative digital applications for customer information, banking services, operation of PIOP Museums ii. To support business plans that promote innovation Corporate Responsibility Report 33 PARTICIPATION IN GLOBAL INITIATIVES AND HARMONISATION WITH Global Standards Piraeus Bank abides by the principles of sustainable development and actively participates in global initiatives and corporate sustainability indices. Through these initiatives and based on international standards and practices, the Bank undergoes continuous evaluation and develops its corporate responsibility. The Bank aims to continuously enhance its corporate responsibility and to promote its significance to the business and social environment. PARTICIPATION IN GLOBAL INITIATIVES For Sustainable Development United Nations Global Compact Since 2004, Piraeus Bank has been voluntarily participating in the UN Global Compact, actively supporting it and promoting its principles, which pertain to human and labor rights, environment protection and anti-corruption. The 10 Global Compact principles and the actions taken by Piraeus Bank in order to comply with these, are the following: 34 Participation in global initiatives and harmonisation with International Standards Basic Principles Implementation method description or reference to the 2015 corporate responsibility report Human rights 1. Support, respect and protection of inter- Full compliance of the Group with nationally proclaimed human rights within the relevant Greek and international the businesses and their sphere of influence legislation 2. Ensure that businesses have no complicImplementation of the Group’s Human ity in human rights abuses Right’s Policy - 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report, Human Resources Labour 3. Upholding the freedom of association - Full compliance of the Group with and the effective recognition of the right to the relevant Greek and international collective bargaining legislation 4. Elimination of all forms of forced and - 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report, compulsory labour Human Resources 5. Effective abolition of child labour 6. Elimination of discrimination in respect to employment and occupation The environment 7. Support the precautionary principles in -2 015 Corporate Responsibility Reenvironmental challenges port, Society, Culture and the Envi8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater ronment environmental responsibility 9. Encourage the development and expansion of environmentally-friendly technologies Anti corruption 10. Corporate action against all forms of Code of Conduct and Compliance Policy corruption, including extortion and bribery Relevant terms in employment contracts Labour Relations Framework - Control mechanisms and procedures and anti-money laundering information systems (including fraud detection) - 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report, Corporate Governance - 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report, Human Resources Corporate Responsibility Report 35 UNITED NATIONS ENVIRONMENT PROGRAMME FINANCE INITIATIVE (UNEP FI) Since 2007, Piraeus Bank has been participating in the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI), having signed the UNEP Statement of Commitment by Financial Institutions on Sustainable Development. In accordance with the Statement of Commitment, Piraeus Bank recognises that economic development needs to be compatible with human welfare and a healthy environment and it has committed itself to taking into consideration protection of the environment, social responsibility and sustainable development in its business decisions. UN GLOBAL COMPACT “CARING FOR CLIMATE: THE BUSINESS LEADERSHIP PLATFORM” The Bank has signed the UN Global Compact “Caring for Climate: The Business Leadership Platform”, which provides a framework for businesses to advance practical solutions and create public awareness on Climate Change issues. “PARIS PLEDGE FOR ACTION” INITIATIVE Piraeus Bank Group has joined the “Paris Pledge for Action” initiative, launched in the framework of the UN Climate Change Conference 2015 (COP21), whereby the Bank pledges to support the objectives of the Paris Agreement. “Declaration of Intent for Energy Efficiency” of the United Nations Environment Programme Financial Initiative In September 2015 Piraeus Bank, co-signed the Declaration of Intent on Energy Efficiency of UNEP FI, recognising that the financial sector has the capability to direct capital flows towards activities and investments that promote energy efficiency. The Bank is willing to contribute actively and work for the development of such funding and guide customers to adopt best practices in their decisions. Finally the Bank is willing to co-operate with institutional and public bodies that pursue to develop funding tools for the climate. “Positive Impact Manifesto” for the transition to aN INCLUSIVE green economy In October 2015 in the context of the Annual General Meeting of UNEP FI, Piraeus Bank cosigned along with nine other big banks, the Positive Impact Manifesto for the Transition to an Inclusive Green Economy. The Manifesto promotes an approach that is based on the positive impact of the banking sector and puts forward a daring and innovative vision regarding the central role held by banks in the achievement of sustainable development. Hellenic Network for Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR HELLAS) Since 2007, Piraeus Bank is a full member of HNCSR, participating actively in initiatives regarding the promotion of corporate responsibility and good practices that are developed in Greek businesses. 36 Participation in global initiatives and harmonisation with International Standards ISO 26000 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (INTERNATIONAL STANDARD GUIDELINES FOR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) Since 2013, the Group has been abiding by the International Standard Guidelines for Social Responsibility ISO 26000, with the aim of strengthening and optimally incorporating social responsibility into the Organization’s values and principles. This international Standard contains guidelines for implementation and promotion of the basic principles of Corporate Responsibility in a company’s activities, in the following key issues: corporate governance, human rights, labor practices, the environment, fair operating practices, consumer affairs and participation in and development of society. SUSTAINABILITY INDICES AND DISTINCTIONS Dow Jones Sustainability Index Piraeus Bank was included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index Emerging Markets for a second consecutive year, following its assessment by RobecoSAM Corporate Sustainability Assessment. In the 2015 assessment, the Bank was ranked higher than 72% of all banks assessed. Piraeus Bank is the only company based in Greece to be included in this international sustainability index, whose other members include the best 10% of the 800 largest companies operating with corporate sustainability in developing countries. Sustainability Yearbook 2016 Piraeus Bank qualified for inclusion in RobecoSAM’s 2016 Sustainability Yearbook, following its selection as an index component of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index Emerging Markets. The Sustainability Yearbook has listed the most sustainable companies in each industry and globally as determined by their score in RobecoSAM’s annual Corporate Sustainability Assessment. Piraeus Bank’s inclusion in the 2016 Sustainability Yearbook indicates that it is within the top 15% of the banking industry worldwide and is one of the 37 banks included in the Yearbook and the only company from Greece. Investors in People Piraeus Bank Group received the Investors in People (IiP-Gold) certification in 2015 for the Group’s Human Resources & Organizational Training Unit. It is the highest distinction ever obtained by an organization or business unit in Greece. This distinction proves Piraeus Bank Group’ s active orientation and dedication towards undertaking innovative initiatives and actions regarding human resource issues. Moreover, it contributes to more substantial development and enhancement of its business performance to the benefit of its customers, with the aim of achieving even higher goals through systematic effort, collaboration and respect. HR Excellence Awards In 2015, the Group’s Human Resources & Organizational Training unit received three significant distinctions in the framework of the HR AWARDS, in the “Health & Well Being” category. More specifically, the silver award in the category “Excellence in Workplace Well-being” and the gold awards in the categories “Excellence in Employee Work-life Balance” and “Best Mental Health Resilience Initiative”. These awards aim to promote initiatives, practices and policies by the Group’s Human Resources Management which enhance Health & Well Being in the working environment. Corporate Responsibility Report 37 Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Since 2010, Piraeus Bank has been submitting to the CDP information concerning its environmental performance and the respective actions and initiatives. In 2015, the CDP rated with a score of 97C to the Bank’s initiatives to tackle climate change, verifying that the Bank takes action in order to integrate climate risk and opportunity in its core business. Sustainalytics The sustainability research and analysis firm Sustainalytics assessed Piraeus Bank’s actions regarding environmental, social and corporate governance issues and graded it with 69 out of 100 points, ranking it 38th out of 222 banks assessed globally. (Assessment: February 11, 2015) Ethibel EXCELLENCE Investment Register Piraeus Bank has been selected for inclusion in the Ethibel EXCELLENCE Investment Register, following the Forum ETHIBEL announcement. This selection indicates that the company’s Corporate Social Responsibility performance is above average in the banking sector. Corporate Responsibility Index (CRI) For the 8th consecutive year, Piraeus Bank participated in the Corporate Responsibility Institute’s annual assessment, receiving the Platinum distinction for its Corporate Responsibility for the 5th consecutive year. Οekom research AG The rating agency oekom research AG rated the Bank’s performance regarding environmental and social issues with D+, thus recognising its integrated approach to the implementation of the Environmental Policy and emphasizing the need for fuller integration of environmental and social factors into the management of its assets. 38 Corporate Responsibility Report 39 STAKEHOLDERS’ DIALOGUE Piraeus Bank defines as stakeholders constituents whose actions directly impact or influence its long term course, its business activities and its position in society as well as those on whom the Bank’s operations have a direct impact or influence. INVESTORS COOPERATION FRAMEWORK P  rovision of precise information regarding the course and strategy of the Group, necessary to evaluate investment in Piraeus Bank. MEANS OF COMMUNICATION – COOPERATION • Disclosure of quarterly financial results (preseconferences, roadshows, conferences). entations, press releases, teleconferences, in• Immediate response to individual requests by ternet). Announcement of business developmeans of website and e-mail contact form. ments (press releases, internet). Contact with the Shareholder Registry. • Contact with the Management and the special • General Meetings of Shareholders. Investor Relations unit (events, meetings, telCUSTOMERS COOPERATION FRAMEWORK Responsible information and provision of products and services with respect to the code of business conduct and ethics. 40 Stakeholders’ dialogue MEANS OF COMMUNICATION – COOPERATION • 24h/7 Customer Call Centre. personalized organization and management of • Branch network and alternative channels (ATMs, their funds. e-banking, mobile banking).Customer Service• I mmediate response to individual requests by complaint handling procedure. means of website and e-mail contact forms. • Seminars and informative meetings with cus• S ignificant presence in social media. tomer groups. •V  oice of Customer program: Tool applied for • Customer satisfaction survey at regular intersystematic and structured collection and analyvals. sis of the customers’ experience with the Bank’s • Structured discussion between customers and products and services. the “Relationship Management Service” for INVESTMENT ANALYSTS COOPERATION FRAMEWORK Information regarding the course and strategy of the Group to evaluate investment in Piraeus Bank shares or securities. MEANS OF COMMUNICATION – COOPERATION • Regular contact with Management and spebasis (presentations, press releases, teleconcialized Investor Relations Division (presentaferences). tions, meetings, teleconferences, roadshows). • Communication of business developments • Disclosure of Financial Results on quarterly (press releases, website). BANKS COOPERATION FRAMEWORK Mutual Information sharing and collective representation in financial agencies. MEANS OF COMMUNICATION – COOPERATION • Contact and meetings with relevant units at • Cooperation with foreign financial agencies each Bank. and associations in the framework of bilateral • Participation in legislative drafting or techniand multi-lateral collaborations. cal committees at an international, European and national level. BUSINESS COMMUNITY COOPERATION FRAMEWORK Mutual cooperation on a win-win basis. MEANS OF COMMUNICATION – COOPERATION Regular dialogue and cooperation with trade associations, commercial, and industrial chambers. Participation in seminars and other information events. Corporate Responsibility Report 41 EMPLOYEES & THEIR FAMILIES COOPERATION FRAMEWORK • Open Communication with employees and safelenges they face in all aspects of their lives. guarding their ongoing development, fair treat• Employee sensitization and strengthening of ment and rewarding. dialogue regarding corporate responsibility is• Provisions for strengthening employee resilsues. ience in order to effectively manage the chalMeans of Communication – Cooperation • Internal network (Intranet – HR Portal). • Established procedure for employee perfor• Internal newsletter “winners” distributed to mance review and competency appraisal. all Group employees. • Collective Representation. • Piraeus Bank Group Employee Culture and • Employee Assistance Programs for employees Satisfaction Surveys. and their families. • Open communication with all employees con• Volunteer actions with employee participacerning staffing needs to offer development tion. and transfer opportunities. • Employee-Volunteer Interest Survey. • Meetings/events. • Employee cultural sensitivity actions. • Focus groups. • Training and development programmes. STATE-REGULATORY AUTHORITIES COOPERATION FRAMEWORK Group compliance with the regulatory framework. MEANS OF COMMUNICATION – COOPERATION • Ordinary and extraordinary communication with • Data provision, report compilation, meetings, supervisory authorities. participation in consultations. LOCAL COMMUNITIES COOPERATION FRAMEWORK Supporting local actions. MEANS OF COMMUNICATION – COOPERATION • Operation of Museum Network on a national level local level. (support to local economies, job creation, col• Providing guidance for cultural development prolaboration with local suppliers). jects to third parties. • Organizing/support of local social and cultural events/cultural tours and training programs at 42 Stakeholders’ dialogue THE MEDIA COOPERATION FRAMEWORK Information, communication and promotion of corporate actions and products of the Group. MEANS OF COMMUNICATION – COOPERATION • Press releases and conferences. • Communication through the Bank’s Press Office. • Social Media. NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (NGOs) COOPERATION FRAMEWORK Supporting environmental and social actions. MEANS OF COMMUNICATION – COOPERATION • Synergies for common interest actions for soci• C  ooperation through volunteer actions and ety, culture and the environment. Financial supcommon European programs. port of specific NGO actions. SUPPLIERS/SERVICE PROVIDERS COOPERATION FRAMEWORK Cooperation on a win-win basis. MEANS OF COMMUNICATION – COOPERATION • Established procedures for supplier and service ance of live material demonstrations for large provider tendering, evaluation and selection procurements of information systems, green through outsourcing. supplies & procurement etc. • Seminars, informational meetings and attendCorporate Responsibility Report 43 CREDIT RATING AGENCIES COOPERATION FRAMEWORK Information regarding the course and strategy of the Group to evaluate the credit rating of Piraeus Bank. MEANS OF COMMUNICATION – COOPERATION Regular communication and meetings with Management and relevant Bank units. Provision of financial data. 44 ΔΙΑΧΩΡΙΣΤΙΚΟ ΚΕΦΑΛΑΙΟΥ Rivers are the safest one-way streets because they always lead to the right spot. Corporate Responsibility Report 47 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The incorporation of best governance principles in all Group activities constitutes a key target for Piraeus Bank Group. The Bank applies the institutional framework of corporate governance, and the recently established regulations on corporate governance as stipulated by the provisions of the Law 4261/2014. In this framework, constant upgrading of the systems of: governance, internal control, regulatory compliance, transparency and information dissemination towards the investment community constitute key concerns for the Group. Piraeus Bank safeguards its corporate interests as well as the interests of its shareholders: • Piraeus Bank has adjusted its Board of Directors’ rience per subject of BoD members, and c) the (BoD) composition in order to comply with the description of the individual skills and qualificaapplicable legislation pertaining to Executive, tions that it believes are required to fulfill the Non-Executive and Independent members. The BoD member positions. The suitability of BoD description of BoD members as independent is members is evaluated by the ECB’s Single Subased on the criteria set by Law 3016/2002 and pervisory Mechanism. For as long as the Hellenic the Greek banking regulatory framework. In all Financial Stability Fund (HFSF) holds shares or cases of independent candidate nominations by contingent convertible bonds of Piraeus Bank, the BoD, the requirements of both the aforeBoD members are obliged to fulfill the criteria mentioned Law and the regulatory framework of Law 3864/2010 and are subject to evaluation are met. Moreover, both the legislation and the under the same law. The BoD members’ evaluabanking regulatory authority require particution is underway, as provided for by the law follarly high skills/abilities and competence of the lowing its amendment and its entry into force. banks’ BoD’s both individually and collectively, • T  he Audit Committee, comprised of non-Execsome of which can only be acquired from exutive BoD members, which monitors and evalutensive banking experience. The Bank has a BoD ates the efficiency and effectiveness of the Member Candidate Nomination Committee, the Internal Control System at Parent and Group aims of which are: a) identification of candilevels, based on the data and information prodates in relation to BoD positions available and vided by the Internal Audit Unit, including the the approval of these by the BoD or the Annual findings and remarks of the external auditors General Meeting, b) the evaluation of the comand regulatory authorities. bination of the breadth of knowledge and expe• T  he Risk Management Committee, which aims 48 Corporate Governance to cover all forms of risk (credit, market, op• The Compliance Unit, which institutes and aperational), and ensure integrated risk control, plies procedures and prepares the annual comexpert risk management and the required copliance program in order to achieve the Group’s ordination on individual and consolidated basis. timely and continuous compliance with the ef• The Corporate Governance and Board of Direcfective regulatory framework, to ensure comtors Secretary units, which are responsible for plete adjustment to the regulatory framework the development of Corporate Governance acfor combating terrorism and preventing the tions and programs approved by the Manageinvolvement of the banking system in legalizing ment, for the supervision of their implementafunds that originate from criminal activities. tion in the Bank and the Group’s companies in • The Investor Relations, Shareholder Registry Greece and abroad, in addition to the operaand Corporate Announcements services, are tional support provided to the BoD and its comentrusted with the task of informing investors, mittees by applying Corporate Governance best shareholders and appropriate regulatory aupractices. thorities accordingly. • The Internal Corporate Governance and Oper• In the framework of the responsibilities arising ating Regulations Manual, which ensures transfrom the state funds that the Bank received, in parency and symmetrical information, and enJanuary 2013, Monitoring Trustees were apcompasses issues which are not stipulated in the pointed to all 4 systemic banks. At Piraeus Bank, Bank’s Articles of Association but are indispenthe firm KPMG undertook the role of Monitoring sable for its smooth operation. It also has the Trustee. Code of Conduct, which governs the obligations •P  iraeus Bank signed and applies (in its amended of the Group’s employees. and valid form) the Relationship Framework • The Group’s Internal Audit (Internal Audit Unit Agreement (RFA) regarding banks to which the under Act 2577/2006 of the Governor of the Hellenic Financial Stability Fund (HFSF) has proBank of Greece), which is independent, reports vided capital aid, either in the form of shares or to the Board of Directors through the Audit contingent convertible bonds, according to Law Committee and the CEO of the Bank, and is re3864/2010. sponsible for Group-wide internal control. The RFA regulates the relationship between the Banks and the HFSF, as well as the issues related, among others, to: a) the corporate governance of each Bank, b) the drafting and approval of Restructuring Plan, c) the monitoring of theNPL’s Restructuring Plan materialization and the implied risk exposures for the Bank, d) the important liabilities of the Restructuring Plan and changes to the voting rights by the HFSF, e) the consensus rights of the Fund and f) monitoring of implementation of the Bank’s policy regarding NPL’s and g) the rights of the HFSF representative in the Bank’s BoD. It is noted that the Bank’s management will continue to independently determine the Bank’s business strategy and policy, according to the Restructuring Plan and the Bank’s management bodies continue to hold the responsibility for the day-to-day operations. Information regarding the aforementioned RFA is published according to the regulations of the Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policies (MEFP) on the HFSF internet site (www.hfsf.gr). In addition, Piraeus Bank’s Restructuring Plan received the approval of the European Commission in July 2014. Following that and in the framework of the Comprehensive Assessment by the ECB, the results of which were announced on 31 October 2015, the existing Piraeus Bank Restructuring Plan was amended, mainly due to the significant changes in macroeconomic variables in the Plan implementation period (2015-2018) and the Bank’s recapitalization. The amended Plan has already been approved by the HFSF and the Directorate-General for Competition (29.11.2015). The new terms, based on the revised and approved Restructuring Plan, do not deviate significantly from the basic terms of the 2014 Restructuring Plan and are aligned with the Bank’s medium-term strategic and financial goals. Since November 4, 2014, the ECB has assumed responsibility for the supervision of banks in the Eurozone, with direct supervision of 120 important bank groups, including Piraeus Bank Group, representing 80% of total banking sector assets in the EU. The Single Supervisory Mechanism (SSM) constitutes one of the three pillars of the European Banking Union (the other two being the Single Resolution Mechanism –SRMand the Deposit Guarantee Scheme) and a new system in bank supervision, made up of the ECB and the relevant national authorities of the participating countries, whose basic aim is to contribute to the safety and soundness of banking institutions and to the stability of the European financialsystem by ensuring consistent performance monitoring. Corporate Responsibility Report 49 SUPREME MANAGEMENT BODIES For more details on implementation of The supreme body of Piraeus Bank is the Shareholders’ General Meeting, and inter alia is responinstitutional regulations sible for electing the Board of Directors that manages and represents the Bank judicially and & Corporate Governance extrajudicially. practices, please refer to: Consolidated Annual Financial Piraeus Bank’s Board of Directors, which was elected by the Annual General Meeting of the Report 2014>Corporate Shareholders on May 16, 2014, for a three-year term (excluding the representatives of the HFSF Governance Statement and the Greek State) has the following composition at present, after changes (resignations, replacement of members), the formation of the BoD into a body and the appointment of executive and non-executive members, according to Law 3016/2002: Chairman of the Board of Directors Michalis G. Sallas Non-Executive Member Vice Chairmen Apostolos S. Tambakakis, Independent Non-Executive Member Stavros M. Lekkakos, Non-Executive Member Executive Members Georgios J. Poulopoulos, Deputy CEO Hariklia A. Apalagaki, Executive Director Non-Executive Members Eftychios Th. Vassilakis, Non Executive Member Iakovos G. Georganas, Non Executive Member Vassilios St. Fourlis, Non Executive Member Alexander Z. Blades, Non Executive Member Chariton D. Kyriazis, Independent Non Executive Member Arne S. Berggren, Independent Non Executive Member Karel G. De Boeck, Independent Non Executive Member David R. Hexter, Independent Non Executive Member The appointed representatives participating in the BoD are: Ekaterini C. Beritsi, Representative of the Hellenic Financial Stability Fund, according to Law 3864/2010 Gerasimos K. Tsiaparas, Representative of the Greek State, according to Law 3723/2008. Board of Directors Committees Audit Committee Risk Management Committee Remuneration Committee Board Members’ Nomination Committee Strategic Planning Committee Group Executive Committee Main Executive, Administrative & other Committees and Councils Supervisory & NPL Management Council Information Technology (IT) Planning and Operating Quality Committee Senior Credit Committee Recovery Credit Committee Asset-Liability Management Committee (ALCO) 50 Corporate Governance piraeusbankgroup.com> Expenditure Committee Annual Financial Report Corporate Responsibility Committee 2015> Corporate Governance Appeals Committee Statement Macroeconomic Affairs Committee REMUNERATION POLICY A remuneration policy has been established, as an integral part of the Group’s corporate governance, aimed at deterring from excessive risk-taking and at continually strengthening the Group’s values and long-term interests. The remuneration policy, designed based on the framework of the Governor’s Act 2650/19.1.2012 of the Bank of Greece, of the subsequent provisions of Law 4261/2014 (regarding employee remuneration) and of article 450 of EU Regulation No 575/2013 and No 604/2014, is in accordance with the Group’s business strategy and supports its performancedriven culture, which aligns the organization’s goals with those of the interested parties, employees, management and shareholders. The remuneration-defining procedures are clear, recorded and with internal transparency. The Remuneration Policy is based on the following principles: • Maximization of performance. • Internal transparency. • Talent attraction and retention. • Deterring from excessive risk-taking. • Alignment of remuneration and rewards with profitability, risk, capital adequacy and sustainable growth. • Compliance with the regulatory framework. REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Remuneration Committee is responsible for regular reviews of the Group’s Remuneration Policy as well as for monitoring its implementation. The Committee is composed of NonExecutive BoD members, the majority of whom are independent, including the Chairman. The Committee takes into account the long-term interests of the shareholders, the investors and other involved parties in the credit institution. It is oriented towards long-term, prudent management of the institution and towards prevention or minimizing of conflict of interest situations which would be detrimental to this management. The function and detailed responsibilities of the Committee are governed by its regulation framework. Its responsibilities include: • Preparing the decisions concerning remuneraequacy are taken into account. tion, ultimately taken by the BoD, which should • E nsuring the necessary advisory contribution of correspond to their authority, duties, specialithe supervised institution’s relevant units (Risk zation, performance and responsibilities and Management, Regulatory Compliance, Internal which have an effect on the institution’s riskAudit, Human Resources, Strategic Planning) is taking and management as well as monitoring provided for shaping, reviewing and consistentthe implementation of these decisions. ly applying the remuneration policy,) as well as • Ensuring that during the evaluation of the for external experts – when deemed necessary mechanisms adopted to align the remuneration by the BoD. policy with risks undertaken, all kinds of risks along with the Bank’s liquidity and capital adCorporate Responsibility Report 51 OTHER INVOLVED PARTIES The Remuneration Policy is designed by the Group’s Human Resources with the participation of the Risk Management, Compliance and Internal Audit Units. It is submitted to the Remuneration Committee which in turn proceeds with any potentially necessary changes before submitting it to the BoD’s non-executive members for final approval. The independent audit units contribute to the design of the Remuneration Policy; however, they are primarily involved with the Policy’s review and monitoring process, which is conducted at least once a year. The non-executive members of the BoD could, if deemed necessary, collaborate with an external advisor. It is duly noted that no external advisor participated in the shaping/ review of the Bank’s Remuneration Policy in 2015. REMUNERATION STRUCTURE Total remuneration may include variable components, apart from the fixed ones, in order to ensure a link between remuneration and long-term business effectiveness. In all cases, standard remuneration constitutes the greatest part of total remuneration. Variable remuneration may be provided as reward for performance based on pre-defined qualitative and quantitative targets and are linked to the individual’s performance, their division, the Bank/Group and the long-term business targets. Indicative criteria that are assessed for payment of variable remuneration may include among other, profitability, minimum capital adequacy, effectiveness, management of change, development of partnerships etc. Variable remuneration is paid or guaranteed only when they are acceptable based on the Group’s broader financial condition and on performance. It should be noted that evaluation of employees with control duties is not linked to the outcome of the processes/units audited by them. In order to strengthen the link between variable remuneration and long-term Group targets, the award of variable remuneration is spread over time; the amounts awarded for both deferred and non-deferred variable components, are not only paid in cash but in other instruments as well (eg shares). CRITERIA FOR CANCELLATION /RETURN OF VARIABLE REMUNERATION The Bank may cancel payment of deferred variable remuneration if specific performance indicators are not met. The same may apply if serious breaches in regulations/procedures are detected. Moreover, if at a later date it is decided that the reasons for payment of this variable remuneration were wrong, the total deferred payment originally calculated may be cancelled. If deceit or misleading of the Group concerning payment of variable remuneration is detected, the employee may be required to return it, sublject to compliance with labor leglislation. PRINCIPLE OF PROPORTIONALITY The Bank applies the current regulatory framework based on the Principle of Proportionality, taking into consideration the Bank’s nature and size, its structure and the complexity of activities etc. REMUNERATION DISCLOSURE The following tables provide quantitative information on remuneration of senior management and employees with significant impact on the Group’s risk profile, analyzed by business sector: 52 Corporate Governance Remuneration per business sector (in thousand €) Total number of Total Fixed Total Variable employees Remuneration* Remuneration per business area Investment Banking 17 1,777 5 Retail Banking 134 12,097 236 Asset Management 9 311.26 Support Operations 62 6,335 110 Independent Control Operations 36 1,840 30 Other Operations 17 1,864 * Including severance payment amounts due to Voluntary Exit Scheme (VES). The VES was implemented by Piraeus Bank Group and formulated according to specific criteria. The Scheme was addressed to all employees of Piraeus Bank and its Greek subsidiaries, with indefinite term employment contracts and in-house lawyers. VES severance payments were not associated with risk assumption as per the Bank of Greece Governor’s Act 2650/19.01.12. VES Scheme has been duly authorized by the Hellenic Financial Stability Fund (HFSF). Employee Remuneration Subject to Remuneration Policy (in thousand €) BoD Members Senior Employees whose Mangement* Actions directly Impact risk profile Employee numbers per category 99 32 275 Total fixed renumeration 9,111 5,873 24,224 Total variable remuneration, of which: In cash: 526 381 In shares: Financial means related to shares: Other means: Total deferred remuneration, of which: Vested**: 65 42 Non-vested**: 264 179 Deferred remuneration to be paid and reduced by adjustments Employees who received sign-in payment Total amount of sign-in payment Employees who received severance payment Highest severance payment amount paid to an individual * Senior Management includes employees whose actions directly impact the Group’s risk profile. ** Vested remuneration and non-vested deferred remuneration paid in 2015 is included in total variable remuneration. INTERNAL AUDIT SYSTEM The Piraeus Bank Group has set up a strong Internal Audit System (IAuS) to ensure protection of its assets, the individual and detailed maintenance and safeguarding of its customers’ assets and to ensure the interests of its shareholders. It systematically monitors the efficiency and effectiveness of the existing System, promptly implementing the actions that may be required to constantly deal with and reduce risks as the IAuS aims to not only eliminate possible risks but also deal with them preemptvely and in a timely manner. At the same time, the Group applies early warning mechanisms to ensure consistent implementation of the IAuS in the Divisions as well as full compliance of all parties involved with the Corporate Responsibility Report 53 principles and targets of the System. It is a priority for the Bank to develop and constantly upgrade the Internal Audit system, on both an individual and group level. Auditing mechanisms and procedures which cover all activities and transactions and are conducive to the Bank’s effective and safe operation –are recorded in detail and constitute the IAuS. Responsible for implementing the IAuS are: 1. The Internal Auditor 2. The Audit Committee 3. Internal Audit Unit In accordance with the effective statutory framework, the IAuS is supported by an integrated communication and Management Information System (MIS) as well as mechanisms which complement each other and constitute an integrated audit system of the organizational structure and the activities and the Bank as well as of the Regulations. The members of the Board of Directors have the ultimate responsibility for maintaining, monitoring and assessing the efficiency and effectiveness of IAuS. They assess IAuS annually and design the strategy for its improvement based on the relevant report submitted by the Bank’s Administration and on the Audit Committee’s report observations. The efficiency assessment of IAuS on a Bank and Group level is assigned periodically and at least once every three years following the Audit Committee's recommendation to external, non regular, chartered auditors/ accountants. The relevant evaluation report is made known to the Bank of Greece within the first six months of the year following the three-year expiry. INTERNAL AUDIT The Group’s Internal Audit is independent and reports to the Bank’s Board of Directors, through the Audit Committee and supervises and coordinates the activities of Internal Control units in the Group subsidiaries. Within this context, in 2015, the Group’s Internal Audit: 2015 actions • Maintained its continual observation and moniMoney Laundering (AML) monitoring process at toring of branch activities in Greece and subGreek Branch Network level. sidiary banks in Bulgaria, Romania, Albania, • Conducted the relevant monitoring of effecUkraine and Serbia by means of the Regional tiveness and efficiency of the Internal Audit Divisions’ Auditors, and in particular by develSystem and the Recovery Banking unit as well oping scenarios of examination of related transas of the framework for the management of actions. obligations regarding loans in arrears and non• Continued the development of a data base using performing loans (Executive Committee’s Act/ own resources aimed at electronic transaction BoG/42/30.05.14). tracing, the development of fraud identification • Monitoring that corporate governance rules are and prevention “scenarios”, and at supporting being implemented with emphasis on monitorthe auditing work performed by Regional Diviing of related party transactions, in accordance sions’ Auditors. with the relevant requirements of the Bank’s • Provided consulting in the development of spebinding RFA agreement with the HFSF. cific Bank processes in order for them to incor• Continued training and further specialization of porate proper auditing mechanisms. its managers, directing them towards appropri• Participated in the development and conducting ate professional certifications (CIA, CISA, CFE, of specialized seminars on more effective operCFSA etc.) and towards their further specializaation of branches and combating fraud. tion. • Contributed to further strengthening of the Anti 54 Corporate Governance 2016 key targets The action plan for the Group’s 2016 Internal Audit, which aims to continuously perform its duties smoothly and successfully in order to strengthen IAuS operation in the parent Bank, as well as to Group subsidiaries in Greece and abroad, will place particular emphasis on the following, among others: • Further developing scenarios of examination with the relevant requirements of the Bank’s and search of related transactions. Full integrabinding RFA agreement with the HFSF. tion of the monitoring system. The system is • A  pplication of quality assurance in audit prosuccessfully operating in Greece, Albania, Bulcesses at Group level. garia, Romania, Serbia and Ukraine and within • S upport the Management for more effective 2016, the e-search system is set to be extended monitoring of findings that remain pending. to Cyprus as well. •P  articipation of Internal Audit executives of • Implementation of the credit policy and practhe Group as speakers at training sessions tartices manual regarding compliance with invoicgeted mainly at Branch executives and new eming processes based on risks and ensuring the ployees, with the aim of informing them about adequacy and effectiveness of the centralized risks assumed while conducting transactions. credit control system. Moreover, in the framework of the Bank’s sup• The Adequacy and effectiveness of IAuS for the port towards the shaping of a common culture Group Recovery unit. in the internal audit system of the expanded Pi• Compliance with the framework of the superraeus Bank branch network, the Group’s General visory responsibilities for management of obDivision of Internal Audit has committed itself ligations regarding loans in arrears and nonto participating in the transfer of the relevant performing loans (Executive Committee’s Act/ know-how at the Bank’s Regional units’ meetBoG/42/30.05.14). ings and in meetings to this aim both at a Man• Monitoring that corporate governance rules are ager and Branch Manager as well as at a total being implemented with emphasis on monitorbranch employee level. ing of related party transactions, in accordance EXTERNAL AUDITORS According to the resolution of the General Meeting of Shareholders of Piraeus Bank made on 29.06.2015, the audit firm PricewaterhouseCoopers was chosen as Certified Auditors for Piraeus Bank’s stand alone and consolidated financial statements for 2015; more specifically, Mr. Dimitrios Sourbis (Reg. no. 16891) was appointed Regular Certified Auditor. Certified Auditors may offer their services for a period of no more than four consecutive years and their reappointment may take place after the lapse of three consecutive years. MANAGEMENT OF RELATIONS WITH SUPERVISORY AUTHORITIES & SUPPORT OF FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT In order to better cover thespecific needs of the Bank, such as the Bank’s response to the supervisory authorities’ requirements and optimization of the Bank’s Financial Management, in 2015, the following three separate sections of Management Information were formed: Corporate Responsibility Report 55 Supervisory Relations Unit In accordance with the new supervisory framework and due to the number of supervisory/ institutional authorities monitoring the Bank (Bank of Greece, ECB, SSM, SRM, HFSF, Monitoring Trustee etc), in 2015, the special Supervisory Relations Unit was formed with the aim of managing the Bank’s communication with these. The Unit’s main duties are to provide timely and accurate information to the Supervisory Authorities, management of requests as well as consistency in sending the relevant reports. In addition, a key area of responsibility for the unit is coordination of the Bank’s Units in order to better manage requests and ensure the necessary response mechanisms to the supervisory requests and to draft the supervisory reports. In 2015, the Unit focused mainly on the following projects: •Total supervision and management of Group restrict and timely compliance with the Plan and lations and communication with the Supervisory Corporate Responsibility. Authorities and of the relevant feedback within •Coordination for the completion and sending of the Group. reports such as the MREL/BCBS QIS 6-monthh •Design/update and monitoring/supervision in report, the SREP-STE 3-month report, the SREPcollaboration with the Monitoring Trustee of the CVA-QIS, EBA-Quantitative Impact Study. action plan of the basic Commitments of the Re•Coordination for Resolution Planning due to the structuring Plan as well as the coordination of new Single Resolution Mechanism. the Bank Units and Group companies to ensure Financial Support Unit The aim of the Financial Support Unit is to undertake actions for optimal internal operation of the Group’s Financial Management in addition to its enhanced contribution to the Group’s operation. The Unit is also responsible for monitoring projects and expenses approved at Group level. In 2015, the Unit focused mainly on the following projects: • Participation in the annual SREP 2015 assessthe second half of 2015. ment of the Bank by the ECB and in the PMO of • Participation in various (internal and supervisothe Project SREP Readiness. ry) projects regarding better NPE management. • Project Management Office (PMO) regarding the • Participation in the PMO of Value Based ManStress Testing Exercise (ST) in the framework of agement project. the Comprehensive Assessment executed by the ECB’s Single Supervisory Mechanism (SSM) in Supervisory Projects Unit The aim of the Supervisory Projects Unit is to coordinate all relevant Bank and Group Units to ensure and prepare the necessary infrastructure thus providing optimal response to the supervisory inspections and the regular supervisory data/reports required. It is also responsible for managing the relations and communication with the supervisory mechanisms both during on-site inspections and for the regular supervisory reports required. In 2015, the Unit focused mainly on the following projects: • The Loan Files Quality Review (LFQR) project refuture supervisory inspections by the Bank. garding the qualitative enhancement and pres• Project Management Office (PMO) regarding entation of the borrowers’ loan files for internal Asset Quality Review (AQR) in the framework of organization purposes and for presentation at the Comprehensive Assessment undertaken by 56 Corporate Governance the ECB’s Single Supervisory Mechanism (SSM) in the second half of 2015. Following the completion of the aforementioned inspection, a plan of corrective measures was initiated in order to optimally prepare the Group for future inspections. COMPLIANCE The Group’s Compliance operates in the context of the “Basel III” supervisory framework and the relevant guidelines of the Bank of Greece. It is headed by the Group Compliance Officer, who is responsible for the Group’s Compliance Function. According to the Bank’s current organization chart, the Group’s Compliance Function reports directly to the Managing Director & CEO and is accountable to the Group’s Internal Audit in terms of the adequacy and effectiveness of the compliance procedures. On administrative issues, it reports directly to the Executive General Counsel. 2015 actions • Management approved the new organizational ance with the regulatory framework in general, structure of the Compliance unit, with the creawith parallel implementation of agreed correction of new responsibilities for more effective tive actions to mitigate regulatory risk. accomplishment of the heightened compliance • S pecial thematic inspections of Bank Units for requirements of the Bank. timely detection of possible deviation from the • Successful consolidation of human resources regulatory framework as well as implementastemming from the former Panellinia Bank, with tion of agreed on structural changes to mitigate total Compliance employees now numbering regulatory risk. 137. • S pecial inspections at Bank branches and ser• Upgrading of Compliance operation through the vices for implementation of the Provisions of adoption and utilization of new IT systems for Laws and of capital controls. timely response to requests by Financial, Judi• U  pdating of training material related to regulacial and Supervisory Authorities. tory compliance issues, in collaboration with the • Extended inspection and examination of Bank Group’s Human Resources and Organizational units, Bank subsidiaries and companies on monTraining. ey laundering and terrorist funding and compli2016 key targets • Updating of the Group Compliance Policy with tory framework. the aim to incorporate the recent amendments •U  pdating of assessment and analysis of risks for in the regulatory framework. Piraeus Bank and the Group’s subsidiary banks • Continuous monitoring of changes in the regutaking into account additional risk factors every latory framework as well as analysis and moni6 months. toring of the framework to ensure that the ap• General, special and thematic inspections of propriate processes and systems have been Bank Units to assess their compliance with the developed for implementation of the changes. Group’s Regulatory Compliance Policy and the • Supervision, coordination, support, monitoring internal procedures of the Bank and subsidiaries. and assessment of the Compliance performan•M  onitoring the implementation of structural acceof the Group’s Greek and international subtions on issues detected by inspections within sidiaries. set deadlines. • Upgrading of the AML system regarding moni•C  ontinual training of Bank employees in antitoring of transactions, in relation to money money laundering, terrorist funding and regulalaundering and terrorist funding. tory compliance. • Assessment of new and existing processes regarding products, services and advertising in relation to their compatibility with the regulaCorporate Responsibility Report 57 The Group Compliance reports directly to the Audit Committee, which monitors and assesses its piraeusbankgroup.com> Investors> auditing work as well as to strengthening Internal Audit structures by means of reports and upCorporate Governance> dates. The Group Compliance has certified its processes according to ISO 9001:2008 standards. Compliance SHAREHOLDER RELATIONS INVESTOR AND ANALYSTS RELATIONS Investor information is provided to individual and institutional investors by the Business Planning and Investor Relations Division with the active involvement of the Top Management. Its purpose is to provide systematic and symmetrical information to individual and institutional investors regarding the course and strategy of Piraeus Group. During 2015, a total of 818 meetings/briefings were held with investors and analysts both in Greece and abroad, compared to 1,059 meetings/briefings held in 2014. SHAREHOLDER REGISTRY The Shareholder Registry is responsible for providing direct and symmetrical information to all shareholders, as well as assisting them in exercising their rights in accordance with the law and the Bank’s Articles of Association. CORPORATE ANNOUNCEMENTS Corporate announcements are the responsibility of the Corporate Announcements Service. It was set up in accordance with Law 3016/2002 and the Capital Market Commission’s Board resolution no. 5/204/14.11.2000, and is responsible for the Bank’s compliance with the institutional framework of this resolution. The Bank’s announcements are sent immediately to the Hellenic Exchanges in order to be recorded in the Daily Official List and to inform the investors. SHAREHOLDER STRUCTURE Piraeus Bank is a multi-shareholder company. In December 2015, the total number of Piraeus Bank’s shareholders was 82,000. Out of the total common shares (8,733,183,280 shares of nominal value €0.30 each) 26% was held by the HFSF and 74% by the private sector (more specifically, 66% legal entities and 8% by individuals). Piraeus Bank Group’s shareholder structure was: On 31.12.15, Piraeus Bank’s share capital amounted €2,619,954,984 in total common shares numbering 8,733,183,280 shares of nominal value €0.30 each. Piraeus Bank common shares are dematerialized and listed on the Athens Stock Exchange. It is duly noted that in accordance with Law 3864/2010, MCA 38/2012 and MCA 6/2013, the HFSF issued and granted 843,637,022 “HFSF Warrants” to private investors, who participated in the Bank’s share capital increase in 2013. These warrants correspond to 37 mn shares currently owned by the HFSF and have limited voting rights. 32 58 Τίτλος ενότητας Corporate Governance Shareholders' Structure 66% 26% 8% Legal entities HFSF Individuals Reference date : December 31,2015 Spring is not a season. It’s a human characteristic. Corporate Responsibility Report 61 CUSTOMER AND SUPPLIER RELATIONSHIP CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP For more information about the framework of the Code of Being the first bank in Greece in terms of loan market share, Piraeus Bank Group has a key role Conduct under L.4224/2013, in promoting economic stability and in contributing to the well-being of its customers, as well pls refer to piraeusbank.gr as of the broader society in which it operates. RELATIONSHIPS OF TRUST, TRANSPARENCY AND RESPONSIBILITY – customer protection Piraeus Bank Group creates long term value for its customers by focusing on trust and responding to their needs. It has built relationships of trust by providing clear information, transparency in contractual terms and security in all types of banking transactions, including electronic. The Bank has adopted specialized monitoring mechanisms through all stages of creation, promotion and provision of its products, thus ensuring compliance to the principles of the regulatory framework as well as the rules of the Code of Banking Ethics. The products and services offered are defined accurately, without exaggerations, inaccurate or misleading statements, excessive promotion or attempts to conceal any features of such products and services, eliminating any possibility of exploiting the public’s unfamiliarity, inexperience or fears. The application of a systematic control process ensures that the advertising campaigns communicate the Bank’s products and services sincerely without misleading the potential target group. The content and style of the campaign are evaluated and approved by the Promotion and Advertising Committee, while the final campaign plan is communicated to the Group’s Regulatory Compliance, which ensures that the content is in full compliance with the regulatory framework. For Piraeus Bank, it is important that the characteristics of the products offered, their use and the potential risks that may be involved are completely clear and comprehensible to the customers. To this end, the Bank enhances its customers' financial literacy in order to facilitate their access to its services. Particular emphasis is placed on customer familiarization with the use of new technologies and terminology, thus ensuring their comprehension of special transaction and product terms. Additionally, in order to make the Bank’s products and services accessible to non Greek citizens, specific Bank branches have employees fluent in the equivalent languages. 62 Customer and Supplier Relationship As regards the individual organization of all bank transactions of customers as well as coordination of their regular transactions, these can be assigned to the appointed Relationship Manager. This specialized bank executive is responsible for individualized supervision of a customer's overall banking relationship and can also manage customers’ financial “check-up” and portfolio. Particular emphasis is also placed on the use of new technologies through the Alternative Channel Promotion Program “Save Time”. New technologies have changed the shape of bank product provision with e-banking transactions now constituting a major percentage of total transactions. In an effort to assist customers not familiar with these technologies, in 2015 tablets were placed at branches with free wifi access in order to promote and demonstrate the functionality of e-banking to customers. CORPORATE COMMUNICATION AND PROMOTION In 2015, Piraeus Bank Group’s corporate identity continued its uniform application at all customer contact points, thus providing a uniform image of the Bank to society. The slogan that accompanied the Bank’s brand name in all its communication throughout the year was “Piraeus Bank, the first Bank in Greece”, reflecting its leading position in the Greek market. On a communication and promotional level, the Group’s Marketing & Communication unit supported all aspects of operation of the Bank and Group subsidiaries by means of small, medium and large-scale advertising actions as well as targeted promotional actions on a local level and at particular customer segments. These actions were undertaken to serve both the internal and external needs of the Group. The unit supports the Group’s strategies by applying research and creativity thus providing customers with a distinct image of the Bank’s profile as well as clear and effective communication of the Bank’s products and services. In 2015, particular emphasis was placed on reinforcing and integrating/unifying the corporate image of Piraeus Bank, following the banks' mergers of previous years, including the incorporation of Panellinia Bank in July. Of prime importance was informing Bank customers about initiatives addressing: a) the humanitarian crisis and b) the difficulties arising from the imposition of limits on cash withdrawals and capital transfers. Additionally, the promotion of innovative products and services was also a focal point. Implementation of dynamic Branch Marketing Management BMM The need for dynamic management of communication and promotional means arose, following the restructuring of the branch network, the aim of shaping a uniform image and promoting products in the branches more effectively. The “Branch Marketing Management BMM” application was developed as an interactive communication channel and as a means of feedback on promotional issues, contributing to the enhancement of the branches themselves as key means of communication. This application introduced a new process of interactive communication between the individual stores – the Branch Network – the Network Marketing Group and the Administration Support Unit, resulting in the following: • Reduction of the Bank’s environmental foot• Minimization of employee time required by dyprint. Indicatively, the emission of 20 tons of namically monitoring promotional issues. solid waste and 90 tons of CO2 was prevented. • Real-time imaging of the branches’ communi• Ensuring the recording of requests and the decation needs. livery of updated material only. • Statistical data collection for each Network branch. 2015 Advertising Campaigns Due to the new, unexpected challenges that resulted from the humanitarian crisis and the Corporate Responsibility Report 63 limits imposed on cash withdrawals and capital transfers in June 2015, a significant part of the Bank’s advertising campaigns regarded products and services developed to support its customers through the difficulties encountered at the time. More specifically: • “winbank” e-banking service advertising codes” advertising campaign campaign • “Humanitarian Crisis/ Debt write-off” • “POS Paycenter” advertising campaign advertising campaign • “Instant issuance of winbank debit card & In addition to the above, annual campaigns were developed for the Bank’s new products and services, which were planned actions. In particular: • “e-Signature” advertising campaign • “Miles and more” advertising campaign • “Piraeus wifi” advertising campaign • “Health Solutions Gold” advertising campaign • “Do it Yourself Time Deposit with Reward • “yellowday” advertising campaign Points” advertising campaign Special advertising actions In order to better serve the Bank’s strategic goal of developing and modernizing the agricultural sector, the Group’s Marketing & Communication unit undertook the following actions: • “Weather forecast for farmers”, ANT1 TV chanPiraeus Bank Group on issues of agricultural nel. The development and broadcast of a daily economy & entrepreneurship and is available Weather forecast for Farmers on ANT1, with a free of charge at the branch network. It aims to 4-minute duration, which aims to create daily become a tool that will aid information provicontact of the Bank with farmers. It is the first sion to farmers and to their investment activities time that an advertiser assumes the creation of while also building a relationship of trust and a daily current affairs program on a large TV synergy with the sector. With the completion of station for specialized viewers, who utilize it as a 1 year from the first publication, the Bank prodaily tool for their work. The program has openceeded with a special advertising campaign. It ing and closing credits with 10’’ branding of the is noteworthy that the magazine received high Bank and depicts a clock communicating the distinction in the 2015 Platinum PR Awards. The Contract Farming program. All the programs are Awards, which were held in October 2015 in filed on a special branded minisite on ant1.gr New York, honor the most outstanding commu• Periodical publication of “EPI GIS” magazine, nications initiatives and innovative companies in 1st year of publication. The EPI GIS” magazine the highly competitive PR field. is a periodical publication created in 2014 by Actions on a local level and special customer segments By utilizing the “Wellbeing indices” data from regions and prefectures in Greece, the Group’s Marketing & Communication unit supported branch actions aimed at attracting new customers and developing existing partnerships. Furthermore, it provided communication support on issues of information in the framework of the network branches' operational integration. Particular emphasis was placed on tertiary education students (Universities and Technological Educational Institutes) as a customer segment of special commercial interest. In order to promote and communicate the products and services which cover these students’ needs, a promotional action was developed utilizing the special “Check In Class” application (app, game, microsite). By emphasizing the digital experience, the “Check In Class” application further enhanced the Bank’s digital profile and user experience through the provision of additional interface, accessible from tablets and smartphones. The application was implemented at 13 Universities and Technological Educational Institutes and aided the Bank’s goals for retail banking products and specialized branch Network needs, 64 Customer and Supplier Relationship thus enhancing the Bank’s image in cities with high student presence. It should be noted that Piraeus is the first banking institution to be granted approval to approach and inform students within their institutions. In this action, 21,000 students participated, with 152 Network branches receiving 5,643 visits. Participation in exhibitions, conferences, events In 2015 as well, the Group’s Marketing & Communication unit coordinated the design and arrangement of the Group’s presence in General Meetings, press conferences, conferences, exhibitions and events as well as in special informational and promotional actions, in accordance with the Group’s corporate identity and communication strategy, both for the Bank and its Greek subsidiaries. Indicatively: the 26th Annual Conference “The Greek Economy”, the Economist Conference “The Sea of Europe: Routing the Map for Economic Growth” in Thessaloniki, TEDx Athens, NeΜa Athens 2015, the 2015 “Kouros” Awards for Entrepreneurship, the Pan-Hellenic Expo in Lamia, 3d Pan-Hellenic General Exhibition in Arta, etc. Awards and Distinctions Piraeus Bank Group received numerous awards and distinctions for its marketing, communication and PR actions: Organization Award Platinum PR Awards 2015 Honorable Mention for the periodical publication “EPI GIS” External Publication (print or online) Social Media Awards 2015 Gold Award for the “Manos Sergios/Greek National Team” campaign/Best Native Advertising Marketing Excellence Awards 2015 Marketing Excellence Award for the “Contract Farming & Livestock Breeding” campaign Development of new Services & Markets Marketing Excellence Awards for the “The Calling/National Team Sponsorship” campaign/ Integrated marketing Services communication Ermis Awards 2015 3 Gold, 6 Silver and 5 Bronze – 14 Ermis Awards in total for Piraeus Bank Group advertising campaigns EBGE 2015 Gold EBGE for the 2014 Piraeus Bank Group “Annual Report and Corporate Responsibility Report” FOCUSING ON INDIVIDUAL NEEDS AND CUSTOMER SUPPORT In the framework of responsible lending and consistent with its commitments, Piraeus Bank Group continued to support households and businesses, covering their needs optimally despite the difficulties that arose from the limits in transactions and the banks' closures. In the course of this extended recession, in particular, the Bank has developed a broad range of solutions based on an assessment of the borrowers’ financial situation and their ability to repay their loans in such a manner as to not affect their reasonable standards of living. The goal is to deal with the difficulties in loan repayment in collaboration with the customer on a basis of good understanding. Accordingly, Piraeus Bank, fully aware of the current economic environment and in response to its customers’ needs in repaying their loans, is in complete compliance with the Code of Conduct under Law 4224/2014, drawn up by the Bank of Greece (BoG), which constitutes a guide of standard and transparent criteria related to the communication between Banks and borrowers (natural and legal persons) who are facing difficulty in repaying their loans. The aforementioned framework includes the Arrears Resolution Process (ARP), whereby the Bank commits itself to assist its customers – especially those with attested financial difficulties – in finding solutions on managing their loans in arrears. The ARP is comprised of five distinct Corporate Responsibility Report 65 stages so that the risks and the repayment ability of each borrower are evaluated properly, whether it is a case of an Individual or an Enterprise. Each case of borrower is dealt with separately, after the Bank has taken into consideration all the borrower-related data and information, adhering at all times to the framework defined by the principles of confidentiality and personal data protection. The arrangement proposal to be submitted to a borrower-individual, takes into account, among other factors, the level of “reasonable living expenses”. It should be noted that throughout the process, adherence to the transparency rules as well as the detailed information of the borrower is ensured. Finding the appropriate and timely solution is mutually beneficial as it reinforces a climate of mutual trust and sincere exchange of information. In response to the humanitarian crisis, Piraeus Bank has undertaken a significant initiative beyond its legal obligations. In order to alleviate the hardships of its borrowers-customers with very low income due to the economic crisis, the Bank’s Management has decided to proceed with direct implementation of a write-off or of a favorable loan modification for its customers facing financial difficulties. The program applies to those eligible under Law 4320/2015 – i.e. customers who meet the relevant income and asset criteria under the Law – and provides 100% write-off of debts up to €20,000 arising from all consumer loans and/or credit cards. Regarding mortgages, the Bank freezes payment and interest write-off for as long as they meet the eligibility criteria of Law 4320/2015. The Bank’s intervention in dealing with the significant social impact of the crisis, reflects its broader mobilization to cover the needs of the economy and Greek society amidst the changing conditions of the crisis, thus demonstrating the collective efforts being made towards a new start. The imposed restrictions on withdrawals and capital transfers in the middle of the year during the capital controls were dealt with promptly by Piraeus Bank by directly adjusting its systems and processes. Particular emphasis was placed on serving pensioners, for whom 250 branches were made available to serve all pension funds, giving priority to citizens with special needs. Debit cards were issued within the day/on the spot while special care was also given to the timely refilling of ATM’s to facilitate customer servicing under the new conditions. The response of Piraeus Direct Services to the requirements that arose from capital controls was also noteworthy, as there was a 135% increase in phone calls in July 2015 versus the 6-month average and a 348% increase in e-mails respectively. Most qualitative indicators remained at high levels despite the pressure from increased communication, such as the credit card retention rate (71%) and the rate of customer satisfaction. An increase was noted in the use of remittances and e-transactions by both individuals and legal entities while there was also an exceptional increase in the number of new customers utilizing the credit transfer services in the second half on 2015: 357% for individuals and 142% for legal entities. Additionally, the number of payments made by mobile phones or tablets tripled. Despite the particular conditions that were created by the new, restrictive measures against free cash flow and the immediate changes in operating processes that followed, Piraeus Bank continued to focus on upgrading its systems and the quality of its customer service by reviewing and redesigning time-consuming processes and operations. The implementation of the “Operational Effectiveness” program, which aims to assess and improve the new Organization’s business operation, allowed for the mapping and measuring of the branches’ main processes so as to identify areas of improvement of existing processes and the staffing needs at the branch network. 66 Customer and Supplier Relationship At the same time, with the completion of the absorption of Panellinia Bank in July 2015, a similar review was actualized in the existing security systems with redesign and optimization of the protection level provided. As a response to the continuous expansion of e-banking and the increased need for IT and data security, Piraeus Bank applies modern methods to secure customer transactions, protect customer data and shield the e-banking platform from third party access. It was the first bank to receive ISO:9001 certification in 2004 and PCI DSS certification in 2011, pertaining to the safeguarding of credit card transactions and of cardholder data. Additionally, the Bank’s e-Banking services received ISO 9001:2008 certification by TUV Hellas for another consecutive year while the “24x7 Security Monitoring” and “Advanced Cyber Threat Management” services were activated to ensure timely detection and handling of different categories of incidents and attacks. The multi award winning winbank service, the first e-banking platform in Greece, received three new distinctions for its services from the Lighthouse E-volution Awards 2016. It received the GOLD award at the Usability category for “quick login for winbank mobile banking App”, which offers quick and easy access to mobile banking by entering a 4-digit PIN of choice as well as providing quick and safe access to the application. The Bank also received the SILVER award at the category Innovative Applications for consumers for the innovative “winbank mycard App” for Smartphone (iOs & Android) and Smartwatch (Apple Watch, Android Wear και Samsung Gear 2). This application allows users to be informed on the spot on all Piraeus Bank card offers by receiving notifications on their mobile phone or watch when approaching an offer point, by means of geofencing technology. Another awarded winbank service is yellowday, an offer website that allows users to make payments with cards from any bank while also offering very favorable prices for holders of Piraeus Bank cards. This service was awarded the BRONZE award at the category Customer Experience for “yellowday” in the Lighthouse E-volution Awards 2016. In this framework, the Piraeus Customer Protection service continued being offered and its existing services were expanded in 2015. In case of loss, theft or suspicion of theft of personal or bank data, this service offers its beneficiary global banking and insurance coverage (wallet & shopping protection), regardless if its holder is in Greece or travelling abroad. During the years 2011-2015, Piraeus Bank provided loans which approximated €58 mn, to beneficiaries in excess of 13,000, regarding their participation in the Energy Efficiency at Household Buildings program and implementation of their investments. As a result of this action, their households upgraded their energy efficiency levels which led to reduced expenses in their household budget. The majority of the beneficiaries belonged to lower income ranges (with personal income less than €12,000, or a family income less than €20,000) and to areas in Greece highly susceptible to climate conditions (Northern Greece), thus, indicating the positive social impact of the Bank’s participation. In total, Piraeus Bank accounted for 29% of the aggregate entries/participations in the program. CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT OF CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Since 2001, Piraeus Bank has been systematically conducting the “Customer Satisfaction Survey” annually. Through this process the Bank gathers information about the overall level of customer satisfaction and in particular customer-perception indices. Piraeus Bank’s constant aim is to maintain its high degree of customer satisfaction. The survey for 2015 was conducted in the form of Computer Aided Telephone Interviewing – (CATI) by means of a structured, 12-minute questionnaire by the market research company TNS, on a sample of 15,300 Piraeus Bank customers covering the Greek geographic area. It should be noted that this is the second measurement post the completion of the absorption of all banking operations acquired by Piraeus Bank in Greece. Regarding the overall customer experience of Piraeus Bank, the results are positive as 63% of the interviewed customers assessed their overall experience with the Bank as “excellent/very good” and 30% as “good”, 5% as moderate while only 1% as being “poor”. 4 Τίτλος ενότητας Corporate Responsibility Report 67 Piraeus Bank’s overall experience rating 1% 1% 2% 5% 7% 30% 33% 63% 43% 58% 41% N/A Poor Moderate Good 17% 20% Very Good Excellent Total Excellent + Very Good 2014 2015 Degree of preference of Piraeus Bank over any other bank 2% 2% 3% 3% 13% 11% 47% 46% N/A Not preferred 40% 24% 34% 22% Moderately Strongly Very strongly Extremely strongly 14% 12% Total Extremely strongly + Very strongly 2014 2015 Percentages have been rounded to the nearest integer. 68 Σχέσεις με Πελάτες και Προμηθευτές Ετήσια Έκθεση 2015 5 Assessment per service channel: Branch Politeness of staff 2% 2% 15% 14% 83% 36% 82% 36% 48% 46% Moderate Good Very Good Excellent Total Excellent + Very Good 2014 2015 Knowledge of staff 1% 2% 3% 21% 22% 76% 39% 74% 39% 37% Poor 35% Moderate Good Very Good Excellent Total Excellent + Very Good 2014 2015 Percentages have been rounded to the nearest integer. 6 Τίτλος ενότητας Corporate Responsibility Report 69 Providing complete & accurate information 1% 1% 5% 4% 27% 26% 67% 38% 69% 37% Poor 32% Moderate 29% Good Very Good Excellent Total Excellent + Very Good 2014 2015 Abiding by promise 1% 1% 4% 3% 28% 26% 68% 38% 70% 37% Poor 33% Moderate 30% Good Very Good Excellent Total Excellent + Very Good 2014 2015 Percentages have been rounded to the nearest integer. 70 Σχέσεις με Πελάτες και Προμηθευτές Ετήσια Έκθεση 2015 7 Assessment per service channel: Branch Speed of service 2% 1% 8% 6% 24% 25% 69% 39% 66% 39% Poor 30% Moderate 27% Good Very Good Excellent Total Excellent + Very Good 2014 2015 Resolution of problems 2% 2% 5% 5% 27% 26% 68% 36% 65% 38% Poor Moderate 32% 28% Good Very Good Excellent Total Excellent + Very Good 2014 2015 Percentages have been rounded to the nearest integer. 8 Τίτλος ενότητας Corporate Responsibility Report 71 Assessment per service channel: Branch: Web banking Overall experience 1% 2% 3% 10% 13% 88% 39% 83% 42% 48% 42% Poor Moderate Good Very Good Excellent Total Excellent + Very Good 2014 2015 Assessment per service channel: ATM Cash availability 1% 4% 4% 20% 18% 78% 36% 75% 38% 41% 37% Poor Moderate Good Very Good Excellent Total Excellent + Very Good 2014 2015 Percentages have been rounded to the nearest integer. 72 Customer and Supplier Relationship Although in recent years in Greece the public maintains a relatively negative attitude towards banking institutions, 8 out of 10 customers prefer Piraeus Bank “strongly” to “very strongly” in comparison to any other bank. Focusing on satisfaction regarding the servicing experience at the customers’ main branch of service with individual indicators, “staff politeness” and “staff expertise” scored the highest. In terms of “providing complete and clear information from the beginning on the terms of the transaction” – a measurement of transparency – 69% of customers grade it as “excellent/very good” whereas only 1% of total customers interviewed perceive their experience as “poor”. Regarding web banking, it is evaluated as “excellent/very good” by 88% of users. It should be pointed out that when the survey was conducted, customers were asked to identify areas of improvement in the standard of service provided by the Bank. This information was taken under serious consideration and is being utilized in the implementation of the respective corrective actions. EXTENSIVE BRANCH NETWORK AND ACCESSIBILITY TO ALL SERVICE CHANNELS In July 2015, the project of integrating Panellinia Bank’s systems into Piraeus Bank Group’s integrated IT systems was successfully completed. During this process, uninterrupted customer servicing of Panellinia Bank was ensured, with regard to cash withdrawals, instant access to the winbank e-banking platform and to the other e-service channels of Piraeus Bank. Following the integration, the branch network numbered 709 Branches and 475 Easypay kiosks. Moreover, the Branch Network’s clear direction and axes of actions are ensured by means of key performance indicators (KPI’s) regarding volumes’ increase, profitability, crossselling, customer satisfaction, productivity per job position and balanced employees’ skills development. To this end, in 2015, the Balanced Scorecard methodology was applied to monitor the Branch Network’s qualitative and quantitative performance in implementing each of the Bank’s four strategies: “Financial Strength”, “Customer & Market Expansion”, “Optimal Procedures” and “Employee Development”. In order to cover the increased needs of customer servicing, the ATM network was expanded, with parallel upgrading, and now numbers 1,817 units, of which 839 are installed off-site, thus making it the largest ATM network in Greece. In relation to the servicing of specialized needs for customer cash management, 38 devices offering multiple online deposits were installed. This service is offered for the first time and is targeted at servicing large businesses. In the framework of the Bank’s strategy to place emphasis on the design of innovative services that facilitate customer service and their familiarization with new technologies, the new Piraeus Bank free Wifi service was offered. This service allows free wifi access to the Internet at all Bank sites for all, both customers and non-customers. In addition, tablets were placed at branches in order to promote and demonstrate the mode of operation of e-banking to customers. In 2015, Wifi access was made available at 709 branches and at 87 off site ATMs in Attiki. In 2015 as well, Piraeus Bank offered the new, innovative e-Signature service which improved significantly the level of customer service by simplifying processes and offering even greater security. The service relies on the use of advanced technology and offers the possibility of recording the customer’s electronic signature for contractual documents and applications, which are then filed electronically. The application has had great impact as it was applied to the majority of bank forms and processes, equalling more than 500,000 documents and with over 480,000 customers opting for e-Signature. The basic aims of this service is the transition to “Paperless Branch” and improved digital service experience of customers in branches. The imposition of limits on capital transfers led to a sudden, unprecedented increase in card transactions in the Greek market. The Bank was able to respond to the increased demand for installation of new terminals by means of a new workflow demand management system that allowed for approval of applications in real time and for installation of new POS terminals within 3 days. In 2015, the Bank also introduced introduced the mPOS (mobile POS) solution to the market, which combined with a smartphone or tablet is the most modern and complete soluCorporate Responsibility Report 73 tion to card payment acceptance for professionals who are on the move – doctors, plumbers, electricians, insurers etc. SUPPORT OF ENTREPRENEURIAL INNOVATION, AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS In the efforts to support the recovery of the Greek economy, Piraeus Bank Group promotes and supports new models of development. It is oriented towards initiatives that enhance entrepreneurship, competitiveness, innovation and improved productivity of businesses and sectors. Piraeus Bank Group finances the key pillars of growth in the Greek economy, assuming a leading role in the agricultural sector, which commenced with the acquisition of ATEBank in 2012. Recognizing the decisive importance of the production model's restructuring in the Greek agricultural economy, the Bank supports entrepreneurship at all levels of the agri-food chain: ranging from the producer and the suppliers providing services to them, to the businesses and cooperatives that process and export agricultural produce. For Piraeus Bank, both the primary and the agri-food sector in Greece possess invaluable growth prospects and dynamics which could significantly contribute to the recovery of the Greek economy from the economic crisis. In November 2015, the Bank assumed the investment cost of installing a network of 10,000 telemetry stations to cover the Greek arable land in its entirety. This innovative agri-farming project, which will be gradually installed within 5 years, offers applications of precision agriculture with environmental data such as warnings of crop disease, irrigation, fertilizers and weather conditions. It is estimated that installation and operation of this network will contribute to a quantitative and qualitative improvement in agricultural production, reducing costs, enhancing farmers’ income and saving natural resources, all of which are the key issues of our times. At the same time, new opportunities to utilize investment initiatives and to attract the corresponding capital for the agricultural economy will be created thus changing the appearance of the agricultural areas. The complete bank solutions that Piraeus Bank Group offers the agricultural sector include the following: • The Farming Assistance Loan for those eligible in 2015, recording a 20% increase versus 2014. for immediate loans to provide liquidity for shortIt should be noted that the businesses in the term needs. This new loan was designed in the program employ in excess of 14,000 people framework of the new Common Agricultural and, with exports amounting to €1.35 bn and Policy's implementation that commenced in 2015. shipping to 73 countries around the world. • The Young/New Farmers Development Loan to • The Renewable Energy Sources (RES) Investment support the land's restructuring process and Financing for Energy-Saving in Agricultural the age renewal of the sector. Through this Exploitation Program. It aims to reduce loan, newcomers up to 40 years old can receive the energy cost of agricultural businesses up to 100% subsidized interest rate following by encouraging investments in RES. Such the approval of the Agricultural Economy and investments include installation of photovoltaic Livestock Division of the Periphery they belong to. systems, energy production from waste and • The Contract Farming and Livestock Breeding farming waste and waterand energy-saving Program with financing amounting to €1.5 bn facilities. In March 2015, the next step of Contract Farming was designed, relating to the financing of the distribution and retail sale of the produce. It should be noted that Piraeus Bank is the only bank to have received EN ISO 9001:2008 certification in Quality Management System for its loan payments to producers. This certification proves its specialization in providing high-quality services regarding payments to Bodies and their beneficiaries. 74 Customer and Supplier Relationship SUPPORT OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES Piraeus Bank invests in the local communities where it is active by focusing on utilizing local conditions through each area's Commercial Plan, aiming to promote agricultural activity and provide specialized training programs. In order to penetrate and develop in the local markets where it operates, the Bank establishes a Commercial Plan for each area, periphery and branch. To ensure utilization of the local conditions and the Bank’s response to the individual market's needs, the Commercial Plan includes specific actions, sets measurable objectives and is systematically monitored. The Center of Sustainable Entrepreneurship Excelixi, a member of the Piraeus Bank Group, offers specialized and certified training programs to the periphery. Its basic pillar of action is supporting sustainable entrepreneurship and emerging sectors of the economy. These programs have already been realized in Thessaloniki, Chalkididki, Kavala, Katerini, Serres, Irakleio and Lasithi and are specially adapted and designed for the needs and activities of the individual areas where they are offered. The subjects cover different topics and sectors accordingly – they include agriculture, tourism and e-entrepreneurship. Participants are encouraged to develop a different outlook on their businesses, focusing on issues of strategy business planning as necessary tools for sustainable business, on creating branded agricultural products and on Digital Marketing and e-Commerce. In addition to providing financing and specialized training, Piraeus Bank also offers multi-level support to farmers through the 30 Agricultural Entrepreneurship Centers which operate in areas with significant agricultural activity. The Bank’s modern approach to providing comprehensive support to farmers and the agricultural economy is implemented through the Agricultural Entrepreneurship Centers, which can offer complete and spherical information regarding the specialized banking products that cover the financial needs of producers. CUSTOMER COMPLAINT SERVICE AND OMBUDSMAN FOR BANKING INVESTMENT SERVICES Piraeus Bank aims to respond to its customers’ demands with integrity and a high level of service. The benefit is mutual. Continual improvement of the quality of services provided constitutes an integral part of the Bank’s definition of “social responsibility” and any complaint or recommendation is a challenge towards improvement. A Complaint is defined as the expression of dissatisfaction/grievance by a Customer due to non-fulfilment of their expectations regarding a product or service during their transaction relationship with the Bank and which pertain to a consumer dispute, loss or other damage. Customers are given the possibility to seek resolution to their issue by following the steps below: Step 1: The customers are referred to the Branch/Service Unit to resolve the issue as soon as possible. If the customers are not satisfied with the response of the Branch/Service, they may proceed with the next step. Step 2: The customers are referred to the Customer Complaint Service (CCS), which is the special Service dealing with extrajudicial dispute resolution. In compliance with the institution of the Banking Ombudsman, the Code of Banking Ethics as well as the Governor’s Act 2501 of the Bank of Greece, Piraeus Bank Group has set up a customer service, the Customer Complaint Service (CCS), the main task of which is to investigate and resolve customer issues extrajudicially, while its scope embraces all products and services provided by the Bank. Step 3: If the customers are not satisfied with the response of the CSS, they may address the Ombudsman for Banking/Investment Services in writing. Each customer case is dealt with individually, taking into consideration all the relevant data and information, adhering at all times to the framework defined by the principles of confidentiality and personal data protection. Corporate Responsibility Report 75 2015 was marked by rapid political and social changes with unprecedented events in the Greek market, which intensified the need for effective customer information with honesty and transparency through all the stages of the transactional relationship, as well as for ensuring satisfaction of their expectations. The aim is to develop relationships of trust with customers, to provide high quality products and services which satisfy their individual needs as well as to comply with the existing legislative framework. At the same time, other goals that were achieved were the gradual familiarization of deriving from the merged banks with the Bank’s products and procedures, the establishment uniform practices and methodology in customer service and homogenization of the corporate culture of Branch Network employees, as well as those of other Service Units. ARREARS RESOLUTION PROCESS (ARP) AND THE CODE OF CONDUCT UNDER L.4224/2013 In compliance with the Code of Conduct under L.4224/2013 and aiming to create a relationship of trust and constructive cooperation with its Customers who are unable to repay their loans regularly, the Bank developed the requirements for smoothing out any difficulties that may emerge and for finding mutually acceptable and beneficial solutions. In this framework and in order to prevent a customer being characterized as “Non-cooperating”, the Bank has ensured the provision of appropriate information to customers as well as development of numerous information tools for the Units and Branch Network, thus achieving prompt delivery and processing of customer requests, within the legally defined deadlines. In order to better inform customers about the process, the information letters are sent promptly, as defined by the Code. A relevant leaflet is available at all Branch stands and the corresponding announcements are posted on the winbank platform. Additionally, a respective helpline has been set up, whereby people can call and be informed. For more effective management of customer complaints-applications-questions-recommendations by customers, in 2015, changes were designed and implemented to the Customer Complaint Management e-platform, as well as to the product supply units and the Service Provision units. Additionally, review of the management framework of customer complaints-applications-questionsrecommendations by the service units (irrespective of channel) was completed, as was the communication of the management process of such cases and the relevant training. Moreover, the following were revised: the complaint management process; the mode of communication of the rules of complaint management to 3 levels in the relevant Units; key performance indicators (KPI’s) for the CCS. As a representative of the Institution in the integrated Bank, the CCS in constant communication with the Agencies (the Institution of the Banking Ombudsman, the Hellenic Consumers’ Ombudsman, the General Secretariat of Consumer Affairs) for the exchange of views and proposals, aiming towards more effective resolution of issues. All the above resulted in a decrease in the number of complaints in 2015 (31%*) versus the same period in 2014, as well as further improvement in the time necessary for case handling and in the promptness of replies to customers. Cases deriving directly from customers without notification of Agencies that deal with extrajudicial dispute resolution have the largest rate (82%) of the total (see table Origin of filed Cases). At the same time, the largest rate was held by new cases (87%) with the remainder 11% relating to issues already handled by CCS – of which 9% of customers chose to send an additional letter and 2% chose to review or claim their case through an Agency (see table Status of filed complaints). 76 Customer and Supplier Relationship Product category 12m 2015* 12m 2014 Change (%) Deposits 647 18% 890 17% -27% Loans 2,437 69% 3,411 67% -29% Investment / Structured products 56 2% 212 4% -74% Funds Transfers / Payments 165 5% 173 3% -5% Other 244 7% 428 8% -43% Total 3,549 100% 5,114 100% -31% Origin of filed cases 12m 2015* 12m 2014 Change (%) Directly by Customer 2,663 75.0% 4,207 82.3% -37% HOBIS 394 11.1% 431 8.4% -9% Consumer’s Secretariat 84 2.4% 230 4.5% -64% Consumer’s Ombudsman 140 3.9% 154 3.0% -9% Legal Authorities 0 0.0% 6 0,1% -100% EKPOIZO Consumer’s Union for Quality in Life 5 0.1% 33 0.6% -85% Other Consumer Protection Organizations 166 4.7% 19 0.4% >100% Customer Addressed Complaint to Multiple Recipients 53 1.5% 0 0.0% >100% Hellenic Ministry of Finance 31 0.9% 0 0.0% >100% Hellenic Data Protection Authority 0 0.0% 0 0.0% Bank of Greece 2 0.1% 15 0.3% -87% Other 11 0.3% 19 0.4% -42% Total 3,549 100% 5,114 100% -31% Status of filed complaints 12m 2015* 12m 2014 Change (%) Filing of new complaint 3,073 86.6% 4,566 89.3% -33% Reply from previous request 394 11.1% 462 9.0% -15% Reply though Agency 75 2.1% 79 1.5% -5% Reconciliation proposal 4 0.1% 7 0.1% -43% Intervention of the Ombudsman for Banking and Investment Services (HOBIS) 3 0.1% 0 0.0% Total 3,549 100% 5,114 100% -31% * 15.01.2016 2015 SUPPLIER RELATIONSHIP Piraeus Bank evaluates collaboration proposals and financial offers submitted by potential business partners and suppliers on the basis of specific, objective and measurable criteria, such as the quality to price ratio, reliability and financial viability. There are uniform procedures which apply to all suppliers. Partnerships with all existing suppliers and business partners is regularly assessed and revised so as to maintain effective collaborations and high-quality services. At the same time, it ensures the timely payment of its obligations towards suppliers and partners. In an effort to ensure smooth and transparent supply management, for both products and Corporate Responsibility Report 77 services to the Group, the “Group Procurement Regulation” has been adopted, which defines relations with existing and potential suppliers. This regulation contains the rules and basic principles on all products and services supplied as well as describing the manner in which supply requests of all Group organizational units are handled to cover their operational needs. The Group Procurement Regulation is governed by the rules and principles as they are described in the section “Outsourcing” of “Piraeus Bank Group Regulatory Compliance Policy”, pursuant to Governor’s Act 2577/2006 of the Bank of Greece. This Regulation is uniformly applied to the entire Group (Piraeus Bank and subsidiaries both in Greece and abroad). Its basic goals are: • The formation of a regulatory framework pliers and external partners. through which transparent, clear and uniform • M  anagement of conventional contractual procurement management procedures take frameworks through specialized applications place throughout the Group. in order to allow for direct information on the • Transparent and objective evaluation of submitfinancial data related to the Bank’s partnership ted offers for all procurement tenders for goods with each supplier and to provide timely inforor services. mation on upcoming contract renewals. • Definition of quantitative and qualitative speci• D efinition of a cooperation framework between fications for all products and services supplied. the organizational units involved in the supply • Mitigation of operational and credit risks which management. might arise from partnership with suppliers. • I n line with its efforts to support local economies • Timely supply of products and services to the and communities and to reduce transportation Group’s Organizational Units. of goods thus limiting its environmental foot• Restraining the cost of supplying products and print, the Bank ensures that almost 100% its services, by using e-auctions. procurements are made by local suppliers with • Formation of long-term collaborations with supthe exception of furniture, cashier counters and pliers who are evaluated on a regular basis. signs, for which the Group has signed a global • Establishment of a uniform contractual framecontract in order to maintain a uniform corpowork and its enforcement on prospective suprate identity. A central supplier list is maintained by the Piraeus Bank Group Engineering Project Management & Administration Support unit and is revised annually and approved by the Group’s Expenses Committee. Indicatively, in 2015, the Piraeus Bank Group Engineering Project Management & Administration Support unit supplier list reached 3,081 suppliers, of which 2,834 had a budget of under €26,000 (excl. VAT), with the remainder 247 over €26,000. Αdditionally, regarding the Technology sector, it should be noted that on 31.12.2015 active contracts numbered 484, of which 152 were formed in 2015. Αt the same time, the total number of Technology suppliers numbered674, of which 514 are based in Greece. Piraeus Bank has been applying “green” criteria to its overall procurement policy since 2005 and collaborates with companies which supply it with recycled chlorine-free paper for its operating needs. In 2015, partnerships with companies were formed to supply paper with strict FSC3 environmental standards certification, to be used in printed promotional and communication material, thus increasing demand for this type of paper in the market. Environmentally-certified detergents with the EU environmental certification Eco-Label were procured and used. Through the above, conditions are created for suppliers in the market to take environmental criteria as well into account when selecting their products. In 2015, the Bank developed a revised code of conduct through its Corporate Responsibility Committee, which includes the prerequisites for selection and partnership with suppliers who respect human rights and environmental protection. The revised code of conduct is expected to 3 FSC (Forest Stewardship be implemented in 2016. Council), The Forest Stewardship Council mission is to promote environmentally sound, socially beneficial and economically prosperous management of the world’s forests. 78 ΔΙΑΧΩΡΙΣΤΙΚΟ ΚΕΦΑΛΑΙΟΥ Mountains are many peaks together, made especially for humans. Corporate Responsibility Report 81 HUMAN RESOURCES Piraeus Bank Group operates fully acknowledging that human resources constitute a key success factor for all its organized activities and achievement of corporate strategic goals. It perceives human resource management as a complete set of actions and operations undertaken in order to acquire, retain and utilize skilled employees who successfully and productively execute their tasks. Excellent staffing to cover business needs, especially through internal allocation of existing HR, and the creation of strong relations with employees are both key points of the Group’s philosophy. At the same time, special emphasis is placed on the establishment and implementation of HR Policies that focus on issues of morality, trust, devotion, team spirit and acceptance of diversity in the workplace; these issues ensure equal opportunities in continual employee development as well as non-discriminatory practices in the recruitment process by means of specific candidate selection systems. In 2015 as well, the Bank reaffirmed its commitment towards its employees and ensured job positions, full-employment contracts, support and strengthening of human resources with innovative programs to train, develop and support employees. In 2015, Piraeus Bank invested in the shaping of a uniform corporate culture by implementing homogenized HR policies and procedures, a uniform evaluation process which promotes transparency, merit and recognition of individual contribution as well as by organizing targeted actions to communicate the new Vision and Model of Values to all HR. 82 Human Resources 2015 actions • Completion of coordinated actions aimed at the •A  ccomplishment of 19 presentations to 161 smooth and successful integration of former senior managers on strategic talent developPanellinia Bank HR (163 employees). ment. • Homogenization of loan products for the whole • I mplementation of 7 Schools and 2 Academies HR and provision of advice to employees with for overall enhancement of executives in spelarge loans in order to assist them in servicing cialized positions. their loans and for liquidity-saving. • I mplementation of targeted training activities • Dissemination of the revised e-Learning on for the development of leadership and manageSafeguarding Human Rights and Equal Opporturial skills. nities in the workplace to all Piraeus Bank Group • E nsuring 43 training hours per Group employee human resources. on average and 51 hours per Bank employee. • Creation of a company video and of supporting •D  evelopment of distance learning and other almaterial for promotion of the Group’s new Viternative forms of training as well as expansion sion and Model of Values, in the framework of a of the Training Center Network. homogenized corporate culture of HR. •C  onducting 1.100 meetings to familiarize with • Optimization of HR Portal, with the aim of enexecutives of Central Units. hancing its role as the key tool of communica• I mplementation of targeted action to raise tion with employees. awareness of executives and employees at 3 key • Automation of processes to reduce paperwork Central Units to ensure a psychologically healthy by utilizing the new self-service module of the workplace. upgraded Human Resource Management Sys•P  rovision of Employee Assistance Programs tem (HRMS). (EAPs) to all the Bank’s employees and sensiti• Alignment of performance assessment systems zation for its utilization to a significant number with the Group’s values and development of a of Group subsidiaries in Greece. new Competency Framework. •A  ccomplishment of 147 volunteer actions with • Design of intra-corporate Development Centers the participation of 12,845 Group employees. for middle management, in accordance with the •A  ccomplishment of 53 actions aimed at enBank’s leadership model, aimed at developing hancing youth entrepreneurship. leadership skills. 2016 key targets • Utilization of existing HR, through internal redeModel by through their participation in the inployment, to cover the Group’s business needs. ternal Development Center program. • Constant strengthening of Restructuring Busi•D  esign and implementation of targeted actions ness Units (RBUs) with additional employees. that support the talent-development strategy • Development of uniform programs of life insurand optimally utilize Bank employees. ance, permanent disability and health care as •C  ontinuation of Schools & Academies in prowell as children support programs for all HR. gress as well as development of new training • Review, simplification and automation of HR actions in order to respond promptly to new policies and processes to further enhance effectraining needs, fully aligned with the Group’s tiveness, speed and flexibility. strategic goals. • Further utilization of the new version of the •A  ssurance of 48 training hours per Bank emHuman Resource Management System (HRMS) ployee. and enrichment of the system with possibilities •D  evelopment of innovative tools of knowledge that contribute to increased productivity, faster dissemination and exchange as well as of flexdecision-making and homogenization of the ible training means and methods, thus ensuring Group’s culture. the required knowledge and abilities for HR. • Design of a tool of statistical analysis of the re•D  evelopment and implementation of new acsults of the annual assessment and installation tions that promote support of the young genof the tool into HRMS (e-Performance). eration. • Implementation of scheduled actions for pro• I dentification of the Group’s “Volunteers” – emmotion and enhancement of the Group’s new ployees interests through a targeted questionVision and Model of Values. naire. • Development of a business ethics guidelines, •A  ccomplishment of 175 volunteer actions with connected to the Group’s Model of Values. the participation of 15,000 Group employees. • Development of 120 high performance and •C  onduct of Employee Commitment Survey. highly-skilled executives in the new Leadership Corporate Responsibility Report 83 COMMITMENT TO SAFEGUARDING piraeusbankgroup.com> HUMAN RIGHTS Corporate Responsibility> Human Resources Piraeus Bank has adopted the principles of the UN Global Compact for the protection of human rights, therefore applies equal opportunity principles to all its actions and is opposed to any form of discrimination, inequality and all forms of harassment in the workplace. All the Bank’s policies, procedures and human resource management practices are all governed by respect for human rights. Thus, the Bank ensures equal opportunities and a work environment that accepts and incorporates diversity. All employees have access to the Group’s fully-defined Human Rights Policy and Complaints Management Process on intranet and the HR Portal. The Policy includes reference to collective representation, equal opportunities, harassment and violence in the workplace. At the same time, a positive work environment is ensured which promotes internal communication by means of a multitude of channels and opposes any form of unprofessional behavior. Lastly, distinct reference is made to the responsibilities of an organization regarding issues of the environment and safeguarding from corruption as well as the principles of confidentiality and privacy. In 2015, there were ten incidents of human rights violation, none of which was related to discrimination (gender, religion, ethnicity or sexual orientation) and all of which were dealt with and resolved in accordance with the established procedures within the year. Dissemination of the Policy and the working framework is achieved through systematic training of the Group’s human resources in Greece and abroad and has a twofold aim: to inform and sensitize. In the last quarter of 2015, the revised e-Learning on Safeguarding Human Rights and Equal Opportunities in the workplace entitled “Human Rights, Equal Opportunities and Diversity in the Workplace” was disseminated to all human resources in Piraeus Bank and Greek subsidiaries. The course has been attended by over 10,000 employees, equivalent to 119,730 training man-hours. More specifically, 64% of the Group’s employees in Greece have completed the course (at Bank level, the respective rate is 68%). The new content places emphasis on the aspects that raise employee awareness on the sections that emphasize the concepts of harassment and intimidation, while in practice it constitutes an incident management manual through structured Group procedures. For this reason, the lesson remains available to all employees even after its completion. Raising awareness of the Central Units (management and employees) regarding a psychologically healthy work environment was another significant issue this year, with emphasis on the values of respect and support, thus highlighting best practices and the communication channels that deal with such issues. At the same time emphasis was placed on sensitive personal data management regarding health issues. The Bank aims to provide a support framework to employees facing Serious physical or mental health issues (themselves or family members) while also consulting Units on their smooth integration in the workplace. In 2015, the Bank supported working mothers in their new role with 98% of new mothers who requested cumulative leave (of reduced hours), utilized it after their maternity leave. More analytically, 38.5% took up to 3 months of cumulative leave, 32% took 6 months and 29.5% took 6 months or more. In conclusion, with the aim of actively contributing to protection of the principles of human rights, specific evaluation criteria have been designed for the Bank’s partners and suppliers, including equal opportunities, non-acceptance of child or forced labor, compliance with business ethics principles and environmental protection. 84 Human Resources piraeusbankgroup.com> NUMBER OF PEOPLE WORKING AT PIRAEUS BANK GROUP Investor Relations> Corporate Governance> At the end of 2015, distribution of employees was: Organizational Structure Employee numbers* Men Women Total Piraeus Bank SA 6,144 8,110 14,254 Piraeus Group (Bank & Subsidiaries) 6,775 8,831 15,606 Subsidiaries abroad 1,051 2,641 3,692 Piraeus Group Total for continuing operations* 7,826 11,472 19,298 * Calculation in Head Count. The figures displayed exclude employees of the Group's discontinued operations ATE Insurance, ATE Insurance Romania and Piraeus Bank Cyprus. Furthermore Hmithea SA employees are also not included. The average age of the Group’s employees is 40 years; less than 10% of employees is over 50 years old. The age distribution of human resources of the Group facilitates the introduction and application of innovative changes to the technological infrastructure, processes and target-setting4. The percentage of employees with a university degree and/or postgraduate titles is 70% in Greece and 83% in the subsidiaries abroad5. Additionally, in 2015, the Group employed people through third-party companies, others with payment through services-rendered invoice and seasonal employees6. As far as voluntary turnover rate is concerned, Piraeus Bank Group recorded a 4% rate in 20157. At Bank level, the voluntary turnover rate amounted to less than 1% (68% men and 32% women). 4-5 Includes subsidiary companies in Cyprus, discontinued as of 31/12/15. 6 Includes subsidiary companies in Cyprus, discontinued as of 31/12/15. 7 Respectively in subsidiaries in Cyprus, 251 people were employed in the capital and 87 in other areas. Ετήσια ΈκθεσηReport Corporate Responsibility 2015 9 85 Employee Age Distribution Piraeus Bank 1% 89% 10% <30 30-50 >50 Piraeus Group* 5% 10% 85% <30 30-50 >50 * Includes data of operations in Cyprus, discontinued as of 31/12/15. 86 10 Τίτλος ενότητας Geographical Distribution Group in Greece Men Women Men Women Men Women 3,973 5,146 750 799 2,052 2,886 Attica Thessaloniki Other areas International subsidiaries* Men Women Men Women 885 1,845 316 984 Capital area Other areas Includes data of operations in Cyprus, discontinued as of 31/12/15: 251 employees in the capital area and 87 in other areas. Ετήσια ΈκθεσηReport Corporate Responsibility 2015 11 87 Third-party companies Piraeus Group 495 743 Men Women Απασχολούμενοι Men με ΔΠΥ Women υπάλληλοι ΕποχικοίMen Women 97Όμιλος Πειραιώς 89 Όμιλος Πειραιώς 94 63 Services-rendered invoice Seasonal Employees Piraeus Group Piraeus Group 88 Human Resources piraeusbankgroup.com> DISTRIBUTION PER EMPLOYMENT Resources> TYPE AND CONTRACT Human Resource Management> 100% of Piraeus Bank employees receive as a minimum the compensation and benefits Collective Representation agreed that resulted from collective bargaining contracts while at Group level, this percentage is 84%8. piraeusbankgroup.com> Human Resources> Piraeus Bank Total Men Women Human Resource Full-time employment 14,252 6,143 8,109 Management> Part-time employment 2 1 1 Remuneration & Benefits Indefinite time contract 14,240 6,133 8,107 Fixed-term contract 14 11 3 Group Subsidiaries Total Men Women Full-time employment 5,345 1,814 3,531 Part-time employment 37 18 19 Indefinite time contract 5,079 1,728 3,351 Fixed-term contract 303 104 199 COLLECTIVE REPRESENTATION Almost all Piraeus Bank employees are represented by six unions, of which the one with the most representatives is recognized as the competent body for bargaining with Management. The Group seeks to empower the dialogue with employees and their collective representation bodies as through this constant upgrading of the working environment is achieved. With this in mind, the Bank not only fully complies with the respective legislation framework and the individual and business contracts, but also supports tactical work meetings between top management and Union representatives at least once a month. During these meetings, among other topics, parties exchange information and opinions on the Group’s activitiesincluding important operational changes within the Group. SOCIAL POLICY Piraeus Group aims to offer its employees the compensation and benefits that ensure a satisfactory standard of living and motivate productivity. Total payroll expenses reached €771.9 mn, on 31 December, 2015, allocated as follows: Staff Compensations (€ mn.) 1.1.2015 31.12.2015 Employee Compensations 492.3 Social Insurance Contributions 123 Other Expenses* 23.3 Voluntary Exit Scheme Expenses 7.7 Retirement Benefits Expenses 15.4 Estimated exit expenses 110 Total 771.9 * Other expenses include the cost of: medical care, employee insurance with death and/or permanent disability coverage (Insurance Scheme), preventive check-up for managers, nursery schools and employer contributions other than social security funds. 8 Respectively in subsidiaries in Cyprus, 337 employees had full-time employment, 1 employee had part-time employment, 296 had indefinite time contracts and 42 had fixed-term contracts. 12 Τίτλος ενότητας Corporate Responsibility Report 89 Type of employment Piraeus Group * 0.2% 99.8% Full-time employment Part-time employment Type Of Contract Piraeus Group* 1.6% 98.4% Indefinite term Fixed-term * Includes data of operations in Cyprus, discontinued as of 31/12/15. 90 Human Resources piraeusbankgroup.com> In the framework of the consolidated Group, the process of creating a uniform insurance proCorporate Responsibility> gram is under way. It will include life insurance plan, permanent disability and health care proHuman Resources grams, as well as children support programs. Furthermore, the integration of all loan products for the whole HR was completed. Additionally, with the aim of assisting employees with large loans, who have been adversely affected by the economic conditions and are unable to make their monthly loan payment, a coordinated and targeted effort was implemented to provide advice and solutions thus facilitating better servicing of their loans and liquidity-saving. In conclusion, mortgage loans granted to Bank employees in 2015 (loans subject to the terms and conditions of the of the 1984 Collective Agreement on Working and Transactions, Greek Federation of Bank Employee Unions ΟΤΟΕ) amounted €1,801,862 while employee outstanding loan balances amounted to €224 mn at the end of 2015. PROMOTING EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES FOR CAREER DEVELOPMENT Piraeus Bank Group, with transparency and merit as the focal point and with a strong sense of responsibility, makes serious attempt to cover internally any hiring needs, giving priority to the existing human resources. Most business needs are covered by internal redeployment to positions that correspond to each employee’s experience. In 2015, absorption of Panellinia Bank (163 employees) was completed. Smooth integration of these employees constituted a particularly important task for the Group HR & Organizational Training Unit. One of the most important projects for 2015 was the update of the Promotion Policy and its dissemination to total Group HR. The Bank’s equal opportunities policy, ensuring of transparency and its clear orientation towards effective development of its people, enabled, many executives to develop and get promoted in 2015 as well. More specifically, 613 employees in the Bank were promoted, of which 295 men and 318 women, irrespective of level. According to the systematic monitoring of the rate of female participation in positions of responsibility, women hold 30% of the Bank’s senior management positions and 16% of the top management positions. Corporate Responsibility Ετήσια ΈκθεσηReport 2015 91 13 Promotions 2015 Piraeus Bank 48% 52% Men Women 92 Human Resources SELECTING THE RIGHT PEOPLE FOR THE RIGHT ROLES Piraeus Bank Group covers most of its business needs by internal redeployment of HR. The Group places special emphasis on respect for human value, ethics and integrity. This is reflected in philosophy, management practices and the HR selection and recruitment process. For the purpose of candidate selection and evaluation, the organization uses a set of standard tools, which vary according to the candidate’s level of education and experience and which ensure a transparent and objective recruitment procedure. The tools include job simulation exercises, competency tests, occupational personality questionnaires and a structured interview. This active policy has contributed to optimal utilization of the existing human resources based on their skills and competencies. A key target for 2015 was rationalization of the Branch Network in Greece and the best possible utilization of employees at the Group’s Centralized Services or at Branches, based on the business needs (69 branches merged). At the same time, particular emphasis was placed on strengthening the Restructuring Business Units (RBUs) with additional employees, aiming to more effectively manage NPLs (extra 239 employees to these units) within the year. More specifically in 2015, the need arose to cover 4,142 positions at Bank level. 99% of those positions were covered by internal transfers and promotions, and only 1% of positions were covered by external hiring mainly due to the need for completely specialized skills or roles – of these, 62% were men and 38% women. Employee development is an intrinsic part of the Group’s culture. Consequently, there is continuous enhancement of a working environment which provides equal opportunities irrespective of gender, age, religion, nationality, sexual orientation or physical ability. In the framework of open communication and adhesion to selection and staffing procedures, the following are applied: • Open communication of vacancies and fully prospects for development. transparent selection processes. • A ssessment & Development Centers for mid• Development and career incentives to all emdle and senior management roles. ployees in combination with each individual’s Expatriates During 2015, at Group level there were 29 international assignments active in six countries, of which 1 was a new assignment that commenced during the year and 19 continued to be active after the end of the year. Of these assignments, 7 were Piraeus Bank Cyprus employees with the remainder being Piraeus Bank Greece employees. The average duration of an international assignment is 5.2 years. The Group seeks to cover specialized executive needs through International assignments, wherever the Group has presence, while at the same time provides opportunities for development for executives with high potential and competitiveness in the market. More specifically, with expatriates, the following are targeted: • Coverage of positions of responsibility with emrience. ployees with the required knowledge and expe• T  ransfer of technical and professional expertise, Corporate Responsibility Report 93 experience and best practices. triates and their development through managpiraeusbankgroup.com> • Development of executives of international subing complex situations in a foreign environment, Human Resources> sidiaries as well as preparing them for future in order to bring their experience and expertise, Career Opportunities in succession. as adding value to the Group with their repaPiraeus BankGroup> • Promotion of a common culture, policies and triation. Staffing and Professional procedures in counties with Group presence. Development • Acquirement of significant experience by expapiraeusbankgroup.com> Human Resources Human Resource Management> Remuneration & Benefits REWARDING HUMAN RESOURCES Piraeus Bank Group encourages efficiency and effectiveness while also recognizes and rewards employees’ additional efforts. Employee assessment is an established procedure based on objective criteria. Short or long term special reward schemes are applied, structured in such a way as to enhance both individual and team effort. In addition to efficiency, the following are rewarded: • Innovation • Social responsibility • Ethos and integrity • Excellent professional presence EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT Performance Appraisal The performance appraisal procedure ensures continuous communication and guidance of employees by their managers and creates the framework for recognizing individual contribution. More specifically, employees are given the opportunity to firstly make selfassessment and then review their evaluation and openly express their views prior to finalization of the procedure. Annual performance appraisals based on the above procedure were applied for the period 1.1.2014 – 31.12.2014, and at Group level 14,552 appraisals were undertaken, of a total of 16,311 (89%)9. At Bank level, 11,263 appraisals were undertaken, of a total of 12,018 (94%). At Greek Subsidiary level, 714 appraisals were undertaken, of a total of 874 (82%). At International Subsidiary level, 2,575 appraisals were undertaken, of a total of 3,419 (75%10). 9 Respectively in subsidiaries in Cyprus, 171 appraisals were undertaken, of a total of 314 appraisals (54.5%). 10 Includes subsidiary companies in Cyprus, discontinued as of 31/12/15. 94 14 Human Resources Τίτλος ενότητας Rate of completion of performance assessment Piraeus Bank Group 89% 11% Completed appraisals 14,552 Incomplete appraisals 1,759 Total 16,311 Piraeus Bank and Borrowed Employees 94% 6% Completed appraisals 11,263 Incomplete appraisals 755 Total 12,018 Corporate Responsibility Ετήσια ΈκθεσηReport 2015 95 15 Rate of completion of performance assessment Greek Subsidiaries 82% 18% Completed appraisals 714 Incomplete appraisals 160 Total 874 International Subsidiaries* 75% 25% Completed appraisals 2,575 Incomplete appraisals 844 Total 3,419 * Includes data of operations in Cyprus, discontinued as of 31/12/15. 96 Human Resources Talent Development Strategy Recognizing that one of the key factors of success is its own people, Piraeus Bank Group via a variety of actions (short-term and medium-to-long term) ensures the constant and best possible development of its employees’ skills and abilities to allow for their optimal contribution, devotion to their work and with a sense of pride to be working at Piraeus Bank. The ability of an organization to retain executives with high potential and expertise is an element of sustainability and success in the market. The proper preparation of succession plans enhances the Bank’s organizational readiness to respond to any change. The talent retention strategy has three axis points: Retention – Utilization Loyalty In this framework, in the last quarter of 2015, 14 group and 5 one to one, 2-hour meetings with 161 senior management executives were held, at which the Bank’s strategy was analytically presented, ideas were developed and actions were planned for 2016. At the same time, the following are being designed, and reaffirmed: 1. Competency Framework In 2015, the official competency framework required for positions was revised for all the roles. Thus, employees are now required to work collaboratively, to seek innovation and to pioneer, to be oriented towards their own development as well as others’, to have a clear vision and course of action, to place emphasis on quality and outcome and to effectively resolve issues. In processing the new competencies, priority was placed on integrating them with corporate values in order to achieve a clear course of action and direction to all HR. 2. Development Centers In the framework of developing medium-level managers, internal Development Centers were created, the aim of which is to guide participants towards a uniform leadership model that incorporates the Group’s values. At the first stage, the Centers can undertake 120 participants annually, with the project team consisting of 22 assessors who have been certified for this purpose. More analytically, assessors received intensive training and certification in the specific methodology, which abides by the standards and principles of the British Psychological Society (BPS). The duration of the training for certification varied from 2 to 5 days, depending on the simulation. Training in the classroom was followed by job shadowing as well as individual guidance by specialized advisors to allow for optimal implementation of the methodology. The methodology for conducting the Development Centers is based on simulation of the working conditions of senior positions so that participants may be guided towards the most effective possible handling of situations and be properly prepared to assume their future duties. The skills that are developed relate to business and strategic perception, leadership, development of HR, and orientation towards results and quality.etc. In December 2015, the first Development Center was held with 6 participants. In addition to the intra-corporate Development Centers, the Bank also collaborates with external providers for the organizing of Centers for senior management. In 2015, a total of 17 executives participated in Centers with external partners. 3. Empowerment and Self-development In 2015, the model of self-development 70:20:10 was applied as methodology. This model guides the professional and their the direct supervisor concerning the time required to invest and the actions needed to be designed so as to develop his/her professional profile. Corporate Responsibility Report 97 As the responsibility for development lies with the employees themselves as well as his superior, the Bank’s HR can systematically shape its own development path with the support, collaboration and guidance of his superior as well as of the HR and the Group’s Organizational Learning Units. More specifically, these executives are encouraged to prepare development plans which offer new experiences to working. The learning process consists of 70% actual practice, 20% structured guidance from experienced executives and, lastly, 10% targeted training programs. The individual plans are optional and they act as a supporting guidance tool in the relationship between employee and supervisor. In 2015, 134 plans were prepared in the Bank. INVESTING IN PEOPLE’S DEVELOPMENT Piraeus Bank Group is an organization that is continuously developing and learning, committed to its vision and mission to disseminate knowledge; consequently, it consistently invests in its employees’ skills and knowledge development aiming to enhance their competencies. In full alignment with its strategy, in 2015 the Group designed and implemented addedvalue training actions in the direction of creating the right conditions and ensuring the HR’s commitment to excellent service provision, exceptional operation, effective management of change and development of business culture. The individual goals were: • Ensuring organizational continuity, in accordvalue and behavioral systems promoting a new, ance with the Group’s strategy, by enhancing uniform culture by means of integrated Schools the administrative and leadership skills of its and Academies. executives at all levels of operation through • Alignment with the existing legal and regulatory their participation in Schools, Academies and framework and the Group’s systematic coverspecially-designed programs. age against any operational, credit or other • Achievement of business continuity by coverrisk by methodically monitoring the relevant ing diversified needs at both an individual and training indices and responding directly to new group/unit level through the existing training training needs. programs with updated content and through • Training enhancement for employees of Units the creation of new ones, adapted to the rising that were formed in the framework of the needs and requirements. Bank’s institutional and structural changes. • Enhancement of alignment of the employee In total, 846,044 training man-hours were recorded in Piraeus Bank Group in 2015 (of which 748. 730 at Bank level including employees on secondment) while 3,989 in-house and external training courses11 were organized or utilized (2,966 at Bank level) covering 11 topics. At Group level, an average of 43 training man-hours was recorded per employee12 (51 at Bank level including employees on secondment). 58% of training man-hours at Group level were aimed at women (56% at Bank level including employees on secondment) and 42% at men13 (44% at Bank level including employees on secondment). 11 Respectively, the training The equivalent distribution according to the Group’s internal hierarchy was as follows: man-hours for subsidiaries in Cyprus numbered 6,290 Moreover, seeking to enhance entrepreneurship and disseminate the Group’s best practices, while the number of in-house Piraeus executives are encouraged to participate in conferences and seminars organized doand external training courses mestically or abroad. In 2015, 5014 Group’s executives participated as speakers at conferences organized reached 133. and scientific meetings, providing expertise and best market practices, thus supporting the 12 Average number of 19 business and academic community. training man-hours per employee in subsidiaries in Cyprus. 13 Includes subsidiary companies in Cyprus, discontinued as of 31/12/15. 14 4 managers are from subsidiaries in Cyprus, discontinued as of 31/12/15. 16 98 Τίτλος ενότητας Human Resources Distribution of training man-hours per topic* Piraeus Bank Bank Group* Piraeus Bank Bank Group* Piraeus Bank Bank Group* Piraeus Bank Bank Group* 72,132 73,412 12,107 14,454 38,596 39,027 119,508 119,730 Meetings – Workshops – Other Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Culture Human Rights Piraeus Bank Bank Group* Piraeus Bank Bank Group* Piraeus Bank Bank Group* Piraeus Bank Bank Group* 97,649 107,111 131,889 141,264 71,271 78,456 14,241 16,622 Regulatory Compliance Systems Leadership & Management Skills Customer Service Ετήσια ΈκθεσηReport Corporate Responsibility 2015 17 99 Distribution of training man-hours per topic* Piraeus Bank Bank Group* Piraeus Bank Bank Group* Piraeus Bank Bank Group* 87,368 115,532 13,496 23,636 90,475 116,802 Business Development Technical Skills Finance * Includes data of operations in Cyprus, discontinued as of 31/12/15. 100 18 Ανθρώπινο Τίτλος Δυναμικό ενότητας Average training man-hours per hierarchical level Piraeus Bank Bank Group* Piraeus Bank Bank Group* Piraeus Bank Bank Group* Piraeus Bank Bank Group* 25 34 59 64 38 46 43 51 Senior Management Middle Management Other Employees Per individual * Includes data of operations in Cyprus, discontinued as of 31/12/15. Ετήσια ΈκθεσηReport Corporate Responsibility 2015 19 101 Average training man-hours per gender Piraeus Group* 45 42 Men Women Piraeus Bank 53 50 Men Women * Includes data of operations in Cyprus, discontinued as of 31/12/15. 102 20 Ανθρώπινο Δυναμικό Τίτλος ενότητας Training Man-Hours per hierarchical level Piraeus Group 2% 2% 30% 38% 68% 60% Senior & Top Management Middle Management Other Employees HR% T m-h % Subsidiaries* 5% 4% 15% 18% 80% 78% Senior & Top Management Middle Management Other Employees HR% T m-h % * Includes data of activities in Cyprus, discontinued as of 31/12/15. Ετήσια ΈκθεσηReport Corporate Responsibility 2015 21 103 Distribution of training man-hours per Network and Administration Units Piraeus Bank 510,185 238,545 Network Administration Units 104 22 Κοινωνία, Τίτλος Πολιτισμός και Περιβάλλον ενότητας Training man-hours on Regulatory Compliance Issues per hierarchical level Piraeus Group* 103 3,445 9,187 Senior & Top Management Middle Management Other Employees * Includes data of operations in Cyprus, discontinued as of 31/12/15. Corporate Responsibility Report 105 REGULATORY COMPLIANCE TRAINING Particular emphasis was given by the Group to issues of Regulatory Compliance and combating fraud and corruption. Through the Piraeus Bank Group Regulatory Compliance Policy, which is posted on the Bank’s internal communication channel (Intranet), and by continuously training its employees, the Group seeks to define, determine and prevent the risk of legal and supervisory sanctions; furthermore, any financial losses or damage to Group’s reputation, that may occur to the Group and/or its stakeholders as a result of nonor partial compliance to laws, supervisory authorities’ decisions, self-regulatory rules and the codes of ethics. At Group level, 107,111 training man-hours were recorded in Regulatory Compliance and combating fraud and corruption15. The allocation of participations by hierarchical level is depicted in the relevant diagram. TRAINING ON HEALTH AND SAFETY AT WORK Health and Safety at work is a key objective for Piraeus Bank Group, which main concern is the protection of employees and the natural environment. In 2015, fully compliant with the legislative regulations, the Bank trained the members of the fire safety& emergency groups, aiming to transfer the basic safety skills that are required for fire prevention and suppression in the workplace. These training sessions were attended by 11,424 employees. Additionally, e-lessons were designed and disseminated to 9,150 Bank employees (incl. employees on secondment) aiming at providing information and training on issues of Safe Evacuation and First Aid in case of an emergency. BUSINESS INVESTMENT & INSURANCE SERVICE CERTIFICATIONS Abiding by the legislative framework, in 2015, 231 Piraeus Bank executives were certified in providing financial investment services; 377 already certified employees renewed their certification for the next five years. Additionally, 607 were certified in providing insurance advice. SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES In 2015, the implementation of 7 Schools and 2 Academies continued, with the aim of developing skills and knowledge in a systematic and structured manner while also covering a wide range of topics. More specifically, the chart below shows the Schools that were implemented: Α/Α School Training man-hours Participants 1 Branch Network 46,660 3,509 2 Personal Partner 18,608 1,514 3 Branch Restructuring Officer 6,779 991 4 Restructuring 5,352 382 5 Small Businesses and Professionals Partner 1,664 52 6 Business Centers 1,216 19 7 Business Consultants 288 18 TOTAL 80,567 6,485 15 Respectively, the training man-hours for subsidiaries in Cyprus numbered The Branch Network School began in 2014 and is a multi-thematic project aimed at Branch 621 (discontinued as of Network Managers, based on the following 5 key axes: 31/12/15). 106 Human Resources 1. Shaping of a uniform culture. with emphasis on excellent customer service. 2. Ensuring optimal business operation of 5. Management of change as well as provision branches. of motivation, support and development of all 3. Development of entrepreneurship through acgroups and employees at branches. tive utilization of HR at each branch. 4. Enhancement of customer-centric approach, In 2015, the School module on “Management of Human Resources and Change” was completed, aimed at enhancing the participants’ self-confidence in effectively responding to the demands of their position, shaping a uniform culture in the branches’ operation and managing change with a human-centric approach. 744 Branch Network Managers attended the module, the equivalent of 16,928 training man-hours. To date, 243 branch managers have completed the 4 modules of the School, all held in the classroom. The School is expected to reach completion in 2016. The Excellent Service Academy is a training action directed at all employees of the Branch Network and aims to enhance and guide branch employees in shaping a uniform culture that is customer-centric and offers excellent experience in any Piraeus Bank branch. In 2015, 53% of all Branch Network was included in the Academy, with 7,174 participants. At the same time, the design of an e-platform commenced for supporting the implementation and development of the project in the future. DEVELOPMENT OF LEADERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT SKILLS The Group continued in 2015 as well to focus on the development of the leadership and management skills of executives at all levels in order to enhance the efforts towards establishing a uniform culture in the Group as well as managing change with a human-centric approach. In this direction, the following training activities and actions were implemented: • Management Academy: a modular program of School Publishing; these programs combine 7 related topics, attended by 123 middle and e-Learning and tutorial training in classrooms. senior executives; 27 graduated with the reIn 2015, 205 Group executives (151 from the mainder expected to complete their training Bank and 54 from international subsidiaries16) next year. successfully completed “Stepping Up to Man• Situational Leadership (Self, One to One, agement” module. At the same time, 125 execTeam): targeted at senior executives, aiming to utives were included in the program, expected enhance their self and team as well as interto complete it within the following year. Reindividual (one-to-one) leadership. It includes spectively, 111 executives (46 from the Bank classroom training and individual coaching and 65 from international subsidiaries16) gradsessions. In 2015, 53 executives were included uated from the “Harvard Manage Mentor”. in the Situational One to One & Team programs; • A new Leadership Development training proat the same time, 137 individual coaching sesgram was implemented aimed at aligning the sions were realized. Bank’s leading executives and at promoting the • “Stepping Up to Management” and the “HarBank’s new model of leadership values, which vard Manage Mentor” programs, which are was attended by 68 senior and top executives. certified by the prominent Harvard Business In addition, new actions and activities were designed and are being implemented, which target and provide in-depth knowledge in: conducting effective meetings, creative resolution of business issues, exchange of best practices and interaction – creation of synergies within and outside the Group, emotional intelligence, negotiations, influence and motivation. 16 Includes subsidiary companies in Cyprus, discontinued as of 31/12/15. Corporate Responsibility Report 107 DISTANCE LEARNING piraeusbankgroup.com> e-Learning Human Resources> Career Opportunities in Aiming to cover the continuously increasing training and development needs of human rePiraeus BankGroup> sources, to enhance training within the Group and to develop life-long learning, e-learning is a Staffing and Professional pillar of the Group’s Knowledge Management System. It is supported by two e-platforms which Development serve the needs of employees both in Bank and Subsidiaries. Through systematic use of the tools available, such as chats, library, wiki, questionnaire and forums, e-learning is the means by which the people involved (trainees, trainers, business experts) develop communication and synergies, exchange opinions and best practices, promote knowledge and contribute to its dissemination within the Group. In 2015, 573,657 e-learning training man-hours were recorded at Group level, of which 35,930 at subsidiaries17. At Bank level, (incl. employees on secondment) the following were conducted: Piraeus Bank: e-learning 2015 Training man-hours 537,727 Participants 83,107 E-learning courses 312 The Group’s key goal is to further develop distance learning through the introduction of new learning channels while utilizing alternative means and methods (webinar, virtual classroom), thus enhancing the training provided and strengthening the concepts of self-improvement and lifelong learning. TRAINING CENTER NETWORK In 2015, the Group’s Training Center network in Greece was strengthened with the addition and operation of seven new centers (in addition to the existing ones in Athens and Thessaloniki) which operate in areas with Bank presence. The development of the Training Center network aims to cover the human resources’ training needs in a timely manner. At the same time, a reduction in transportation for training needs is achieved, thus enhancing efforts to improve the quality of life of employees and reducing the Bank’s environmental footprint. At present, a total of 11 Training Centers are in operation, having modern infrastructure and technological equipment and covering all training and educational need required by the Group: classroom training, distance learning (such as virtual classrooms), conferences, workshops, tutorials. QUALITY OF TRAINING SERVICES ASSESSMENT INDICES Piraeus Bank Group has developed an assessment system for all parameters of the training services provided, in addition to monitoring of the relevant indices in order to assess the quality and effectiveness of the training, the return on investment as well as the investment in HR. In 2015, a review of the assessment process commenced; the process is continuously being enriched with the addition of modern tools and methods. INVESTING IN THE MOST ADVANCED SOLUTIONS FOR HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT The integrated IT human resource management system (HRMS) continues to constitute the key platform in managing HR information and automation of the relevant processes. In 2015, emphasis was placed on automation of the processes in order to reduce the amount of paperwork 17 Respectively, the by utilizing the new self-service possibilities of the upgraded HRMS. e-learning training manAdditionally, the management information system (MIS) of the HRMS was enhanced with spehours for subsidiaries in cial statistical and metrics dashboards, thus allowing users to form their own personalized data Cyprus (discontinued as of 31/12/15) numbered 2,068. 108 Human Resources piraeusbankgroup.com> screen. Apart from the Group’s HR & Organizational Training Unit, the heads of all units also have Resources> access to MIS for having direct information about their subordinates. Human Resource Management> Open Communication HUMAN RESOURCES COMMUNICATION PHILOSOPHY Piraeus Bank Group recognizes the vital importance of internal communication with HR and its impact on people’s relationships, opinions, behaviors, attitudes but also on the Group’s philosophy. Through policies, processes and communication channels, the Group systematically promotes a culture of open, two-way communication between Management and employees as well as between employees of similar or different hierarchical levels. Consistency and sincerity in daily internal corporate communication creates and strengthens a sense of security, goodwill, dignity and collaboration, it reduces any possible disputes and achieves faster and more effective dissemination of knowledge and information useful for developing new products and services, customer service and cooperation with social partners to all levels. Internal communication contributes to the shaping of a uniform corporate culture with the Group’s Vision, Mission and Principles guiding it. By utilizing different channels of communication such as Intranet, HR Portal, emails, interunit and personal meetings, teleconferences, newsletters, meetings, employee engagement surveys, training, annual performance appraisals, Lead 360o, employee participation in projects, etc., employees can receive information, participate, utilize, shape and enhance their business and individual perceptions and actions towards a common course and corporate identity. Investing in communication through the HR Business Partner The HR Business Partner plays a significant role in enhancing open, two-way communication with HR, as it contributes to the strengthening of cooperation and communication between different groups within the organization. This role aims to encourage the taking of initiative, the exchange of ideas, through the design of career plans which include the exchange of roles and positions in various Bank operations, and the creative use of all available systems and means of communication. By acting as a link between the Units or the Branch Network and the fields of expertise of the Group’s HR & Organizational Training Unit, by comprehending the peculiarities of the business environment, the needs of “internal customers” and the possibilities of the organization’s resources, the HRBP is able to successfully communicate to the Bank the vision of Management thus ensuring that all Group employees are working in the same direction and have common values and goals. Lastly, it contributes to the alignment of the organizational culture with the Group’s goals and to cultivating the way in which “we work, we communicate, we cooperate and work”. Corporate Responsibility Report 109 Human Resource Operation at the start of Capital Controls In the period when the Bank’s branch network ceased to operate and Capital Controls were imposed, in unprecedented conditions for the banking sector, HR Business Partners ensured the optimal management and utilization of Bank employees, staffing both the branches, which remained open, as well as the Central Units that supported the particular situation with additional partners for the best possible customer service. Additionally, in collaboration with the Organizational Health team, HRBP visited Units and branches which had the greatest workload in order to support and give encouragement to HR. COMPOSING OUR FUTURE Following the 2014 actions with the motto “Composing our Future”, a series of new actions were organized and implemented in 2015 aiming at homogenizing human resources, communicating the vision and the new value model and aligning them with the Group’s processes and strategic goals, so that the emerging value system may become a daily source of inspiration and action. CORPORATE VIDEO & SUPPORTING MATERIAL The opening of the planned communication actions of the Vision and Values was inaugurated with the new corporate video. Bank employees participate in the video, which is shown on the Bank’s internal network and on the screens of the Central Units and the Branch Network. The corporate values are presented via specially-designed promotional material in Piraeus Bank buildings and units while new, coordinated actions have been prepared for 2016, aiming to reward groups and units which, through their daily work practices and behavior, promote their orientation towards the Group’s basic principles on people, society and the market. HR Portal In 2015, the portal was enhanced even more for employees both in its functions and operations in order to cover the increasing needs for internal corporate communication and mainly the promotion of the Group’s new vision and value model. Lending Library The lending library, which is thematic and specialized in skills development, began operating in 2014 and this year it was established as a service, it was enriched with new books on strategy and leadership and continues to offer alternative learning options according to individual interests. Its themes are related to the skills that the Bank’s employees need to demonstrate: strategic orientation and entrepreneurship, quality of service, effective leadership, communication, development of HR and self-development, negotiations etc. In 2015, the library responded to 262 requests, with the most popular topics being economics and communication skills. 110 Human Resources piraeusbankgroup.com> Resources> PIRAEUS BANK GROUP Human Resource SUMMER CAMP “FYLLARAKIA” Management> In the summer of 2015, the Piraeus Bank Group summer camp operated again with renovaWork Environment tions. In both camp seasons (of 15-day duration each) a total of 367 employee children were hosted, aged between 7-14 years old. The camp program was designed based on Piraeus Bank Group’s environmentally-friendly and socially responsible philosophy, providing the children with the opportunity for wellrounded development and recreation, while also familiarizing themselves with the Group’s value framework. PROVIDING A MODERN AND SAFE WORKING ENVIRONMENT Piraeus Bank complies with the legislative regulations regarding employees’ health and safety. Fully respecting its legal obligations, the importance of the issue and showing particular sensitivity to employees’ physical and mental health, the Bank provides a modern, healthy and safe workplace. Aiming to reduce the psychosocial risk and its effects in the workplace, the organization has created an integrated system of prevention, evaluation and management of the risk by using specific tools, programs and services not only through its internal structures, but also through partnership with an external provider. The Group ensures a modern, healthy and safe work environment. In 2015, 70 days of absenteeism were noted in Attiki and 77 days in the rest of Greece due to work-related accidents in the Bank and its subsidiaries. At the same time, the health and wellbeing of employees and their families is promoted through the provision of services and actions, such as the operation of gyms and the presence of a nutrition expert. EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAMMES-EAPs With an unwavering commitment to prevention and support, all Bank employees and their families had the opportunity to benefit from the internationally-certified Employee Assistance Programs (EAP’s) for a 7th consecutive year. The EAP services focus on prevention, as well as guidance for more effective management of challenges in all aspects of people's lives. More specifically, in collaboration with the external EAP provider the following were provided: a 24/7 Helpline, face to face counseling, critical incident stress management (regarding robberies, serious health issues). In order to provide systematic information and strengthen both the managers’ and the employees’ familiarization with the EAP Services, particular emphasis was given to sensitizing and informing them through focused briefings in the presence of the external EAP provider, with priority given to the Central Units, which are particularly burdened with the object of their work. These contributed decisively to the use of the services, thus reflecting the increasing needs and the trust employees placed on Employee Assistance Programs; this is confirmed by the satisfaction rate of the Programs’ beneficiaries, all of whom would recommend the services to partners and their families. The services are designed and developed gradually, according to the needs and challenges that arise in the Organization. For this reason, systematic qualitative and quantitative feedback is Corporate Responsibility Report 111 sought from the external provider and from the internal channels. piraeusbankgroup.com> Resources> The role of EAP services was even more important this challenging year of capital controls, as Human Resource it acted as a catalyst in managing work, family and personal issues that employees and their Management> families faced. Employee Assistance In 2015, EAP’s continued being utilized by Group subsidiary company employees in Cyprus, Programs and at the same time, the 24/7 Helpline and face to face counseling were also used by employees in the Group’s subsidiary in Greece. For 2016, the goal is for EAP services to be utilized by the majority of the Group’s subsidiaries in Greece, taking into consideration the benefits deriving from these. In the same framework, the support for expatriate Group executives continued, with the aim of continuously strengthening them in the new challenges they are facing. These support services include, among others, a 24/7 Helpline and face to face counseling for guidance on issues concerning their work and personal life. Placing emphasis on promoting health and wellness in the workplace, implementation of training and awareness sessions continued to be provided systematically in relation to the detection and management of early signs of dangerous behavior. This year, the relevant training was expanded to all Bank executives in charge of employee groups. Moreover, awareness-raising of employees and their families on issues regarding psychosocial health continued this year, through implementing targeted speeches all over Greece and uploading specialized thematic brochures on Intranet and on HR Portal. SUPPORT OF THE YOUNG GENERATION AND ENHANCEMENT OF YOUTH ENTREPRENEURSHIP With the volunteer participation of executives in these programs, the Group aims to assist young people (students and school leavers) to comprehend the meaning of entrepreneurship, leading them towards right business practices, housing and consumer credit. At the same time, they are informed about the role of economies and of businesses in the global economy, as well as the value of competitiveness and innovation. Recognizing how important the Group’s contribution to guidance of young people can be in familiarizing them with the financial environment and developing their business thought while also promoting volunteerism, 51 actions were performed at an equal number of schools in Greece, in collaboration with the Junior Achievement Greece organization and the Association for Youth Entrepreneurship (SEN). 51 Bank executives and 1,059 junior and senior high school students participated. At the same time, youth entrepreneurship is enhanced and the future leaders of Greece and local societies are supported, in collaboration with the Future Leaders Association. More specifically, in 2015, four Group’s executives provided guidance, as consultants to 55 university graduates in the design and implementation of two NGO projects in various parts of Greece. Piraeus Bank Group’s commitment to enhancing youth entrepreneurship, by utilizing the volunteer contribution of its experienced executives, leads to the planning of new, similar synergies for next year as well. 112 The Good and the Better are not enemies. They are best friends. Corporate Responsibility Report 115 SOCIETY, CULTURE AND THE ENVIRONMENT Piraeus Bank has incorporated, on a voluntary basis driven by solidarity, social and environmental actions into its business decisions and its contacts with other stakeholders. It is continuously adapting the financial, social and environmental impacts of its operation to a balanced approach within the scope of: economic development, environmental sustainability and social cohesion. In this framework, every year it sponsors and supports various programs aimed at assisting disadvantaged social groups and protecting the natural environment. Moreover, the Bank has made remarkable contribution to preserving and promoting the cultural heritage of Greece through the Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation (PIOP). Corporate Responsibility constitutes a strategic investment for Piraeus Bank, through which it contributes to enhancing the economy and society in every possible way. The Bank’s contributions to actions, programs and initiatives regarding social, cultural and environmental work in 2015 accounted for 1.50% of the Group’s annual pre tax and provision profit. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE Piraeus Bank Group invests in Corporate Responsibility in order to substantially contribute to the promotion of sustainable development through actions that support initiatives concerning society and the environment. In this framework, in 2007, the Corporate Responsibility Committee was established. The Committee aims to systematically integrate the Corporate Responsibility principles into the Group. It is chaired by Mrs Sofia Staikou, Chairman of the Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation and members of the Committee are Senior General Managers and General Managers of the Bank, the Scientific Advisor of the Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation and the Director of the Environment Unit. The aims of the Committee are: • To define, monitor the implementation of and action and programmes that promote sustainassess the Group’s principles and strategy on ability and are related to the pillars of CorpoCorporate Responsibility, which includes the rate Responsibility. pillars of: Corporate Governance, Customer • To promote the participation in programmes, and Supplier Relationships, Human Resources, partnerships, initiatives and financial instruSociety, Culture and Environment. ments that enhance the Group’s Corporate Re• To set the targets, coordinate and evaluate the sponsibility. 116 Society, Culture and the Environment In 2015, the Corporate Responsibility Committee continued its work in relation to the optimal integration of the Corporate Responsibility Principles into Piraeus Bank Group by establishing Partnership Principles with the Group’s suppliers as well as establishing a Group strategy on Volunteerism, as presented below. Additionally, the establishment of a “Working group for the completion of Sustainability Indices” is on course. Social Actions The strengthening of society by means of targeted actions constitutes an integral part of Piraeus Bank Group’s philosophy and of its implementation of Corporate Responsibility principles. Consequently, in 2015, Piraeus Bank Group continued its actions to empower vulnerable groups of society, to unify and activate other groups thus leading to long-term positive social change. Piraeus Bank Group’s social action focuses on strengthening the fields of education, training, health, culture, promotion of entrepreneurship – as a means of strengthening the economy and prosperity – environmental protection; it is implemented with organized employee volunteer actions, direct sponsorships and donations and partnerships with NGOs and non-profit organizations. More specifically, educating children and youths is a key tool in creating a better future and it can evolve dynamically with proper functioning of institutions and by shaping good conditions of daily life. With this in mind, in 2015 the Group provided direct donations and sponsorships to primary and secondary schools, universities and their research centers and the companies utilizing their property – among which are the Special Account for Research Grants (SARG) of the University of Crete, the Special Account for Research Grants (SARG) of Panteion University, the Special Account for Research Grants (SARG) of the Technical University of Crete, the Aristotle University Property Development and Management Company, the University of Piraeus Research Centre, the Property Development and Management Company of Democritus University of Thrace. In the field of health, the Group assisted the multifunctional work of public health units such as the Thessaloniki General Hospital Saint Paul”, the General Hospital of Elefsina “Thriasio”, and the Institute of Child Health in response to their crucial demands and needs. Recognizing the social contribution of Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) and nonprofit organizations, the importance of their actions and of their provision of care, treatment, support and assistance to vulnerable groups, the Group supported in 2015 with donations and sponsorships the Hellenic Red Cross, and the Hellenic Society for Disabled Children (ELEPAP). Moreover, it supported various ecclesiastical organizations in aid of their important social work, such as the Holy Metropolis of Serres and Nigritis, the Holy Monastery of Prophet Moses Faran Sina. Support of the multifarious work of the NGO “Apostoli” of the Holy Archdiocese? of Athens continued for another year by offering food, personal hygiene products and medicine to vulnerable social groups. Aiming to preserve and further strengthen the social cohesion and the prosperity of local communities, Piraeus Bank Group supported with donations a multitude of municipalities and regions as well as the employee associations that work in these. Recognizing that social wellbeing is enhanced by utilizing research and strengthening existing or new networks of business, technological and research activity that leads to economic growth, the Group supported conferences and workshops of various organizations as well as financing professional associations, societies, chambers and entrepreneurship clubs. Piraeus Bank Group has undertaken selected cultural donations for years in order to contribute to the enhancement of intellectual values and the production of cultural goods. Additionally, it provides financial aid to organizations and associations involved in the preservation of cultural heritage – a legacy to future generations. In this framework, once more a series of events were sponsored at the Athens Concert Hall as well as “Diazoma” Association Citizens for the Greek Corporate Responsibility Report 117 Ancient Theatres, the intellectual society “Archaia Dodoni” among others. piraeusbankgroup.com> Financial support to non-profit sports clubs and associations all over Greece constitute another Corporate Responsibility> Human Resources significant part of the Group’s contribution to young people and their interests, as sports are not only a social institution of pedagogic and educational character but also a cultural benefit which reflects social actions. In 2015, in collaboration with the Hellenic Football Federation, the Group was a proud Golden Sponsor of the Greek National Football Team. Piraeus Bank Group’s Declaration on Volunteerism The message that defines volunteerism at Piraeus Bank Group is: “I care, I participate, I voluntarily act in initiatives that make a difference to Society, Culture and the Environment” In the framework of Piraeus Bank Group’s Corporate Responsibility, we strive towards sustainable development by investing systematically in Society, Culture and the Environment. Fully aware of the importance of sustainable development for Society, we aim to create added value for our customers, employees, shareholders, local communities and the environment while also promoting the value of volunteerism with the participation of the employees themselves and their families. Operating responsibly and seeking to contribute to the key issues and needs of Society, we support the work of specialized NGOs involved in the help of vulnerable social groups, promotion of youth entrepreneurship, protection of the environmental and cultural awareness by mobilizing the Group employees’ in volunteerism. Additionally, the Group’s volunteer actions are related to the needs of local communities (through the Group’s presence and action network) and the interests of the volunteers per se (through a volunteer interest survey). Through dialogue with partners and access to open information regarding volunteer actions, volunteers opt to contribute to significant projects related to specific needs and have a significant impact on the lives of our fellow human beings. Upholding the principles of transparency, the annual Corporate Responsibility Report publicizes the objective and the impact of the volunteer actions on Society. Piraeus Bank Group has integrated the design and implementation of volunteer actions into the practices of the Group’s Human Resources, in collaboration with the Environment Unit and the Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation. Volunteerism In 2015, 147 volunteer actions – 37 in subsidiaries abroad18 were realized with a focus on the 18 9 volunteer actions main aspects of volunteerism mentioned in the Group's Declaration of Volunteerism, i.e. fair organized by subsidiary play in sportsmanship through our participation in charity matches or youth entrepreneurship companies in Cyprus support programs. (discontinued as of The total number of the Bank’s employees in Greece who participated in the Group’s volunteer 31/12/15). initiatives reached 8,943. In volunteer actions organized by subsidiaries in Greece the number 19 Respectively, in of employees reached 757 and 3,145 in subsidiaries abroad. 49,771 people and 39 NGOs19 subsidiary companies in Cyprus (discontinued as of benefited from these actions. 31/12/15), 206 employees With a strong sense of social awareness and a desire to offer to Society, a volunteer week was participated in volunteer established to be held annually with the contribution of Piraeus Bank Group volunteers. actions with 10 NGOs Recognizing the needs of refugees, the homeless and the needy for keeping warm, the Group benefiting from these. 118 Society, Culture and the Environment piraeusbankgroup.com> in collaboration with the NGO “Apostoli” of the Holy Archdiocese of Athens collected and doCorporate Responsibility> nated 32,000 pairs of new, warm socks as well as other items to vulnerable social groups. Human Resources Aiming to inform children and adults, 51 actions of cultural and environmental awareness were organized in 2015, utilizing the expertise of the Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation and the Environment Unit, with the participation of 2,841 employees and their families. Social Actions of Piraeus Bank Group International Network Piraeus Bank Group invests in Corporate Responsibility in its international network as well with actions and initiatives that enhance society and culture. Cyprus • Collaboration with Europa Donna Cyprus for Breastfeeding Association “Gift for Life”. a 6th consecutive year in actions to support • S upport of Red Cross volunteer actions for prebreast cancer campaigns. The campaign has vention and relief of human pain and emergencontributed to the increase in social awarecy response irrespective of gender, age, social ness and prevention. The online petition gathstanding, religion or political convictions etc. ered 21,000 signatures and the annual cancer • I nvestment in youth education and entrepreawareness walk had over 10,000 participants neurship with scholarships to disadvantaged thus contributing to the State’s approval to open families and students who excelled. the 1st Breast Center in Cyprus. • S trategic partnership with the Junior Achieve• Support of the work of Humanitarian Institument organization in the “Entrepreneurship in tions/Organizations such as “One Dream, one Education” program. Piraeus Bank (Cyprus) parWish”, “Theotokos” Foundation, “Association ticipated not only with a financial sponsorship for People with Mental Handicap”, the Cyprus but also with the active participation of its emAutistic Association, “Committee for Aid to Chilployees in the interactive educational program. dren in Cyprus”, “Vagoni Agapis”, the Cyprus Bulgaria • “Blagodetel” (Benefactor) campaign in partner•P  articipation in the annual “Career Day” exhiship with UNICEF. Since 2011, the Bank has had bition, collecting CVs and providing career opspecial co-branded credit and debit cards, use portunities to university graduates in Bulgaria. of which contributes to fundraising which is ad•C  ollection of goods to aid flood victims in Bulditionally enhanced by the Bank to support the garia in the spring of 2014. work of UNICEF for children with particular so• S ponsorships in the field of culture with the aim cial needs. of preserving social bonds, customs and tradi• Donations/ Grants to charity organizations that tions and the safeguarding of the national hishost children with health issues, without family torical and cultural heritage. etc. • S ponsorship of art exhibitions by the Union of Bulgarian Artists. Ετήσια ΈκθεσηReport Corporate Responsibility 2015 23 119 Percentages of volunteers per volunteer action category 1% 2% 4% 71% 14% 8% Social contribution Development of youth entrepreneurship Environmental protection Fair play Blood donation Other 24 120 Τίτλος ενότητας Κοινωνία, Πολιτισμός και Περιβάλλον Percentages of Group participation in volunteer actions 70% 24% 6% Bank Greek subsidiaries International subsidiaries* * Includes data of operations in Cyprus, discontinued as of 31/12/15. Corporate Responsibility Report 121 Albania • Tirana Bank received the certificate of gratitude able groups, such as orphans or children with Albania Solidarity in 2014 for its generosity incurable diseases, hosted at the SOS Children’s and its commitment to cope and support the Villages or hospitalized at the University Hospipeople affected from the flooding in southern tal Center. Albania. • Support to education by participating in the • Blood donation for the 7th consecutive year in “Global Money Week”, which provides the oppartnership with the Albanian Red Cross. portunity for communication and collaboration • Campaign to inform and sensitize society on between the business world and the university breast cancer. field, especially the students. • Organizing of recreational actions and sponsorships in support of children from socially vulnerRomania • Participation in the Princess Margareta of Roity bazaars and invited citizens to help with acmaniacharity initiative to collect money and tions by means of its social media thus assisting school equipment to give children and youths the cause not only financially but also actively access to education so that they do not disconwith blood donation etc. tinue their education due to financial difficulties. • Utilization of “Curaj Romania”, the Piraeus Bank • Collection of money in support of the victims of Romania website on Facebook to disseminate the fire at the “Colectiv” nightclub in Bucharest, and encourage socially responsible practices. considered a national tragedy. Through its employees’ volunteerism, the Bank organized charSerbia • Financial support to the Institute for Children ties to students awarded distinction from the and Youth Health Protection. Belgrade Banking Academy and the Mathemati• Financial support to the National Parents Assocal Gymnasium Belgrade. ciation of Children with Cancer for the construc• Investment in youth education and entrepretion of a new hematology-oncology department neurship with scholarships to disadvantaged at a Hospital in the Nis region. families and students who excelled. • Dissemination of sports ideals and fair play as • Support to education by participating in the well as support of charity causes though spon“Global Money Week”, which provides the opsorships and participation in sports activities. portunity for communication and collaboration • Support of education through sponsorship of between the business world and the university international student competitions as well as field, especially the students. monetary awards and employment opportuniUkraine • Participation in charity events and fundraising • Sponsorship of workshops on the socio-ecoinitiatives to collect money in support of pronomic growth prospects of Ukraine, on support tecting socially vulnerable groups. of Startups, on international strategies for collaboration on issues of Science – BusinessEducation etc. Germany – Frankfurt Branch • Selection of an NGO company employing people • Support and encouragement of business actions with disabilities for the paper collection operaand synergies between Greece and Germany tions. through participation in Greek-German Busi• Sponsorship of events promoting Greek culture ness Forums, trade fairs etc. and art. 122 Society, Culture and the Environment THE PIRAEUS BANK GROUP CULTURAL FOUNDATION (PIOP) The Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation (PIOP) supports the preservation and promotion of Greece’s cultural heritage, with emphasis on traditional and industrial technology, and promotes the interconnection between Culture and the Environment. Framework of Operation and key statutory Goals PIOP is a public benefit foundation, subsidized for its operation by Piraeus Bank. It carries out the planning and implementation of actions and programmes related to culture, while at the same time it enacts an important part of the principles and targets of the Group’s commitment to Corporate Responsibility. PIOP aims towards the functional interconnection and equal promotion of culture and the environment through the Museums’ action plan in the Greek periphery. Thus, the foundation, and the Bank accordingly, contribute definitively and effectively to the cultural life of Greece. The Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation’s primary statutory targets are: • To educate society on the need to preserve and search on traditional technology and industrial safeguard the traditional cultural character of archaeology. Greece as well as its natural environment and • T  o contribute to Greece’s cultural and economic industrial development and to develop standard development by means of research, promotion methods for their implementation. and exploitation of its cultural reserve. • To safeguard, record and promote Greece’s • T  o protect and manage the natural, urban and tangible and intangible cultural heritage and cultural environment. identity. •T  o preserve and highlight landscapes within the • To safeguard and record Greek traditional and framework of sustainable growth and to proindustrial technology, to record the Piraeus mote environmental and social awareness to Bank Group’s history through safeguarding and citizens and relevant institutions. organizing its archives and to contribute to reThe Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation’s primary statutory targets are fulfilled through: • The creation and management of an extensive serving the research needs of the scientific network of thematic technological museums in community. the Greek regions. These museums do not be•O  peration of a historical archive connected to long to PIOP or the Bank but to the Local Authe economic – banking, industrial and agriculthorities or the Greek State. In accordance with tural – history of Greece and dissemination of the planning agreements, the Foundation shoulthe archive to the specific and general public. ders the museums’ exemplary operation, cover•P  ublishing of scientific works. ing their operational and maintenance costs and •O  rganization of cultural actions. managing their collections and cultural events • S trengthening of rescue actions. for 50 years. Following that period, the owners •P  IOP’s involvement in public dialogue in order to of these museums take on these responsibilities, shape and influence cultural policies. if they choose to do so. • Implementation of research programmes and 30 Τίτλος ενότητας Corporate Responsibility Report 123 PIOP communication chart www.piop.gr Specialized Voice of the customer professional networks, questionnaire cultural tourism networks, for the museum visitors educational institutions and public bodies The e-newsletter “Piopnews” e-shop and Museum shops Athens and local communities Events hosted in Athens and the PIOP museum network, participation in events hosted by local authorities, educational programmes in schools Printed and electronic media, The daily press, periodicals & and collaboration with Environmental broadcasting media scientific journals Education Centres (eec) Special features or articles in the press or periodicals Communication Campaigns Printed promotional material Scientific communities Participation in fora, events hosted by universities and scientific associations Social Media Piraeus Bank Group Facebook, Youtube Intranet, “winners” Communication means Group Special communication methods 124 Κοινωνία, Πολιτισμός και Περιβάλλον Ετήσια Έκθεση 2015 31 PIOP collaborations and synergies Scientific Associations Piraeus Group Employees Ministry of Culture, Bodies related to PIOP’s Education and Religious Affairs scope of activities: ICOM, Universities, Regional Education EMA, TICCIH, TIMS, Directorates, Specialized Technical Chamber of Greece, Management Agency OP ICOMOS, DIAZOMA “Education and Lifelong Learning”, Environmental Education Centres, Schools European Union International and Greek universities & research Ministry of Reconstruction Local Communities of institutions of Production, Industrial Areas in Athens Environment and Energy Local Authorities, Local Cultural and other Bodies Greek and International Archive Agencies SGA, GSA, EABH Partnerships for Ministry of Finance development Directorate of National Local Authorities and Bodies Endowments (TOPSA Local Plans for Employment Programme) Associations of Institutions European Foundation Center Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Culture, Infrastructure, Tourism &Shipping Education and Religious Specialized Management Print and electronic media Affairs Agency OP “Competitiveness & Entrepreneurship”. General Investment & Development Directorate, Economic Dept. of the Special Service for Coordination and Implementation Greek and international research The Cultural Foundation of Piraeus Local communities In the Greek regions, and scientific institutions Group local authorities, local cultural, environmental and other agencies Corporate Responsibility Report 125 PIOP’s Communication Strategy The Foundation’s communication strategy regarding dissemination of information of its actions is defined by its close relationship to the Piraeus Bank, the institutional establishment it abides by, the distinctiveness of its field of operation and the scope described in its Statutes. In this framework, communication of the Foundation’s work and its significance to the general public is pursued by all appropriate means: lectures, seminars, conferences, exhibitions, films, periodical and book publications, organization and preservation of archive collections, utilization of all means of communication and any other activities that may serve the Foundation’s objectives. Continuous upgrading of the Foundation’s website www.piop.gr enabling it to offer many new technical capabilities on a par with the largest Foundations and Museums worldwide. With the aim of promoting the Foundation to the broader public, a television series was produced in 2015, entitled “Seven Museums, One Journey” in collaboration with the Bank’s Marketing Unit, hosted by the actor Ieroklis Michaelidis as tour guide. The series presents the seven museums of PIOP’s Museum Network, located at seven sites in the Greek periphery, and highlights the cultural heritage of each region, emphasizing the traditional technology and industrial technology. Each episode focuses on one museum and illustrates the history of the area through its production activity. Local craftsmen, producers, factory workers and residents of each region act as narrators in the series. The series aims to interconnect PIOP Museums with the people and the culture of the broader region as well as promote public awareness of the Foundation’s targets and inform about the Museums and the traditions of each region. The series is of high cinematic aesthetics with numerous outdoor shots that highlight the picturesque Greek scenery. The series’ original score was composed by Nikos Portokaloglou. 2015 actions PIOP once again upheld the high specifications for operation in and service to Greek society despite the objective difficulties of the present economic conjunction. S ignificant increase in the Foundation’s actions in Athens and the periphery as well as inauguration of a program of PIOP actions in Thessaloniki. In this framework, the Foundation posts a quarterly program of actions on its website www.piop.gr. Scientific and Experiential Actions Organizing scientific and experiential actions, with emphasis on producing new and promoting previous research findings, is significant. These actions are organized in a manner which enables local communities to utilize their cultural reserve towards their self awareness, cultural and economic growth. PIOP measures and analyzes the effects of its actions on target groups by means of: • Systematic data collection on visitor numbers to • Visitor log books at the Museums of the Netthe Foundation’s Museum Network. work. 126 Society, Culture and the Environment • Systematic recording of requests, comments visitors. and complaints. •M  onitoring of response from the e-newsletter • Continuous contact with all interested parties “piopnews” recipients. and response to written requests and comments. • M onitoring press releases. Consistent press clip• Organizing satisfaction and experience surveys ping and record-keeping of articles in order to for Museum visitors. monitor the effects of PIOP actions. • Qualitative and quantitative analysis of website New planning period 2015 was the second year of implementation and execution of the 4-year planning period of thematic redirection, restructuring and activation of PIOP, which had been set on course in 2013. This was based on the capitalization of its experience and know-how which was established in the first year of the program’s implementation and incorporates the dynamics that are being shaped, mainly by means of a) the new PA (Partnership Agreement for the Development Framework) 2014-2020, b) the “Creative Europe” program of the European Commission , c) the “Horizon 2020” program of the European Commission, d) the “INTERREG 2014-2020” and the “BALKAN-MED 2014-2020” programs, and e) UNESCO’s Action Plan. This thematic expansion and revision of PIOP’s statute, which now incorporates the environment into its statutory goals on a par with culture, allows PIOP to closely monitor prospects emerging in the fields of culture and the environment, both in Greece and abroad. Consequently, operational interconnection and promotion on an equal basis of culture and the environment are being designed by means of the PIOP Museums action plan, through new thematic priorities, such as “Cultural Landscapes” and “Historical Centers”. In order to achieve the goal of connecting culture and the environment, close collaboration with Piraeus Bank’s Environment Unit has been intensified and collaboration with other Institutions in Greece on “Culture-the Environment” issues is on course. Culture and environmental corporate responsibility principles In the framework of integrating Piraeus Group’s Corporate Responsibility Principles into its operation and procedures, PIOP has obtained EMAS (Eco-Management and Audit Scheme) and ISO 14001 certification for its buildings. In 2015 as well, in the context of the Foundation’s approved environmental programs, a series of energy efficiency studies and targeted interventions were undertaken at the Museums’ buildings and electromechanical equipment and at PIOP’s premises in Athens. These actions aimed at improving their energy efficiency and consequently further reducing the Foundation’s environmental footprint. The Foundation’s second Environmental Statement received verification from the Cyprus Certification Company (with environmental verifier registration number EMAS ELV-0009, Accreditation Certificate Number: 549), on 14.07.2015. The Foundation is registered in the Greek EMAS Register (registration number EL-000110), in accordance with the No. 50486/1466/10.27.2014 Ministerial Decree. Further integration of Piraeus Group’s Corporate Responsibility Principles to PIOP’s operation, was pursued consistently in 2015 as well. More specifically, the following were implemented: • Continuous monitoring of key performance indiEnvironment), publications, the library and Hiscators, in the framework of PIOP’s Environmentorical Archive. tal Management System. •T  raining of employees (over 3,800 training • Updating of PIOP’s ISO 9001 certification and of hours for all 77 PIOP employees). the regulation as well as expansion of the Foundation’s quality certification in order to cover new thematic priorities (mainly regarding the Corporate Responsibility Report 127 The constantly growing involvement of the Foundation’s employees in the implementation of Piraeus Bank Group’s principles of Corporate Responsibility is achieved through the continuous provision of information, which covers all sectors where it is applied, its actions and public accountability. Promotion of intangible cultural heritage A focal point for PIOP is the protection, promotion and study of Greece’s intangible cultural heritage. Thus, the Foundation has made a decisive contribution to and provided scientific support for the first two Greek inscriptions of the elements of intangible cultural heritage on UNESCO’s Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity. These are: a) the Know-how of cultivating mastic on the island of Chios, which constitutes the first exclusively Greek nomination to be inscribed on the List at the Intergovernmental Committee for the Safeguarding of Intangible Cultural Heritage annual Convention (Paris, 24-28 November 2014) and b) the Tinian Marble Craftsmanship, with the General Conference of the Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage approving its registration in the Representative List at its 10th annual meeting (Namibia, 30 November – 4 December 2015). These two elements of Greek intangible cultural heritage are on display at two of the PIOP Museums: the Museum of Chios Mastic on the island of Chios and the Museum of Marble Crafts on the island of Tinos. In this way, PIOP contributes substantially to the promotion of intangible cultural heritage and to the support of the regions which host the Museums of the Network. In recognition of PIOP’s contribution to this promotion of Greece’s intangible cultural heritage and highlighting of its cultural capital, PIOP received accreditation by the States Parties of the Convention for the Safeguarding of Intangible Cultural Heritage to act in an advisory and consultative role in the Intergovernmental Committee of the Convention. With particular emphasis on safeguarding greek oral tradition as an element of intangible cultural heritage and in an effort to interconnect the country’s wise sayings and proverbs, in particular, with the Museums’ themes, PIOP offered primary and secondary school children one more tool to learn more about their past. For this purpose, the children’s theatrical play “Mr. Timotheos and the lost gem stone of knowledge”, exclusively prepared for PIOP was staged for a second year at the multipurpose culture hall “Athinais”. In the same framework, 26 specialized actions were organized at the PIOP Museums, with the aim of promoting Greece’s of intangible cultural heritage. Museum Network PIOP ensures the sustainability and european-standard operation of a Museum Network in the Greek periphery. The Foundation’s coordinated actions are also continuously enriched by the knowledge and innovations of other cultural centers in Greece and Europe. The Museum Network serves PIOP’s fundamental purpose: to safeguard and promote Greece’s production history, with emphasis on traditional and industrial technology. The Museum Network consists of seven thematic technological museums which depict and preserve the local traditions of technique and industrial production: Silk MuseumSoufli, OpenAir Water-Power MuseumDimitsana, Museum of the Olive and Greek Olive OilSparta, Museum of Industrial Olive Oil Production in Lesvos-Aghia Paraskevi, Lesvos island, Rooftile and Brickworks Museum N. & S. TsalapatasVolos, Museum of Marble CraftsPyrgos, Tinos island, Environment Museum of Stymphalia. During 2015, construction continued on two new museums: the Chios Mastic Museum on the 128 Society, Culture and the Environment island of Chios and the Silversmithing Museum of Ioannina, which are to be included in the Museum Network in 2016. PIOP ensures the sustainability of these museums by covering all their operational costs as well as ensuring their smooth operation through a centralized management system; there are also monitoring committees in which local stakeholders and representatives of the Ministry of Culture and Sports also participate. Smooth operation of the Museums also entails dealing with all regular and extraordinary management issues: maintenance and/ or expansion work and event supporting, enrichment and management of Museum Shops, café as well as further enrichment of museum collections (data base management, maintenancestorage, accompanying activities, digital applications etc.). In addition to contributing to the increase in tourism in distant or island regions, PIOP also contributes to the economic development of local communities, as the majority of goods and products sold in the museum café and shops are supplied by the local markets. Museum staff (29 people) are hired from the local community and undergo regular training, thus upgrading the standard of services offered to visitors (assistance of people with vision problems, use of audio tour guides, emergency evacuation procedures etc.). Visitors to the Museum Network reached 147,913 in 2015, 72% free of charge. It should be noted that despite the economic crisis (and consequently the culture crisis), the museums marked a 13.9% increase in visitor numbers compared to 2014. Visitor numbers stem from the support provided by the local communities, which recognize the benefits of the promotion of their cultural identity and contribution to the local economy, and from continuous renewal of cultural actions – by means of periodic exhibitions, lectures, conferences and a multitude of other cultural events. All the Museums have Multi-Purpose Halls, which are vibrant cultural areas where educational programs, exhibitions, lectures, seminars and other events take place. The Halls constitute a useful tool for the Museum Network’s operation, for interconnection with the local society and wider promotion of the Foundation. The events held in the Halls are mainly organized and coordinated by the Foundation with the possibility of providing the Halls for third-party use on a case-by-case basis and mainly in the framework of serving the needs of local communities. The organizing of high-standard cultural events in the Multi-Purpose Halls of the Museum Network aims to establish the Museums as permanent cultural centers for the local communities in which they operate. The Foundation organizes artistic and scientific actions which are related to the character of each museum or are presented in the whole network; it often collaborates with local bodies and houses their events in its Multi-Purpose Halls. In particular, in 2015, 14 exhibitions, 115 cultural actions, 129 collaborations with third parties, 151 educational actions and programs, 12 regular educational programs, 15 educational programs based on PIOP’s thematic scope, 129 ‘anniversary’ educational programs for minors and adults as well as 32 circular events (art workshops, musical meetings, summer children’s workshops, seminars, documentary screenings, children’s films etc.) were organized. Moreover, speeches on psychosocial health were held at the Network Museums for the general public with the aim of enhancing the participants’ wellbeing in their daily, personal and professional life through prevention and sensitization, scientific information provision and acquisition of knowledge. The program was implemented in partnership with the Bank’s Organizational Health Unit. In 2015, such speeches were held at the Museum of Industrial Olive Oil Production in Lesvos, the Museum of Marble Crafts on Tinos island, the Rooftile and Brickworks Museum N. & S. Tsalapatas in Volos and the Silk Museum in Soufli. Recognizing the importance of First Aid provision to visitors at all PIOP buildings, in collaboration with the Volunteers Samaritans, Rescuers and Lifeguards Corp of the Red Cross (Nea Smyrni branch), employees of the Network Museums and a number of local community residents received training in Basic Life Support Training (Cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR), choking etc.). The training was undertaken by the Nea Smyrni branch of the Red Cross at the museum’s Multi-Purpose Halls; 73 people received training with applications for participation being twice as many. Corporate Responsibility Report 129 PIOP HISTORICAL ARCHIVE (HI) 15 scientific meetings 14 educational actions 3 theatrical plays 1 art exhibition 15 screenings Piraeus Group is guided by a strong sense of responsibility with regard to the safeguarding and organizing of the archives it has or produces and which reflect the economic and social parameters of Greece’s contemporary history. The PIOP Historical Archive’s operation supports historical research and cultural production as well as serving the needs of ongoing Group activities and is defined by: • the present-day requirements for cultural man• Piraeus Bank Group’s Corporate Responsibility agement of accessible, historical archives and commitment to culture. of multiple, environmentally-friendly services, • international experience, The target of the Historical Archive (HI) is to promote the importance of preserving the memory of the archival sources and utilize the archive material by multiple recipient groups. HI operation is not only connected to research and academic groups but also to the educational and artistic communities, to Piraeus Group employees, local communities and the general public. The interior and outdoor areas of the building complex housing the Historical Archives of PIOP include infrastructures to allow for implementation of operations and actions such as a banking history exhibition, scientific and general-interest events (screenings, temporary exhibitions, tours, presentations), lifelong learning workshops and creative activities for adults, children’s educational programs related to the HI as well as the charming café ARHEION and a souvenir shop. The PIOP Historical Archive holds the archives of the 6 banks acquired by Piraeus Bank Group as well as the archives of bodies and businesses related to the banks, thus Piraeus Bank, Chios Bank, Macedonia-Thrace Bank, ATEbank, Geniki Bank, the Hellenic Industrial Development Bank ETBAbank), archives of 4 state financial institutions, 55 businesses, 5 private archives and 2 associations. The located archive material is in excess of 16.000 meters long so far and dates to the 1920’s. Unbound documents, ledgers, stocks, maps, plans, photographs, audio-visual material, 3-D objects, rare and specialized editions are all part of the collections. By means of this material, a significant part of the economic (agricultural, industrial and banking), and social history of 20th century Greece is reconstructed. The HI also holds and manages a large section of the Group’s semi-active archive in order to serve requests by Piraeus Group. The Archive provides research information on a multitude of topics such as the basic structures and institutions of the Greek economy, Greek agricultural and industrial policy over decades, important aspects of the banking system, rehabilitation of refugees from Asia Minor, the agricultural cooperative movement and foreign aid to post-war Greece. Some of the research topics of specialized researchers or the general public include branches of study of key production sectors and services, specific aspects of state finance policy, cases of research of businesses or of local and regional development, environmental, local and labor history. The aggregate of PIOP’s HI provides answers to the key topic of development in Greece in the 20th century, in the economy 130 Society, Culture and the Environment as a whole and in individual sectors. In 2015, in addition to the core archival activities, significant effort was made to restructure the HI and increase PIOP’s extraversion in relation to the HI and the provision of particular archival series to research. There is also a steady, multi-faceted effort to enhance PIOP’s social influence through the HI: indicatively, in 2015, in excess of 5,000 people benefited from PIOP’s HI operation. Archival work • Continuation of the General Inventory of PIOP’s BAbank, Chios Bank, Geniki Bank, MacedoniaHI (16.500 meters of archival material), which Thrace Bank and Piraeus Bank; the artifacts indicated a 6% increase in the volume of the spanover most of the 20th century. collections in 2015 and a total increase of 65% • Preservation of paper documents and main relation to the previous 15 years’ action. terials. • Continuation of the process of sorting the fol•U  ser Service: PIOP’s Historical Archive serves lowing archives: a) the ATEbank archive , b) constantly rising numbers of requests by exthe semi-active Geniki Bank archive, c) the ternal researchers as well as of Piraeus Group, ΕΤΒΑbank archive, d) the Panellinia Bank arregarding its semi-active archive. A special chive, e) the Macedonia-Thrace Bank archive. user request monitoring platform has been • Organization of the recording of the archives/ created on PIOP’s intranet in order to facilicollections undertaken by the HI in the last 15 tate management of these requests and to years in order to create a single archive, thus reach quantitative and qualitative concluallowing for further acceleration of activities sions. In 2015, there was a 120:70 ratio in related to the creation and publication of a requests served regarding the historical arcomplete catalogue of PIOP’s Historical Archive and 120:50 regarding the semi-active chive collections. archive. • Management of the collection of 1.362 artifacts related to the activities of ATEbank, ETData Mining • Formation of an indicative list of research •P  reparation of research programs based on themes that PIOP’s HI can cover for the resignificant related archival series included in search and academic community. the HI which process requests according to • Research program on banking history and priority thus allowing for immediate provision preparation of a banking history exhibition as to research. well as documentation of the previous use of •C  ompilation and continuous updating of the former industrial complex that houses the thematic dossiers on research related to the HI at Tavros. study of production sectors such as tourism, • Preparation and implementation of educashipping, the textile industry, the flour milling tional programs for children on a pilot basis in industry or of regions such as Magnesia or Piregarding the nature of work in the HI, aimed at raeus in order to produce respective cultural familiarizing them with issues of remembrance, products and to promote similar partnerships history and the role of archival institutions. with other institutions. Promotion/Synergies S cientific Meetings (Workshop on “Environment and History. Multiple aspects of a dynamic relationship”, Workshop on “Post-war economic restructuring of Greece through PIOP’s Historical Archive”), lifelong learning actions (Open History Lessons on 20th century History”), screenings (“The industrial Heritage of northern Greece: assessment and prospects”, “ETBA presents…evidence of industrial history”), General Public actions (summer screenings, European Cultural Heritage Days, Creative Workshop “Out of Paper”). Corporate Responsibility Report 131 LIBRARY Operation of a library, highly specialized in museum studies and cultural management, constitutes one more key action for PIOP. In 2013, work began on incorporating former ATEbank’s Library and by 2015, 93% of the collection had been incorporated, consisting mainly of economic and agricultural material. Already including approx. 59.000 Greek and foreign language titles as well as over 132.000 issues of periodicals, it is constantly being enriched in order to better serve the research and education communities. The acquisition of material (monographs, periodical titles and educational materials) is achieved through purchase and exchange with similar institutions (in 2015, 1.804 new titles were acquired and 14 subscriptions to foreign scientific journals were renewed). The Library’s reading room offers wi-fi and free access to e-databases which contain the scientific findings of PIOP’s integrated research programs: a) Information on technology through Archives and Libraries of Venice (the result of a research program on technology in the Greek regions of the post-Byzantine period, by PIOP in collaboration with the Greek Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies of Venice), b) Greek Musical Instruments (the result of a research program from the Department of Music Iconography of the School of Fine Arts, Aristoteleio University of Thessaloniki). Since July 2104, the PIOP Library has been a member of the Hellenic Economic Library Network (HELIN). In this framework, in 2015 a Scientific Conference was held at the Bank of Greece entitled “The contribution of economic –themed libraries in research and development”. Library users may access to part of its catalogue electronically, visit the Library premises and participate in the actions organized (seminars, educational programs, theatrical plays and workshops for children and adults). The PIOP Library is a lending library for Group employees; in 2015, the existing collaboration with the Kallithea Public Library was expanded to enable Group employees to also borrow books from it. The Library has also implemented, as a permanent educational activity, the narration of children’s books from PIOP publications by a theater educator. The activity is entitled “Every Thursday PIOP children’s books come alive in the Library” and the books are: a) “The Olive's Tears”. A folk tale from Samos illustrated by Diatsenta Parissi, aimed at primary school level (kindergarten, 1st – 3d grade), b) “The stone ship” by Aliki Balaska and illustrated by Dimitris Foussekis, aimed at primary school level (kindergarten, 1st – 3d grade), c) “A girl hovers in Kerameikos. An anti-war story in the Athens of Classical times” by Christos Boulotis and drawings by Vassilis Papatsarouchas, aimed at primary school level (4th – 6th grade), d) “Alexandra, Pavlos and the mystery of Lake Stymphalia” by Sophia Kalantzakou and illustrated by Spiros Goussis, aimed at primary school level (3d – 6th grade). The need to serve another group of readers – children aged 4-12 – led to the decision to create a children’s reading room (remodeling, purchase of books) to allow for implementation of educational programs. An action of particular interest was the organizing of a children’s book writing and illustration competition for adults, which was concluded with publication of the winning book in e-book form and its adaptation into a theatrical play, preformed by the Bank’s Amateur Theatrical Group (in collaboration with the Group’s HR-Organizational Training units). The total number of beneficiaries of the PIOP Library in 2015 (readers, distant users, loans, educational programs, small-scale activities and collaborative activities) exceed 5.500 people. Publications Publications from a wide range of research fields, such as the history of technology, industrial archaeology, museological studies, cultural sites, historical centers, intangible heritage, economic history, are a defining PIOP action. At the same time, the Foundation’s publications are mainly in coordination with the thematic Museum Network’s actions and are often the result of the research programs that are in progress, have already been completed or presented to research or broader communities. They also include submitted studies which are within the framework of the Foundation’s statutory objectives. The fact that PIOP publications are se132 Society, Culture and the Environment lected as university textbooks shows the extent of their success in the scientific world. There are also publications with more popularized orientation. In 2015, 5 titles were published in printed form, 1 as e-book and 2 printed works: • Kalantzakou Sophia , Alexandra, Pavlos and the Meeting on “Our Daily Bread. From wheat to mystery of Lake Stymphalia, (publication series bread”, at Pelio, 10-12 April 1992 (publication for children “Paramythia”,). series “Conference proceedings”) were digi• Tranta Alexandra, Silk Museum. Museum Guide tized and are now available in e-book form. (in English) (publication series “Our Museums”). • P  IOP Historical Archive Publication (editing and • Tobelem Jean-Michel, The new age of museums. translation of texts, design and production of Cultural Foundations face the challenge of manGreek and English publication). agement (translation Fotini Vlachopoulou, pub• P  IOP Library Publication (editing and translation lication series “Museology”). of texts, design and production of Greek and • In the framework of the Foundation’s environEnglish publication). mental programs, the exhausted printed edition of the proceedings of the Three-Day Working At the same time, continuous efforts are made to include more collections of works that are basic handbooks of international bibliography in the three new PIOP thematic fields: intangible cultural heritage, cultural sites and historical centers. Research work Research work provides a solid basis for PIOP’s threefold strategy: research/exhibition/publication. This work is interdisciplinary and based on the Foundation’s long-standing, renowned and specialized experience in specific thematic research and the development of similar innovation. The results of this work are implemented in the: • creation of thematic technological museums, to research development, and • enrichment of museum collections, • t he Foundation’s participation in national scale • organization of exhibitions, initiatives on behalf of Greece and in collaboration • publication of studies – often setting the basis for with well-established cultural institutions. existing bibliography, • creation of tools to promote local economies, • digitization of research output which contributes With regard to topic selection, emphasis is placed on traditional technologies, the country’s natural resource management, the tangible and intangible cultural heritage of the recent past. In 2014, the following were implemented: • Further utilization of the research reserve, on the • N  ew research thematic: Utilizing the dynamics reemployees’ scientific specialization as well as their sulting from the International Meeting Cultural networking with the research community for the Landscapes in Natura 2000 sites” PIOP designed creation of multiple cultural products and services and has commenced implementation of a research for the benefit of school, research, professional program to codify, record and map the cultural and local communities. sites in the protected areas included in the Natura • Capitalization of PIOP’s research reserve and its 2000 network. promotion to the general public to the benefit • D  esign of a digital strategy and of a more speof local communities and the broader research cialized digitization plan for the Foundation’s recommunity. search programs. Corporate Responsibility Report 133 Scientific advisory support Provision of scientific advisory support to national and public institutions, local authorities, educational institutions, Environmental Education Centers (EEC), young scientists, researchers and doctoral candidates upon their request to prepare cultural actions and products or projects related to the Foundation’s topics. In 2015, the following were achieved: • Collaboration with the Athens School of Fine tural Foundation” in the framework of the interArts to organize the exhibition “Archive art: university post-graduate program “Monument VISUAL SITUATIONSFACILITIES” (9-30 June Management” at the Department of Philosophy 2015), in the framework of the celebrations for of the University of Athens. the International Day of Archives; the students • S peech entitled: “Educating (also) through art of the Athens School of Fine Arts experimented at PIOP” in the framework of the 6th Internawith the term “archive” under the guidance of tional Conference of the Greek Association of their professors. The various approaches that Primary Music Education Teachers “Connecting were presented reflect the multifariousness in didactics, competences and attitudes towards the perception of the term “archive”, in pereducational practice through the Arts”. sonal beliefs and perceptions, in individual and • Seminar: “PIOP’s Museum Network: Actionscollective memory while also reflecting the fight Communication-Promotion” in the framework against the concept of deterioration as an atof the Cultural Workshop :”Museums – Cultural tempt to preserve or create a national history or Heritage” of the Panteion University, Departpersonal stories. ment of Communication, Media, and Culture. • Speech on “A sustainable model of cultural • Provision of internships to: a) 3 university stumanagement: the paradigm of the Piraeus Bank dents from the Department of Cultural TechGroup Cultural Foundation” in the framework of nology and Communication (University of the the Workshop “Culture and entrepreneurship: Aegean) to the Museum of Industrial Olive Oil Design, Organization and Culture” organized Production in Lesvos and to the Museum of by the Post-Graduate Program “Education and Marble Crafts on Tinos island, b) 3 university Culture” of the Harokopio University of Athens. students from the Political Science and History • Speeches at workshops organized in the frameDepartment (Panteion University) to the PIOP work of PIOP’s participation in the Local Plans Library and c) 1 university student from the Hisfor Employment in the Peloponnese: a) “A suptory, Archaeology and Social Anthropology Deport model for local economies through inpartment (University of Thessaly) to the Founvestments in cultural infrastructures” in the dation’s Historical Archive. framework of the Networking Development • Assessment and testing of the “Marbles TeachPartnerships Workshop entitled: “The Environing Game” by employees at the Museum of Marment & local Development: Entrepreneurship ble Crafts of Tinos. The game was designed in and Employment” at the Environment Museum the framework of the postgraduate thesis entiof Stymphalia, b) “Culture, the Environment and tled “Development and Evaluation of a 3D Game Economy: The example of the PIOP Museum for the Museum of Marble Crafts of Tinos for the Network” in the the Forum “Entrepreneurship, post-graduate program “Information and ComInnovation an Employment in the Peloponnese” munication Systems” of the Open University of held in Nafplio. Cyprus. • Speech entitled: “Protection and Promotion of Industrial Heritage: the Piraeus Bank Group CulEducation Realization of educational actions for lifelong learning in the Museums and its offices in Athens is one of PIOP’s core operations. PIOP provides educational lifelong learning actions at its Museums and offices in Athens. The Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation abides by its statutory goals, especially of preserving the cultural heritage in relation to the promotion of the production history of Greece. In this framework, it implemented the program “The Network Pausanias 2.0: from the School to the Museum” under the Special Program “Education and Lifelong Learning” of the Hellenic Min134 Society, Culture and the Environment istry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs. “Pausanias Network 2.0: from the School to the Museum” is an innovative proposal aimed at the development of experiential educational activities and educational material linking the school to the land, natural resources, production history, cultural heritage and the Museum. The aim is to develop educational activities in the Foundation’s Museum Network, taking into account the principles of the “21st Century School”, in particular the strategic objectives of promotion of cultural heritage, getting to know the local history, sustainable education and supporting experiential activities. In the framework of the program, 1,700 educational folders were printed, workshops were held at 4 Museums (at Soufli, Lesvos, Dimitsana, Stymfalia), 72 school visits to PIOP Museums were organized with the participation of 3,800 students and 3 training seminars were held for teachers in the Prefectures of Arcadia, Lakonia and Korinthia with the participation of 60 secondary school teachers. For a fourth consecutive year, PIOP has been offering educational programs to schools in Attiki (primary and secondary education). These programs are designed by specialized PIOP employees – archaeologists-museologists, with specialization in museum education, historians, and IT specialists – at times in collaboration with external partners. These programs contribute to the enrichment and development of teaching targets, they are original and innovative and they serve the teaching and educational needs of the Curriculum by enriching them, expanding their educational goals on all levels, providing significant and scientifically-derived knowledge and recommending relevant bibliography. The sources that are utilized are the primary historical sources, archival material, artifacts from the PIOP Museum collections, related bibliography, articles and collections, maps, photographs, topographic maps and architectural plans, oral accounts and traditions, works of art, travel journals, songs, films, press clippings, pages from school books, websites and selected internet sources. With the aforementioned sources, specific and actual needs are covered, an interdisciplinary connection is achieved between cognitive and school subjects and the possibility is provided to utilize additional sources of information from PIOP publications and from the specially designed educational folders that are supplied at some of the programs and are provided free of charge to the schools that will be participating in them. In the Foundation's educational programs, the recommended methodological techniques are also adapted accordingly for students thus allowing for group work according to their inclination and interests. At the same time, it is emphasized that students’ participation at all stages of the process is experiential – active, creative and not passive. The educational programs are offered free of charge and are carried out as student visits to the Foundation’s head offices (6, Aggelou Geronda str., Plaka), to the Historical Archive, the Library and the Museum Network. Participation in national and international scientific institutions partnerships Participation in national and international scientific and educational institutions constitutes a key action point for PIOP, and its aims are: • Contribution to the shaping of cultural policies in the framework of H2020-REFLECTIVE-SOCIE(announcements/lectures/speeches by PIOP exTY-2015 of the Horizon 2020 program, b) “Euroecutives in scientific fora, participation in actions pean Museum Web Radio” in the framework of the organized by the Hellenic Ministry of Culture and Creative Europe program. Sports, collaborations within the NSRF frame• PIOP’s international networking with scienwork, participation of the Ministry of Education, tific institutions, associations (UNESCO, ΤΙCCIH, Research and Religious Affairs in PIOP Museum ICOM Greece, ICOMOS, TIMS, Εuropean Μuseum Monitoring Committees). Αcademy EMA, European Association for Bank• PIOP’s participation in research and academic ing History (EABH) e.V., International Council on partnerships in international scientific programs: Archives, Business Archives Council, the Society a) “European Cultural Hologram. Innovative Apof Greek Archivists (SGA), General State Archives, proaches to Heritage Toward Europeanisation” Digital Research Infrastructure for the Arts & HuCorporate Responsibility Report 135 manities (DARIAH) etc) and with European netfor scientific collaborations and the pursuit of works for know-how transfer, the observance of common project funding. “good practices”, enhancement of opportunities In addition, PIOP executives gave speeches at national and international fora, among which: • Participation of the Head of PIOP’s Museums teractive edu-taining game” in the framework Dept. as member of the European Museum of the International Conference “eCultSkills: Academy Task Force 2020. Digital challenges for museum experts” held in • Speech entitled: “The Cultural Industry in Greece Athens. and co-funded Projects: the Example of PIOP” in • Speech entitled: “Greek WCH sites and musethe framework of the Workshop “The contribuums: the case of Mystras” in the framework of tion of economic –themed libraries in research the ICOM International Conference “Internaand development” organized by the Hellenic tional Conference on Museums and World CulEconomic Library Network (HELIN) and held at tural Heritage” in Catania, Italy. the Bank of Greece. • Comments on the presentations in the frame• Speech entitled: “A sustainable model of cultural work of the “Kenneth Hudson” Seminar organdevelopment: the example of the Piraeus Bank ized by the European Museum Academy and the Group Cultural Foundation” in the framework of Romanian Cultural Institute in Bucharest. the 4th ICOMOS Scientific Workshop “The ICO• Participation in the Round-Table Workshop “The MOS and protecting Cultural Heritage. Cultural Inclusive Museum: Broadening the role of museInternationalism and Greek national policy in the ums and cultural institutions in society” organ21st century” that was held at the Auditorium of ized by the British Council, the US Embassy and the Hellenic Ministry of Culture and Sports. the Benaki Museum and held at the Benaki Mu• Speech entitled: “The seven keys: learning about seum premises. traditional production processes through an inContact and Networking with institutions in local societies Completion of PIOP’s participation in the Local Plans for Employment at the Prefectures of Arkadia, Nemea and Korinthia, in the framework of a closer collaboration with local societies. Participation of executives from PIOP and the Bank’s Environment Unit in local training sessions. Implementation of the first phase of a pilot program to restore listed buildings in the Historical Center of Ermoupolis on the island of Syros. Silk Museum inSoufli: • Association of the Vine “Stafylos”. • Cultural Center “The Russian House” in Alexan• Diocese of Didymoteicho, Orestias & Soufli. droupolis. Museum of the Olive and Greek Olive Oil in Sparta: The Museum’s action of Easter egg offering to the Hospice of the Diocese of Monemvasia and Sparta. Museum of Industrial Olive Oil Production in Lesvos-Aghia Paraskevi: • Donation of 30 toys to refugee children in the • Preparation for the organization of the annual framework of the project “A toy for a smile”. Micheletti Awards. 136 Society, Culture and the Environment Museum of Marble Crafts in Pyrgos, Tinos: • Loan of light and sound equipment to the Tinos short video entitled “The history of my school” Kindergarten and Primary School for the celebrawas made which was awarded first place in the tions organized by the schools (25 March Indenational competition “The story of my school” pendence Day, Easter, school year end celebra(jointly organized by the Division of Educational tion, 28 October Independence Day, Christmas). Broadcasting of the Hellenic Ministry of Educa• For the needs of the exhibition “In the foottion, Research and Religious Affairs and the Nasteps of our school”, organized with the Mutional Research and Rescue of School Material seum’s initiative and support and in collaboraCentre). tion with the Primary School of Pyrgos, Tinos, a Rooftile and Brickworks Museum N. & S. Tsalapatas in Volos: Networking with local business and cultural organizations. Open-Air Water-Power Museum in Dimitsana: Information meeting sessions with tourism agencies and businesses in the tourism sector and distribution of information materials regarding the Museum. Museum of the EnvironmentinStymfalia: • Organizing of a dinner for the children hosted in • D  onation of 10 desks and an equivalent number the Community home of “The Smile of the Child” of chairs to the Kiato Fire Department to cover in Corinth. the Department’s operating needs. • Awarding by the Museum of commemorative T• N  etworking with local wine producers, professhirts to the winners of the Kyriakideia road race sionals and institutions. at Pyrgos in Corinthia. • Participation in the volunteer cleanup action of the river Asopos following the invitation from the Municipality of Nemea. PIOP Actions in Thessaloniki: In the framework of the Foundation’s actions aimed at preserving and promoting cultural heritage, in 2015 the decision was made to expand PIOP’s actions to Thessaloniki, in collaboration with the Convention Center of Piraeus Bank, through the organizing of selected events and training programs at the premises of the Center. In the last quarter of 2015, the following events were held: • The Training Program “The 7 keys of our proRivellis was organized entitled: “Highlights from duction history in an original interactive game”. the life of PIOP museums”. The official opening This program was moved to the Science Center of the exhibition was held on 27/11/2015 in the & Technology Museum NOESIS in Thessaloniki presence of distinguished members of the busion October 25, 2015 and will remain there until ness, political and cultural world of the city. June 10, 2016, when it will be moved to the Eu• A photography seminar entitled: “Cultural sites genides Foundation in Athens. and Photography – the city’s historical center” • Educational Programs for children at the Conby Platon Rivellis was held at the Convention vention Center of Piraeus Bank: 6 educational Center of Piraeus Bank. programs were organized with the participation • A  discussion on the theme “Does Economic Hisof 283 students. tory have a role in Economic Forecasting?” was • A photography exhibition with works by Platon held at the Auditorium of the Convention Center Corporate Responsibility Report 137 of Piraeus Bank. The discussion was a follow-up of Balkan, Slavic and Oriental Studies, University of the 3-volume PIOP publication “The economof Macedonia) and Dr. Sophia Lazaretou (Ecoic history of the Hellenic State”. The speakers at nomic Analysis and Research Department, Bank the discussion were: Dimitrios Mardas (Deputy of Greece). The discussion was attended by jourMinister of Foreign Affairs), Nikos Christodounalists, members of the business and educationlakis (Non-Executive Vice Chairman of Piraeus al world of Thessaloniki. Bank BoD), Evangelos Protzas (Vice Chancellor • S creening of the film “Christmas Story / Joulutaof Panteion University), Thanasis Kalafatis (Prorina” at the Auditorium of the Convention Centfessor at University of Piraeus), Ifigenia Katsimier of Piraeus Bank for the children of Piraeus dou (President of the National Centre for Public Bank Group employees. Administration and Local Government -EKDDA), Kyriakos Kentrotis (Professor of the Department 2016 key targets PIOP’s key target for the immediate future remains the even greater dissemination of its work to multiple public groups, in accordance with Piraeus Group’s Corporate Responsibility Principles. PIOP’s immediate goals are to complete the construction and museological work of the Chios Mastic Museum on the island of Chios and the Silversmithing Museum of Ioannina, thus further expanding PIOP’s influence on the cultural map of Greece. The Foundation will continue its high quality actions in the Greek periphery thus supporting local communities on both a cultural and economic level by creating tourist attraction sites. Similar actions will be realized in PIOP’s Historical Archive and Library, with a wide range of target groups in Athens. PIOP’s general goals for 2016 are: • Enhancement of PIOP’s extraversion and contri• Participation in the shaping of policies in the bution to the cultural and broader development field of culture. of Greece with the support of cultural and crea• Implementation of the project“Museums as Daitive industries and modern culture as well as by ly Public Places”. organizing combined cultural, scientific and en• Implementation of the Piraeus Bank LIFE-Stymvironmental actions. falia program with respect to PIOP’s responsi• Improvement of the services provided to mubilities. seum visitors and to PIOP Library and Historical Archive users. More specifically and by field of action: Promotion of intangible cultural heritage • Promotion and utilization of intangible cultural landscapes and intangible cultural herittural heritage. age. • Interconnection of culture and the environ• S trategic partnerships with institutions in ment. Greece and abroad. • Recording, protection and promotion of cul138 Society, Culture and the Environment Museums and Cultural Landscapes • Organization of the annual Micheletti Awards year and partnerships with important instiat the Museum of Industrial Olive Oil Productutions on the occasion of the International tion in Lesvos. Museum Day, themed “Museums and Cultural • Planning of strategic actions throughout the Landscapes”. Museum Network • Increase in the number of visitors to the Mu• D  evelopment of Digital Applications at the seum Network by increasing and enriching Museums with the aim of enriching their the variety of cultural/educational actions in means of narrative. the Museums. • S upport to contemporary greek creation and • Enhancement of the quality of services proorganizing of exhibitions, various educational vided to visitors. actions and cultural events. • Operation of Museums as daily open areas of • C  ontinuation of the “Basic Life Support Traincultural creation and active participation in ing” program, in collaboration with the Volthe cultural and social life of the cities hostunteers Samaritans, Rescuers and Lifeguards ing them. Corp of the Red Cross (Nea Smyrni branch), at • Support of cultural tourism in PIOP Museum the Museums and in PIOP buildings in Athens. Network areas. Historical Archive • Operation of the HI as an archival institution • F urther activation of PIOP in Athens, through with multiple recipients of its cultural prodthe HI. ucts and services. • D  evelopment of technological applications to • Increase in the number of beneficiaries of HI provide digital data. services. Library • Capitalization on and continuation of the li• I ncrease in number of visitors-users. brary’s collaboration with local institutions, through participation in partnerships and events. Publications  ontinuation of PIOP’s publications with works that cover a broad range of research fields and C support the character and actions of the thematic technological Museum Network. Research Work • Creation of new research reserve, capitalivelopment of a PIOP digital strategy plan. zation and promotion of this reserve to the •R  ecording, protection and promotion of the general public, utilizing the dynamics resultcultural landscapes and intangible cultural ing from the International Meeting Cultural heritage. Landscapes in Natura 2000 sites”. •D  evelopment of digital applications that pro• Development of an informational system for mote cultural heritage and the natural envithe digital inventory of the results of all PIOP ronment. research programs undertaken, as well as deCorporate Responsibility Report 139 Scientific Advisory Support piraeusbankgroup.com> Corporate Responsibility> Provision of scientific advisory support to institutions and local communities. Environment> Environmental Policy Principles stymfalia2014.piop.gr Education • Implementation of lifelong learning actions at •A wareness-raising and education on environthe Museums and at the Foundation's premmental issues. ises in Athens. Participation in National, International Scientific and Educational Institutions – collaborations • Strategic partnerships with renowned instiLab” and the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. tutions for the organization of events and The key goal of the “Epinisia Eos program actions in Athens, Thessaloniki and the PIOP is to promote opportunities for young peoMuseum Network in the Greek periphery. ple in productive sectors that can prosper • Implementation of partnership with the Euon the Greek islands. These opportunities genides Foundation and the Science Center will arise from targeted information pro& Technology Museum NOESIS in Thessalonvision as well as from promoting standard iki, in co-hosting the interactive technologipractices. cal exhibition “The 7 keys of our production • Preparation and submission of proposals history in an original interactive game”. at national and EU co-funded programs for • Continuation of collaboration with the “Difinancing of PIOP actions as well as particiazoma” Association with joint promotion of pation in European consortia for the impletheir actions. mentation of actions related to the statu• PIOP’s participation in the program “Epinitory objectives of the Foundation. sia Eos in partnership with the non-profit charitable organization “Aelia-Working Life 140 Society, Culture and the Environment Ετήσια Έκθεση 2015 29 Financial selected volumes and results of PIOP in mn euro 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 12.41 15.25 17.79 11.89 14.38 17.05 Assets Equity 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 5.78 6.41 8.12 2.48 2.77 2.67 Turnover Retained earnings Corporate Responsibility Report 141 ENVIRONMENTAL ACTIONS Environmental Dimension Piraeus Bank Group’s policy has a clear orientation towards green entrepreneurship and sustainable development. This environmental policy, in unison with the top management’s commitment, is the driving force behind the development of programs that reduce the environmental footprint from the Bank’s operation while also enhancing investments in technologies and practices that reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In addition to the clear environmental and social benefits, minimizing the Bank’s footprint also results in a significant decrease in operating costs. The two major current environmental issues – climate change and loss of biodiversity – constitute key challenges for the Group, which aims to investigate and apply sustainable solutions. Protecting biodiversity is a strategic goal for Piraeus Bank Group, as attested by its Corporate Responsibility Principles. Moreover, in accordance with its Credit Policy, the Bank exercises caution to the financing of investments in NATURA 2000 sites. It should be noted that the Bank participates in the EU Business & Biodiversity Platform, where the LIFE-Stymfalia project has been presented. Piraeus Bank Group Environmental Structure In order to shape and implement environmental strategies and programs, Piraeus Bank Group has created the necessary infrastructure, beginning with the Environment Unit in 2004 and continuing with the development of Green Banking Division. This shaped an organizational structure that allows for management of the Bank’s environmental footprint from its business activity as well as enhancing green entrepreneurship in Greece in collaboration with its subsidiaries (Industrial Parks – ETVA VIPE, Center of Sustainable Entrepreneurship Excelixi SA). This integrated structure incorporates environmental criteria in its operating processes as well as financing value-added investments, thus benefiting people and the environment. Apart from the Environmental Management System (EMS) that has been implemented at the Bank for a decade, since 2014 EMSs have been developed at Industrial Parks – ETVA VIPE and at the Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation (PIOP). The Environment and Culture The interconnection between culture and the environment constitutes a strategic choice for the Group, which is actualized with the direct and close collaboration between the Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation (PIOP) and the Environment Unit since 2013. The EU project LIFE-Stymfalia is coordinated by the Environment Unit with PIOP as partner and is the means of showing in practice the importance of joint management of cultural landscape and protected sites of the Natura 2000 network. This strategic approach is expressed in the “Stymphalia Declaration”, the outcome of an international meeting organized by PIOP. The Foundation is promoting the Declaration to be adopted by EU institutions. Monitoring of Environmental Legislation and Case Law The Environmental Legislation & Case Law Database (DEL&CL) provides the necessary legal information and documentation to systematically support the implementation of the Group’s Environmental Policy and the compliance with the legal environmental requirements. The DEL&CL’s key thrusts of action are: general commitments and guidance regarding environmental protection and sustainable development, amendments aimed at the prevention and reduction of the environmental impact from the Group’s operation, estimations regarding the multifarious actions to limit the environmental impact from the Group’s business activities as well as detailed tables of contents. 142 Society, Culture and the Environment piraeusbankgroup.com> The DEL&CL covers a broad range of topics, from the United Nations Sustainable Development Corporate Responsibility> Goals (SDGs) to special provisions for green building permits for offices and museums. In the Environment> upcoming period, particular emphasis will be placed on examining the aspects related to the Environmental Policy Principles> participation of the business world in the implementation process of the International ConvenPiraeus Bank Group’s tions on the environment. green structure Green Banking and Sustainable Development Multiple shades of GREEN In the framework of the regular briefing of the BoD and top management on environmental actions and green business and on the occasion of the 10-year anniversary of Piraeus Bank Group’s Green Banking, a conference entitled “Green Banking and Sustainable Development -Multiple shades of GREEN” was organized in April 2015. The conference was held at the Center of Sustainable Entrepreneurship Excelixi SA with the presence of the Chairman, BoD and Top Management members, and numerous employees from almost all Bank units. The participants were informed about and discussed the most significant achievements of the Group’s environmental actions as well as the medium-term goals. At the same time, the future developments of Green Entrepreneurship and Sustainable Development were analyzed with the decisive contribution of distinguished guests from the Bank, the academic world and the Hellenic Council of State. The Bank’s key role in promoting sustainable practices to all economic activity was highlighted as was the need to undertake innovative initiatives in this direction. 2016 Key Targets Environmental Management • 5% increase in paper recycling per employee. statements for customers. • 10% increase in total ink cartridge/toner recy• I nnovative interventions at Branches for energycling. saving (net metering). • 2% reduction in total energy consumption per • S trengthening of information exchange and unit area. creative dialogue with key Group suppliers on • Further automation of environmental footprint issues of corporate responsibility as well as calculation through the interconnection of the agreement for compliance with code of princiexisting Bank applications. ples regarding environmental and social issues. • 10% increase in electrical and electronic equip• U  pgrading and redesign of the Environmenment recycling. tal Footprint Database for calculation of the • Expanded use of environmentally-certified deGroup’s environmental performance in relation tergents in administration buildings. to its operation and its activities. • Expanded use of FSC-certified paper for Bank Environmental Risk Climate Exposure • A ssessment study on climate change impacts • C  limate exposure calculation of the Bank's busiand adaptation options for agriculture in ness borrowers through Climate Risk ManageGreece. ment Model. Corporate Responsibility Report 143 Environmental and Social Management System in financing • Designing the incorporation of the Environmen• Employee education on environmental and sotal and Social Management System (ESMS) in cial risk. business financing. Biodiversity and the Environment • Completion of the winter and summer reed cut• Expansion and finalization of the businesses inting, production of compost and pellets from volved in the refinancing of the Lake’s managereed cut from the lake. ment based on the complete Feasibility Study. • Completion of implementation of the recom• Creating of an educational kit for schools. mended actions and interventions for regula• Organizing of the second national workshop tion of the water level at Lake Stymphalia. and training seminars for the Farmers’ Network • Construction of environmental interpretation as well as strengthening of the Network’s identrail and bird hide, inauguration of thematic tity by means of a promotion logo. exhibition at the Environment Museum of Stymphalia. New targets of ETVA Industrial & Business Parks SA (ETVA) • Registration of ETVA Industrial Parks located work according to the international standards. near Komotini and Lamia in the EMAS, as well as For this purpose, interventions in the water supof the head offices in Athens. ply networks will take place in order to reduce • Upgrading of the Wastewater Treatment Plant water leakages thus resulting in waterand en(WWTP) of the Larisa Industrial Park in order to ergy – saving. improve its performance and reduce its envi• E nvironmental risk assessment in the short area ronmental footprint. of the Industrial Parks. • Minimization of the water loss of supply netEnvironmental Management After a two-year period of changes in the Group as a result of the mergers and acquisitions, 2015 was the first year of a new operating reality for Piraeus Bank's Environmental Management System (EMS). EMS provides an integrated framework for recording, monitoring and reducing environmental impact linked to the operation of the premises and business activities of a group as large as Piraeus Bank. A specially-trained employee has been appointed at every branch and administration building with the role of the Environmental Management System Coordinator. The Coordinator ensures effective implementation of procedures and environmental programs, attainment of environmental targets set, data collection and data entry related to recycling of materials as well as water and heating oil consumption at the building they are in charge of. In 2007, Piraeus Bank developed an innovative tool that estimates the Bank's environmental footprint the Environmental Footprint Database. This application provides detailed analysis of the environmental performance of each Bank’s building (Administration buildings and branches) and calculates the Environmental Performance Indicators (EPIs) with scientificallyapproved methodology, thus allowing for better and more targeted design of environmental programs. Piraeus Bank has been consistently implementing environmental programs such as energy-saving and gas emissions reduction programs, solid waste management programs and consumables-saving programs (including paper) with the aim of constantly improving its environmental performance. The key environmental programs that continued being implemented in 2015 were the following: 144 Society, Culture and the Environment • Energy-saving in buildings. • I nternal operating procedures automation and • Employee transportation (for business and edupromotion of electronic banking. cational purposes). • Reduction of consumables used (paper, ink cartridges, toners). In 2015, the collaboration with the Hellenic Recovery Recycling Corporation SA (HERRCo) (Blue packaging recycling bin program) continued at 15 large administration buildings where canteens operate followed by an awareness-raising campaign. Green PROCUREMENT In the framework of its commitment to actively support green procurement, in 2015 Piraeus Bank Group utilized FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) – certified paper from sustainable management forests for its printed communication material (loan and bank account statements and envelopes among others). FSC certification is the link between responsible forest management and the consumption of products deriving from these forests (such as timber and paper), thus promoting environmentally sound, socially beneficial and economically prosperous management of the world’s forests. The Group established the procurement of environmentally-friendly products with the EU-recognized Eco-Label20 certification for five Bank Administration Buildings and for the PIOP premises. The program aims to inform and raise awareness of employees on green procurements and the reduction of the Bank’s environmental footprint. Economic Valuation of Environmental Programmes In many cases, environmental programmes, beyond the obvious environmental benefits, contribute also to the saving of significant financial resources, by reducing operational expenses for heating/cooling, paper procurement and consumables. In 2015, in co-operation with external partners, a second study for the appraisal of economic benefits of environmental programmes implemented by Piraeus Bank was completed. The goal of the study was the shaping and implementation of a connective methodological framework for the appraisal of the financial benefit gained by implementing activities that aim at or contribute to the reduction of the environmental footprint of the Bank. Data from several Units of the Bank were utilised per examined intervention. The analysis was an assessment for the period 2013-2014 and concerned all Organisational Units. According to the results of the study the following actions yield especially significant economic benefits: • Implementation of e-learning educational pro• Replacement of lighting in Branches. grammes. •B  ranch Marketing Management (BMM) applica• BEMS installation in Administration buildings. tion for communication and promotional sup• Electronic banking development (winbank). port of the Branches. 20 Eco-Label is the official • Procurement of refilled cartridges. EU logo. The presence of the logo on a product certifies it According to the results of the study the Annual Net Financial Profit21 reached €3.5 mn in 2013 is environmentally-friendly throughout its life cycle, from and €6.5 mn in 2014, while it is estimated that in the following years the net financial gain the raw material, to the stages from the reduction of the environmental footprint of the Bank will surpass €5 mn annually. of production, distribution and use, concluding with the sale. 21 Annual Financial Profit Energy Consumption is defined as the difference Energy consumption has the greatest impact on the Bank’s environmental footprint. The Bank between the total annual economic profit and the has set the permanent goal of optimizing its operation and of continuous energy monitoring of annual equivalent cost of its buildings and those being renovated by implementing energy-efficiency technologies. For implementation. buildings under renovation, high energy efficiency standards are set as a key parameter of the Corporate Responsibility Report 145 building’s design. The Bank is able to record, monitor and reduce the energy consumption of the buildings by means of improved building design and of the Building Energy Management Systems (BEMS) that it installs. During the renovations that were completed in Bank branches and buildings in 2015, the Engineering Project Management & Administration Support unit designed and implemented energy-upgrading interventions at 73 branches and 2 administration buildings, the most important being: • Replacement of simple aluminum glazing panels • Installation of BEMS Energy-management syswith thermal break panels. tems. • Thermal insulation of rooftops. • Installation of VAM heat pump exchanger for • Installation of motion sensors in WCs. overnight cooling. • Installation of controlled water flow faucets in • Replacement of high consumption lighting bulbs WCs. with LED light bulbs. • Installation of dual-flush toilets. Energy-saving from light power at buildings During buildings' renovations, LED light bulbs are installed where this is feasible. The abovementioned intervention is implemented after a photometric study has been made with the aim of achieving high levels of lighting and energy-saving. By examining a significant sample of existing branches, the Illuminance was 20.06W/m2 until 2013. In buildings which were studied and renovated, it was reduced to 8.95 W/m2 in 2014 and to 7.06 W/m2 in 2015. Benefits from implementation of the project in 2014-2015 Number of branches in 2014 107 Number of branches in 2015 76 Average reduction in light power 60% Average reduction in number of light bulbs 13% Average Reduction in Installed Power (compared to average legislation Regulation on the Energy Performance of Buildings 45% According to a study by an external consultant, in the two-year period (2014-2015), the project resulted in €155,000 in reduced investment and annual savings in operating costs of approx. €260,600, by far exceeding the targets set. The project is expected to continue in 2016. Electricity Consumption In 2015, total electricity consumption reached 71 GWh while the electricity consumption per square meter was reduced by 2%. The increased need for heating and cooling did not allow for further reduction in consumption despite the large number of renovations implemented in 2015. Since 2008, the electricity consumption per square meter has decreased by almost 20%. 146 Society, Culture and the Environment Ετήσια Έκθεση 2015 25 Electricity Consumption kWh / m² -20% * 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 175 175 170 165 177 153 144 141 *Percentage reduction from 2008 to 2015. Corporate Responsibility Report 147 Heating fuel consumption In 2015, the total amount of heating oil rose by 16% versus 2014, in excess of 444,000 litres. Due to severe weather conditions throughout Greece during winter, there was an increased need for heating oil. More specifically, the total Heating Degree Days (HDD) were assessed taking into account the data from weather stations at 12 cities22. The results indicated a 17% increase. Water Consumption Controlled water flow faucets and dual-flush toilets were installed in 58 renovated branches for water efficiency. At the same time, at every branch where BEMS Energy-management systems have been installed, a water consumption gauge is placed, thus allowing for constant monitoring of total water consumption. In 2015, the measured results showed a decrease in total water consumption of 4% per employee. Consumables In 2015 there was a slight increase in paper consumption versus 2014, mainly due to the increased external communication and promotional needs; in total, paper consumption amounted almost 1,500 tonnes. However, it should be noted that almost 100% of all paper for external communication and promotional needs derived from sustainable management forests with FSC certification. At the same time, over 860 tonnes of Α4/Α3 paper was ecofriendly bearing the Eco-Label certification. Regarding printing consumables (toners, ink cartridges etc), over 64,000 items were procured, of which 23% were refilled. Utilization of MPS (Managed Print Services) services, in collaboration with external providers, was extended and is now applied to 24 administration buildings, with the aim of optimizing the printing management and document production (avoidance of printing errors) and consequently reducing printing costs. The installation of multifunction machines for implementation of MPS services was undertaken gradually, taking into consideration the actual printing needs of each building and the organizational units individually. Additionally, a new innovative service “e-Signature” was launched in 2015 and introduced the electronic signature of documents and contracts in the Piraeus Bank branch network. “e-Signature” significantly contributes in the reduction of paper consumption. It is estimated that about 30 million sheets of paper are saved annually, thus preventing the cutting of 3,600 trees. 22 Athens, Patras, Larisa, Ioannina, Heraklion, Petra in Lesvos Island, Tinos Island, Kastoria, Drama, Molaoi in Laconia, Nemea in Corinthia and Metaxades in Evros (Source: www.meteo.gr) 148 28 Society,ενότητας Τίτλος Culture and the Environment Distribution of total paper consumption in 2015 58% 12% 30% Eco-friendly paper, with Eco-Label certification Paper derived from sustainable management forests, with FSC certification Conventional paper Corporate Responsibility Report 149 Solid Waste Management All buildings have implemented recycling programs, and recycling bins have been placed for paper, ink cartridges/toners, batteries and light bulbs. In collaboration with licensed partner companies, a significant number of collections of recyclable paper and ink cartridges/toners were undertaken. This was mainly the result of the vacating of storage space at several branches from old achives, non-usable blank documents and other paper consumables. It is worth noting that over 1,000 tonnes of paper were delivered for recycling, while over 21,000 items of printing consumables were sent for reuse/ recycling. At the same time, the paper recycled ratio per employee rose by 16% versus 2014. Finally, aprox.365 tonnes of old electrical and electronic equipment waste were collected. Transportation In order to calculate transportation, trips by car and by plane for employee training purposes are included, as well as internal mail processing. In 2015, as in 2014, particular emphasis was placed on training of human resources. This is reflected in the 2015 results. More specifically, trips by car for training purposes rose by 72%, or 4,800,000 km of trips made by total employees, while trips prevented due to e-learning exceeded 10,000,000 km. Regarding trips for business purposes, trips by plane dropped by 4%, in contrast to trips by car, which noted a 30% increase. 150 26 Society, Culture and the Environment Τίτλος ενότητας Paper recycling per employee kg/employee +46% * 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 48.3 44.4 47.7 45.1 42.4 46.5 60.7 70.6 *Percentage increase from 2008 to 2015. Ετήσια ΈκθεσηReport Corporate Responsibility 2015 27 151 CO2 emissions kg/empolyee -30% * 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 6,209 5,674 5,558 5,746 5,987 5,149 4,447 4,328 *Percentage reduction from 2008 to 2015. 152 Society, Culture and the Environment Gas emissions The chart below depicts the results concerning total gas emissions in 2015 from the entire Bank. There was a 3% reduction in CO2 emissions per employee, while since 2008, the reduction exceeds 30%. Direct emissions (Scope 1) • heating oil consumption, •a  ll refrigerants added to total air-condition• gasoline and diesel fuel consumption from ing equipment23, heat/cooling pumps. corporate fleet cars, and Refrigerants added to A/C systems (kg) 2014 2015 R-22 144.50 3.00 R-407C 37.90 253.50 R-410A 74.00 154.20 R-417A 0.00 0.00 R-422D 1.80 5.50 R-422Α 7.00 16.00 R-438Α 0.00 18.00 Indirect emissions associated with electricity consumed in the Bank’s buildings (Scope 2) electricity consumption in total buildings and branches. Other indirect emissions (Scope 3) • employee trips by car for business and edu• e mployee trips by plane. cational purpose with rented or private cars, 23 Ozone-depleting substances covered by the Regulation on Fluorinated greenhouse gases Corporate Responsibility Report 153 Gas emissions 2014* 2015 Trend Target 2014-2015 2016 CO2 Emissions (tonnes) 64,016.29 62,933.87 -2% CO2 Emissions (kg/m2) 124.55 125.00 0% -2% CO2 Emissions (kg/employee) 4,446.55 4,327.88 -3% CH4 Emissions (tonnes) 2.04 2.25 10% CH4 Emissions (kg/employee) 0.14 0.15 9% N2O Emissions (tonnes) 1.03 1.10 7% N2O Emissions (kg/employee) 0.07 0.08 6% NOx Emissions (tonnes) 134.06 133.52 0% NOx Emissions (kg/employee) 9.31 9.18 -1% SO2 Emissions (tonnes) 107.37 103.08 -4% SO2 Emissions (kg/employee) 7.46 7.09 -5% ΝΜVOC Emissions (tonnes) 17.10 18.64 9% ΝΜVOC Emissions (kg/employee) 1.19 1.28 8% CO Emissions (tonnes) 147.13 159.58 8% CO Emissions (kg/employee) 10.22 10.97 7% PM10 Emissions (tonnes) 33.18 32.36 -2% PM10 Emissions (kg/employee) 2.30 2.23 -3% CO2,eq Emissions (tonnes)** scope 1 2,262.32 3,614.19 60% CO2,eq Emissions (tonnes)** scope 2 59,366.63 56,920.03 -4% CO2,eq Emissions (tonnes)** scope 3 2,980.87 3,609.81 21% CO2,eq Total Emissions (tonnes) Scope 1, 2, 3 64,609.82 64,144.04 -1% CO2,eq Total Emissions (tonnes/ employee) Scope 1, 2, 3 4.49 4.41 -2% CO2 = carbon dioxide, CH4 = methane, N2O = nitrous oxide, NOΧ = nitrogen oxides, SO2= sulphur dioxide, CO = carbon monoxide, NMVOC= non-methane volatile organic compounds, PM10 = particulate matter * The 2014 data regarding gas pollutants were reviewed. These changes are attributed to the updating of gas pollutant emission factors for electricity production based on the latest data regarding the energy mix in the electrical energy sector of the country. ** For calculation of equivalent CO2 emissions the following factors were applied: 1 for CO2, 25 for CH4 and 298 for N2O. For further details, please refer to: IPCC, Fourth Assessment Report (AR4), Working Group 1, Chapter 2, Changes in Atmospheric Constituents and in Radiative Forcing, Table 2.14, p. 212. 154 Society, Culture and the Environment Piraeus Bank Environmental Footprint 2014 2015 Trend Target 2014-2015 2016 Consumables Paper consumption from newspaper subscriptions (tonnes) [I] 37.87 37.10 -2% Paper consumption from the use of paper consumables (tonnes) [IΙ] 401.45 417.25 4% Paper consumption from marketing (tonnes) [IΙΙ] 128.87 0.91 -99% Total conventional paper consumption (tonnes) [I]+[II]+[IIΙ] 568.19 455.25 -20% Total conventional paper consumption (Kg/employee) 39.47 31.31 -21% Total consumption of original toner and cartridges (items) [VI] 40,279 49,442 23% Green Procurement A4 and A3 recycled paper consumption (tonnes) [IV] 843.53 863.99 2% A4 and A3 recycled paper consumption (Kg/employee) 58.59 59.42 1% FSC paper for marketing consumption [VI] 179.65 Total paper consumption (tonnes) [I]+[II]+[III]+[IV]+[V]+[VI] 1,411.72 1,498.89 6% Total paper consumption (Kg/employee) 98.06 103.08 5% Percentage of recycled chlorine-free vs. total consumption (%) 59.75% 57.64% -4% Percentage of FSC paper vs. total consumption (%) 11.99% Consumption of refilled toner and cartridges (items) [VII] 14,923.00 14,779.00 -1% Total consumption of toner and cartridges (items) [VI]+ [VII] 55,202.00 64,221.00 16% Total consumption of toner and cartridges (items/employee) 3.83 4.42 15% Percentage of refilled vs original (%) 27 % 23% -15% Energy Consumption Consumption of electricity (GWh) 73.92 70.88* -4% Consumption of electricity (kWh/employee) 5,134.62 4.874,04 -5% Consumption of electricity (kWh/m2) 143.83 140.78 -2% -2% Heating fuel consumption (litres) 382,833.45 443,849.78 16% Heating fuel consumption (litres/employee) 26.59 30.52 15% Heating fuel consumption (litres/m2) 0.74 0.88 18% Consumption of electricity (GJ) 266,120.21 255,152.94 -4% Heating fuel consumption (GJ) 13,892.15 16,106.29 16% Total energy consumption (GJ)** 293,733.69 292,825.55 0% Water Consumption Water consumption (m3) 120,727.94 117,160.97 -4% Water consumption (m3/employee) 8.39 8.06 -4% Solid Waste Management Amount of paper recycled (tons) 874.50 1,026.30 17% Amount of paper recycled (Kg/employee) 60.74 70.58 16% +5% Amount of paper recycled (recycled/consumed) (%) 61.95% 68.47% 11% Amount of toner and cartridges recycled (items) 17,589 21,341 21% +10% Amount of plastic recycled (Kg) 6,656.94 4,663.58 -30% Amount of batteries recycled (Kg) 9,753.87 7,744.83 -21% Amount of large accumulators recycled (Kg) 4,434.00 14,772.14 233% Amount of electrical and electronic equipment recycled (Kg) (excl. ΚΚΑ 5Α,5Β) 67.31 352.15 423% +10% Amount of light bulbs and lighting equipment recycled (Kg) 3,110.60 4,133.84 33% Transportation Business trips by plane (Km) 3,690,201.60 3,560,672.00 -4% Business trips by plane (Km/employee) 256.32 244.86 -4% Business trips by rented/corporate car – gasoline fuel (litres) 418,167.60 366,683.26 -12% Business trips by rented/corporate car – diesel fuel (litres) 262,743.01 Business trips by rented car – gasoline fuel (litres) 837,245.80 947,989.60 13% Business trips by car (Km)*** 15,891,309.30 20,746,788.15 31% Business trips by car (Km/employee) 1,103.81 1,426.73 29% Trips by car for educational purposes – gasoline fuel (litres) 224,965.65 386,141.05 72% Trips by car for educational purposes (Km) 2,847,666.41 4,887,861.40 72% Total km travelled by car (Km) 18,738,975.71 25,634,649.55 37% Trips prevented by opting for e-learning (Km) 14,962,396.00 10,428,348.00 -30% Total Miles travelled (km) 22,429,177.31 29,195,321.55 30% * Bills received until the first ten days of April 2016 are included. ** Energy consumption from car transportation of the company’s fleet is included. *** Based on the assumption that the average consumption of a gasoline-powered vehicle is 7.9 liters/100km and of a dieselpowered vehicle is 6.4 liters/100km. Corporate Responsibility Report 155 Electronic Banking The significant increase in e-banking services (easypay platform, Internet, Phone & Mobile Banking) holds a special role in the environmental benefits that arise and particularly in reducing the consumption of natural resources. Piraeus Bank’s e-banking services (winbank) apart from facilitating banking transactions also significantly contribute to reducing the Bank’s environmental footprint. More specifically, in 2015, total e-Banking transactions exceeded 100 mn, resulting in over 500 tonnes of paper being saved. Moreover, the employees’ monthly bank account and card statements are not printed. The relevant information is provided electronically, through winbank. Environmental Risk The Climate Risk Management Model is constantly being upgraded with the aim of not only assessing the risk deriving from climate change for businesses in the Bank’s portfolio but also for loan provision. Through this IT application, a grading scale of environmental risk is formed in order to assess the environmental risk of loans and to be included in the process of business loan provision, thus enhancing the Bank’s environmental and social policy while also creating an environmental culture and educating employees and stakeholders. Assessment of climate exposure of Piraeus Bank’s business borrowers In 2015, climate exposure assessment of the Bank’s business borrowers was undertaken once again. The assessed business borrowers belong to specific sub-sections of Primary Production, Manufacturing, Shipping, the Tertiary sector (hotels, offices, hospitals) as well as Energy Production (conventional fuels, RES’s). In order to assess climate exposure, an average unit price of €7/tn CO2 eq24 of GHG emission allowances was applied. Total climate exposure of the Bank’s portfolio financed businesses was calculated to €790.3 mn, or 1.4% of total turnover. Based on the results of the assessment process, the composition of the business loan portfolio at year-end 2014 was as follows: Business loan portfolio composition, based on climate exposure of financed economic sectors Sectors of negative climate exposure (benefit) 1.0% Sectors of zero climate exposure 66.3% Sectors of low climate exposure 18.3% Sectors of medium climate exposure 7.4% Sectors of high climate exposure 6.9% 24 Emission allowances average unit price level at the end of December 2014. 156 Society, Culture and the Environment lifestymfalia.gr European Project LIFE-Stymfalia In the framework of Piraeus Bank Group’s corporate responsibility, 2015 was another year of successful implementation of the project for the protection of biodiversity of Lake Stymphalia. More specifically, by means of the project LIFE-Stymfalia (LIFE12 NAT/GR/00275), which commenced in October 2013, Piraeus Bank partners with Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation (PIOP), the Municipality of Sikyonion, OIKOM Environmental Studies Ltd., the Society for the Protection of Prespa and the Centre for Renewable Energy Sources and Saving (CRES) with the aim of restoring the Stymphalia wetlands and the dynamics of the ecosystem and of refinancing management actions of the Lake in the future. With the completion of two years of action, the first pilot-small scale reed cutting of 12,000m2 was initiated using modern amphibious and land machinery acquired in the framework of the project. At the same time, the Environmental Impact Assessment was submitted to the competent authority for Environmental Licensing; the Assessment analyses the technical work to be undertaken to adjust the water level at the lake as well as the reed-cutting plan for 2016-2017. Following the completion of the Action Plan for the protected area of Lake Stymphalia, the first to be drawn up and submitted to the competent authority for approval, a 16-page pamphlet was published with the key points and goals of the Management Plan. Additionally, patrols by the Local Management unit for surveillance of the protected area commenced, aiming to be carried out on a daily basis; the Farmers’ Network of Stymphalia, which consists of farmers that use the area and local residents, was created with the aim of promoting environmental practices and protecting the environment; a thematic exhibition entitled “6th labor” was set up by PIOP at the Environment Museum of Stymphalia; organizing of educational activities, promotional events of the LIFE-Stymfalia project through participation in workshops and fora in Greece and other European countries (e.g. participation in the Green Week in Brussels); the first workshop at the Environment Museum of Stymphalia entitled Prospects for development and rural entrepreneurship in Stymphalia . The LIFE-Stymfalia project is an innovative sustainable development model and contributes to both national and european targets for protecting biodiversity and alternative financing of the Network Natura 2000. The project’s progress is monitored with the submission of regular reports to the EU, thus ensuring the unhindered and successful development of the project, in accordance with its guidelines. In this framework, in May 2015, the second visit by the external EU monitoring group for the LIFE-Stymfalia project took place, during which the development of the project’s action was presented. In October 2015, the second Midterm Report was submitted to the European Commission and received a positive review, thus strengthening the achievement of the goals set and fulfillment of the vision of the project. The LIFE-Stymfalia project offers an alternative funding scheme based on the protection of the Lake as well as financial utilization of the wetland’s reed bed and the biomass of the broader region in order to ensure the sustainability of the management actions even after the conclusion of the project. The creation of this innovative growth model contributes to both national and international targets for protecting biodiversity and alternative financing of the Network Natura 2000. Concurrently, the project abides by the goals and commitments set by the Bank in its Environmental Policy on the protection and promotion of biodiversity. Corporate Responsibility Report 157 Green Banking Piraeus Bank Group, guided by its integrated environmental policy, has created an extensive range of specialized green products and services. The aim of these products is to finance innovative investments by promoting emerging green technologies in all sectors of green entrepreneurship such as electricity production from Renewable Energy Sources (RES), energy efficiency, alternative waste and water management, organic farming, agro-tourism, eco-tourism, green transportation and green chemistry. Green Banking’s operating structure is fully aligned with the current needs and trends of the Greek and European markets. Synergies are explored with all stakeholders, both within the Group as well as with market players. The aim of these interactions is to disseminate expertise on green banking issues and to monitor and acquire further knowledge on green economy to allow for the development of green products and the promotion of the relevant investments. The design and implementation of training courses for the Group’s staff ensures the continuous updating and awareness in all areas of green entrepreneurship. With systematic monitoring of the positive impact of green products and services on sustainable development, through its portfolio, Piraeus Bank Group’s approved loan limits reached €1.65 bn and loan balances €1.27 bn, financing green investments of approx. 20,800 individuals and businesses at year-end 2015. The marginal increase in customers and loan balances show that despite the adverse economic conditions, the Bank manages to increase its financing, thus proving its sustained focus on its goals and the quality of its portfolio. A key factor in the quality of its portfolio is the continuous techno-economic analysis of all existing and new green investments, which incorporates technical and environmental criteria in the investments’ assessment. Loans to RES projects continue to constitute the majority of the Group’s portfolio. The total capacity of financed projects (including paid-off loans) at year-end 2015 reached 975 MW. There is an increase versus 2014 as the information regarding green entrepreneurship was updated in the Bank’s systems as a result of the operational upgrading that ensued from the mergers of the last three years. Accordingly, the Bank’s market share amounted to 19.6% of total RES capacity in Greece. The operation of these investments prevents the emission of 2,124 million tonnes of CO2 emissions on an annual basis, which would have required over 160 mn trees to be absorbed. Res project volumes 2015 2014 Trend Capacity (MW) from bank-funded RES 975 862 +13% CO2 Emissions prevented (million tonnes)* 2.124 1.707** +24% Green loan limits (bn €) 1.65 1.6 +3% Green loan balances (bn €) 1.27 1.2 +7% * Calculation of the CO2 quantities of emissions is achieved based on an average rate of CO2 emissions from Greek electricity production and the average annual electricity production per RES technology according to the latest published data by the Operator of Electricity Market. ** The amount of CO2 emissions prevented was reviewed for 2014. The change is due to the updating of the CO2 emission factor for fossil fuel substitution. Green Banking’s social impact Although 2015 was another year of recession for the Greek economy, this did not hinder the support that Piraeus Bank Group has been providing to the green economy in the past 10 years. By means of its continuous financing of all sectors of green entrepreneurship, the Group contributed to the creation and preservation of 35,000 labor-years, or 7,000 permanent jobs in the period 2011 2015. At the same time, through various initiatives in which it participated with several institutions, Green Banking Operations contributed to 158 Society, Culture and the Environment further promotion of sustainable development and to the Bank’s reputation (according to the latest studies in 2015). Designing the Environmental & Social Management System for financing In 2015, Piraeus Bank Group began the design of the Environmental & Social Risk Management System. The system, will be comprised of a set of processes and practices integrated in the Bank’s credit policy, with the key goal to monitor, assess and manage the social and environmental risks resulting from the Group’s financing. This will minimize the portfolio’s exposure to environmental and social risks while the continuous improvement of the System ensures a multifaceted assessment of new and existing projects. Collaborations Piraeus Bank collaborates with the civil society for the protection of the environment. In the framework of employee participation in voluntary activities, during 2015 the Bank cooperated with the Hellenic Ornithological Society and Organization Earth and continued collaboration with the social cooperative enterprise “Klimax plus” for the collection of paper for recycling in Attica. With this latter collaboration the Bank supports vulnerable groups and their reintegration to society in addition to contributing to the attainment of the Group’s environmental targets. For the data analysis of the employees’ Environmental Behavior Questionnaire, the Bank cooperated with the Ecological Recycling Society. For the implementation of the European project LIFE-Stymfalia, which commenced in October 2013, the Bank partners with Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation (PIOP), the Municipality of Sikyonion, OIKOM Environmental Studies Ltd., the Society for the Protection of Prespa and the Centre for Renewable Energy Sources and Saving (CRES). Environmental Awareness and Training Environmental Awareness and Training of Employees A particularly important aspect of the Group’s environmental policy is raising environmental awareness of employees and society in general and it is realized on a two-pronged approach. The first approach involves all employees and is mainly implemented with elearning programs that describe basic environmental concepts and the Bank’s environmental work. The second training approach, targets specific groups and concerns issues such as green entrepreneurship, the Bank’s green products and the Environmental Management System (EMS) procedures in accordance with EMAS. In 2015, a total of 161 employees with the role of Environmental Management Coordinators and 2,484 employees completed environmental e-learning courses. Additionally, targeted training programs were held on issues pertaining to energy-saving, RES’s, waste and water management and loans related to these fields; and also at enhancing knowledge in Green Entrepreneurship and green banking. Specifically, training was provided to Entrepreneurship Center executives, to managers and heads of branches and to subsidiary executives, totaling in excess of 10,550 training man-hours. In 2015, “Green News” on the Bank’s intranet continued to inform employees on environmental and sustainability issues. Visitation reached 780 employees per month on average. Employees in some Group subsidiaries also have access to “Green News” (e.g., ETVA-VIPE, Piraeus Direct Services, Piraeus Bank Cyprus). A significant incentive for employee awareness is the annual environmental management competitions where branch and adminisCorporate Responsibility Report 159 trative buildings employees with the best performance in recycling of consumables and energy-saving are rewarded. For a 5th consecutive year, in early 2015, the Recycling of Consumables and Energy-Saving Competition: “Green Behavior wins!” was completed. The employees of the branches and buildings that won received symbolic gifts, some of which were the result of the reuse of the Bank’s communication and promotion materials. Environmental Behavior Questionnaire In the framework of a two-year survey, in 2015, the “Environmental Behavior Questionnaire” posted to the intranet was completed on a voluntary basis by over 2,300 Bank employees. The results were analyzed by the Ecological Recycling Society (ERS). The average employee environmental performance, on a scale of 1-10, was 5.8 in 2007, rising to 6.3 in 2009 and to 6.8 in 2011. In 2013 the average employee environmental performance was 6.4 as in 2015. Volunteerism and Environmental Training of Children Promotion of volunteerism is of vital importance to the Group. To this end, environmental and educational volunteer activities with the participation of employees and their families were organized, such as reforestation on Mt. Parnitha and the building of swallow nests in Thessaloniki. Additionally, in May 2015, the educational action Stymphalia comes to Athens was organized, in which primary and secondary schoolchildren from Stymphalia presented their region to employees and their children at the PIOP Historical Archive. Also in 2015, environmental educational activities were organized for employees and their families at the “Center of the Earth” an educational center in partnership with Organization Earth. In total, in the aforementioned actions 400 people participated, both children and adults. External Communication Since February 2011, the “Think Green” platform with presence in the most popular social networks (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, Flickr) has created an online user community sensitised on environmental issues. The platform has wide public acceptance in its fourth year of operation and already has 33,135 friends on Facebook from Greece and abroad while just in 2015 there were 460 relative posts followed. In Twitter the account has more than 1000 followers. Starting in 2012 and for the strengthening of Green entrepreneurship, Piraeus Bank provides to environmentally sensitive businesses a Green Banking portal (www.greenbanking.gr) through which they have the opportunity to strengthen their presence in the Greek market and beyond. At the end of 2015, there was an increase in the number of businesses that were uploaded to the Green Banking Portal and which promote green products and services to the market. The same applies for businesses which regardless of the products they promote, had the opportunity to promote good practises they adopt for the reduction of their environmental footprint. Aiming to improve their environmental performance, businesses present good practises such as the production of electricity from RES, water and energy saving, materials recycling, green supplies and implementation of programmes with the target of reducing pollution. The Group’s website (www.piraeusbankgroup.com) provides detailed information about all its environmental work; the climabiz and LIFE-Stymfalia websites inform about the progress and deliverables of the corresponding LIFE projects. Since June 2015, all Piraeus Bank ATMs in Greece have a visual displayed on the screen to urge customers to avoid printing receipts. ETVA INDUSTRIAL PARKS SA As sustainable development principles constitute a fundamental condition for healthy entrepreneurship, ETVA has incorporated environmental criteria in its business procedures and develops strategies in order to continuously improve its environmental performance and reduce its environmental footprint. 160 Society, Culture and the Environment ETVA has committed to develop an Environmental Management System (EMS), which will be gradually implemented at all Industrial Parks under its supervision as well as continuously improving the company’s environmental performance and its pollution prevention. In 2015, the EMAS certified Environmental Management System (EMS) was implemented on a pilot basis in two Industrial Parks, one in Komotini and one in Lamia. ETVA aims to certify at least one of the aforementioned Parks by EMAS standard within 2016. The EMAS certification in combination with the ISO 9001 quality management system will fully ensure the environmentally-sound monitoring and management of the company’s activities in all key sectors. With respect to the improvement of the environmental performance, in 2015, ETVA continued to implement a comprehensive environmental program for monitoring, sampling and laboratory parameter analyzing, in order to ensure the protection of the environment and human health. Thousands of laboratory analyses were conducted in the WWTP laboratories as well as in accredited laboratories and universities in Greece. Moreover, ETVA is successfully implementing the project of the Technical Reconstruction of the WWTP of the Industrial Park of Thessaloniki with a total budget of €4.4 mn. The target of the project is the upgrade and modernization the WWTP in order to increase its capacity and ensure the protection of the recipient water body (Thermaic Gulf). The project is to be completed in 2017, at which time the WWTP) will be fully operational and with excellent performance. In 2015, ETVA has also conducted pilot tests of bioaugmentation, an innovative method for enhancing biological wastewater treatment. These tests were conducted at five WWTPs and three were determined as successful. In one of the WWTP’s the method was implemented at full-scale. Application of bioaugmentation resulted in reduction of dewatered sludge production by more than 2,500 tonnes and in in energy-saving from wastewater management by more than 400 ΜWh. The Industrial Parks’ high environmental performance in 2015 is determined by their environmental compliance in accordance to their Environmental Permit. ETVA has set the effective management of the Industrial Parks as primary goal, in order to provide high-quality services at the resident companies. To this end, in 2015, more than 260 requests have been processed efficiently. In 2016, the response time to the resident companies’ requests is recorded in order with the aim to be reduced. Environmental Actions of the Piraeus Bank Group international Network Piraeus Bank Group invests in Corporate Responsibility at its international network as well, by means of initiatives and actions to protect the natural environment. Cyprus • Posting of “Green News” on intranet, with the • P  lacement of battery recycling bins at all Bank aim of internally shaping an environmentallybranches in Cyprus in collaboration with AFIS friendly culture and behaviour. SA. • Placement of recycling bins in municipalities • P  romotion of e-banking aiming at conservation and schools in Cyprus. of natural resources. Corporate Responsibility Report 161 Bulgaria Dispatch of e-statements for monthly credit card bills to reduce paper-consumption thus protecting the environment. Romania • Use of social media to disseminate and encour• Creation of paper and plastic recycling points at age environmental actions. Administration Buildings and branch network. Serbia • Use of electronic means such as e-newsletter, e• Recycling programs for paper and electrical and card, e-learning for natural resource saving and electronic equipment waste recycling. operating cost reduction. 162 The sun and the stars together would make a truly original combination. Corporate Responsibility Report 165 GRI G4 Content Index AND ISO 26000 166 GRI G4 REPORT AND ISO 26000 * External Assurance General Standard Disclosures Indicator Description (i) Reference EA* Strategy and analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior decisionAFR 3-12  maker of the organization about the CRR Chairman' s Note 5-6 relevance of sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability. Organizational profile G4-3 Νame of the organization. Piraeus Bank SA  G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services. piraeusbankgroup.com  G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters. 4, Amerikis street, 105 64, Athens  G4-6 Number of countries where the organization piraeusbankgroup.com>Group Profile>  operates, and names of countries where either Group Presence the organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form. piraeusbankgroup.com>Investor  Relations>Corporate Governace>Articles of Association CRR 57-58 G4-8 Markets served (including geographic breakpiraeusbankgroup.com>Investor Relations>  down, sectors served, and types of customers Presentations>2016>Group Corporate and beneficiaries). Presentation G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization. CRR 84 piraeusbankgroup.com>Group  Profile>at a glance AFR 7-9 piraeusbankgroup.com>el>investors>financials >presentation-audio-archive>Slides: 15 Assets & Liabilities Overview 46 Loan & Deposit Portfolios G4-10 Total workforce by employment type, empiraeusbankgroup.com>en>group-profile>  ployment contract, region, gender ect. at-a-glance CRR 84-90 G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by CRR 88  collective bargaining agreements. G4-12 Organization’s supply chain. CRR 76-77  G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting CRR 76-77  period regarding the organization’s size, AFR 7-9 structure, ownership, or its supply chain. piraeusbankgroup.com>Group Profile G4-14 Explanation whether and how the precautionCRR 52-54  ary approach or principle is addressed by the AFR 15-16 organization. CRR 143-144 Environmental Database Legislation and Case Law 2016 CRR Environmental Statement CRR 12-14, 17, 30, 33-37 piraeusbankgroup.com>Corporate Responsibility> Environment>Environment Fields of Action> Environmental Management>Piraeus Bank's Environmental Statement G4-15 Externally developed economic, environCRR 33-36  mental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses. G4-16 Memberships of associations (such as indusCRR 33-36, 117, 126-128, 137-139  try associations) and national or international Corporate Responsibility Report 167 Indicator Description (i) Reference EA* advocacy organizations in which the organiHellenic Banking Association (hba.gr)  zation: UN Global Compact (unglobalcompact.org) • Holds a position on the governance body, • Participates in projects or committees, • Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues, • Views membership as strategic. Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 a. Αll entities included in the organization’s AFR 118-132, note 26  consolidated financial statements or equivaCRR 11-15 lent documents. b. Report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. G4-18 a. Explain the process for defining the report CRR 11-15  content and the Aspect Boundaries. b. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. G4-19 Αll the material Aspects identified in the proCRR 11-15  cess for defining report content. Please refer to Specific Standard Disclosures. G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect CRR 11-15  Boundary within the organization, as follows: Please refer to • Report whether the Aspect is material or not Specific Standard Disclosures. within the organization, • Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organization. G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary CRR 11-15  outside the organization, as follows: Please refer to • Report whether the Aspect is material or not outside Specific Standard Disclosures. of the organization, • Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary outside the organization. G4-22 Τhe effect of any restatements of information CRR 11-15  provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting CRR 11-15  periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. Stakeholder engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the orCRR 39-43  ganization. G4-25 Βasis for identification and selection of stakeholdCRR 39-43  ers with whom to engage. G4-26 Οrganization’s approach to stakeholder engageCRR 39-43  ment, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. 168 GRI G4 REPORT AND ISO 26000 Indicator Description (i) Reference EA* G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been CRR 11-15, 39-43  raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. Report profile G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar 01.01.2015-31.12.2015  year) for information provided. G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 26.06.2015  G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). Annual  G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the Business Planning & Investor Relations  report or its contents. >investor_relations@piraeusbank.gr G4-32 A. Report the “in accordance” option the GRI Content Index for In accordance-Core  organization has chosen. CRR 11-15, 165-172 B. R eport the GRI Content Index for the chosen option. C. Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. GRI recommends the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be “in accordance” with the Guidelines. G4-33 Α. Τhe organization’s policy and current CRR 17-20  practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. Β. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. C. Τhe relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. D. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the organization, AFR 1-3  including committees of the highest governCRR 47-50 ance body. Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts. Ethics and integrity G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards CRR 29-31, 47-50  and norms of behavior such as codes of conpiraeusbankgroup.com>el>investors> duct and codes of ethics. corporate-governance>Corporate Governance Structure & Operating Regulations, Code of Conduct Corporate Responsibility Report 169 Specific Standard Disclosures Indicator Description (i) Reference EA* Economic Material issue: Support of employement and of the economic activity of local communities. (Q20) Support of the Greek cultural heritage Material issue: Support of the preservation and enhancement of the Greek cultural heritage. (Q16) Indirect Economic Impacts G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management ApAFR 11-12  proach (DMA). piop.gr, G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure inCRR 26-28,124, 129-130, 134-141  vestments and services supported. CRR 127-131 Environmental Material issue: Implementation of an Environmental Policy aimed at reducing the impact of the Bank’s operation on the environment by means of recycling programs and more effective natural resource management. (Q12) Materials G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Appiraeusbankgroup.com>Corporate Responsibility> proach. Environment>Environmental Policy Principles piraeusbankgroup.com>Corporate Responsibility> Environment>Enviromental Management> Environmental Statement of Piraeus Bank CRR 5-6, 143-144, 147-148, 150 G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. CRR 154 G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled CRR 154 input materials. Energy G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Appiraeusbankgroup.com>Corporate Responsibility>  proach. Environment>Environmental Policy Principles piraeusbankgroup.com>Corporate Responsibility> Environment>Enviromental Management>Environmental Statement of Piraeus Bank CRR 5-6, 143-147 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization. CRR Enviromental Management, Environmental  Statement of Piraeus Bank CRR 154 G4-EN5 Energy intensity. CRR Enviromental Management, Environmental Statement of Piraeus Bank CRR 154 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption. CRR Enviromental Management, Environmental Statement of Piraeus Bank CRR 154 Emissions G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management piraeusbankgroup.com>Corporate Responsibility>  Approach. Environment>Environmental Policy Principles piraeusbankgroup.com>Corporate Responsibility> Environment>Enviromental Management>Environmental Statement of Piraeus Bank CRR 5-6, 143, 144-145, 153-155 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions CRR 153  (Scope 1). G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) CRR 153  emissions (Scope 2). G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) CRR 153  emissions (Scope 3). G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity. CRR 153 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) CRR 153 emissions. 170 GRI G4 REPORT AND ISO 26000 Indicator Description (i) Reference EA* G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air CRR 153 emissions. Solid waste G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Appiraeusbankgroup.com>Corporate Responsibility> proach. Environment>Environmental Policy Principles piraeusbankgroup.com>Corporate Responsibility> Environment>Enviromental Management>Environmental Statement of Piraeus Bank CRR 5-6, 143, 149 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal CRR 150, 154 method. Material issue: Business initiatives for the protection of biodiversity. Support of programs and business initiatives aimed at protecting biodiversity and ecosystems. (Q13) Biodiversity G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management piraeusbankgroup.com>Corporate Responsibility>  Approach. Environment>Environmental Policy Principles CRR Chairman' s Note, Enviromental Actions, Life-Symfalia Project CRR 156 G4-EN12 Description of significant impacts of activiCRR Life-Symfalia Project ties, products, and services on biodiversity in CRR 156 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored. CRR 156  lifestymfalia.gr>LIFE-Stymfalia Project>Aim-Objectives, lifestymfalia.gr>Life-Stymfalia Project>Partners lifestymfalia.gr>The Area of Lake Stymfalia>Species lifestymfalia.gr>Actions>Preparatory Actions SOCIETY Labor practices and decent work Material Issue: Continuing employee education. Encouraging continuous learning based on strategies and business priorities, so that through educational programs the Bank actively supports the effective management of operational risk, a good banking experience for the customer and the development of its operations. (Q6) Training and education G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management CRR 97-98, 105-107, 110  Approach. G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per CRR 82, 99-104  employee by gender, and by employee category. Investment G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management CRR 82, 83  Approach. G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on human CRR 106  rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights: a. Report on the total number of hours in the reporting period devoted to training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. b. Report on the percentage of employees in the reporting period trained in human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Corporate Responsibility Report 171 Indicator Description (i) Reference EA* Material Issue: Provision of equal opportunities and ensuring human rights. Establishment of human resource management practices in accordance with the UN Global Compact, provision of equal opportunities for all employees, acceptance and integration of diversity in the workplace. (Q9) Non-discrimination G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management CRR 33-34, 82-83  Approach. G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination CRR 83  and corrective actions taken: a. Report on the total number of incidents of discrimination during the reporting period. b. Report on the status of the incidents and the actions taken with reference to their management. Material Issue: Implementing social policy. Covering operational needs of the Bank internal redeployment of existing human resources and preserve jobs, reinforcing local economies and social cohesion. (Q7) Material Issue: Ensure a healthy working environment. Assistance Programmes for employees and members of their families. (Q10) Employment G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management CRR 88-93, 110-111 Approach. Piraeus Corporate staffing needs coverage through CRR 92 Bank internal reallocation and external staffing. specific Indicator G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees CRR 84, 88-90, 109-111 that are not provided to temporary or parttime employees, by significant locations of operation. Product responsibility Material Issue: The Bank serves customers in a responsible and honest manner. Responsible handling of customers includes promotion of products and services in an honest manner as well as ensuring that all the products are safe, whatever their origin. (Q1) Product and service labeling G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management CRR 61-63, 74-75  Approach. G4-PR3 Type of product and service information CRR 61-63, 75-76  required by the organization’s procedures for product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements. Material Issue: Continuous improvement of products/services to benefit customers. The Bank must adopt methods of detecting possible adverse effects on customers and implement corrective measures. (Q2) G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management CRR 66  Approach. G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer CRR 66-71  satisfaction. THE BANK RESPONDS RESPONSIBLY TO THE CHALLENGES POSED BY THE ECONOMIC CRISIS AND CAPITAL CONTROLS Material Issue: The Bank responds to the present challenges with a strong sense of responsibility by promoting a spirit of collaboration and taking measures to support the reorganization of sustainable businesses and sectors, with the aim of enhancing the productivity and competitiveness of the economy as well as strengthening employment. (Q3) Product Portfolio G4-DMA Policies with specific environmental and CRR Corporate Responsibility Principles,  social components applied to business lines Customer Relationships-Relationships of Trust, Transparency (former FS1). and Responsibility Focusing on Individual Needs 172 GRI G4 REPORT AND ISO 26000 Indicator Description (i) Reference EA* Procedures for assessing and screening piraeusbankgroup.com> environmental and social risks in business Corporate Responsibility> lines (former FS2). Environment>a) Environmental Policy Processes for monitoring clients’ Principles, b) Climate Change Strategy, implementation of and compliance with c) Sustainability Statement, d) Green environmental and social requirements Entrepreneurship included in agreements or transactions piraeusbankgroup.com> (former FS3). Corporate Governance> Process(es) for improving staff competency Relationship with Customers and to implement the environmental and social Suppliers>Relationship with Suppliers policies and procedures as applied to CRR Green Banking business lines (former FS4). piraeusbankgroup.com> Interactions with clients/ investees/business Investor Relations>Corporate partners regarding environmental and social Governance>Articles of Association, Article 2 risks and opportunities (former FS5). CRR 93-94, 97-98, 143-145 ΑR>Green Banking>Help Desk> Call Center>PDS FS-8 Monetary value of products and services AR Green banking  designed to deliver a specific environmental CRR 157-158 benefit for each business line broken down by purpose. Notes: CRR (number): Corporate Responsibility Report, 2015, page number AR (number): Annual Report, 2015, page number AFR (number): Annual Financial Report, 2015, page number (i) It is noted that the table contains brief description of GRI indices for reasons of presentation. For the complete description, please refer to the following link https://www.globalreporting.org/resourcelibrary/GRIG4-Part1-ReportingPrinciples-and-Standard-Disclosures.pdf. Corporate Responsibility Report 173 ISO 26000 Table for Corporate Responsibility Reporting Clause: Social responsibility Sub-clause Reference in core subjects core subjects Principles of Social Responsibility 4 Accountability 4.2 The application of the GRI Guidelines provides Transparency 4.3 organizations with a tool for accounting for and being transparent in their impacts on the economy, the environment and society Ethical behaviour 4.4 General Standard Disclosures: Ethics and Integrity Respect for stakeholder interests 4.5 General Standard Disclosures: Stakeholder Inclusiveness Principle Respect for the rule of law 4.6 CRR p. 56-57 Compliance Respect for international norms of behaviour 4.7 Sustainability Context Principle General Standard Disclosures: Strategy and Analysis Respect for human rights 4.8 Subcategory Human Rights Recognizing social responsibility and 5 engaging stakeholders Recognizing social responsibility 5.2 General Standard Disclosures: Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries Stakeholder identification and engagement 5.3 General Standard Disclosures: Stakeholder Engagement Guidance on social responsibility core 6 General Standard Disclosures: Generic Disclosures subjects on Management Approach (G4-DMA) Organizational governance 6.2 General Standard Disclosures: Strategy and Analysis, Governance Decision-making processes and structures 6.2.3 CRR p. 47-58 Corporate Governance, p. 81-111 Human Resources Human rights 6.3 6.3.1 Subcategory Human Rights 6.3.2 Due Diligence 6.3.3 CRR p. 33-34 Global Initiatives United Nations Global Compact (Global Compact UN), p. 76-77 Supplier Relations Human rights risk situations 6.3.4 CRR p. 83 Commitment to safeguarding human rights and see 6.3.3 Avoidance of complicity 6.3.5 G4-HR2 total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Resolving grievances 6.3.6 CRR p. 74-75 Customer service and Ombudsman for Banking Investment Services, p. 83 Commitment to safeguarding human rights Discrimination and vulnerable groups 6.3.7 CRR p. 74-75 Customer service and Ombudsman for Banking Investment Services, p. 83 Commitment to safeguarding human rights Civil and political rights 6.3.8 CRR p. 74-75 Customer service and Ombudsman for Banking Investment Services, p. 76-77 Supplier Relations Economic, social and cultural rights 6.3.9 G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 174 GRI G4 REPORT AND ISO 26000 ISO 26000 Table for Corporate Responsibility Reporting Clause: Social responsibility Sub-clause Reference in core subjects core subjects Fundamental principles and rights at work 6.3.10 General Standard Disclosures: Organizational Profile Labour practices 6.4 Labour practices 6.4.1 6.4.2 General Standard Disclosures: Organizational Profile Employment and employment relationships 6.4.3 General Standard Disclosures: Organizational Profile Conditions of work and social protection 6.4.4 General Standard Disclosures: Organizational Profile Social dialogue 6.4.5 General Standard Disclosures: Organizational Profile Health and safety at work 6.4.6 CRR: Human Resources Human development and training in the 6.4.7 G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per workplace employee by gender, and by employee category The Environment 6.5 The Environment 6.5.1 6.5.2 Environmental Category Prevention of pollution 6.5.3 G4-ΕΝ21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions Sustainable resource use 6.5.4 G4-ΕΝ23 Total water discharge by quality and destination G4-ΕΝ1 Materials used by weight or volume G4-ΕΝ2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials G4-ΕΝ3 Direct energy consumption within the organization G4-ΕΝ5 Energy intensity G4-ΕΝ6 Reduction of energy consumption Climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.5.5 G4-ΕΝ6 Reduction of energy consumption G4-ΕΝ15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) G4-ΕΝ16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) G4-ΕΝ17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) G4-ΕΝ18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity G4-ΕΝ19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Protection of the environment, biodiversity 6.5.6 G4-ΕΝ12 Description of significant impacts of and restoration of natural habitats activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas G4-ΕΝ13 Habitats protected or restored Fair operating practices 6.6 Fair operating practices 6.6.1 6.6.2 CRR p. 47-58 Corporate Governance, p. 74-75 Customer relationship Customer service and Ombudsman for Banking Investment Services, p. 76-77 Supplier Relations Anti-corruption 6.6.3 General Standard Disclosures: Ethics and integrity Responsible political involvement 6.6.4 CRR p. 33-37 Participation in global initiatives and harmonisation with international standards, p. 47-58 Corporate governance Fair competition 6.6.5 p. 47-58 Corporate governance Promoting social responsibility in the value 6.6.6 CRR 33-37 Participation in global initiatives chain and harmonisation with international standards CRR p. 29-31 Corporate responsibility principles, p. 47-58 Corporate governance Corporate Responsibility Report 175 ISO 26000 Table for Corporate Responsibility Reporting Clause: Social responsibility Sub-clause Reference in core subjects core subjects Respect for property rights 6.6.7 CRR p. 74-75 Customer relationship Customer service and Ombundsman for Banking Investment Services, p. 76-77 Supplier Relations Consumer issues 6.7 Consumer issues 6.7.1 6.7.2 G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements Fair marketing, factual and unbiased 6.7.3 G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer information and fair contractual practices satisfaction G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements Protecting consumers’ health and safety 6.7.4 G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements Sustainable consumption 6.7.5 G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements Consumer service, support, and complaint 6.7.6 G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer and dispute resolution satisfaction Consumer data protection and privacy 6.7.7 CRR p. 61-77 Customer relationship Customer service and Ombundsman for Banking Investment Services, p. 83 Commitment to safeguarding human rights Access to essential services 6.7.8 CRR p. 72-73 Extensive branch network and accessibility Education and awareness 6.7.9 G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements Community involvement and development 6.8 CRR p. 127-128 Museum Network Community involvement and development 6.8.1 6.8.2 G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported Community involvement 6.8.3 CRR p. 127-128 Museum Network 176 GRI G4 REPORT AND ISO 26000 ISO 26000 Table for Corporate Responsibility Reporting Clause: Social responsibility Sub-clause Reference in core subjects core subjects Education and culture 6.8.4 CRR p. 33-34 Participation in Global Initiatives United Nations Global Compact, p. 83 Commitment to safeguarding human rights Employment creation and skills 6.8.5 General Standard Disclosures: Organizational development Profile Wealth and income creation 6.8.7 G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported Health 6.8.8 CRR p. 110 Providing a modern and safe working environment, p. 110-111 Employee Assistance Programmes EAPs Social Investment 6.8.9 G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported Guidance on integrating social 7 responsibility throughout an organization The relationship of an organization’s 7.2 General Standard Disclosures characteristics to social responsibility Due Diligence 7.3.1 Generic Disclosures on Management Approach (G4-DMA) Determining relevance and significance of 7.3.2 General Standard Disclosures: Identified Material core subjects and issues to an organization Aspects and Boundaries An organization’s sphere of influence 7.3.3 General Standard Disclosures: Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries Establishing priorities for addressing issues 7.3.4 General Standard Disclosures: Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries Setting the direction of an organization for 7.4.2 General Standard Disclosures: Strategy and Analysis social responsibility Building social responsibility into an 7.4.3 General Standard Disclosures: Governance Generic organization’s governance, systems Disclosures on Management Approach (G4-DMA) and procedures Types of communication on social 7.5.3 General Standard Disclosures: responsibility Report Profile Enhancing the credibility of reports and 7.6.2 General Standard Disclosures: claims about social responsibility Report Profile Reviewing an organization’s progress and 7.7.3 General Standard Disclosures: Governance Generic performance on social responsibility Disclosures on Management Approach (G4-DMA) Improving performance 7.7.5 General Standard Disclosures: Governance Generic Disclosures on Management Approach (G4-DMA) Voluntary initiatives for social responsibility 7.8 General Standard Disclosures: Report Profile Corporate Responsibility Report 177
