‘ Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page1 CONTENT Sl. No. Content Page No. 1. From The CEO’s Desk: Global Compact Compliance 3-5 Statement 2. PBC Service Portfolio 6 3. Ethics, Mission & Vision 7 4. International Certifications, Policies and Awards 8-21 5. Stakeholder Mapping at PBC– Recognizing the key partners 22-30 6. PBC’s commitment to UNGC’s ten principles A. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Support and respect the protection of internationally 31 proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Ensure that the organization is not complicit in human rights 32 abuses B. Labour Standards Principle 3 Upholding the freedom of association and effective 33 recognition of the right to Collective Bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 33 Principle 5 The organization supports effective abolition of child labour 34 Principle 6 Organization promotes elimination of discrimination in 34-38 respect of employment and occupation C. Environment Principle 7 The organization support a precautionary approach 39-45 to Environmental Challenges Principle 8 The organization initiates promotion of greater environmental 45-50 responsibility Principle 9 Encourages the Development and Diffusion of 51-60 Environmentally Friendly Technologies D. Anti-corruption Principle 10 Business should work against all forms of corruption, 61 including extortion and bribery 7. PBC in news 62-65 8. Image Sources 66 9. The Road Ahead………. 67 Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page2 CEO’S statement of continued commitment to UN Global Compact and its Ten Universal Principles: Taking it further to build a more sustainable, clean, low carbon and healthy work space…. “We believe our growth and profits rest on our highest level of integrity that trickles down to the last employee / person in the organization and the commitment to sustainable, ethical and responsible business practices” Dear Stakeholders, Greetings from Paharpur Business Centre!!! It feels great to return with our new communication on progress for the year 2015-16, to once again share our progress on the ten universal principles that are fully integrated / aligned with our business model. At PBC, we believes that business sense and sensibility comes with a sustainable way of doing one’s business – by ensuring least impact to the environment, caring about people in a multi-stakeholder environment. With these as our guiding principles and a vision to reshape the commercial buildings in India, we have surged ahead by focusing on people / occupants, on their interaction with the various facilities provided to them, their sense of health and well being while @ work. Pursuant to our policy of inclusion and inclusivity, we have endeavored to make our building accessible and friendly for the physically challenged. PBC has played a pioneering role in revolutionizing the concept of office space and convention facilities by integrating the facilities with the basic principles of wellness that include providing ergonomic setups, personalized workstations with ergonomic chairs and adjustable desks, healthy light and sound levels that promote good health and productivity. All our energies, objectives and strategies are directed towards meeting our triple bottom line performance in a sustained and profitable manner. We are extremely sensitive to the fact that we need to operate within the principles of UNGC and Corporate Governance and therefore be accountable, fair, transparent and responsive to the needs of all our stakeholders, specially the primary ones. This year we have reshaped our business focus – from buildings to occupants, from creating wealth to Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page3 creating healthy and robust work environment that clearly facilitates human health and business productivity. Wellness refers to a high dimension focus on the occupants of the building. Up-scaling the health and wellness quotient in a building indicates a “People First” approach. Link between Oxygen and Brain: Crucial for Office Environment Our brain uses 20% of the total oxygen supplied to our body, without which the brain cells quickly begin to die. The presence of oxygen supplied to our body also defines our cognitive ability and the productivity quotient. In October 2015 a study published in Environmental Health Perspectives led by lead author Joseph Allen, Director of the Healthy Buildings Program at the Harvard Center for Health and the Global Environment and five other contributors, revealed, “When lowered CO2 levels were coupled with lower pollutants in buildings, cognitive scores were 101% higher than in conventional buildings.” A study published by (by Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health’s Center for Health and the Global Environment, SUNY Upstate Medical University, and Syracuse University) has looked at people’s experiences in “green” vs. “non-green” buildings in a double-blind study. It has revealed that “a well ventilated office space has a higher cognitive functioning score. Improved air quality could greatly increase the cognitive function performance of the workers. Cognitive performance scores for the participants who worked in the green+ environments were on average double those of participants who worked in conventional environments; scores for those working in green environments were 61 percent higher.” Another set of Harvard researchers, who studied on the impact of ventilation, lowering carbon dioxide concentration, removing toxic chemicals and improving indoor air quality, suggest building managers, architects, and designers need to begin taking environmental quality as seriously as they take notions of collaborative space and productivity. Their study states that poor office air quality is likely to make people less productive. PBC’s motto is to establish Health and Wellness of the building occupants by providing great indoor air environment – it has been well established that good oxygenated clean air is directly related brains functionality and cognitive skills, resulting in smart business. We have experienced this at Paharpur Business Centre (PBC) By providing superior quality of Indoor Environment Quality (IEQ) to the occupants, results in 360 degrees health and business benefits to all. Given that Delhi’s air is practically unfit for breathing, it is great that we have a third party verification of good air quality at PBC – for wellness and productivity of our occupants. We hope to become the first building in the country, by end of 2016 / early 2017, to achieve USGBC WELL Certification, thereby committing ourselves to the health and wellness quotient of our occupants in order to enhance productivity and profitability. Last but not the least, strategizing for implementing innovative ways to remain profitable and consistently enhance our top line and bottom line, despite challenges in the real estate sector and a not so robust market scenario. Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page4 I take this opportunity to extend my heartfelt thanks to all our important stakeholders, our esteemed clients, Team PBC, our vendors who are our important ally. Our clients have always encouraged us to move ahead on our sustainable path by supporting our causes and also participating wholeheartedly in our various environmental, social and health related interventions. Together we have created a business model that cares for people, environment and stands committed to responsible business. Let us together work towards the goal of common good of all and contribute positively towards UN millennium sustainability goals manage business risks, collaborate with like minded companies in creating a more level playing field. The year 2015 was indeed a pivotal year in terms of moving ahead with the Climate Change challenges. I take this opportunity to congratulate all the World leaders who showed courage to reach a historic agreement at the UN Climate Change Conference (COP21) in Paris. It sends a clear signal to businesses, investors and markets that the world must move toward a low-carbon future. We at PBC are passionate about our core, play to our strengths, conduct our selves responsibly, focus on our circle of influence and strive to remain transparent in business. This has been our “mantra” of success for more than two decades now. We look forward to your continued support, cooperation and patronage. Your feedback would be more than welcome, as we believe that learning is a lifelong exercise. Best wishes for a successful financial year ahead. Kamal Meattle Chief Executive Officer Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page5 PBC SERVICE PORTFOLIO 19 Other Support Services…… Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page6 OUR ETHICS & VALUES OUR MISSION To become an eminent world-class business support service provider; committed to delivering benchmarked, quality services and address customers’ needs, whilst also caring for their health and environment. We aim at creating an exquisite platform of growth and wellness for all our stakeholders. OUR VISION To stand out as an organization that takes a focused approach on ensuring consistent delivery of quality services, care for environment and people around us. Since, we believe in keeping customers as our first priority, we stay inspired from within to provide end-to-end business solutions to them. Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page7 INTERNATIONAL CERTIFICATIONS & POLICIES PBC has been certified with six International certifications:  ISO 9001:2008 for Quality Management System  ISO 14001:2004 for Environmental Management System  ISO 22000:2005 for Food Safety Management System  ISO 50001:2011 for Energy Management Services  SA 8000:2008 for International Standard for Social Accountability  OHSAS 18001:2007 for Occupational Health & Safety Management System  FSSAI Approved  NABERS Certified for Good Indoor Environment Quality  CETEC 5 Palm Rated for Operating Building  Signatory to UN Global Compact and commitment to Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY POLICY Paharpur Business Centre (PBC) a provider of serviced offices along with a suite of 27 support services is committed to perform its business in a responsible manner to produce an overall positive impact on society and environment. In doing so, we shall strive towards: Marketplace Leadership – We aim to run our business in a way that singles us out as a great provider of high quality services and preferred partner of choice to do business with. Our aim is to work with our stakeholders to develop long –term sustainable relationships. Environment – We are an environment driven company and are aware of the scale of impact our operation has on the environment. As such, we are committed to exploring ways to reduce the impact of what we do. We take a responsible attitude and lead the way in developing initiatives to further improve our environmental footprint. We shall be fully accountable to our clients, employees and the society that we operate in. We will strive to create business opportunities for our stakeholders and follow the core values, norms and ethics that are in-built in the way we conduct our business. Workplace – We are committed to offering our employees a rewarding and challenging workplace. We aim to become the best employer in fact employer of choice, demonstrated amongst other things, by current and past employees recommending the company as a great place to work. We are channeling our efforts towards making PBC a fun place to work for. We do believe people are core to any business and are one’s most important asset and therefore we focus our energies in taking good care of them as we believe that it makes good business sense to hire and retain great employees. The idea is to synergize our efforts in order to create wealth for all. Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page8 Inclusivity and Equal opportunities for all is at the core of our human resource policy. We are strictly against discrimination of any kind. We are committed to create awareness of HIV-AIDS at work place and have an adequate policy in place to handle it. Community – We strive to be good corporate citizens, we work to support the sustainability of both global and the local communities in which we operate and actively encourage our employees, customers, suppliers to consider the needs of others and involve themselves in public service through public private partnering. We are sensitive to the requirements of the community around us and our business strategies are closely interlinked with their aspirations. High standards of corporate governance care for environment and health & safety, override everything else that we do. QUALITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM POLICY This policy underlines the commitment of the Management and Employees of Paharpur Business Centre (PBC™) towards achieving Quality in Service by Providing Quality Services and Facilities that Consistently Meet and Exceed Customer Expectation. To have a motivated and committed team by sustaining a working environment where each employee is encouraged to excel. The Quality Policy is communicated to all employees for effective implementation and will be reviewed periodically for adequacy & suitability. PBC™ will ensure compliance to all the regulatory and legal requirements / law of the land and will strive to go beyond the statutory compliance. The Management of PBC™ implements its stated Quality Policy by establishing and achieving specific Quality Objectives as given below: ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM POLICY Paharpur Business Centre is committed to perform its business and related activities in a responsible manner so as to achieve continual improvement in Environmental performance. In doing so, we strive towards:  Encourage recycling or reuse of office waste.  Conserving energy and water through better management.  Minimizing use of non-biodegradable in Food and Beverage department.  Providing indoor air quality conforming to specify ASHRAE standards.  Efficient use of resources by addressing the embodied energy criteria  Minimizing air emissions & water discharges Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page9 In keeping with our commitment to prevent pollution, PBC has recognized the Four ‘R’ Refuse, Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle. We are committed to comply with applicable environmental legislation, regulations, rules and all the requirements of the ISO 14001: 2004 standard and the norms of USGBC LEED EB (O&M) certification. We will implement the environmental policy by setting and reviewing objectives and targets periodically without sacrificing quality of life. We will strive to create awareness among our customers, employees, sub-contractors and other important stakeholders, for better and improved environmental performance. This policy will be documented and training will be imparted to employees for effective implementation. SOCIAL ACCOUNTABILITY POLICY At Paharpur Business Centre (PBC), we are committed to performing our business and related activities in a socially and environmentally responsible manner so as to achieve continual improvement, responsive to the needs of the organization. We believe in the triple bottom line evaluation method in delivering performance • Profit • Care for environment • Social accountability We believe that “it can be good business” to care for one of our stakeholders viz. the society and people around us. It enables us to employ and retain great employees. We recognize that people are the core of the organization and we are committed to pursuing practices that ensure welfare and growth of our people. We shall strive to create safe & fair workplace for all our employees. We shall endeavor to create awareness among our customers, sub-contractors, & other important stakeholders on social issues related to our business area. In doing so, we shall comply with the applicable national legislation and regulations and respect international conventions. We will implement this policy by setting and reviewing the procedures, standing instructions and related programs. We shall strive to integrate the relevant principles of UN Global Compact that relate to Human Rights and Labour Standards with PBC‘s worker policies, code of Conduct, procedures and SA Standard requirements, in order to mainstream the principles in our day to day operations. Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page10 This policy will be effectively documented, implemented, maintained, communicated, and accessible in a comprehensible form to all personnel, including directors, executives, management, supervisor, and staff, whether directly employed by, contracted with, or otherwise representing the Company. The policy will be publicly available in an effective form and manner to interested parties, upon request. Management shall review this policy periodically to ensure that it remains relevant and appropriate to the organizational SA objectives & goals. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY POLICY Paharpur Business Centre (PBC) a service provider of office and conference facilities, along with a suite of 27 support services. It is committed to provide a safe & healthy environment, to prevent injury & ill health to its employees, occupants, visitors, guest, subcontractors & other interested parties. In doing so we will strive towards:  Commitment to compliance with applicable legislation, regulations and other applicable requirements that relate to our Occupational Health & Safety Hazards.  We will implement the health and safety policy by setting and reviewing objectives and targets periodically to control and minimize risks due to OH&S hazards.  We will ensure continual improvement in OH&S management and its performance.  This policy will be documented, maintained, communicated and reviewed periodically to ensure that it remains relevant and appropriate to the organizational OH&S  Objectives & goals. Training will be imparted to all the persons working under the control of the organization for effective implementation.  We will strive to create awareness among our customers, sub-contractors, guests & other interested parties for better performance & to make them aware of their individual OH&S obligations. FOOD SAFETY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM POLICY We at Paharpur Business Centre (PBC) are committed to provide fresh, safe & healthy food to our customers. We are the end processor of the food chain and then the food directly consume by the consumer. In doing so we strive towards: • Ensuring compliance to all applicable regulations and legislations. • Ensuring all raw materials is purchased under controlled conditions and from best possible supplier or source. • Meeting the specific needs and exceeding expectations of our customers by followed the application food safety norms and at the same time providing delicious and nutritious food. • Creating awareness among our staff, customers and suppliers about food safety. It will be our constant endeavor to take regular feedback from our clients to ensure improved performance and continual improvement. Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page11 ENERGY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM POLICY Paharpur Business Centre™ is committed to perform its business and related activities in an environmentally responsible manner and to use energy in the most cost effective, efficient & green way. We are committed to conserve PBC™ energy consumption by using innovative methods and by using green and clean technologies available for reduced operation & maintenance cost of the building. It will be our constant endeavor to continually improve the energy performance of PBC™ by reducing our average annual energy intensity against business as usual. To accomplish this we try to:  Improve energy efficiency continuously by implementing effective energy management programs that support all the operations and customer satisfaction while providing a safe and comfortable work environment.  Become one of the most energy-efficient organizations in our industry on a kilowatt-hour per 100 square foot basis.  Measure, Monitor, Manage and control the daily energy consumption by adopting energy conservation initiatives.  Establish an Energy Management Team to identify and drive energy efficiency initiatives and to provide an  integrated organization-wide response to energy management.  Set Energy objectives and targets and ensure that the adequate information and resources are available.  Measure our Carbon footprint on a year to year basis  Comply with applicable legal requirements and the requirements of LEED-EB (O&M) guidelines and the requirements of BEE five star rating systems.  Promote purchase of energy efficient products and services and up gradation of existing systems for energy performance improvement.  Develop communications strategies to raise awareness among staff and all the interested parties.  This policy will be documented, maintained, communicated and reviewed periodically to ensure that it remains relevant and appropriate to the organizational Energy Management objectives & goals.  Training will be imparted to all the persons working under the control of the organization for effective implementation.  We will also endeavor to train our vendors / suppliers / sub-contractors and effectively engage with them by organizing awareness sessions periodically focused on issues relating to energy conservation & and creating awareness on the same. ENVIRONMENTAL TOBACCO SMOKE POLICY • The indoor air quality at PBC confirms to the ASHRAE standard and Tobacco smoking & use of E-Cigarette inside the building is strictly prohibited. Restricting smoking at the workplace is a part of complete health and safety promotion program in the business centre. • For smokers, PBC has provided a separate identified room at the terrace area, typically dedicated for smoking. The smoking room has a separate ventilation system with an exhaust and Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page12 air-conditioner ensuring the air quality inside the building is not affected by ETS. • Employees & clients will be informed of this policy through signs posted in buildings. • Any violations of this policy will be handled through standard disciplinary procedures. SUSTAINABLE PURCHASE POLICY At PBC, We Strive Hard To Ensure That We Purchase In An Environmentally Sensitive Manner. Whether It Is A Simple Purchase Of Paper Or Pens, Computers, Laptops, Food Raw Material, Carpets To Heavy Duty Engineering Equipments, Our Preference Will Be To Buy “Clean, Green And Energy Efficient” Products And Services. We Are In The Process Of Developing An Environmentally Preferable Purchasing System In Order To Promote The Concept Of “Green Buying” And By Doing So We Will Reduce Our Carbon Footprint and Promote Green Purchasing Processes. We Find & Evaluate Information About Green Products & Services And Include The Necessary Specs In Our Product / Service / Vendor Evaluation Form And Wherever Possible, Based On Availability And Financial Viability Purchase Green And Environmentally Sustainable Products And Services, without Compromising On The Quality Of Life At PBC. We Will Consider The Following Environmental Attributes At The Time Of Purchasing: • Encourage local suppliers based in within 100 km radius of our location • Durable and Not Single Use Or Disposable Wherever Possible And Applicable • Made of Recycled Material • Biodegradable and Safely Disposable • Made From Rapidly Renewable Material • Energy Efficient • Will Prefer Procuring From Companies and Organizations that have responsible & Sustainable Environmental Track Record • Reduced Packaging – Financially Viable Also • Reduces Green House Gas Emissions • Scalable / Upgradable • Water Efficient Technologies • Use of renewable wherever applicable and possible The above attributes will not be limiting & will be subject to change & review on a regular basis. The Objective Of our Purchase Policy is to reduce the adverse environmental impact Of Our Purchasing Decisions & 80% of our total purchase to be done through locally based suppliers. Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page13 And It Will Be Our Constant Endeavour To Develop And Redesign As Per The Requirement Of The Organization. By including environmental considerations in our purchasing procedure, along with concerns about price, quality and availability, we will remain fiscally responsible while attempting to promote practices that improve public health and safety, reduce pollution & carbon emissions and conserve natural resources. GREEN CLEANING POLICY The policy is introduced by PBC to provide a safe, clean, and healthy environment for staff and visitors. It is to maintain a position at the forefront of cleaning maintenance technology by employing safe, effective cleaning methods and equipment. It is strongly committed to “Green Cleaning” through its use of chemicals, equipment and techniques that are environmentally friendly. Our policy encourages all our staff and visitors to participate, support and help sustain this commitment to the environment. Green Cleaning includes a number of elements choosing cleaning products and equipment that are not detrimental to the environment and effective in their application as cleaning maintenance. EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY POLICY Paharpur Business Centre & all its related properties and holdings support equal employment opportunities for everyone. We are committed to the ten principles of United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) i.e. Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. We are also certified for SA 8000 for our social accountability. PBC’s Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) policy states that every person has the same human rights and privileges without regard to his or her race, color, religion, sex, age, handicap, disability, marital status, national origin or economic status. Equal employment opportunity means that every applicant for a job should be considered solely on the basis of his or her qualifications. It also means that every employee should be treated equally with every other similar employee, without discrimination because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, age, handicap, disability, marital status, national origin or economic status. The Company expects full cooperation of everyone associated with it to make sure these principles are upheld. Furthermore, the Company expects that all matters related to recruiting, advertising, hiring, training, compensation, benefits, promotions, transfers, layoffs, recall from layoffs, educational assistance, and social and recreational programs and all treatment on the job, be free of any discriminatory practices. It is PBC’s constant endeavor to spread the message of Equal Opportunities for all through various interactions and meetings with its supply chain and other stakeholders. Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page14 ANTI-CORRUPTION & ETHICAL POLICY As employees in PBC, we:  Will ensure to behave in an honest & ethical manner  Will set a good example by being trustworthy  We will make sure that our behavior complies with the policies and rules of the organization / PBC.  We will use the resources of our company in the best interest of the company, and not for personal & gainful reasons. We will not misuse these resources  We will not pay or accept bribes / anything of value / cash/ gift / gratuities, offer of employment etc, for the purpose of influencing placement of contracts, obtaining a business advantage or any other reason  We will make a clear distinction between the interests of our company and our personal interests, and avoid possible conflicts of interest; we do not accept gifts, invitations or other advantages, which could contradict this principle or influence our business decisions that are against the norms of our company  Ensure that we comply with law of the land, including National legislations & statutory compliances.  All commissions and fee contracts shall have prior approval of our CEO  Report incidents, risks and issues which deviates from our policy, to your immediate reporting authority, or HeadHRD or CEO  Complete and Implicit support / protection to the employee / whistleblower who reports unethical behavior  Encourage Employees to be continuously conscious about our ethics and values and ensure each employee maintains their integrity, thereby maintaining the integrity of the organization  All employees must adhere to this policy and any violation to the above may result in termination / legal action, as deemed fit by the management. The CEO must approve any exceptions to this policy. As the owners of PBC, we:  Commit ourselves to this policy and to an ongoing effort to maintain our integrity  Make sure that PBC complies with the applicable National and International norms and commit PBC to an open and transparent Management Approach  Expect our stakeholders i.e. partners and other business associates to respect this policy and wherever possible, we will influence and encourage them to also adopt this policy Thereafter the policy mentioned above was shared / circulated to all the team members / employees of PBC, who are required to ensure strict adherence to it and behave in a manner suited/appropriate to the stated policy and rules of the organization at all times. The organization expects them to not only behave in an honest and ethical manner but they are also expected to set a good example by acting in a responsible and transparent manner. POLICY ON AFFIRMATIVE ACTION • PBC affirms the recognition that its competitiveness is interlinked with the well being of all sections of the Indian society. • PBC believes that equal opportunity in employment for all sections of society is a component of its growth and competitiveness. It further believes that inclusive growth is a component of growth and Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page15 development of the country. • PBC affirms the recognition that diversity to reflect socially disadvantaged sections of the society in the workplace has a positive impact on business. • PBC will neither practice nor support conscious discrimination in any form.  PBC does not bias employment away from applicants belonging to disadvantaged sections of society if such applicants possess competitive skills and job credentials as made public. • PBC's selection of business partners is not based on any considerations other than normal business parameters. In case of equal business offers, PBC will select a business partner belonging to a socially disadvantaged section of society. PBC will have a written policy statement on Affirmative Action in the workplace. • PBC will have an employment policy that is the public domain. It may place such policies and employment opportunities on its website to encourage applications from socially disadvantaged sections of society. • PBC will make all efforts for up-skilling and continual training of employees from socially disadvantaged sections of society in order to enhance their capabilities, and competitive skills. • PBC will have a partnership programme with educational institutions to support and aid students from socially disadvantaged sections of society. • PBC will have a senior executive accountable to the MD to oversee and promote its Affirmative Action policies and programmes. The senior executive will present a biannual report to the Board of the Company about such policies and programmes. PBC further has a policy to maintain records on Affirmative Action. • PBC makes available its learning and experiences as a good corporate citizen in Affirmative Action to other companies desiring to incorporate such policies in their own business. POLICY ON HIV / AIDS PBC recognizes that HIV/AIDS is an issue at workplace and would like to address it proactively PBC will provide a safe and healthy environment to the team members by developing nondiscriminatory policy and programmes on HIV/AIDS. PBC will provide regular HIV/AIDS prevention education to all its team members and their families at various levels through formal and informal sessions. HIV status of the team member will be kept confidential Any Team Member living with HIV/AIDS will be kept in employment as long as they are in position to work. If necessary, employee will be shifted to another appropriate position considering the health status at that point in time. PBC will not discriminate against any Team Member infected by HIV/AIDS with regard to promotion, training and any other privileges, applicable to all employees of the company. At PBC HIV/AIDS test will not be a part of recruitment process or any health Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page16 check-ups. PBC will educate its Team Members and encourage them to participate in Voluntary Counseling and Testing for seeking advice related to HIV/AIDS. SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY PBC is committed to provide a work environment that is free of discrimination and unlawful harassment. Sexual Harassment is strictly prohibited at PBC. Actions, words, jokes, or comments based on an individual’s sex, race, ethnicity, age, religion, or any other legally protected characteristic will not be tolerated. If an employee believes that he/she has been a victim of harassment or is aware of another employee who has been harassed, he / she should immediately report it to HRD or any member of the Harassment Redressal Committee. Employees can raise concerns and make reports without fear of retaliation. Any Superior who becomes aware of possible harassment should promptly advise Management or HR Representative, who will handle the matter in a timely and confidential manner. All employees are responsible for helping to ensure & assure a workplace free of harassment. The Company forbids retaliation against anyone who has reported harassment or participated in an investigation. All of us must recognize that such behavior not only violates the rules of common courtesy and is a violation of the Company's policy, but is also a Human Rights violation & therefore illegal under law. It is the Company's responsibility to investigate all reports or complaints of harassment thoroughly and promptly. If an investigation confirms that harassment has occurred, the Company will take appropriate corrective action, up to and including termination. POLICY ON DIVERSITY AND INCLUSIVITY At PBC, we believe in having a multi-skilled, motivated & a diverse workforce. A Diverse work culture is encouraged by: Respect – for all our stakeholdersemployees, customers, suppliers, and communities that we operate / live in, who come from different geographical, demographical, cultural and social backgrounds. Inclusivity for all genders – Women Empowerment by encouraging women employees to take on responsible positions at workplace and most importantly have women friendly policies and processes in place that facilitate their growth, development and active participation at the Workplace. Marginalized Sections of Society including Tribals Our aim is to include all in our sustainable business process and growth. Respect everyone’s view & perspective. Respect, listen to, help and appreciate others. Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page17 Diverse ideas converging in for the same goal – o We believe that by encouraging diversity at the Workplace we are able to be more competitive, acceptable and appreciated in the markets that we operate. o Each one brings with them a special skill set and together we create a robust, sensitive and profitable organization and create value for our clients, employees and business partners. o Appreciation – of our differences – Promoting a culture of Unity in Diversity, which is embedded in the Indian Ethos. CEO Statement of Support for the Women’s Empowerment Principles We, at Paharpur Business Centre (PBC), are committed to support the cause for advancing equality between women and men. It’s  An important Business case for us – Equality Means Business, it  Brings the broadest pool of talent to our endeavors;  Furthers our company’s competitiveness;  Meet our corporate responsibility and sustainability commitments;  Model behaviour within our companies that reflects the society we would like for our employees, fellow citizens and families;  Encourage economic and social conditions that provide equal opportunities to both women and men, girls and boys;  Foster sustainable development in the countries in which we operate. Therefore, we welcome the provisions of the Women’s Empowerment Principles – Equality Means Business, produced and disseminated by the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women) and the United Nations Global Compact. The Principles present seven steps that business and other sectors can take to advance and empower women. Equal treatment of women and men is not just the right thing to do – it is also good for business. The full participation of women in our enterprises and in the larger community makes sound business sense now and in the future. A broad concept of sustainability and corporate responsibility that embraces women’s empowerment as a key goal will benefit us all. The seven steps of the Women’s Empowerment Principles will help us realize these opportunities. Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page18 We encourage & urge business leaders to join us and use the Principles as guidance for actions that we can all take at the workplace, marketplace and community to empower women and benefit our companies and societies. We will strive to use sex-disaggregated data in our sustainability reporting to communicate our progress to our stakeholders. Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page19 AWARDS & ACCOLADES Kamal Meattle, CEO Paharpur Business Centre (PBC) has been awarded with 'Social Responsibility Award 2015' by the Bharat Nirman. Bharat Nirman (A Private NGO since 1980in promotion of Indian Culture and Traditions through organizing Talk Shows, Exhibitions and Award shows) conducted a talk show on 'Global Warming-Ways to Survive' and 'India Excellence Awards' on 1st July 2015, 6.30 pm at India International Centre Lodhi Road, New Delhi. “Social Responsibility Award” is the highest appreciation of the day for individuals /companies/ NGOs who have contributed selflessly towards the betterment of the environment. Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page20 Some of our previous awards are listed below:  Kamal Meattle, CEO, Paharpur Business Centre has been honored with the Leadership Award 2013 presented by Indo-American Chamber of Commerce (IACC)  Received special commendation in CoreNet Global 2013 Awards for Industry Excellence, Economic Development and Sustainable Leadership  Awarded by ET Now for World CSR Award under the category of Best Workplace in February 2013  Paharpur Business Centre (PBC) has been awarded CII-ITC award for ‘Strong Commitment To Sustainable Practices’, for the year 2011  Received National Award for Excellence in Energy Management from CII in September 2010.  Received G-Cube Shrishti Award for Good Green Governance on April 22nd 2010 for our Environmental Initiatives  Received Runner's up Award for Corporate Social Responsibility category from Cityscape Real Estate India in December 2009  Received Water Efficient Unit Award from CII in National Award for Excellence in Water Management 2009 competition  Received National Energy Conservation Award for Energy Conservation Practices in Office Building Sector in December 2009 from Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE)  Mr. Kamal Meattle, CEO, Paharpur Business Centre is honored with Asia Pacific Entrepreneurship Award 2009 for Outstanding Entrepreneur in December 2009.Received G-Cube Srishti Award for Good Green Governance on April 22nd 2008 from the Hon’ble Chief Minister of Delhi, Mrs. Sheila Dikshit  Received Special Jury Recommendation Award for “Innovative System Design in IAQ” from Bry Air in 2008 Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page21 OUR STAKEHOLDERS Continuing with our commitments – Our Stakeholder Centric Approach: We firmly believe in balancing stakeholder priorities and expectations – this is absolutely essential for responsible business performance – by doing this we effectively manage our business risks. At PBC we meet and have a meaningful dialogue with our primary stakeholders, at least twice a year. For this we use surveys, awareness campaigns, training sessions and face to face interactions, training & awareness campaigns, joint pitching, sponsoring common interest programs etc. During the current year, PBC initiated a broader stakeholder engagement; listening and acting on the inputs received from our stakeholders/interested parties to further improve the business performance & services. Useful & Effective collaboration with our stakeholders to meet the challenges, ever changing business needs and demands, while consistently delivering sustainable value to all our primary stakeholders i.e. Employees, Suppliers, clients, communities in which we operate. Our goal is not only to adhere but exceed conformance to the law & with this intent we have gone all out to include our important stakeholders i.e. customers, subcontractors, employees, etc in our various engagement processes From our consultation with our major and critical stakeholders, the nature of challenge facing the company is clearly understood. Our new cross business CSR approach is based upon a consistent framework, capable of accommodating the wide levels of achievements across our various business verticals and by taking cognizance of different social, environmental and economic priorities. Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page22 Sl. Stakeholder ENGAGEMENT BENEFITS TO No. [by priority] Method Frequency Busines Stakeholder 1 Shareholders Management Half yearly / Financial and budgetarys approvals Clients get value for money Meeting / Board Yearly for investments in green and clean services Meeting technologies, business strategies get ratified. Valuable inputs to improve performance, positive brand image 2 Employees Staff welfare Monthly Enhance Productivity and Efficiency, Increase motivational levels meetings, increase in business, positive brand and enhance their Departmental image capabilities, clarity on goals Meetings with CEO, and objectives, personal Interdepartmental and professional growth, meeting, monetary emoluments management review meetings, committee meetings, events and celebrations. 3 Customers Letters / Daily / Enhance the business, Building up Quality services, Increased Presentations / Weekly / of Trust and loyalty, positive brand service efficiency and Meeting / Customer Monthly / image, inputs on improving the effectiveness Satisfaction Surveys/ Annually services and business Feedback / Annual Parties / Get together 4 Family of Picnic / Family Day Annually Motivated Team and Happy Sense of Pride, employees / Annual Getworkforce, Loyalty, retaining achievement, oneness, together talent. Sense of belonging (part of PBC family) Endorsement by family of an employee’s choice of employer 5 Suppliers / Visits and Annual Regularly / Relationship building, Building of Strong Business Vendors / Meeting Yearly trust and faith, transparency, relationship, trust level Subcontract or better negotiations and better increase, credit safety, value for money as credibility is learning and awareness established, branding, learning process, out of the box and awareness process, out of innovation / the box innovation / customization of product customization of product and and services, increase services business and orders 6 Government New Policies / Regularly Get a platform to place their Support from the industry planning for concerns to the government and corporate business / industry, Laws 7 Community Initiatives on Regularly Credibility/positive brand image, Better engagement community Goodwill of people, perceived as process for the development and a responsible corporate community, community various important gets a platform to voice Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page23 days their concerns, apprehensions, appreciations and suggestions 8 Investors Meetings, Regularly Access to money, grants / loans. To deal with responsible Presentations, Growth and diversification corporate, technology Seminars and opportunities, new business partner, Growth and conferences segments and projects diversification opportunities, new business segments and projects, last but not the least attractive returns on their investments and risk hedging 9 Media Electronic and Print Regularly Positive brand image, Creating It’s a win-win situation media Publication, awareness about the business media gets story to tell Articles, interviews entity, indirectly it impact the especially when it is sales and market value innovative and new and create a niche 10 Industry Meetings, Regularly Knowledge sharing, bridge Credibility Enhances, get associations Presentations, between industry and govt. for more corporate / Seminars, trainings, framing policy that aid members / followers workshop and businesses. conferences Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page24 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT: PROPAGATING GREEN BUSINESS PRACTICES PBC has been proactive in the activities of The Climate Reality Project. Our CEO, Mr. Meattle is the trustee to The Climate Reality Project – India Chapter (TCPI). The Climate Reality Project, founded and chaired by former Vice President and Nobel Laureate Al Gore, is dedicated to unleashing a global cultural movement demanding action on the climate crisis. The Climate Reality Project, Indiaan independent chapter of this international organization was established in March 2008 with the help of Al Gore and Dr. R K Pachauri. Their mission is to catalyze a global solution to the climate crisis by making urgent action a necessity across every level of society. PBC has partnered with TCPI in various awareness campaigns and other initiatives, and has also been rendering continued support to its Teacher’s Training Program to be undertaken in collaboration with Delhi Government. This program aims at taking the climate message to 10,000 teachers from 5,000 Delhi Schools, ultimately reaching out to 1 million children. This will inculcate climate-based solution metrics in the children and further help them in understanding the factors behind climate crisis and how one can act wisely to reduce the adverse effects of climate change. Some of the initiatives of PBC that took place along with TCPI are: 1) Climate Walk at Raahgiri – December 2015 2) Earth Day 2016 Climate Walk at Raahgiri December 2015 PBC participated in the Climate Walk, a day before COP 21. The sole aim was to let the World Leaders know how serious we are about our commitments to INDC that focuses on the promises to reduce carbon emissions and optimize the use of renewable. The Walk was organized by Raahgiri – Delhi (Action India) and The Climate Reality Project – India Chapter. In this event, one of the climate leaders (from TCPI), who is also a PBC employee (Smruti S Samantray) and Mr. Meattle, CEO, PBC actively showcased their support for the good cause. They led the march along with other climate leaders. The same was covered by different media platforms. Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page25 Earth Day – Tree Plantation Ceremony, 22nd April, 2016 This Earth Day (on 22nd April, 2016), Paharpur Business Centre (PBC) – an mSME in the real estate and service sector; The Climate Reality ProjectIndia Chapter (NPO founded by Al Gore, Former Vice President of USA); and Earth Day Network joined hands and brought together over 35 countries at Nehru Place Greens (NPG), New Delhi for tree plantation ceremony in commendation with the signing of the Paris Agreement. Earth Day 2016 marked a historical movement in the wake of environmental protection across the globe. Over 155 Countries assembled in New York to sign the toughest and the most important commitment for survival. The agreement contains a range of measures that are meant to counteract the damage climate change is causing the planet. US and China, world’s two largest greenhouse gas emitters, have committed to the Paris Agreement and will sign it today, on the occasion of Earth Day. India is also in resonance with the Paris Agreement as Narendra Modi, Prime Minister India had quite appropriately remarked that there are no winners and losers for Paris Agreement, and we all are working towards greener future. It was not even fairly sunny (at 7:00 am); when Ambassadors; High Commissioners, and other Diplomats; school children, heads and senior officials of the different corporate houses, chambers of commerce, government sectors, etc. came to plant trees in the public park, “NPG” – for a green cause. NPG, owned by the Delhi Development Authority, Government of India, was transformed into a green patch of Nehru Place by the government and PBC, by planting 2000 trees, in the mid 90’s. That day, the park saw an addition of more than 200 trees. The participants list included Ambassadors of USA, EU, Canada, Japan, China, UK, Netherlands, Philippines, Surinam, Tunisia, Guatemala, Belarus, Mexico to name a few. Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page26 In addition to this, some of the International and National organizations like UNESCO, WWF, IUCN, CII, Max Hospital, IGBC, and government organizations like BEE, GAIL, and UPFC, also showed their presence. And, students from five schools were present. Some of the celebrities like Mayur Sharma, Anchor, Highway On My Plate, NDTV and Ajay Jadeja, Former Indian Cricketer also came forward for this noble cause. The event started with the assembly of delegates at PBC where Mr. Kamal Meattle, CEO, Paharpur Business Centre addressed the assembly with a message of hope. He stated, “We need to fight climate change and its devastating impacts, like skyrocketing temperatures and catastrophic storms. Planting trees is the most effective thing one can do right now, to fight climate change, besides realizing the full potential of energy efficiency. Trees reduce CO2 and filter the air to reduce pollution, making us healthy and smart”. The Delegates along with school children planted over 200 trees as a sign of taking a step towards building a sustainable future for the next generation. “This event is an expression of solidarity, to celebrate a new direction for the planet and for the leaders to show their commitment and support for People, Planet, Prosperity and Peace” said Aditya Pundir, Country Manager, The Climate Reality Project. TRAINING SUPPLY CHAIN As general notion goes, every office operates with a specific set of goods, equipments, etc. Similarly, PBC purchases goods and services ranging from office furniture to promotional items, for its daily and periodic operations. Since, PBC believes in walking together towards achieving the mission, it ensures that all the stakeholders are on the same page. Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page27 To keep the operations Carbon Neutral or Balanced, the team prefers to have support from local vendors & suppliers. This not only promotes the local expertise and talent but also positively impacts environment health. It tries to promote at least 80 % of our significant group of suppliers that are located near the operational area; they are screened through site visits as per human rights and labour standards. PBC follows a global sourcing and relationship management strategy for materials and services worldwide with a special focus on the top suppliers of critical goods and services. It maintains strict quality, environmental, ethical, health and safety, and labour standards in the operations — and the team insists on responsible standards and licenses from the external manufacturers. We try and do at least 80% screening of our significant vendors / subcontractors by physically visiting the sites based on human rights, labour standards, Social Accountability and Occupational Health and Safety Standards. PBC is committed to practicing equality and diversity, both in the workforce and the suppliers. We cast the widest net in our search for talent, seeking qualified suppliers, large and small, from all segments of the business community, encouraging, and promoting women suppliers. We also conduct training programs to upgrade the level of awareness and knowledge, specific to the materials they supply to the Business Centre. It has to be only eco-friendly products. There are regular practices and interactive sessions with them. PBC organizes special training programs for them so that they fully understand the extent of our quality, social and environmental specifications. We constantly update them on our new services, requirements, customer specifications etc. Annually we train at least 20-25% of our total significant vendors and subcontractors on different issues related to Health & Safety, Environment, Good Labour & Human Right Policies, HIV-AIDS & our other Ethical Practices. Needless to say, a company can never be successful in achieving its objectives without having proper support from its supply chain. By imparting training sessions to the vendors and suppliers, we ensure that all of them are in sync with our beliefs and goals, and share the same vision. Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page28 AWARENESS CAMPAIGN FOR PBC TEAM AND CREW MEMBERS It is necessary to bring a change in one-self, to bring about a change in the society. With this belief, , every year PBC conducts “GreenPreneurs”, a training program that puts sustainability on the forefront. Green-Preneurs aim at training PBC team members including lower staff about the importance of the e n v i r o n m e n t . They are made aware of the problems arising due to Climate Change and the steps that one can take to curb the problems. At PBC, we educate them how we, on our part, can do our bit to curtail such problems. We have integrated these green practices and measures at operational levels. For example, all the employees switch off the lights of their cabins, rooms or cubicles if they are gone somewhere else for quite some time. Our housekeeping team uses only green guard certified products for cleaning. They also ensure that no water and land contamination takes place while carrying out the process of cleaning at PBC. Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page29 Similarly, every department has been instructed to follow some common as well as specific instructions to upscale the green-o-meter. We motivate people to follow those instructions and keep a close vigilance on the implementation. Other than this, we also train them about the repercussions of air pollution and the advantages of good air quality. Our Indoor Air Quality team trains employees about small measures that everyone can execute at their homes to breathe fresh air and stay healthy. This is how we have been creating Green-Preneurs aka Change Leaders to bring innovative ideas, strategies and new developments in place so as to ensure that we derive effective results. Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page30 PBC’s COMMITMENT TO UNGC’S TEN PRINCIPLES A. HUMAN RIGHTS I. SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS We believe that business has an important role to play in promoting and respecting the advancement of fundamental human rights, while not supplanting the primary obligations of Government to protect the human rights of all people within their borders and as members of the international community. Supporting human rights is not only the right thing to do, but also makes business sense—companies that violate internationally recognized human rights are not sustainable. Ethical behavior towards our employees and suppliers, including the payment of decent wages and the provision of safe and hygienic working conditions, are the essential building blocks for our current and future business. We recognize the rights of our employees and treat our staff with dignity, respect and fairness within a safe working environment. Health & Safety are the two key factors guiding our business. “We recruit locally, encourage high degrees of local autonomy and share ownership where appropriate”. We pursue with a mission to educate our employees about organizational commitment to human rights through regular trainings & workshops. These trainings help our employees to understand the principles of human rights and how these are to be implemented in their respective business verticals. We also make sure that each Head of the Department clearly understands the risk emerging by not following these. We ensure strict adherence to laws enacted by the Government of India, to protect the interests of the workers. We follow Shops & Established Act. SA 8000:2008 certification cements PBC’s commitment on staff welfare & social accountability. Through this, PBC reinforces its commitment to basic rights, freedom to all, fair wages, equal opportunities without discrimination on any account, inclusivity, training & skill development, health, safety etc. A fair and open channel of communication is maintained for all personnel at the work place. Human Rights are clearly identified as a non-negotiable instrument and are addressed in detail in our Management Standing Instructions (MSI) Our Code of Conduct expresses implicit support to the UN Declaration of Human Rights. Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page31 II. ENSURE THAT THE ORGANIZATION IS NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES There has been no instance of the company having abused human rights in any manner. Our organization realizes that the prompt handling of grievances of employees and customers is of paramount importance in upholding of human rights and accordingly, we have framed procedures to address such grievances. We encourage the development and growth of our staff through regular appraisals, personal improvement & development plans.  We do not permit any kind of harassment or abuse of our employees.  We regularly monitor the working practices and the employment policies of our suppliers and promote improvement. Under SA 8000:2008, we have a separate process on Grievance Handling, through which all employees are able to voice their concerns, queries, doubts, clarifications, grievances etc. The purpose of this procedure is to establish, maintain and ensure a suitable and effective method for handling grievances of personnel deputed at PBC, including workers provided by the sub contractors. The idea is to have a workplace that is sensitive to our most important stakeholders i.e. our workforce & that ensures their well being, while they are with PBC. This is taken very positively as part of our continual improvement programme. Any grievance or suggestion is not taken adversely by the management, wherein our team members get apprehensive about filing any grievance. On the contrary these are considered as opportunities for improvement. No records of an employee’s use of the grievance procedure are kept in their personnel file and during their performance evaluation; this is not taken into accounts. As stated earlier, there has been no instance of the company having abused human rights in any manner. Apart from this, we encourage employees to express views; raise issues in forums meant for their interaction with management, where they are free to give suggestions and seek clarification for any doubts, in a fair manner. We have a suggestion box for our team members so that they can give their ideas/suggestions without any apprehensions. This can result in overall improvement in our system. We also have a unique communication systeminternal mailing system. All employees have quick and easy access to HR personnel & Senior Managers, in case of any urgency. Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page32 B. LABOUR STANDARDS III. UPHOLDING THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING PBC realizes the collective strength of its employees and treats them as effective partners towards the goal of achieving continuous sustainable growth and hence no objection is raised on employees to join any trade unions thereby ensuring freedom of association to all its employees. However it is stressed that they do it in a disciplined manner without harming the sanctity of the workplace. This is communicated through various training programmes and implemented through the Social Accountability (SA 8000) processes. Till date, no instances of strikes / lock out etc have ever taken place at PBC. A noteworthy point here is that a large part of our crew members have been with us for more than five years, this shows the trust and faith that they repose in the management of PBC and also proves the management’s commitment to their personal development and welfare. There have been several instances when a lot of our crew members who had left, rejoined us. This once again proves PBC’s commitment to fair business practices. We also have a “Workers Representative” (WR), who engages with our crew-members and understands their queries, requirements, needs, grievances, issues etc. and brings them to the notice of the management, on a monthly basis. These are then discussed with the Management Committee and HR. Actions are then taken to resolve shortcomings if any. The Workers Representative (WR), is part of all Review Meetings, Audits & Internal meetings with the management, so that the workers perspective is thoroughly presented to the management. IV. THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR PBC believes in voluntary labour and does not believe in all forms of forced & compulsory labour right from its inception. Regular & Periodic Audits, both external & internal are conducted for compliance with SA 8000:2008 and compliance to UNGC principles. Apart from this there are unannounced / surprise audits conducted by the certification body & Social Accountability International (SAI). Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page33 V. THE ORGANIZATION SUPPORTS EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR We prefer business partners / suppliers who treat their employees the way we do. PBC follows the Delhi Shops and Establishment Act, according to which, the age limit prescribed for child labour is below 15. However, we have gone beyond this and have prescribed the minimum age limit as 18 years for employment at PBC. No person below this age can be employed in PBC, whether directly or indirectly, thereby ensuring that child labour is not practiced. By setting the minimum pay scale as per the government norms we ensure that our employees get decent wages and working conditions encouraging them to send their children to schools rather than to work. All our contractors & vendors are also required to scrupulously follow the laws/ rules and regulations in respect of engagement of Child Labour. This is addressed through our contract agreement, vendor declaration & regular engagement programmes with our Vendors and suppliers. In our SA 8000:2008 systems, we have a separate process defined on Child Labour – Remediation Plan Procedure No. SA2. The purpose of this procedure is to establish, maintain and ensure a suitable and effective process for detection & prevention of child labour & its remediation, which covers all personnel deputed and also include workers provided by subcontractors. VI. ORGANIZATION PROMOTES ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT The organization does not believe in any kind of discrimination at workplace. At the time of recruitment only, qualification of a candidate to deliver effective performance is considered and if all is equal, we give special preference to women, candidates from marginal / economically weaker sections of the society and differentlyabled. There have been “Zero” incidents of discrimination in the reporting period. In the above sense we do practice “positive discrimination” to have a diverse workforce. We have adequate policies in place to firmly deal with these and apart from this, it also is detailed in our MSI and processes under ISO. We ensure 100% compliance to these. Our objective is to go beyond compliance. The organization does not believe in any kind of discrimination based on caste, color, gender, religion or region. We strongly believe in inclusivity and vehemently oppose discrimination at workplace. Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page34 It is evident from the chart given below that Schedule caste & tribes constitute almost 10% of our total workforce and we hire people based on competencies and their ability to carry out the defined tasks. Any other factor apart from this is not considered. We practice Affirmative Action, as it promotes a diverse workforce and gives opportunities to all in order to have sustainable livelihoods. We also strive to create awareness about the importance of Affirmative Action to enhance social stability & cohesion and to make it into a practical solution for the corporate sector and businesses. We recognize the need to reorient people’s attitude towards persons with disability & persons from the marginalized sections of our society. Inclusivity Data: No. of Team Category Percentage wise members General 127 91% OBC 4 3% SC 7 5% ST 1 1% Grand Total 139 100% “Skill Development Initiative: Taking on Fresh Interns & providing them on the job training on various business verticals including Technical & Soft skill development”. PBC CELEBRATES WOMEN POWER PBC welcomes the provisions of the Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) – Equality Means Business, produced and disseminated by the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women) and United Nations Global Compact. We are one of the seven signatories to UNGC and WEPs and the only mSME to demonstrate commitment to Women Empowerment. PBC has adopted seven steps in order to empower women employees. We have a policy in place to address this as part of our business strategy. An important business case for us – Equality Means Business. Equal treatment of women and men is not just the right thing to do – it is also good for business. At PBC, we constantly work towards removing barriers that help in changing the mindsets & stereotypes. Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page35 Model behavior within our organization reflects the society we would like for our employees, their families, fellow citizens and communities where we operate in. We have women friendly policies at work to facilitate them and simultaneously help them balance their work, home, children and family.  Flexible working hours, part-time jobs, work from home option, ‘be consultants’ and ‘come-on-specific days’ etc. are some of the provisions tailor-made for our women employees  Extended Maternity Leaves  A medical insurance policy in place that covers maternity from day one  Providing manned cab facilities to the women employees after 7 pm and until 7 am PBC recognizes that Sexual harassment is an issue at workplace and addresses it proactively, by having regular awareness and interactive sessions with PBC team members. We encourage “Open Door Policy” for our women employees to ensure that their specific grievances are addressed in a timely manner PBC enjoys the reputation of being a safe and secure place for women employees. As an organization, we strongly feel that synergies between the two genders can truly result in sustainable development of an entity, organization & a nation as a whole. Women at PBC hold the highest management positions. Synopsis of PBC’s Workforce Total No. of Employees at PBC: 139 Gender Ratio in % (F: M): (18:82) Managerial in numbers (Female: Male): (9:16) Non Managerial in numbers (Female: Male): (16:98) No. of Team Percentage Managerial Non Managérial Category Members wise Position (in Nos.) Position (in Nos.) No of Female of PBC 25 18% 9 16 No of Male of PBC 114 82% 16 98 Total Employees 139 100% 25 114 Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page36 INTERNATIONAL WOMEN’S DAY CELEBRATION @ PBC On the occasion of International Women’s Day, at PBC, we organize various functions like a small gathering, recreational party, etc. for the women employees. Every year, we organize a kitty party for them wherein they get a chance to speak their heart out, relax and enjoy the day. During the discussion, several points on women safety outside the premises or eve-teasing; balancing personal and professional life; stress management and the flexibilities in the policies are discussed. They themselves share effective tricks to deal with different kinds of problems, in addition to the instructions given by the organization. Additionally, they also talked about some of the successful women and the budding women entrepreneurs. We also use social media platforms to propagate the message and also to showcase support to the theme of the year. Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page37 Ramp Walk on Women’s Day At PBC, adherence to the rule of law, ethical working practices, good corporate governance and transparency, are critical. It has framed and implemented strong corporate policies and safeguards in place, and has an unwavering history of adhering to, and promoting, high ethical standards and the law. PBC aspires to have a positive impact on the communities in which it operates, and even worldwide, and recognizes the responsibility towards those who are affected – either directly or indirectly – by its operations and activities. The CSR activities of PBC can be summarized and segregated into 11 categories of the SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals). They are: 1) Good Health & Well-being 2) Quality Education 3) Gender Equality 4) Clean Water & Sanitation 5) Affordable and Clean Energy 6) Decent Work and Economic Growth 7) Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure 8) Sustainable Cities and Communities 9) Responsible Consumption and Production 10) Climate Action 11) Partnerships for the Goals Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page38 C. ENVIRONMENT VII. THE ORGANIZATION ADOPTS A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES Paharpur Business Centre (PBC) has been a pioneer in the Indian real estate and service sector for over two decades now. With a vision to reshape commercial buildings in India while keeping the principles of sustainability intact, Kamal Meattle (CEO) created “PBC the model of Health and Wellness at Work” in 1990. PBC, a 25+ year old building built to compulsory Govt. design, is the first retrofit office building in India that is USGBC LEED Platinum EB Certified (under O & M category) in 2010. It is also a BEE 5 star rated building with an annual average hourly energy rating (AAhEPI) of 28 Wh /hr/ sqm. Currently, PBC is operating at <20 Wh /hr/sqm and the endeavor is to bring it down further. It is also a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEP), and the only mSME among the 6 signatories to WEP from India. An eco-friendly building inflicts minimal footprint on the environment while enhancing occupant comfort and efficiency. Typically, environment-friendly architecture tries to optimize the performance of a building, and preserve and protect important resources like water, land, and energy. This is accomplished through an integrated approach to architecture, blending design issues, energy-efficient materials, construction techniques, effective building systems including waste management and taking advantage of renewable energy supplies. To achieve true environment-friendly architecture, eco-friendly ideas need to be supported by everyone involved in the process from design to construction. It is our absolute belief that care for environment can alone help us in addressing the Climate Change issues and take us through this difficult phase. With regard to our environmental initiatives – relating to energy management, water conservation, reduction of our carbon footprint, use of sustainable resources, waste management, local procurement, indoor environment etc, we manage them on a day to day basis, the results are tangible and our system addresses it very substantially. PBC has undertaken various projects, implemented strategies and taken several initiatives to make PBC, a highly performing green office building. Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page39 ENERGY CONSERVATION MEASURES Energy conservation practices followed at PBC help in reducing our operating costs without impacting the quality of life. Direct energy consumption from primary energy source is from BSES (utility provider) and we don’t have any source for Indirect / Renewable energy. PBC has experienced a reduction of maximum 30% in the electricity bills due to its energy conservation measures. We are working on these practices to further improve our energy efficiency. Some of the Energy Conservation Measures @ PBC: • PBC uses only 5 stars rated electrical appliances • It has installed motion sensors to control the misuse of electricity • Since, laptops use 50% less energy than desktops, all the desktops are replaced with the laptops • Lighting levels meeting lux level requirements as per DIN 5035 part 2-international standard. • Noise level meeting IS notification in respect of noise as per the gazette of India extraordinaire of Feb 14, 2000 • LEDs use only 2-10 watts of electricity (1/3rd to 1/30th of Incandescent or Compact Fluorescent Lights) and last up to 10 times as long as CFLs. Therefore, PBC has replaced CFLs with LED lights • It has upgraded HVAC, electrical system and cooling towers that have a payback period of 8-14 years • PBC also harnesses sunlight to produce energy. It has installed 36 natural skylights in Green House that harness solar energy, consequently, eliminating 37 T5 lights thus saving 17.76 KW per day. PBC is also looking producing its own electricity by putting solar PV panels into use. Currently, it is getting the panels installed. PBC has also applied certain Life Style Changes to Conserve Energy: It follows best and innovative practices that further contribute to energy efficiency, and life style is one of them. By making slight changes in the lifestyle, one can actually save a great deal of energy. PBC follows a dress code for season. For example, during Summer employees are allowed to skip wearing a tie, business suit, etc (unless there is a need) to reduce the cooling demand, which further reduces the load on HVAC making the act more energy-wise. Some other measures are: • Turning off all electrical equipments, when not in use • Prefer using Chairs with perforated back and bottom to provide for ventilation for human comfort. This allows for indoor temperatures to be kept at 24 deg C +/2, while providing occupant comfort • Individual lighting controls installed in terrace cafeteria to further conserve energy and educate the occupants on the best practices on energy management Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page40 • Green mesh & heat reflective film is put on the southwest side of the building in summers to block the direct sun heat into the building • Low sulphur, super, pre-centrifuged Diesel is used for all DG sets to reduce pollution • Maintaining the set point of Air Conditioning system at 25 degree – 15% less load on HVAC As a result of all energy efficient practices (Including reducing load on HVAC & IAQ system), PBC has been able to reduce its MDI from 850 KVA to 345 KVA WATER CONSERVATION MEASURES At PBC, water has always been considered as a precious resource, which is monitored at all inlet and outlet points on daily basis. As water demands and environmental needs grow, recycling & reusing of water plays a major role at PBC, helping us to conserve and manage our vital water resources in a sustainable manner. Source of Water at PBC™: Primary Source is Delhi Jal Board (Utility Provider) and for any additional requirement of Water, water is sourced & bought. Monitoring & Reporting System Daily monitoring and recording of the water consumption at each area of consumption is done in order to control any kind of water wastage. Monthly Water Consumption Data The Bench Mark for water consumption is 45ltrs per person per day as per building by laws. Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page41 WASTE MANAGEMENT PBC has integrated its waste management system in its daily operations. The mantra is: Reduce, Refuse, Reuse and Recycle. Some of the waste management strategies are:  Waste is segregated at it’s origin. PBC has placed separate bins for different types of waste like food, plastic, paper etc. Food waste at PBC is converted into organic nature manure through vermi-culture with the help of worms. Further, this manure is used for indoor plants  Effluent from the kitchen is treated through Oil and Grease trap installed in the Kitchen and as per Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) norms, the parameters of the discharge is periodically tested from DPCC approved Lab. Results are within the specified parameters.  PBC also uses discharged water from effluent treatment plant: Discharged treated water from Effluent Treatment Plant (ETP) is used in Vermi-compost Pit and for gardening purpose.  PBC recycles paper and plastic waste. Several trees are chopped down in order to produce papers. At PBC, they try to minimize the usage of papers by following various simple practices. Instead of circulating paper notes/chits, we prefer using our emails, setting up reminders in the computers etc  The team is advised to reuse one-sided paper & promote communication through I-mail/ E-mail. E-waste is discarded through e-waste recyclers and useful parts are combined to form usable machines. Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page42 INDOOR AIR QUALITY PBC started with air as without it one cannot survive for more than five minutes. Air is fundamental to every living being’s survival. And, breathing clean air is everyone’s right. However, the ambient air doesn’t support this, and interestingly, one cannot creep in to the indoor spaces like homes and offices as indoor air is up to 10 times worse than the ambient. Shocked? Take this: Indoor air pollution is the 2nd highest killer in India after high Blood Pressure (Hindustan Times New Delhi, Feb 2013) 27.5% under-five infant mortality is because of indoor air pollution (TERI study) Air Pollution can cause damage to the following body functions: Cardio-vascular system Nervous system Respiratory System Urinary, and Reproductive System Link between Oxygen and Brain: Crucial for Office Environment Our brain uses 20% of the total oxygen supplied to our body, without which the brain cells quickly begin to die. The presence of oxygen supplied to our body also defines our cognitive ability and the productivity quotient. An October 2015 study published in Environmental Health Perspectives led by lead author Joseph Allen, Director of the Healthy Buildings Program at the Harvard Center for Health and the Global Environment and five other contributors, revealed, “When lowered CO2 levels were coupled with lower pollutants in buildings, cognitive scores were 101% higher than in conventional buildings.” A study published by (by Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health’s Center for Health and the Global Environment, SUNY Upstate Medical University, and Syracuse University) has looked at people’s experiences in “green” vs. “non-green” buildings in a double-blind study. It has revealed that “a well ventilated office space has a higher cognitive functioning score. Improved air quality could greatly increase the cognitive function performance of the workers. Cognitive performance scores for the participants who Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page43 worked in the green+ environments were on average double those of participants who worked in conventional environments; scores for those working in green environments were 61 percent higher.” Another set of Harvard researchers, who studied on the impact of ventilation, lowering carbon dioxide concentration, removing toxic chemicals and improving indoor air quality, suggest building managers, architects, and designers need to begin taking environmental quality as seriously as they take notions of collaborative space and productivity. Their study states that poor office air quality is likely to make people less productive. Since, the motto of PBC is to establish Health & Wellness of the building occupants; it ensures that “Air” should be the first thing to worry about in their facility. While the entire world is grappling with the plight of air pollution, PBC invented an effective solution to air pollution – Indoor Air Quality (IAQ) system. Not a mask or AC, IAQ system is a unique bio-technology that is a combination of both mechanical and natural air purification system. It is the brainchild of Mr. Meattle. After becoming allergic to Delhi's polluted air, Mr. Meattle discovered that three common houseplants can help grow fresh air indoors, and reduce indoor air pollution. He implemented this innovative biotechnology in PBC to create mountain-fresh ambience that conforms to ASHRAE standards. Those three common houseplants are: Money Plant, Areca Palm, and Mother-in-Law’s Tongue. The former two oxygenate indoor air during day time, while the latter does the same during night hours (hence, known as a Bedroom Plant). Three of them detoxify indoor air of chemical toxins, and oxygenate it. There are 1,200+ air-purifying plants that work together with the mechanical air filtration system to create mountain fresh ambience. These plants are grown in patented hydropones. They help in removing Bacteria, Fungus, Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) from indoor air. PBC grows its own fresh air, and has created positive pressure inside the building so that there is no ingress of untreated ambient air when the entry doors open. Further, it has also helped decreasing the fresh air supply on the demand side and total load on HVAC system. Air Quality Indoors, at PBC: Particulate matter 2.5 (one of the main culprits of Delhi’s Air Pollution) are lower than the world safer limit of indoor air i.e. 15 µg/m3, for most of the time VOCs (Volatile Organic Compounds) are below detectable level , CO2 levels <700 ppm Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page44 Bacteria and Fungus levels are < 10 cfu / m3 well below international standard limits PBC has an in-house multi-cuisine restaurant namely, “Café Einstein” where CO2 levels are lower than the ambient for most part of the day. Best fit for studying while working. The IAQ team monitors the work and effects of IAQ system, and takes corrective actions for it as and when required. Every day, the team publishes its IAQ readings on its website www.pbcnet.com. Results: Rated as one of the healthiest office buildings in Delhi NCR *(By Central Pollution Control Board, MoE&F, GOI and Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute, Kolkata) This system has helped us in decreasing the incidences of Eye Irritation by 52%; Respiratory Symptoms by 34%; Headaches by 24%; Lung Impairment & Asthma by 12% Reduced Rate of absenteeism due to sickness Consequently, productivity level increases by 20% There is 42% probability of one’s saturated Blood Oxygen Level (BOL) going up by 1% for those who work out of PBC for 8-10 hours a day, for a consistent period It is due to Fresh Indoor Environment and the health benefits derived due to it, PBC has become the first building outside Australia to get NABERS certification for its good Indoor Environment Quality. Additionally, it has also become the first building in India to have CETEC 5 Palm rating for its Healthy and Sustainable Operations. Mr. Meattle spoke about, “How to grow fresh air” at TED Talk (USA, 2009) which has been viewed by over two million people. This system is replicable. Breathe Easy (BE), IAQ division of PBC provides Air Quality Solutions to other buildings (commercial buildings and homes). This division came into existence in 2013. Since, it has been catering Air Quality solutions to 3000+ homes in Delhi/ NCR. VIII. THE ORGANIZATION INITIATES PROMOTION OF GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY PBC believes in environmental awareness among PBC team members & stakeholders. Our values encourage and motivate us to have partnerships with our customers, employees & other important stakeholders, driving the organization towards sustainable development. Due to our inherent values and environmental sensitivity, we are perceived as a great place to work for. Some of the initiatives for promotion of our environmental responsibility towards community & stakeholder are as follows: Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page45 NEW YEAR CELEBRATION WITH GREEN RESOLUTION To mark the beginning of the New Year 2016, PBC-ians took an oath to generate awareness about the advantages of working in an office space that cares for their health and wellness as well as of the environment. Further, so that the stakeholders stay motivated to renovate their office space in to a green workspace so that whilst 90% of time that they are indoors working, they stay healthy. PBC laid the foundation brick of this year (2016) with new resolution, unwavering commitments and Positive Green Vibes. EARTH HOUR AT PBC On 28th March 2014, the planet of life – Earth, witnessed the “Earth Hour” phenomenal sweep across the globe. Like every year, PBC participated in this movement by switching off the lights for an hour in the building and also encouraged its team, suppliers and customers to follow the same at their individual homes. Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page46 EARTH DAY CELEBRATION AT PBC This Earth Day (on 22nd April, 2016), Paharpur Business Centre (PBC) – an mSME in the real estate and service sector; The Climate Reality ProjectIndia Chapter (NPO founded by Al Gore, Former Vice President of USA); and Earth Day Network joined hands and brought together over 35 countries at Nehru Place Greens (NPG), New Delhi for tree plantation ceremony in commendation with the signing of the Paris Agreement. Earth Day 2016 marked a historical movement in the wake of environmental protection across the globe. Over 155 Countries assembled in New York to sign the toughest and the most important commitment for survival. The agreement contains a range of measures that are meant to counteract the damage climate change is causing the planet. India is also in resonance with the Paris Agreement as Narendra Modi, Prime Minister of India had quite appropriately remarked that there are no winners and losers for Paris Agreement, and we all are working towards greener future. It was not even fairly sunny (at 7:00 am); when Ambassadors; High Commissioners, and other Diplomats; school children, heads and senior officials of the different corporate houses, chambers of commerce, government sectors, etc. came to plant trees in the public park, “NPG” – for a green cause. NPG, owned by the Delhi Development Authority, Government of India, was transformed into a green patch of Nehru Place by the government and PBC, by planting 2000 trees, in the mid 90’s. That day, the park saw an addition of more than 200 trees. The participants list included Ambassadors of USA, EU, Canada, Japan, China, UK, Netherlands, Philippines, Surinam, Tunisia, Guatemala, Belarus, Mexico to name a few. In addition to this, some of the International and National organizations like UNESCO, WWF, IUCN, CII, Max Hospital, IGBC, and government organizations like BEE, GAIL, and UPFC, also showed their presence. Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page47 And, approximately students from five schools were present. Some of the celebrities like Mayur Sharma, Anchor, Highway On My Plate, NDTV and Ajay Jadeja, Former Indian Cricketer also came forward for this noble cause. The event started with the assembly of delegates at PBC where Mr. Kamal Meattle, CEO, Paharpur Business Centre addressed the assembly with the message of hope. He stated, “We need to fight climate change and its devastating impacts, like skyrocketing temperatures and catastrophic storms. Planting trees is the most effective thing one can do right now, to fight climate change, besides realizing the full potential of energy efficiency. Trees reduce CO2 and filter the air to reduce pollution, making us healthy and smart”. The Delegates along with school children planted over 200 trees as a sign of taking a step towards building a sustainable future for our next generation. “This event is an expression of solidarity, to celebrate a new direction for the planet and for the leaders to show their commitment and support for People, Planet, Prosperity and Peace” said Aditya Pundir, Country Manager, The Climate Reality Project. Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page48 PBC CELEBRATES WORLD ENVIRONMENT DAY On the occasion of World Environment Day, PBC and its IAQ division, Breathe Easy joined hands with In AWE to create awareness on Health & Wellness Initiatives at Work Place and the Remedies of Air Pollution. The event was organized in DLF Promenade, Vasant Kunj. It was a day-long event that began before noon and ended by evening. For PBC, the first building outside Australia to be NABERS certified for its good Indoor Environment Quality, Health and Wellness of the occupants come first. Therefore, we have taken various measures to ensure that Human Experience is enhanced. We have created modules that are not only environmentfriendly but also enhance the Health Quotient of people, further up-scaling their satisfaction level. Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page49 To let people have a glimpse of our office space so that they get to know and believe that it is possible to stay healthy even when one is working in the World’s most polluted city, Delhi, we arranged a virtual tour of our building through an album. The event was a success. Our objectives for organizing the same with a different concept were met. Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page50 IX. ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES FIRST MAJOR INITIATIVE: LEED DYNAMIC PLAQUE INSTALLATION We became the first office building in India to install USGBC ‘LEED Dynamic Plaque’ and with this we became a “LIVE” building. The LEED Dynamic Plaque is a building performance monitoring and scoring platform. It measures the building’s resource use on a real-time basis. It keeps a tab on all the parameters that constitute a building’s performance. They are: Water, Energy Consumption, Waste Reduction, Transportation and Human Experience. Recently, both the teams; USGBC and International Well Building Institute (IWBI), visited PBC to install the LEED Dynamic Plaque. To name a few, Rick Fedrizzi, CEO and Founding Chair, USGBC and CEO, GBCI; Mahesh Ramanujam, COO, USGBC and President, GBCI; P Gopalakrishnan, Director and Head, Asia Pacific & Middle East, USGBC; and Kamyar Vaghar, Strategic Advisor, IWBI were a part of the panel. BreatheEasy Partners with US-based enVerid Systems to Bring Breakthrough Air Quality and Energy Saving Solution to India BreatheEasy, a Paharpur Company, incubated under Paharpur Business Centre, New Delhi announces its partnership with US-based enVerid Systems to bring to India the company’s award-winning HLR® system. The product will be featured at ACREX 2016, at Paharpur Cooling Towers, booth noH1B2A to be held from 25-27 February 2016 at the Bombay Convention & Exhibition Centre (BCEC), Mumbai, India. Called “BreatheEasy HLR powered by enVerid,” this system offers a proven, game-changing technology that improves indoor air quality and significantly lowers HVAC energy consumption to deliver double-digit cost savings. The module uses patented sorbent technology to remove molecular contaminants from indoor air including CO2, formaldehyde and VOCs, thereby reducing the amount of outside air required to achieve indoor air quality. HLR modules can be easily retrofitted to any existing commercial building or incorporated in new construction. “We’re pleased to partner with BreatheEasy to bring our practical, proven solution for improving indoor air quality and saving significant energy to India,” said Udi Meirav, CEO of enVerid Systems. “As pioneers in indoor air quality, BreatheEasy is the ideal partner for our expansion into this market.” “Since buildings consume 40% of the world’s total energy, it is important to reduce energy consumption in the built-in environment. This new venture will enable buildings located in polluted cities, provide mountain fresh air. Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page51 A recent publication by Environmental Health Perspectives (a journal of National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (NIEHS), National Institutes of Health, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services) revealed that when lowered CO2 levels were coupled with lower pollutants in buildings, cognitive scores were 101% higher than in conventional buildings. With this new partnership, we aim to make our cities smarter (by making people smarter first – more aware and responsible) and the air we breathe cleaner. This is in line with the growing business scope for the startups, ‘Make in India’ campaign & smart cities policies of India” said Kamal Meattle, CEO of Paharpur Business Centre. “We are very excited to partner with an innovative company like enVerid and introduce the HLR to the Indian Market as we feel this technology can have far reaching consequences to the energy consumption of buildings and hence the carbon footprint of the country,” said Barun Aggarwal, CEO of BreatheEasy. Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page52 BREATHE MOUNTAIN FRESH AIR WITH A SIP OF COFFEE IN GREEN CAFÉ Take a sip in a café that would offer you Mountain Fresh Air. How about that? Experiencing a mug of freshly prepared coffee, and while taking in the aroma of the beans, also breathing fresh and oxygenated air, is incomparable. Café Einstein a café that enhances human productivity, and health quotient, in a natural way. Café Einstein is a unique café that not just o f f e r s delicious and health food but also offers a healthy ambience to spend time in. This newly retrofitted café has CO2 levels lower than the ambient air, something equivalent to the purity of air found in operation theatre. It has an array of hydrophones that grows air-purifying plants. These hydroponically grown air-purifying plants help in detoxifying the indoor environment so that the occupant breathes fresh and oxygenated air that keeps his mind and body healthy throughout his presence in the building. Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page53 The indoor air quality inside the building conforms to ASHRAE and WHO specified standards and is as pure as one would find in Davos or Gulmarg. What’s more? One can avail a plethora of Indian, Mughlai, Continental, Chinese and Italian cuisine. One can get a range of cookbooks to go through along with wi-fi facility that can be arranged on demand. Food quality conforms to ISO 22000 and FSSAI guidelines. GREEN DIWALI Delhi is unfit for living between Diwali and Holi because of the elevated levels of air pollution. Therefore, PBC decide to organize campaigns that can raise awareness as to why everyone should say no to fireworks and yes to a green Diwali while promoting Community fireworks as a corrective measure to celebrate this festival. We organized two campaigns: 1. Placard Campaign All our employees at PBC actively participated in this campaign to spread the word, “Say No to Fireworks” and we let it free on social media platforms for people to join this revolution. Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page54 2. Campaign in collabouration with Select City Walk In association with Select City Walk (a popular shopping mall in Saket, South Delhi), BreatheEasy, the IAQ arm of PBC, organized an awareness cum pledge taking campaign, on the occasion of Diwali, 2015. Team PBC and Breathe Easy, actively participated in organizing this campaign as it promoted Green Diwali. We created awareness about the air pollution; health hazards resulting from it; and also the solutions. People were shocked to know about the consequences of breathing polluted indoor air for a consistent period, on one hand. And, on the other hand, they were also immensely happy to know that there are solutions for different indoor environment like for offices, homes, schools, shopping malls, and even cars. Most of them, especially the children (surprisingly though) showed enthusiasm in signing a pledge for saying no to fireworks on the occasion of Diwali after they got to know how poisonous the air becomes after this festival and how it lingers on for longer duration till summer steps in. The campaign was a huge success, as many turned the traditional wheel of celebrating this pious festival and chose life. Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page55 NANHI CHHAAN With the motto of supporting Equal Opportunity for all while standing against the crime, female foeticide, every year PBC organizes a plantation drive in Nehru Place Greens Park. Wherein all the PBC members celebrate the birth of a girl child by making the proud parents plant a sapling in her name. They also take an oath to take care of that plant the way they do for their child. This is a CSR initiative, and is known as, Nanhi Chaan”. NO TOBACCO DAY On world, “No Tobacco Day”, we ran a virtual campaign on social media and on the TFTs placed inside the building like in elevators, rooms etc. The intent was to get more convinced people leave smoking, hence have healthy lungs. Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page56 BELIEVING IN GREATER ENVIRONMENT RESPONSIBILITY Environmental awareness amongst PBC team members & stakeholders is always encouraged. This motivates us in establishing partnerships with our important stakeholders, driving the organization towards sustainable development. Due to our inherent values and environmental sensitivity, we are perceived as a great place to work. We have initiated several awareness programs for school children, employees, clients, community on climate change. Some of the initiatives for promotion of our environmental responsibility towards community & stakeholder are:  Celebrating Earth Day & Environment Day in order to create awareness & scale the critical issues concerning our planet and relating them to the sustainability of our business.  Regular interaction with school children to sensitize them to issues relating to environment i.e. water and energy management, planting trees for a better air quality, etc  In-house employee awareness programs Environmental awareness amongst PBC team members & stakeholders is always encouraged. This motivates us in establishing partnerships with our important stakeholders, driving the organization towards sustainable development. Due to our inherent values and environmental sensitivity, we are perceived as a great place to work. We have initiated several awareness programs for school children, employees, clients, community on climate change. Some of the initiatives for promotion of our environmental responsibility towards community & stakeholder are:  Tree Plantation and Cleanliness drives on the occasion of Earth Day & Environment Day.  Regular interaction with school children, vendors, clients, community etc to sensitize them to issues relating to environment & water management  Awareness Programs for employees and their families. Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page57 TAKING THE “GREEN” MESSAGE TO THE KEEN LEARNERS PBC believes in sharing its knowledge to enhance capabilities to create a better future, and that can happen by inculcating sustainable values in the students (the future of the world) PBC has been proactively spreading awareness on green concepts amongst school and college children. We create awareness on the importance of energy & water conservation, waste management, resource optimization and natural ways to combat air pollution. We demonstrate them our initiatives so as to make them aware of the viable measures. Each individual can contribute in making our World a greener and more sustainable home for all and the coming generations. And, we show them how such things are possible. Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page58 Students of Sustainability and Green Building Architecture Deptt., Gautam Buddh University, Greater Noida Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page59 Students from School of Architecture and Team PBC with Dr. Prem Jain, ChairmanIndian Green Building Council Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page60 D. ANTI-CORRUPTION X. BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST ALL FORMS OF CORRUPTION, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY PBC believes in doing business in a sustainable and ethical manner. This is why we practice, promote and safeguard the anti-corruption laws at all levels of business. We are deeply committed to the principles of UN Global Compact. We have partnered in various initiatives of GCNI, quite proactively. One of them is, “Business Case for AntiCorruption in India” which is an anthology of case studies on anti-corruption. GCNI had taken up pressing corruption issues in Indian context, in a phased manner that addresses the sphere of public procurement, supply chain transparency, bribery and fraud, sustainability, ethical governance and more. Various renowned companies participated in this study and PBC was one of them. PBC is the only mSME that is a signatory to UNGC. To assist GCNI in building a bioscope of anti-corruption and ethical practices being carried in different Indian organizations, we conducted internal audits to check the compliance of the procedures and update the same, so as to ensure that correct message is disseminated. By analyzing various internal case studies, we could project how we maintain integrity in business by adhering to anti-corruption and nine other principles. Under the “Zero Tolerance Policy” we have clearly indicated that PBC does not tolerate any unethical conduct or violation of policies. To show our complete support to the GCNI’s initiative we came forward with some instances pertaining to the anticorruption policy. While citing one instance of violation of ethics, conduct and policy, we have shown the way we tackled the situation and resolved it. We have a dedicated Quality Assurance (QA) team that ensures that quality of services and business ethics are adhered to. It works conjointly with Finance, Human Resources and Legal Departments to check meticulously, that the standards, codes, regulatory and statutory requirements are met whilst controlling and monitoring PBC’s daily operations. Regular internal audits are conducted for the same. We propagate the same to all our stakeholders (internal and external) to ascertain that all of us are on the same page. At PBC, we have maintained transparency in the business policies to nullify corruption and encourage ethical work culture. In addition to the internal audits, we also organize Third Party Audits of different management systems. Each department has different set of SOPs and legal requirements which are modified and updated as and when required. Our policy on Gift and Hospitality, mandates that no gifts or monetary favour should be taken by any employee or any member of their immediate family, from the contractors, suppliers, clients/ customers or anyone else having dealings with the company. In the circumstances where it is customary to do so, employees are permitted to accept such gifts of nominal value or favors provided that such gifts or favors are not extended and/or accepted for the purpose or with any personal interest or unethical purposes. Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page61 MEDIA BUZZ Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page62 Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page63 Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page64 Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page65 IMAGE SOURCES We have used some images from different sources in order to convey and express the message in an impactful manner. The details of the same are mentioned in the table given below. Sl Image used Image Name Image Source No. 1. Sunflower wallpaper – Front Oilseeds_sunflowerlearn.uvm.edu cover e1439903451355 2. Sunflower wallpaper – Back 52d7573b25ae4c9658797f5e0995a www.wallpaperupcom cover 9cf 3. Vision maxresdefault--ConAgra Foods 2020 Sustainability 2020 Sustainability VisionVisionwww.youtubecom www.youtubecom 4. Mission mission-statement www.entrepreneurcom 5. Vision & Mission Image vision-and-missionwww.gurjarjicom 6. Earth Hour Photo on website Nil https://www.earthhour.o rg 7. Road Ahead Image 80_316_279_looking_ahead_316 wwwokumacom x279-Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page66 ROAD AHEAD PBC is planning to pay attention to the need of the hour element – Green Buildings for Offices with Perfect Air Quality that boosts Productivity, Good Health and catalyzes business. It is also planning to explore the avenues of renewable energy for curbing its environmental impact further. It is also aiming at creating awareness amongst our vendors/suppliers by demanding energy and resource efficient products. And, also to scale up the skill development programme at PBCpartner & collabourate with more universities and colleges in order to increase the number of interns that PBC takes in for specific skill development and on the job training. PBC is further working towards achieving Delos WELL building Certification. It is the first protocol of its kind that addresses critical parameters of Human Health and Well-being within the built environment. It prescribes a series of technology enhancements and performance-based measures that are systemized across seven categories relevant to occupant’s health in the built environment. Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page67 Copyright © 2016 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page68
