COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS JULY 2015-JULY 2016 CONTACTS Karen Blixen Camp Ltd. 40C Marula Lane, Karen Nairobi, Kenya, PO BOX 9913 00 100 GPO NBO www.karenblixencamp.com Contact persons Ronald Ngulu Mutie, Managing Director ronald@karenblixencamp.com Jesper Stagegaard, CSR Manager jesper.stagegaard@reepark.dk Sector Tourism, leisure and holiday Number of employees 86 staff members UN Global Compact signatory since Karen Blixen Camp registered our support in 2008 1 COMMITMENT FROM THE MANAGING DIRECTOR Karen Blixen Camp continues fully committed to the implementation of the four principles of UN Global compact in all its aspect of operations namely 1. Human rights 2. Labour rights 3. Environmental 4. Anticorruption Regards Ronald Mutie CEO & Managing Director Karen Blixen Camp CSR PROGRESS REPORT AS FROM JULY 2015-JULY 2016 Introduction to Karen Blixen Camp Karen Blixen Camp is a 44 be ecofriendly luxury camp located in the beautiful Mara North Conservancy. Karen Blixen Camp is a founding member camp of the Mara North Conservancy and protects 30,000 Ha of pristine wildlife area in the vital northwestern zone of the Greater Maasai Mara Ecosystem. The Land under which Mara North Conservancy seats is owned by individual local Land Owners who have voluntarily through an agreement with the Tourism Investors have agreed to set and protect the land for the purpose of Conservation and tourism. In return the Land Owners receive payment from the Investors inform of cash for signed leases. The local community-Maasai make more than 60% of our employee population; any available vacancy is always prioritized to the Community. We will only outsource outside the Community if we cannot get the right candidate locally. Karen Blixen Camp is committed to responsible wildlife experiences. We invite our guests to explore and understand the complexity of the Maasai Mara Ecosystem with its great wildlife on game drives, game walks, nature walks, balloon safaris and eco camp walks. Understanding the intricacies of how the Maasai Mara Ecosystem works adds the ultimate dimension to the very unique and outstanding wildlife experience. Karen Blixen Camp conducts our business in a manner that benefits the environment, the people working at the camp and the neighboring community. Our mission is to become one of the most recognized ecofriendly luxury camps in East Africa and make ecotourism a very successful business imperative in today’ tourism industry. Karen Blixen Camp is a Kenyan registered company owned by Danish shareholders. IFU, the Investment Fund for developing countries has granted us a development loan, as a part of their objective to promote economic and social growth in developing countries. Danida, Danish International Assistance to developing countries has granted us funding through its UN based 2 IPD, International Partnership for Development Program to establish a hospitality and forestry school for the Maasai youth, combating low education and extreme poverty. CODE OF CONDUCT  Ensure we raise and improve the standard of living of the local host community  Train Masai you in different hospitality disciplines in order make them competitive in job markets and as well enabling them to have a direct benefit through employment in Tourism Sector  Promote literacy and make available computers and internet technologies for competitiveness in Job market as well  Ensure full and decent employment for all staff employed  Assure proper working conditions and respect workers’ rights to join an association  Protect the Mara North Conservancy with 30,000 of pristine wilderness area  Make use of the latest green technologies and minimize our impact on the environment  Promote environmental responsibility and find sustainable solutions on energy consumption THE SCOPE –COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS In this COP we will be reporting on the progress we have had on CSR practices since early 2013. This will be reported within the principles of human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption as required by UN Global compact HUMAN RIGHTS The principles under Human rights Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses COMMITMENT Karen Blixen Camp is an equal opportunity employer; all our employment rules are governed by internationally approved human rights. OUR ACTIONS IN SAFEGUARDING HUMAN RIGHTS AT OUR WORK ENVIRONMENT Our Organization has continued to ensure no discrimination when it comes to employment based on Race, Religion, and Sex etc. All have equal opportunity and the remunerations are merit based. Our Human Resource document is very clear on the same 3 OUTCOME MEASUREMENT Despite being in the Mara, we have employees from different races, continent, sexes, and communities. We have and will never have any child as an employee. LABOUR RIGHTS The principles under Labour rights Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: Business should support the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation COMMITMENT We endorsed the labour principles of UN global compact when we signed the Charter and we continue practicing the same in totally. Our Human Resource Policy document has been reworked to conform to the Kenya labour Laws Act 2007 Staff will always receive fair treatment in Matters of their employment OUR ACTIONS IN SAFEGUARDING LABOUY RIGHTS AT OUR WORK ENVIRONMENT 2015-2016 Last year all our staff apart from Management joined their preferred labour union and to date we have engaged freely with the union to safeguard the interest of both the Company and the Union. So far no conflict has been reported. The freedom to join the labour union is clearly stipulated in our Human Resource policy document OUTCOME MEASUREMENT We have seen a closer relationship between the staff and management with very clear channels of solving any emerging grievances ENVIRONMENT The principles under Environment Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 4 Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies COMMITMENT The camp is Eco – Rated to Silver level by Ecotourism Kenya, we are now working on the Gold level. We have achieved this due to use of green energy. Solar continues to provide more than 90% of energy. Other areas where we continue to grow green are the disposal of both liquid and solid wastes. We ensure minimal pollution comes from these wastes. OUR ACTIONS IN MINIMIZING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 2015-2016 A notable change for Last year was the reduction of the number of cars and these saw the reduction in usage of diesel fuel translating to reduced CO2 emission. Liquid and solid waste disposal We continue to dispose waste liquid in an improved environmental way. An ecofriendly treatment takes place and the water is further channels through a natural filtering process made of sand, gravel and Natural reeds before it is used to water the plants within the compound. The water is regularly tested in the government chemist to ensure its safety. Solid waste Separation of solid wastes both into 1. Biodegradables 2. Non-Biodegradables 1. Biodegradable Mainly consist of food left overs like, vegetables, fruits and any other left overs mainly from the Kitchen. These leftover are collected and taken to a very well protected pits where they are allowed naturally to decompose and make compost. Once the compost is ready, it is used for planting and growing new trees within the Camp Compound 2. Nonbiodegradables This consist items like plastics, metals, foils etc each waste is sorted to its unit closure then they are transported back to Nairobi for recycling. This leaves our Camp with minimal polluting elements 5 ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION AND COMMUNITY BENEFITS Environmental Conservation Human activities have been reduced in the leased land and wildlife left to roam freely. This has protected the land from Charcoal burners, Crop Farming activities and general destruction of vegetation by the community Community Benefits On top of all other benefits we have in operations and have documented before, last year the following CRS, projects came into being a. Women Bead work-Already taken off strongly with more than 50 women from the local community having been trained on better quality bead products. Karen Blixen identifies overseas market for the women. The women get 70% of the sales income and 30% is kept to buy more raw materials for the project. Karen Blixen does not benefit from the project b. Bee keeping-Women were also trained on how to make and set Bee hives for Honey collection. To date a group of 30 women own Beehives and have been collecting honey. We buy the honey and the same Honey is given to our clients. They make money from the Honey MEASUREMENT OUTCOME We have a very strong support from the community and equally the community does support strongly conservation activities given the benefits they get ANTI-CORRUPTION The principles under anticorruption Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery COMMITMENT Fully committed to Zero tolerance to Corruption. Everything for Karen Blixen Camp is done thorough laid down and open procedure. We have not had any corruption incident during the period under reporting OUR ACTIONS IN STOPPING CORRUPTION AT OUR WORK ENVIRONMENT 2015-2016 We encourage open competitive of or suppliers and the one with good quality and fair price gets the go ahead to supply and product we use in operations 6 OUTCOME MEASUREMENT No single case of Corruption or dissatisfied supplier has been reported. We have happy suppliers. Such an environment reduces wastage of time and finances ,time take to procure and the quality of the products saves a lot 7
