2015 Fibria Report FROM THE FOREST TO CONSUMERS How the integration between forests, industry and logistics takes place BEYOND COMMODITIES The strength of a broad and differentiated portfolio admired PROFIT Commitment to generate and share value with all stakeholders 2015 Fibria Report CONTENTS 04 16 90 About the Report Our Business External Readers 06 30 94 2015 at a Glance Our Governance Independent Assurance 08 38 97 Interview with the Our Strategy Credits and Corporate Chairman 68 Information 12 Communication with Our Interview with the CEO Stakeholders About the Report Fibria’s 2015 Report contains the company’s main practices, results, and challenges in 2015 as well as its strategic vision for the future. This document was developed in Fibria reports in line with the • Compact versions, in the form compliance with the methodologies Sustainable Development Goals of infographics, with data about of the Global Reporting Initiative (SDGs) established by the United the company’s value chain and (GRI) – G4 Comprehensive level – Nations in 2015. The company’s information geared toward speand the International Integrated operations contribute directly to the cific stakeholders. Reporting Council (IIRC), and seeks achievement of the goals. For more to integrate financial, social, and information about which goals are More information about Fibria may economic information. addressed by Fibria, visit the Conalso be obtained at the company’s tent Index of the 2015 Report at corporate website (www.fibria. In constant evolution, the process www.fibria.com.br/r2015/gri.html com.br) and its Investor Relations to develop the Report includes the website (www.fibria.com.br/ri). opinions of company’s stakeholders In addition to the printed version, about the document, such as audiwhich contains the information The content and boundaries tors, external readers, and employees. most important to readers, Fibria’s of this document were assessed An Editorial Committee, comprised of 2015 Report includes: by the Bureau Veritas Certification, representatives from various departa company retained by Fibria to ments of the company, is responsible • An online version, which conconduct an independent assurance for defining the aspects to be covered tains more details about the of the Report. in the Report and for the continuous company’s performance, in improvement of the work. One of the the form of an Indicator CenFor questions and suggestions, main goals of this group when develter, available at the website contact us through the e-mail oping the 2015 Report was to balwww.fibria.com.br/r2015; comunicacaofibria@fibria.com.br. ance the positive and negative aspects of the topics covered, yielding a more • A video about the Report concise document in all its versions. (www. fibria.com.br/r2015/video); Infographic to communicate more and better Since 2012, the company has used an abridged version of the Report in the form of a large infographic. This strategy favors the use of visual communication elements so that the company’s audiences may learn more and better about the business and its results. In the search for conciseness and objectivity, the infographic was developed, for the first time, in three versions. In addition to the version for readers in general, there is a version geared toward clients and another toward communities, the two stakeholders that demand Fibria’s content the most. The three versions are available on the website of the Report www.fibria.com.br/r2015 04 2015 Fibria Report fibria Our Report is prepared with the participation of an Editorial Committee formed by representatives from various departments of Fibria. It also relies on the opinion of employees, auditors, and sustainability specialists. Tamires de Oliveira Martinho and Nelson Raphael Turibio dos Reis, interns of the Drying department in Três Lagoas, MS 05 2015 at a Glance 2015 at a Glance Highlights of a year of accomplishments for Fibria Project Horizonte With estimated investments of 2 US$ 2.2 billion, the expansion of operations in Três Lagoas, MS, is one of the largest ongoing private investments in Brazil R$ 357 Million Net profit for the year R$ 2.1 Billion Total dividends paid to shareholders 17,000 Employees and outsourced workers R$ 5.3 Billion in EBITDA1, US$ 2.8 91% higher Billion than in 2014 Net debt 1 Refers to the Company’s Adjusted EBITDA, in accordance with CVM Instruction No. 527, of October 4, 2012, with addition or exclusion of the equity method indicator, of the provision for recoverable loss with ICMS (Sales Tax), of profits and losses from disposal of fixed assets, of adjustment to fair value of biological assets, and of tax credits / recovery of contingencies. 06 2015 Fibria Report fibria 7.3 million Tons Is the total carbon equivalent sequestered by Fibria’s planted and native forests less its emissions R$ 34 231 patents Million Was Fibria’s investment With Fibria Innovations, formed in social projects through the acquisition of the Canadian company Lignol, the company currently has a proprietary Investment grade technology platform of 231 patents, Standard & Poor’s; thereby increasing the possibilities Fitch Ratings; Moody’s3 of providing more flexibility to its product portfolio Recognition Rainforest Alliance Standard Setter; Dow Jones Sustainability Emerging Markets Index; Corporate Sustainability Index – ISE – BM&FBOVESPA Certifications SarbOX; Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC®4); Cerflor/ Programme for the 33% Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC); ISO 9001 Native forests and ISO 14001; OSHAS 18001 In total, Fibria has 2 includes 50% of Veracel 856,000 hectares of land, of which 285,000 3 In February 2016, Moody’s downgraded the company’s investment rating. hectares are intended 4 FSC-C100042, FSC-C100704, FSC-C110130, FSCfor conservation2 -C104120 and FSC-C102372 07 Interview with the Chairman Since Fibria was established in 2009, we studied, created bonds, and evolved our relationship with surrounding communities. We have not yet solved all of our problems, but we have learned to communicate and understand cultural diversity.” The essence of our business is innovation José Luciano Penido After years of efforts, Fibria conWhat contributed to Fibria What about the indebtedness solidates its leading position in the closing the year 2015 with that has been putting presmarket. In other words, the chalgreat results? sure on the company since its lenges of the business are behind inception? us, right? Not at all. According to The international market conJosé Luciano Penido, Chairman of tinues to demand our products, We concluded our financial rethe Board of Directors since 2009: thereby sustaining our market structuring, which enabled us to “We now begin a new phase in rates. Our revenue benefits from strategically refocus for the future. the company with the project for a favorable foreign exchange rate So much so, that we began an exthe expansion of the Três Lagoas, for export, since our costs are pansion project at the Três Lagoas, MS unit, one of the largest private mostly denominated and incurred MS unit, the Horizonte 2, which investments in Brazil in 2015.” in reais. Nevertheless, the dollar will more than double the unit’s had some impact on our operaproduction capacity. It is one of the Born in Itabira, MG, and gradutions, increasing our costs in that largest private investments in Brazil ated from the Federal University of currency. We also had to deal in 2015, totaling US$ 2.2 billion, Minas Gerais in mining engineering, with inflation and increased interand it happened at a very imporPenido points out innovation as nal costs for wood. However, we tant moment, because we are another focus of the business: “We managed to balance both sides contributing to creating jobs and want to offer products that incorof the scale and the cash flow, opportunities amidst a nationwide porate new technologies, such as among other things, allowed us recession period. biomaterials, biocompounds, biofuto redefine the dividend policy, els.” In the following interview, he which prioritizes financial soundwill talk more about 2015 and the ness and fair remuneration. This company’s plans. enabled us to pay US$ 2.1 billion in dividends in 2015. 08 2015 Fibria Report FIBRIA COP21 During the COP21, Fibria actively participated in discussions about how forest and forest products contribute to a low-carbon economy. 25 years In 2015, Fibria celebrated 25 years of the Forestry Savings Program, an initiative that currently involves 1,685 producers in the country. Fibria is now a forest-based How much can climate change business focused on pulp proimpact Fibria’s production in duction. However, the comthe medium and long term? pany wants to innovate. What does that mean? A planet with a larger concentration of CO2 will be warmer, which The essence of our business is dechanges rainfall patterns. There veloping renewable forest products is a tendency toward periods with respect for life. Innovation, of heavy rainfall and periods of therefore, is an aspect that gains drought. So, given the dry spell, increasingly more space on the we need to have trees that conagenda of the Board of Directors. tinue growing for four or five We want to offer products that inmonths with very little water. corporate new technologies, such Fibria’s Technology Center develas biomaterials, biocompounds, ops continuous, intense studies and biofuels. Today, everything in our forests aiming to anticipate other than pulp is burned and climate scenarios and increase transformed into value for industriour ability to protect the comal use and electric power. Pulp and pany’s natural capital. We have black liquor1 may be broken down experimental plantations that seek into other products with higher efficiency in the use of water. Tak1 Black liquor: is a byproduct from the value added, in a move to expand ing care of our plantation areas is chemical treatment process in the paper our production line. essential to our business. and pulp industry. It consists of the mixture of inorganic chemical digestion compounds, waste from dissolved wood (lignin), and other types of organic matter separated from wood during cooking in the Kraft process (sulfate process to produce pulp). 09 Interview with the Chairman Fibria participated in the the School of Industrial Marketing, COP21, held in France in Deseeks not only return for sharecember. How did the company holders, but also to bring benefits position itself regarding clito all of our stakeholders, which, mate change? The concept of consequently, improves the comshared value is pany’s reputation. Clients recogFibria positions itself as part of nize this as our differentiator. After the solution to climate problems in the company’s all, the company that takes good and the creation of products and business model, care of social and environmental services that help ensure society’s issues is less exposed to financial well-being. We have exercised our mainly through and reputational risk. corporate citizenship, aiming to support the main meetings on cligeneration of value What are other examples of mate change. We actively particiin the forest with creating value through relapated in the COP21, of the World Sustainable Development Counthe involvement of tionships? cil, of the Brazilian Coalition on rural landowners Part of Fibria’s wood is supplied by Climate, Forests and Agriculture, because we believe that tackling and suppliers that our neighboring producers through partnerships, which is a way of these issues will necessarily involve share cuttingsharing value. The company could forests. Another important aspect on the climate agenda is water. edge technologies buy land, plant forests, and retain 100% profit from the operation. However, in this case, decisions and best practices But if you don’t have society as a will be regional, with a condition that will apply to all parties offered by Fibria. whole growing with you, this is not sustainable. Since Fibria was involved: it will no longer possible established in 2009, we studied, to collect water, pay little for this created bonds, and evolved our water, not treat it, and then return relationship with surrounding it to he environment untreated. communities. We have not yet solved all of our problems, but Fibria has been cited by Miwe have learned to communicate chael Porter2 as an example of and understand cultural diversity. a company that creates shared A company that operates in 246 value for its stakeholders. In municipalities needs to know how practice, how does the comto communicate and deal with pany implement this concept? society. The concept of shared value is in One of the many challenges the company’s business model, facing companies today is to mainly by generating wealth in reconcile short and long term the forest base with the involveresults. How does Fibria face ment of rural landowners and this dilemma? suppliers that share cutting-edge technologies and best practices The cycle of our business is the offered by Fibria. In addition, the cycle of the eucalyptus, which is company confirms its commitment approximately six years. We are to generating admired profit in its forced to abandon an exclusively Vision. The concept, developed by financial focus and short-term vision. We are therefore trained to deal with nature’s time cycles. This 2 Michael Porter, a professor at Harvard way of operating helps us acquire Business School, and Mark Kramer, coa sense of respect and perpetuity founder and director of FSG Consulting firm, in everything we do. are authors of the article “Creating Shared Value: Redefining Capitalism and the Role of the Corporation in Society”, in which they discuss the concept of shared value. 10 2015 Fibria Report FIBRIA We have exercised our corporate citizenship, aiming to support the main meetings on climate change. We believe that tackling these issues will necessarily involve forests.” Eucalyptus Muda de eucalipto seedlingno in Viveiro the nursery de Capãoin Bonito Capão (SP) Bonito, SP 11 Interview with the CEO The beginning of the expansion work in Três Lagoas is also emblematic in 2015. To enable the project demonstrates our ability to invest and resume growth.” The challenge of creating value marcelo castelli In a year of excellent results, Fibria How was 2015 for Fibria? products and services, to those we begins a new cycle of aspirations already offer will help create more for growth, with sustainability at Fibria’s revenue is predominantly value for society and strengthen us the center of its strategy, and many in US dollar. In a scenario of curas a low-carbon company that is challenges. “A company that leads rency devaluation, such as the one committed to sustainability. an industry needs to challenge itself in 2015, when the Brazilian real to create value for society,” highdevalued about 42% in relation What are the impacts of Projlights Marcelo Castelli. to the average dollar, the comect Horizonte 2 on the company’s cash generation was driven munity of Três Lagoas, on With almost 30 years dedicated to with greater competitiveness in Fibria, and on the country? the paper and pulp industry and costs. However, a portion of our as Fibria’s CEO since 2011, Castelli expenses is pegged to the AmeriThe project for expansion of the talks about how the company is can currency. We had to deal with Três Lagoas unit, called Horizonte preparing itself for the future. The inflation and increase in the inter2, is one of the few private inexpansion of the Três Lagoas, MS nal cost of wood. But we did our vestments with great importance unit, the research and development homework, and we managed to today in Brazil. In tax collection of new products and services from break financial records. The beginalone, we are talking about R$ renewable sources, and competition ning of work on the expansion of 450 million during the construcare some of the following aspects. Três Lagoas was also emblematic in tion phase until 2017. The greatest 2015. Enabling the project demimpact is social, and therefore we onstrates our ability to invest and are carefully planning transportacontinue growing. We also want tion, public safety, and support for to pave new roads for our portthe expected floating population. folio. We want to do much more Fibria seeks to take good care of its with the forest. Complementary projects. For starters, the company 12 2015 Fibria Report FIBRIA Horizonte 2 Expansion project will generate approximately R$ 450 million in tax collection during its construction phase alone. GM Eucalyptus Fibria invited representatives from academia, NGOs, and consultants from several specialties to discuss and follow the company’s studies of genetically modified organisms. seeks to understand the regional ment agencies. Today we have a and local context when communidialogue with the movements that cating with government agencies fight for land that requires mainin order to make decisions and tenance and care, because it is propose improvements to pubnot static, but it is very advanced. The land issue lic management. In relationships Regarding the Quilombola comwith suppliers, we try to make the munities, there are also ideological in Brazil is very most of local labor and its qualiissues involved that need to be broad and ties so that we may be well served considered. The difference is that at a competitive level. This type of the dialogue is just beginning and complex. Our commitment is good for us all. Our admired profit concept says we progress is still slow, but we are advancing. We are learning together. experience with are not ashamed to have profit, as the Landless long as we operate with integrity. You’ve already said that Fibria employees became the compaWorkers Movement Fibria seems to be prepared ny’s ambassadors. What does (MST) is one of the to dialogue with strategic stakeholders, but some of the that mean in practical terms? best examples of consensus has been more chalYes, I like to say that we are a part land reform involving lenging, correct? of a P2P (people to people) business as opposed to B2B (business a company from The land issue in Brazil is very broad to business). Our people are the the private sector, and complex. Our experience with the Landless Workers Movement ones who enable connections and make the difference. The company a social movement, (MST) is one of the best examples evolved, and so did those who academia, and of land reform involving a company from the private sector, a social work for it. Employees who are at the front line of the forest operagovernment movement, academia, and governtion, for example, in addition to agencies.” 13 Interview with the CEO We are a part of a P2P (people to people) business as opposed to B2B (business to business). People are the ones who enable connections and make the difference. Before engaging, it is important to establish a minimum sense of trust. And it is people who build these bridges.” José Antonio Pereira, Harvest Supervisor at Florestal Vale do Paraíba, SP 14 2015 Fibria Report FIBRIA understanding about management have not yet concluded the studies of eucalyptus, have also developed and we are only sure of one thing: their relationship skills. Therefore, it we want to exhaust all possibilities is important to highlight our growof risk before making any decisions ing presence with strategic clients. regarding the use of GMOs. Our sales department tends to be the touchpoint, but then several Is there anything you would business areas become involved in have changed in Fibria’s trajecorder to understand the needs and tory in 2015? opportunities on both sides. Before engaging, it is important to estabAbsolutely. As we widely advocate lish a minimum sense of trust. And the preservation of life, we do not it is people who build these bridges. accept fatalities as a part of our operations. We are profoundly How does Fibria deal with the sorry for the people who have lost competition? their lives working with us, like the accident with the Africanized We work to gain our clients’ prefbees in Jacareí, SP that caused the erence and raise the bar of compedeath of one of our employees. tition whenever possible. We want We have lowered our accident rate to increase our influence, mainly considerably – there are extremely through sustainability. The search complex areas of our operations for a complementary portfolio, for that have not had any occurrences example, is already perceived posiin five years – but we have not yet tively by our strategic clients. Fibria reached a zero fatality rate. At the has been recognized as a supplier beginning of 2016, unfortunately, that delivers well and at the same we had other fatalities. We still time, thinks long term. The best we have much to improve and we cancan offer is not a sales agreement, not back down. A company and its but rather a more modern proposal leadership cannot accept the loss of to generate shared value. a life. We will look for solutions in all aspects of our business. What is Fibria’s position on planting genetically modified organisms? We have a very clear position and Fibria has been policy on the matter. The topic recognized as requires understanding and acceptance from society, not only the a supplier that scientific community. Therefore, delivers well and, we need to understand it well and share this knowledge. We invited at the same time, representatives from academia, thinks in the long NGOs, and consultants from several specialties to discuss the subject term. The best we with us and follow our studies. In can offer is not a December 2015, we held our first meeting, still preparatory, about sales agreement, what we would like to achieve as but rather a more a working group. Our research is focused on classical improvements, modern proposal which help us to obtain the most to generate shared productivity per planted hectare, and to deal with pests, disease, value.” and of course, climate change. We 15 Our Business Fibria’s essence is to develop renewable, forest-based products in a sustainable manner to its business and the environment and provide return to all stakeholders. To this end, its strategy is increasingly grounded Rachel Borlini Sirtuli, on innovation. in the nursery of Aracruz, ES 16 2015 Fibria Report FIBRIA The integration of forest, industry, and logistics, supported by research activity and intense sales action, is one of Fibria’s differentiators. From the Forest to Consumers A forest-based Brazilian company, hectares of eucalyptus. Fibria is the world leader in the production of eucalyptus pulp. The The company operates at four company’s operations have 17,000 production plants located in Três employees and outsourced workLagoas, MS, Aracruz, ES, Jacareí, ers, operating in several departSP, and Eunápolis, BA, where the ments such as research, planting, company maintains Veracel in a harvesting, production, logistics, joint operation with Stora Enso. and sales of 5.2 million tons1 of In partnership with Cenibra, the pulp a year. company operates Portocel, ES – the only Brazilian port specializing With R$ 10.1 billion in net revin pulp shipment. enue recorded in 2015, the company’s activities cover a forest area The company exports to 37 counof 856,0001 hectares, of which tries with the support of sales and ALSO IN 285,000 are intended for conserrepresentative offices in North THIS SECTION vation of native ecosystems, in six America, Europe, and Asia. On the states: Espírito Santo, Bahia, Minas final link of our production chain 19 Gerais, São Paulo, Mato Grosso do are the largest paper manufacturers, Main financial Sul, and Rio de Janeiro. In addition with products intended mainly for indicators to its own plantations, the compaeducation, hygiene, and health. ny has 1,980 contracts with wood 21 suppliers, which adds up to 78,000 Our value chain 28 Goals and results in 2015 1 includes 50% of Veracel. 17 Our Business Where we are Fibria has operations in the states of Bahia, Espírito Santo, Mato Grosso do Sul, Minas Gerais, Rio de Janeiro, Rio Grande do Sul, and São Paulo. belmonte EUNÁPOLIS caravelas POSTO DA MATA três lagoas conceição da barra três lagoas ARACRUZ 5.2 Million tons capão bonito jacareí portocel vale do paraíba santos of pulp produced capão do leão in 20151 1 includes 50% of Veracel. PORTS Industrial Units Forests flushing (holland) sheerness (england) LUSTENAU (austria) philadelphia (USA) la pallice (france) mobile (USA) monfalcone (italy) changshu (china) jacksonville (USA) miami (USA) tarragona (spain) livorno (italy) port arthur (USA) hong kong (CHINA) Kaohsiung (taiwan) São PAULO (BRAZIL) Central Administration offices Distribution Centers 18 2015 Fibria Report FIBRIA R$ 2.1 Ownership structure 41.44% Billion were paid to Market Free Float shareholders in the form of dividends 29.42% Votorantim S.A1 0.06% Treasury Stock R$ Billion in 10.1 29.08% net revenue BNDESPar from sales2 Main financial indicators1 2013 2014 2015 Net revenue from sales (R$ million) 6,917 7,084 10,081 Net profit (R$ million) -698 163 357 Assets (R$ million) 26,750 25,594 29,434 Net equity (R$ million) 14,491 14,616 12,815 EBITDA (R$ million) 2,796 2,791 5,337 Net debt /EBITDA LTM (US$) 2.60 2.40 1.78 Pulp production (thousand tons) 5,257 5,274 5,185 Pulp sales (thousand tons) 5,198 5,305 5,118 Market value (R$ billion) 15.3 18.0 28.7 Cash production cost (R$/t) 505 519 618 Share value FIBR3 (R$) 27.6 32.5 51.9 1 Current corporate name of Votorantim Industrial S.A. This corporate name change occurred january 1st, 2016. 2 includes 50% of Veracel 19 Our Business Mission, Vision, and Values Mission Develop the business of renewable forests as a sustainable source of life. Vision Consolidate the planted forest area as a generator of economic value. Generate healthy profits, in tandem with environmental conservation, social inclusion and improved quality of life. Values Soundness Seek sustainable growth with value generation. Ethics Act in a transparent and responsible manner. Respect Respect for others and willingness to learn. Entrepreneurship Grow with courage to act, innovate and invest. Unity The whole is greater than the sum of its parts. Bleaching tower in Aracruz (ES). 20 2015 Fibria Report FIBRIA Value Chain Our Value Chain begins with the hundreds of studies conducted in our forests and laboratories and extends to end consumers of paper used for hygiene, education, and offices. TECHNOLOGY CENTER It is the main area responsible for our technological innovation projR$ 51 ects geared toward the company’s Million forestry and industrial activities. Two laboratories, located in JacaInvested in reí, SP, and Aracruz, ES, carry out research in 2015 studies about practically all of the company’s production chain – from the nurseries that produce seedlings to the final product, covering important areas of knowledge. In 2015, with the acquisition of the Canadian company Lignol, the company formed Fibria Innovations, a critical operation to advance its bio-strategy. Located in Burnaby, Canada (near Vancouver), the unit specializes in developing technology focused on production of high-performance lignin. 21 Our Business Nurseries Fibria’s nurseries produce quality seedlings that contribute to the development of plantations with high yield potential. Planting Fibria initiated planting with clonal compounds – clones that are similar in performance, but genetically distinct – reducing the risk of loss arising from pests, diseases and climate change. 120 Million seedlings produced each year 163 Eucalyptus seedlings are planted per minute 5 to 7 Years is the eucalyptus harvesting cycle Total investments on environmental protection for forest management operations (R$ thousand) Year Aracruz Capão do Leão1 Jacareí Três Lagoas 2013 19,756 582 5,825 1,663 2014 13,622 0 6,450 2,690 2015 15,057 0 6,768 1,903 1 The Capão do Leão unit was sold in 2012. 22 2015 Fibria Report FIBRIA HARVEST The process is completely mechaAccident rate per nized, and the use of GPS onboard 1,000,000 km driven computers has contributed to making management of operations 1.11 safer and more precise. 2013 Wood logistics The majority of wood is transport24 hrs 0.77 ed to industrial units by highway. In order to supply 2014 The company uses barges between production of the the ports of Caravelas, BA, and Portocel, ES, and trains from the plants, harvesting forest partnership areas in Minas activities are 0.70 2015 Gerais to Aracruz, ES. The wood from Port of Rio Grande, RS, arrives uninterrupted at Portocel by ship. Certifications Fibria forest operations have the 171 km Is the average following certifications: Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC®), Cerdistance between flor/Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC), forests and the ISO 9001, and ISO 14001. industrial units 23 Our Business Certified forest area1 Area certified Area certified by Unit Total area2 by FSC® Cerflor/PEFC Aracruz 346,256 289,973 323,869 Jacareí 157,236 157,198 157,198 Três Lagoas 342,481 276,317 276,317 Total 845,973 723,488 757,384 1 In hectares. Does not include 50% of Veracel. 2 Non-certified area includes new leases and the regularization of land documentation for future inclusion in the certification. Pulp production Production3 Upon arrival at the industrial unit, the logs are chopped down 1,047 2,328 5,185 into small chips and chemically Jacareí Aracruz Total processed to separate pulp from lignin. This pulp is then bleached, dried, and baled for transport to the client. Pulp represents our pres1,248 562 ent wealth, and lignin represents Três Lagoas 50% Veracel renewable energy and is one of the paths for new business. 20 Eucalyptus trees yield one ton of pulp 3 in thousands of tons (t). Figures rounded. 24 FIBRIA Fibria’s forest Materials used in industrial operations, by weight and volume management and industrial process are certified by the Wood Industrial Chemicals1 Forest Stewardship Total volume (m3) Total weight (tons) Council® (FSC®) 16,502,610 422,357 and by Cerflor/ Total Total Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification 8,520,801 260,058 Aracruz Aracruz (PEFC), ISO 9001, and ISO 14001 3,600,115 86,986 Jacareí Jacareí 4,381,694 75,313 Três Lagoas Três Lagoas 1 Soda, sulfuric acid, chlorine dioxide, oxygen, peroxide, and others. Electricity Aracruz Jacareí Três Lagoas FIBRIA Total electricity generated at its facilities 0,652 0,730 0,851 0,724 (MWh/adt)2 Electricity consumed (MWh/adt)2 0,604 0,706 0,574 0,619 Electricity purchased (MWh/adt)2 0,008 0,039 0,007 0,015 Electricity exported (MWh/adt)2, 3 0,056 0 0,284 0,105 Electricity exported (R$ thousand)3 36,443 0 56,024 92,466 2 adt – air dried tons of pulp. 3 Where 8.6% and 33.4% of energy generated at the Aracruz and Três Lagoas units, respectively, were marketed. 25 Our Business Self-sufficiency in Logistics for pulp electricity 2015 Pulp produced at Três Lagoas, MS, and at Jacareí, SP, is transported by rail to the Port of Santos, SP. 117% Production from the unit in Aracruz, Total ES, is taken by truck to Portocel, ES. In 2015, Fibria’s ships delivered 4.6 million tons of pulp to clients in Asia, Europe, and the United States. 108% Aracruz Sales 90% of Fibria’s pulp is intended for the foreign market. 50% of the pulp is 103% Market Jacareí Fibria’s pulp reaches consumers used for the all over the world in the form of books, paper for printing and writproduction of ing, tissues, and specialty paper. tissues 148% Três Lagoas Sales distribution by region 2015 43% Europe 23% North America 10% 24% Latin America Asia Sales by end use – 2015 84% 50% Tissue 35% Printing and writing 15% Specialty paper Is the client satisfaction index 26 2015 Fibria Report FIBRIA 3km Is the distance between the Aracruz unit and Portocel, in Espírito Santo 37 countries are served by Fibria Pulp in people’s lives Examples of products produced from pulp. • Toilet paper • Paper towels • Tissues • Napkins • Writing paper • Notebooks • Printer paper • Books • Cardboard • Photographic paper • Spool paper • Invoice paper 27 Our Business Social and environmental criteria for evaluation of suppliers, stronger Rede Responsável Program and demobilization plan of the PDRT areas are some of the short-term goals that advanced in 2015. Learn more below. SHORT-TERM GOALS Goals for 2015 Results goal achieved Conduct on-site audit in Fibria’s • On-site audit carried out on October 26 and 27, 2015 at the company TECNOPLANTA – in Três Lagoas strategic suppliers with a pilot project and complemented in Aracruz. covering several supplier evaluations, • Questionnaires applied: Management Systems/Quality, Finance (Treasury, Insurance and Tax Planning), including sustainability items. Environment, Health and Safety and Occupational Medicine (HSMT), Legal (Fiscal/Tax, Contracts and Labor/Social Security), Sustainability and Risk Management, and Compliance. Proceed with the Value Chain project with analysis of the data collected goal achieved in 2014 and an Action Plan for the • Results disclosed to participants. continuity of the project in 2015. Initiate the restoration process goal not achieved in 2,465 hectares. • Restoration process initiated in 2,402 hectares. goal achieved Initiate two pilot projects of the • Fetag project finalized and awaiting regularization of documents for filing. National Land Credit Program and • Alternative model for sale of the area linked to forestry partnership prepared and complete the demobilization plan of validated by the Executive Board. the PDRT areas. • Identification of priority areas for sale developed in conjunction with the operational and land areas. • Pilot project initiated with FETAG and with the PDRT area. goal achieved Strengthen and expand the Rede • Nearly 11 million raised through partnerships, Votorantim Institute and incentivized projects. Responsável (Responsible Network), • 25% growth in number of communities served. with expansion of 10% in the number • 43% growth in the number of families served. of communities served and in the • All partnerships have evidence on the Sustainability Management System. number of households benefited, • Increase in number of partners from 48 to 65. and R$ 9 million raised. • Highlights for DOW, Petrobrás, Cenibra, Veracel, Julio Simões, Votorantim Cimentos, COMEVAP, EMBRAER, etc. 0.5% reduction in CO2 emissions in the goal achieved industrial processes (0.2% of Fibria’s total operations), representing an • Reduction in scope 1 and 2 emissions of the units totaled 63,081 tCO2e, 5.2% less than in the previous year. absolute reduction of 4,060 tCO2eq. Note For 2015 and 2016 goals relating to industrial and operational activities, see page 57. 28 2015 Fibria Report FIBRIA Jadair José Loureiro da Silva, administrative operational technician on Occupational Safety in Aracruz, ES Goals for 2016 Our commitment to the next cycle • Implement a supply chain management internationally) and more attractive. Increase strategy that includes social and the value raised, number and quality of environmental criteria in its various stages. partners, including international partners (funds and companies). • Initiate the restoration process in 2,601 hectares. • Beginning of a broader dialogue on the Quilombola land issue in Espírito Santo, with • Update and evaluate the current relationship participation of the community and official scenario with critical and strategic agents. stakeholders in the States of Espírito Santo and Bahia. Identify, update and revalidate the • Enhance multiple-use forestry programs existing risks and conflicts by aligning internal through silvopastoral projects in São Paulo guidelines and reviewing the strategies of the and Mato Grosso do Sul. company’s departments involved. • Develop water goals for nurseries, planted • Strengthening, governance and visibility of forests, and industry. the Rede Responsável it in order to make the program better known (within and • Create a diversity program. outside the company, both nationally and 29 Our Governance ALSO IN THIS SECTION 32 Consolidated governance 35 Fines and lawsuits Main Fibria executives (from left to right): Aires Galhardo, Forestry Director; Vinícius Nonino, Director of Strategy and New Businesses; Wellington Giacomin, Director of Logistics and Procurement; Paulo Silveira, Industrial Director; Luiz Fernando Torres Pinto, Director of Human Organizational Development; Julio Cesar Cunha, Director of Engineering and Projects. 30 2015 FIBRIA REPORT FIBRIA Connected to Everything Fibria’s governance is the result of the actions of the Board of Directors, of the Fiscal Council and of five advisory committees. Maria Luiza Pinto e Paiva, Director of Sustainability, Corporate Relations and Communications; Eduardo Andretto, Legal Director; Fernando Bertolucci, Director of Innovation; Henri Philippe Van Keer, Sales Director; Marcelo Castelli, CEO; Guilherme Cavalcanti, Director of Finance and Investor Relations 31 Our Governance Consolidated Governance Transparency, clear definition of roles, administrative independence, high quality technical and managerial staff, equal treatment of shareholders, and accountability are the principles that guide Fibria’s corporate governance. In addition to the roles of the CEO and behavior rules for company applicable to the forestry industry. and the Executive Board, the comemployees in their relationships with They are: pany’s governance is established by the internal and external audiences. the Chairman of the Board of DirecIn 2014, the company’s Code of NBR ISO 9001, NBR ISO 14001 tors and eight advisors, responsible Conduct was completely updated, OHSAS 18001 implemented at for defining strategic guidelines widely publicized, and accompanied the Santos Port Terminal (T13, and validating policies and goals; by a set of staff training activities, T14, T15 and T32) Forest Manby the Fiscal Council, whose main including the international offices. agement Principles and Criteria objective is to supervise administraSince then, 99.8% of the professionFSC-STD-01-001 (Forest Stewtion activity; and by five Advisory als have signed a formal commitardship Council®). International Committees – Statutory Audit; ment to the new version. FSC® standard. The certifier uses Finance; Innovation; Personnel and the FSC® Certification Standard Remuneration; and Sustainability. In 2015, the company’s focus was for Forest Management, EvaluaMore information on our Investor on intensifying controls in the suption of Forest Plantations in the Relations website (www.fibria.com. ply chain, with special attention to Federal Republic of Brazil: Harmobr/ri). approval criteria and performance nized Standard among Certifiers appraisal, on-site-audit of the (FSC-STD-BRA-01-2014 V1-1 PT), Compliance procurement process, policies and Forest Management Principles and Fibria has been strengthening its procedures for the procurement Criteria NBR 14,789 (Cerflor) Chain Compliance Program through process, and contract management, of Custody ABNT NBR 14,790 workshops focused on three pilamong others. (Cerflor). lars: antitrust, anticorruption, and loss and fraud prevention. These Certifications The FSC-STD-40-004 standard initiatives represent a more mature Fibria actively participates in forums specifies the required elements governance model, resulting from for the development and improvethat must be met to receive the already existing culture of comment of standards and certificacertification in the FSC® (Forest pliance. tion in the industry, such as Forest Stewardship Council®) chain of Stewardship Council®, Cerflor, and custody, applied to the industrial Compliance permeates all areas of the Cooperative Program for Forest activities of Fibria and Offshores. the company. In addition to workCertification, among others. For having a single certification, shops, the company’s Code of Conthe Standard for Multi-Site Operaduct is fundamental to this process, The company complies with all of tions Chain of Custody Certification for it establishes ethical standards the standards and certifications FSC-STD-40-003 also applies. In 32 2015 FIBRIA REPORT FIBRIA 18 Total number of order to process wood from forest partnership producers or purchase from those that do not have certiment, reaffirming their commitment to the company’s integrity guidelines. fication, Fibria assesses the wood reports about using the Standard for Controlled At all levels of the organization, Wood, FSC-STD-40-005. events were carried out to clarify human rights the updates in the new version of Ombudsman’s Office the Code and reinforce the imporGuided by fairness and transparentance of the Ombudsman’s office cy, the channel answers questions, as a support channel for building receives suggestions, and handles an environment increasingly more complaints of non-compliance with guided by ethical behavior and prothe Code of Conduct, such as corcedures. All of these initiatives help ruption, discrimination, and fraud. the employees feel safe enough to It serves the internal and external consult the office, either to report audience, always confidentially, occurrences or ask questions. and the caller may identify him or herself at their own discretion. Cases of irregularities In 2015, the Internal Audit departIn the year, the Ombudsman’s ofment examined 21 allegations of fice recorded an increase of about fraud, corruption, improper ben28% in the number of contacts. efits, and favoring suppliers, one This increase is seen as natural for of which carried over from 2014. Fibria because in 2014, the comFive were considered well founded, pany revised its Code of Conduct, which led to termination of agreeand in 2015, a wide campaign for ment with suppliers and employits dissemination was carried out, ees as well as improvements in as well as the renewal of each processes, among other measures. employee’s signature on the docuFive reports were classified as Reports by category 2014 2015 Human rights 58 (20.9%) 70 (19.7%) Consultations 51 (18.4%) 69 (19.4%) Business relations and contracts 38 (13.7%) 69 (19.4%) Labor-related 59 (21.3%) 60 (16.9%) Lack of adherence to standards 19 (6.9%) 28 (7.9%) Community relations 6 (2.2%) 7 (2.0%) Conflicts of interest 9 (3.2%) 12 (3.4%) 18 Fraud/corruption 7 (2.5%) 11 (3.1%) Environmental 12 (4.3%) 12 (3.4%) Total number of Other aspects 18 (6.5%) 17 (4.8%) reports about laborTotal 277 (100%) 355 (100%) related impacts 33 Our Governance unfounded, four did not contain mittee formed by members of the State of Alert the minimum elements necessary Board of Directors, the Portocel The Regional Committees in Jacareí, for opening an investigation, and (ES) Committee, and a special SP, and Aracruz, ES were even more seven are still being analyzed, to be committee for Project Horizonte 2 mobilized in 2015. The Jacareí unit concluded in 2016. (MS). Central Administration (SP) withdraws and returns treated water and the units in Três Lagoas, MS, to the Paraíba do Sul River, whose Integrity and corruption Aracruz, ES, and Jacareí, SP were volume has dropped considerably in Seeking to continuously improve at a more advanced stage in this recent years. In Espírito Santo, the governance and standards of aspect and already had Regional concern was with the quality of waintegrity, in 2015 Fibria joined the Crisis Management Committees. ter in the Doce River, which supplies “Corporate Pact for Integrity and the Aracruz plant and was affected Against Corruption,” from the The role of these teams is to monitor by the tailings dam accident of the ETHOS Institute, assuming specific risks and prepare Business Continuity Samarco mining company, located commitments to transparency and Plans for cases considered to have in the State of Minas Gerais. These fighting corruption, effectively the highest probability of causing a risks have been monitored and did operating with the purpose of procrisis if they were to occur. This work not generate impact on Fibria’s promoting a more ethical market with gained extra strength in 2015 with duction. Also in Jacareí, the unfortumore integrity as well as eradicatthe launch of the Crisis Management nate death of one of the company’s ing bribery and corruption. Guide, a guidance document for all employees required the local Comemployees, which provides definimittee to be flexible and prepared to Crisis management tions on crises, which occurrences accommodate the family, meet legal In 2015, Fibria increased its Crisis are more common, and their levels in demands, and handle the press. Management processes. Of the the various aspects – legal, environseven Regional Committees mental, financial, workplace safety -, dedicated to the issue, three were as well as who the employee should created this year alone: the Comspeak to in case of an occurrence. Alberto Pagano, Manager of Logistics, and João Ijima, Manager of Real Estate Asset Management, in Fibria’s office in São Paulo, SP 34 2015 FIBRIA REPORT FIBRIA Fines and Lawsuits The company has a total of 6,992 ongoing administrative proceedings and lawsuits, of which 389 were filed in 2015. Administrative tax income tax and social contribution, is underway in the 4th Civil Court proceedings and challenges the deductibility of Três Lagoas, MS. In 2015, Fibria obtained a partially of depreciation, amortization, and favorable final decision on the depletion expenses used by the Civil Action for excess notice of infraction filed in 2012, company when determining income cargo load regarding the barter transaction of taxes for the 2010 calendar year. In June 2012, a public civil action assets carried out with International was filed by federal prosecutors, Paper. The fine charged in this case Suit for damages against for a preliminary injunction, given was reduced by half and currently Eldorado to the company requiring it to totals R$ 417 million (original valIn August 2015, Fibria filed a suit refrain from travel on any federal ue). On January 19, 2016, the Adfor damages against the company highway with excess weight that ministrative Council of Tax Appeals Eldorado Brasil Celulose for misuse may cause damage to federal (CARF), through the casting vote of an eucalyptus clone. The filing highways, the environment, and of the president of CARF, deemed of the main suit for damages was economic order. The updated groundless the company’s appeal the natural result of the preliminary value on December 31, 2015 in the administrative procedure. injunction for expedited discovery was R$ 1,256,000. The company Fibria is considering whether to apbrought against Eldorado. In the appealed the injunction preventpeal at the administrative level. decision, handed down in July 2015, ing it from travelling on federal the judge confirmed the expert highways with supposed excess In addition to this case, in Decemreport, which indicated a probability weight and was successful, and ber 2015, the company received of 99.99999981% of the samples of presented a defense regarda tax assessment notice of infraceucalyptus trees collected in differing other points pleaded in the tion (fine of approximately R$ 188 ent plantations used by Eldorado to lawsuit. The lawsuit is at an early million) which requires collection be genetically identical to cultivar stage and the likelihood of loss is of amounts related to corporate VTO2, owned by Fibria. The lawsuit estimated as possible. Monetary value of fines (R$ thousand)1 2013 2014 2015 Paid 0 0 0 Pending decision2 R$ 1,087,582 R$ 1,186,637 R$ 1,009,317 Total R$ 1,087,582 R$ 1,186,637 R$ 1,009,317 1 Only includes fines for lawsuits with values over R$ 98 million. 2 Additional information about cases pending a decision is available in the 2015 explanatory notes. 35 Our Governance Environmental All agreements signed by the lawsuits Fibria is a party in ten environcompany are under strict control and mental lawsuits and procedures, are within the agreed upon deadlines. which together may be considered relevant. Of this total, seven are public civil lawsuits challenging the licensing of eucalyptus plantations in the States of São Paulo and Espírito Santo. Another refers to the Conduct Adjustment Term (TAC) signed with the Public Attorney’s Office of Bahia on 12/5/2011, through the Attorney General of Regional Environmental Justice in Teixeira de Freitas, Monetary value of the environmental fines due to incentive agreements with (R$ thousand)1 land owners with environmental irregularities. The obligation 2015 assumed by the company in the TAC is R$ 12,535,000. The last Paid R$ 521 two procedures concern administrative infractions that generated: Pending decision R$ 3,008 • A fine assessed in 2014, in the 1 The value of R$ 12 million from the aforementioned TAC is not included in the table, amount of R$ 1. 5 million, writsince it is neither a fine nor a lawsuit. ten by the Mato Grosso do Sul environmental agency, which discusses the alleged release of Volume of stolen effluents into the Paraná River Wood theft wood (in m3) outside the parameters estabWood theft, often associated lished by law. with arson, reached its peak in 2011, with 297,000 m³, and 297,610 • Fine – the only one initiated had a significant reduction of 2011 in 2015 – in the amount of 95% by 2013. Among the acR$ 500,000, assessed by tions that promoted the drop in the municipal environmental stolen wood are initiatives taken agency of Caravelas, BA, which by Fibria to approach the com39,664 challenges the operation of munities in the North of Espírito 2012 the Eucalyptus Wood Storage Santo and South of Bahia, more Terminal without authorization critical regions, to promote from the responsible environgeneration of employment and mental agency. income in the region. In 2015, 18,098 wood theft reached 82,000 m3, 2013 Agreements a four-fold increase in relation All agreements signed by the to 2014 (19,000 m3) due to company are in the company’s exogenous factors such as the monitoring and control systems economic recession experienced 19,046 and are being fulfilled within by Brazil and the water crisis that 2014 the agreed upon deadline. Only undermined family agriculture in one new TAC was signed with these regions. The expectation the Bagé, RS Prosecutor’s Office for 2016 is that the amount of in 2015, whose obligation constolen wood decreases with the 82,464 sisted of donating the amount of increase of surveillance by federal 2015 R$1,369 to the Bagé Cultural and and state governments and the Environmental Protection Fund. increased rainfall in the region. 36 2015 FIBRIA REPORT FIBRIA In 2015, the Justice Department confirmed that the samples of eucalyptus planted in Eldorado Brasil Celulose farms are genetically identical to the VTO2 cultivar owned by Fibria Harvest in Capão Bonito, SP 37 Our strategy Advances in innovation allow Fibria to consolidate its strategy based on growth, operational excellence, differentiated products and services, and business Rita de Cassia Escalfoni, diversification. Technology Center in Aracruz, ES 38 2015 Fibria Report FIBRIA Fibria’s strategic pillars stem from a comprehensive study, which takes into account global trends, such as more advanced technology platforms, decline in the use of paper, aging of the population, rural flight, and climate change. Beyond Commodities Planted forests are at the center The company would like to obtain of Fibria’s strategy. Based on this more operational efficiency at the principle, the company analyzed lowest possible cost, on a solid global and industry megatrends, forest base, organized to meet the the strengths and difficulties of the demand of new businesses and business, and market opportunities, innovative projects that allow Fibria in order to develop its expansion to stand out beyond the commodiplan until 2025. ties segment. Also in this section In this investigation, which began in 2009, the company included 49 the decline in the use of paper, the Forest of the future most sophisticated technological advances platforms available, aging of the population, rural flight, and climate 59 change. The next step was to define The solution in the strategic pillars that sustain the the forests company’s project – and prioritize 62 greater competitiveness in a susProject tainable environment, boosted by Horizonte 2 long-term relationships. 39 Our strategy Dryer Control Panel operators Nilton dos Santos Rodrigues (facing forward) and Rômulo Donadio (back) in Três Lagoas, MS Strategic pillars The company’s strategy unfolds on three guiding fronts: Operational excellence Growth Diversification Seek the most efficiency at low Organic growth and competitive Work to diversify the busiprices in industrial and forestry costs are factors that determine ness and offer solutions operations. This includes projthe success of a business in the beyond the concept of comects associated with mechanized commodities market. Therefore, modities in the area of pulp, harvesting, reduction in the expansion depends on a consolibiorefinery, new commercial asset base (forests), adoption of dated forest base that is prerelationship models, and real best global practices for reusing pared for new businesses. estate development. waste and maintaining operational stability, as well as reduction of negative externalities generated by the operations. 40 2015 Fibria Report FIBRIA Stakeholder munity’s degree of favorability contributions regarding the company, client level When defining and implementof satisfaction, the organizational ing strategic plans, the company climate, and the institutional image also considers the viewpoint of its in regions where the company audiences. In addition to everyday operates. relationships, in 2013, the company conducted a specific process in The work resulted in defining order to build its Materiality Matrix, ten material aspects (see below). which identifies the aspects most Two additional aspects related to relevant for the business from the Long-term Goals, climate change point of view of the company and and waste, were also considered its stakeholders. relevant to Fibria. The company consulted 28 people, • Certifications, voluntary industry ten of which held leadership posicommitments, and regulations tions at Fibria, and 18 stakeholder • Local development and impact representatives that maintain a on the communities close relationship with the com• Business expansion pany: clients, suppliers, investors, • Financial management members of the government, • Social and environmental members of NGOs, residents of management in the supply chain neighboring communities, forest • Value generation through partnership wood suppliers, certifyinnovation ing professionals, and researchers. • Forest management, biodiversity, land use The study also involved a workshop • Government relations with Fibria managers, a compara• Transparency and stakeholder tive analysis with three other comengagement panies from the forestry industry • Water use and the evaluation of benchmark • Climate change documents, such as The Living • Waste Forest (WWF), Forest and Wood Products, FSC® Guidelines, SusA new process for identifying matetainability Yearbook (RobecoSAM), rial aspects should be conducted in and Sustainability Topics (Global 2016, this time taking advantage Reporting Initiative). Information of relationship channels already was also provided from research established with the company’s carried out to assess the comstakeholders. The Materiality Matrix was defined in 2013 with participation of 10 company leaders and additional 18 stakeholders. A new study to identify material aspects for Fibria will take place in 2016 41 Our strategy Long-term Goals Derived from strategic pillars and in harmony with the materiality, in 2011, the Board of Directors, supported by the Sustainability Committee, established goals that Fibria should reach within the next 15 years. The objective is to ensure the implementation of the company’s strategy and the sustainability of its business. See the thermometers below for the 2015 results: GOAL WHAT THE COMPANY DOES BENEFITS OUR POSITION goal 2025 15 • Less concentration of land goal 2015 10.9 Reduce by one third • Classic genetic improvement 2011 10.6 • Greater land availability the amount of land • Increase in pulp productivity for other uses needed for pulp production per planted hectare per year • Increase in competitiveness and greater return for shareholders 11.7 adt1/ha/year goal 2025 11 goal 2015 7.25 Double carbon • Opportunities in the carbon market • Restore degraded areas 2011 5.5 sequestration from • Reduced concentration of the atmosphere • Expand forest areas greenhouse gases in the atmosphere 7.25 MILLION tCO2eq/YEAR • Increase forest structures for goal 2025 40,000 Promote plants and wildlife environmental • Protection of biodiversity restoration of 40,000 hectares of its own • Plant native species and • Improved water quality areas between 2012 create forest structures • Increase in carbon sequestration rates goal 2015 13,947 and 2025. • Planting, enrichment, and management of natural 13,885 regeneration 2011 0 HA 1 adt – air dried ton of pulp 42 2015 Fibria Report FIBRIA GOAL WHAT THE COMPANY DOES BENEFITS OUR POSITION goal 2025 91% Reduce by 91% the • Social and environmental volume of industrial improvement projects goal 2015 46.1% solid waste disposed • Production of thermal and • Less concentration of land in own or third-party inorganic inputs • Greater land availability for other uses landfills • Increase in competitiveness and 44.7% greater return for shareholders 2011 0% % REDUCTION goal 2025 80% goal 20131 72% • Insertion of the community Achieve 80% in Fibria’s value chain • Less concentration of land 2011 50% approval in • Fostering generation of • Greater land availability for other uses neighboring local revenue • Increase in competitiveness and communities • Social and environmental greater return for shareholders improvement projects 72% % APPROVAL goal 2025 70% Help communities • Social inclusion and reduced social render 70% of the and economic vulnerability of the income-generating • Expansion of the PDRT communities projects self-sustaining model • Better qualified population goal 2015 19.7% with the support of • Fostering involvement of communities 19.7% companies in their growth 2011 5% % OF SELF-SUSTAINING PROJECTS 1 This goal was not updated in 2015. We maintained the last data relative to 2013. 43 Our strategy Alexsandra Oliveira Barbosa, Laboratory Analyst, in the Pulp procution cell, of the unit of Três Lagoas, MS Strategy adopted In order to successfully implement the company’s plans, various actions were conducted in 2015. Learn about some of them: Highlights from advantages through continuous Fibria’s the Technology Center investments in research and technocompetitive The main goal for Fibria’s Technology Center is to add value to the logical development. differentiators business. The company’s portfolio of Implementation of SIRA begin as early as its projects includes activities related to genetic improvement and biotechIntegrated Fertilization Recommendation System (SIRA) is capable of inlaboratory activities, nology, sustainable forest managedicating the type of fertilizer and the with investments ment, development of products amount to be applied according to and processes, regulatory issues, the characteristics of the soil. It also in research, and intellectual property, and competiidentifies the nutrient requirements the most advanced tive intelligence. As a pulp producer, for each clone during the different the company seeks to gain a better stages of crop growth. Correct fertiltechnological understanding of the entire producization without wastefulness results platforms tion process and obtain competitive in lower costs and healthier forests. 44 2015 Fibria Report FIBRIA Talking about GMOs We are investing in research and putting together a comprehensive debate to understand the potential and risks involving genetically modified eucalyptus. It is not yet socially acceptable for companies • Based on the diagnosis of risks and opporin the forestry industry to work with genetically tunities, invites specialists from academia, modified trees. Within Fibria, the subject has NGOs, and consultants from different specialbeen treated as an opportunity to create value ties to evaluate the environmental and social for the company and society. Next, learn more impacts of GMOs together. about what the company is doing. • Fibria did not establish a deadline to release • Develops and discloses its policy regarding the use of genetically modified eucalyptus. Genetically Modified Eucalyptus (http://www. The company understands that it will be posfibria.com.br/en/institutional/technology/). sible to enable this technology if, in its set of initiatives and with the participation of society, • Creates a multidisciplinary engagement group it is found that genetically modified eucalyptus for internal audiences to learn about and are beneficial and compatible with best ecounderstand Fibria’s intentions in this area. nomic, social, and environmental practices. • Listens to the stakeholders’ opinions, includ• In the meantime, the company intensifies ing representatives from its production chain, research – 100% authorized by the Brazilian from Brazil and abroad. Technical Biosafety Committee (CTNBio) – , in laboratories and in the field in order to evaluate the potential use of and the risks associated with GMOs. Predictive Analysis & Big Data in the industry with the use of this Currently, the eucalyptus physinew technological solution. ological disorder is one of the main problems with the productivity of Clonal compounds planted forests in Southern Bahia. It The company invested in an inis characterized as a disorder in the novative strategy that mitigates growth of the plant reacting to envithe genetic risks associated with ronmental factors that compromise plantations. The company develthe growth of the tree and may lead oped and used clonal compounds to death of the tree when it occurs – mixtures of improved clones in a high degree. that perform similarly, however, are genetically distinct. When Aiming to evaluate mitigation alterestablishing plantation units with natives, the company is exploring these compounds, the company a broad, diversified database built increased genetic variability and over the past few years under the consequently reduced the risk of “big data” approach. The new tool loss associated with environmenPlanting of allowed, for the first time, the develtal stress, pests, or disease caused enhanced and opment of three high-performance by climate change. Currently, models in order to better underadopting this measure increases genetically stand the causes of the physiological genetic variability intrinsic to distinct clones disorder, as well as map risks and Fibria’s commercial plantations by estimate future forest management a factor of four, without harming help to mitigate alternatives. Fibria became a pioneer the expected productivity. environmental risks 45 Our strategy Fibria Innovations The company is committed to developing renewable In 2015, Fibria took an products with high value important step in its bio-strategy added – that go beyond the when acquiring the Canadian concept of commodity, and company Lignol, today called that may in the future replace Fibria Innovations. Currently, fossil fuel derivatives as a the company has a platform source of raw material. of proprietary technology with 231 patents and, therefore, Another significant move in new possibilities of providing this direction was to obtain, more flexibility to the company’s in 2012, equity interest in product portfolio. The company’s the American company pool has pulp process patents, Ensyn Energy Corporation, product (pulp and paper) patents, currently 12.6%, with which biotechnology patents, and the company works on now, patents for processes and developing bio-oil that uses products associated with lignin. biomass as raw material. Fiber diversification In the study of competitive intelliFiber diversification research seeks gence, 25 key aspects were identito offer differentiated quality prodfied and prioritized into six topics ucts to the market. Differentiated by the company’s senior managepulp is already commercially negotiment. They range from trends ated and will enable new businesses in paper consumption and the and create value in the company’s biorefinery market to best social entire production chain. and environmental practices, and strengthening the value of sustainIntelligence to compete ability in the business. Aiming to increase its competitiveness, Fibria is especially dedicated to New platforms competitive intelligence, a subject Technological routes such as nanoCollaborative that has been gaining increasingly more importance in the company. technology do not yet have specific rules in Brazil, but they affect the networks coordinate One of its main actions is coordinatcompany’s business. Therefore, Fibria’s internal ing its internal intelligence through collaborative networks. In this field, Fibria’s professionals responsible for regulatory issues, map and intelligence and the company communicates critical study international parameters that anticipate strategic issues, trends, and opportunities to its leaders, and proposes studies help to contribute to and influence decisions when the time comes for aspects for the and projects to its departments. Brazil to define its legislation. business 46 2015 Fibria Report FIBRIA Management highlights caused by society in general, and System also has an interface with Forest productivity depends on the mainly, by the global effects of a georeferenced database (GIS), plants being able to adapt well climate change. The solution does allowing for the control of these to climate change as well as the not only depend on science, but on resources through geospatial mancombination between the correct everyone’s responsible involvement. agement, with satellite imagery preparation and fertilization of soil, The uneven-aged mosaic forest and aerial photographs. prevention of diseases, recovery management adopted by Fibria, of native forests, preservation of as well as its forest conservation Carbon balance springs, and monitoring of water. practices, are examples of its conFibria currently records a positive tribution to normalizing the flow of balance of nearly 7.3 million tons Planted forests, conservation and watersheds where its plantations of CO2 equivalent between emisrestoration of native forests, formare located. sions and removals of greenhouse ing ecological corridors, contribute gases per year. The goal is to reach to diversity of the landscape. In Forest Management System 11 million by 2025 this balance, a diverse and rich environment, Fibria has a Forest Management however, will change with the plantations rely on the help of System with modules to control beginning of operations of Project wildlife and plants for pest control, forest operation, interaction and Horizonte 2 in Três Lagoas, MS, for example. management of forest partnership, because the company will have an and environmental restoration. increase in forest and an industrial Facing water shortage Implemented in 2015, the water unit which, proportionally, will emit The water shortage problem has management module in the operaless greenhouse gases by using become a recurring issue in several tions is an important advancement, more sophisticated technology. parts of the world, not due to the because it enables monitoring and expansion of forest plantations, but a broader view of water consumpAligned with a low carbon economy, to the numerous landscape changes tion. The Forest Management which is being developed worldTotal water withdrawal IN forest management operations, by source Type of withdrawal 2013 2014 2015 Aracruz Surface water (m3) 934,728 505,865 580,364 Ground water (m3) 25,168 115,573 125,905 Rainwater (m3) – 7,909 2,618 Jacareí Surface water (m3) 222,150 181,568 172,211 Ground water (m3) 46,295 34,189 55,620 Rainwater (m3) – 7,825 – Três Lagoas Surface water (m3) 473,093 413,559 362,256 Ground water (m3) 25,117 24,607 27,279 47 Our strategy wide due to climate change, Fibria’s CARBON STOCK 2015 (tCO2eq)3 activities and the environmental PRODUCTION AREAS restoration program are transforming degraded areas into mosaics of highly productive forest plantations Balance = 41.1mm and recovered or preserved natural Eucalyptus vegetation. This restores a series of ecosystem services, such as sequestration and storage of carbon, both provided by the eucalyptus and Pasture4 natural areas. Based on the maximum value for the calculation of CO2 equivalent 1 Carbon stock factor adopted by the in pastures1 and considering the Second Brazilian Inventory of Anthropogenic Emissions and Removals of Greentotal for these areas where the house Gases. company is established, Fibria estimates having 9.9 million tons 2 Layer that forms on the forest floor from of CO2 equivalent. With the develleaves and branches that fall from the trees. 85,582,941 opment of its forests, the company increased its stock to 90.9 million tons of CO2, given the increase in 3 Considering 100% pasture landscape Eucalyptus seedlings biomass above and below ground, 4 Considering a pasture CO2e stock of 29.5t. Source: National Inventory. planted in 2015 and plant litter2. Nursery in Capão Bonito, SP 48 2015 Fibria Report FIBRIA Forest of the Future 285 thousand chosen as the best project in the advances Forest Development category of the With the need to advance in its Brazilian Technical Association of forestry model, the company Pulp and Paper (ABTCP) in 2015. Hectares launched the construction of the Forest of the Future Project six Evolution in the Rural Enviis Fibria’s total years ago. Based on forest benchronmental Registry conservation area marks from ten countries, the company defined 15 technological In land regulation, Fibria made great progress by registering its of native forests platforms in a broad agenda for rural properties in the Rural Environcompany innovation. Through this mental Registry (CAR), which aims platform of knowledge and proto formalize rural property environIn the last five cesses, the company is appropriatmental planning by locating areas years, the company ing the most advanced technology, allocated for Legal Reserve (RL)2. In qualifying jobs in the field, reduc2015, the company registered 87% initiated restoration ing risks, and getting exponential of its rural properties. The goal is to of 16,000 hectares gains in operational productivity. reach 100% registration within the Below are the 2015 highlights: 2016 legal deadline. Forest Optimization System Restoration and Aiming to create value through its impacts information, Fibria has been inThe activity to recover native forests novating the use of georeferenced may be seen, by lay people, simply technology and data. In 2015, the as a company’s legal compliance. company implemented the WoodEvery day at Fibria, this activity stock software, by the Canadian represents much more, with great company Remsoft, which optibenefits to the business, the envimizes decision-making strategies ronment, and society. In addition for supplying its production plants, to following the Forestry Code, the flow of land, and the purchase restoration directly influences life of wood. The software makes in the field, including the produclong-term planning more flexible, tivity of eucalyptus farms. For this collaborative, and participatory reason, one of the company’s main between the company’s production long-term goals is to restore 40,000 departments. In 2016, the company hectares by 2025. will develop tactical forest planning software that will further improve In the last five years, the company efficiency of the process and allow has invested R$ 80 million in the for detailed operational decisions. restoration of 16,000 hectares in the regions of the country in which Geographic Fibria operates. The vegetation cover Information System that is developing helps maintain In order to obtain the most up-tothe quality and availability of water, -date registration and cartographic which in turn benefits the entire ecoinformation with the highest possystem. The environment, the comsible precision, Fibria uses the GIS pany’s plantations, and neighboring system and remote sensing tools communities need healthy and that enable detailed forest manaabundant springs. When conserving gement through satellite imagery. forests, the company is protecting its 1 Legal Reserve (RL): an area located on Based on this data, quality thematic plantations as well as expanding the rural property, not including Permanent maps of the forest are generated reproduction and feeding grounds Preservation areas, where sustainable use to assist forest management. In the of regional wildlife. In addition to of natural resources, conservation and forest logistics area, transport roucontracting services providers and rehabilitation of ecological processes, biodiversity conservation, and sheltering tes and distances are automatically training teams especially dedicated and protection of native fauna and flora is generated to support operational to restoration activities, the comrequired. A minimum of 20% of every rural decision-making. This work was pany bought more native seedlings property must be a Legal Reserve. 49 Our strategy from its suppliers, stimulating a new gies employed and generate man(Neomorphus) a bird native to the economy in regions where it operagement recommendations for the Atlantic Rainforest considered rare ates in the States of Bahia, Espírito areas involved. and endangered. The bird was Santo, Minas Gerais, São Paulo, and identified by the Natural Heritage Mato Grosso do Sul. Fibria’s reputational gain as a result Private Reserve (RPPN)1 Recanto of these sets of initiatives manifests das Antas, located in the city of Building partnerships itself in several ways, from access Linhares, ES. The company also boosted its to low-cost capital to partnerships relationship with the government with clients that decide to invest and non-governmental orgawith us in restoration because they nizations. The State of Espírito recognize the value of buying pulp Santo has in place a remuneration from a company with a social and program for environmental restoenvironmental vision. ration services. The company has partnered with them in order to Wildlife: endangered species share technology in the projects are a priority where it works with rural producThe company aims to foster a ers. Fibria strengthened its dialogue healthy environment in order to and partnerships with NGOs and shelter wildlife and plant species universities, collaborating in the in its areas. In 2015, our species Atlantic Forest Restoration Pact, database had listed more than and with The Nature Conservancy 700 bird species, and at each new (TNC), which has been evaluating monitoring process, these numthe quality of our restoration after bers increase. Also last year, we 1 Natural Heritage Private Reserve (RPPN): the fourth year of implementation, recorded for the second time (the conservation units located on private land aiming to analyze the methodolofirst was in 2007) the Jacu-Estalo created voluntarily by the landowner. TOTAL NUMBER OF ENDANGERED SPECIES2 IN HABITATS IN AREAS AFFECTED BY FOREST OPERATIONS3 Group iucn4 ibama Plants 26 46 Birds 34 78 Mammals 19 1 Amphibians 1 0 Reptiles 1 1 Fish 0 1 Crustaceans 0 1 Our restoration activity drives 2 Data from studies and monitoring of fauna and flora at Fibria up to December 2015. partnerships with 3 The IUCN list is updated in real time. These updates are incorporated into the list, and therefore, there can be fluctuations, up or down, even without new studies, in the numpublic authorities, bers related to previous years. 4 Total number of endangered species is obtained by the sum of those classified as NGOs, and Critically Endangered, Endangered, and Vulnerable universities 50 2015 Fibria Report FIBRIA Gildo José Ribeiro, Supervisor of Florest Logistics in Portocel, ES Highlights in forest implies higher safety risks than the tion, logistical certainty also affects logistics transport itself. The solution was productivity. Therefore, since 2003, In 2015, the company designed, to organize an operation involvwhen Caravelas became operaput together, and initiated the ing contracting ships and teams of tional, Fibria has been developing wood transport operation from dockworkers for three years. more efficient dredging activities in Capão do Leão, RS, to Portocel, the Tomba Channel, which provides ES, in order to supply the Aracruz Portocel has a new access to the terminal. industrial unit. Due to a strategic operating model decision made when Fibria was In 2015, Portocel gained producDredging work aims to remove established, the company did not tivity. The company redesigned sediment found in the canal bed in invest in the forest base in Aracruz, the port’s operating model, which order to allow the barges to pass, ES, for two years, and now the stopped working with trucks and ensuring access to the port. company needs to source raw mabegan using tractors, which transterial for pulp production in more port bales of pulp more efficiently. Dredging is carried out upon obdistant regions. The wood from The company needed to eliminate taining an Environmental License Capão do Leão is part of a stock about 10% of jobs. However, some issued by the Brazilian Institute of bought from partnership agreeof these employees were prothe Environment and Renewable ments entered into upon Fibria’s moted. A second group was sent Natural Resources (IBAMA). For the formation, in 2009. to companies within the sector and Tomba Channel, in Caravelas, the the rest were given the opportunity authorization allows for the dredgThe company’s greatest diffito train for other activities. ing of 250,000 m3 during the culty transporting this wood is the period from November to March. relationship with the dockworker Certainty in Caravelas Disposal is made in a 4 km2 area communities of Portocel, ES, and More economical and with less established by IBAMA. Port of Rio Grande, RS, responsible social and economic impact, wood for the transport of wood from transport through barges is used by Constant monitoring Capão do Leão. Wood is a product Fibria between the barge terminal in In 2015, with the renewal of the that involves complex handling and Caravelas, BA, and Portocel, ES. As IBAMA environmental license valid coastal shipping, and therefore in all stages of an industrial operauntil 2019, the company carried 51 Our strategy out a comprehensive review of the residents. These meetings resulted, improvements and mitigate impact. environmental monitoring under for example, in agreement on reAmong the most important initiaFibria’s responsibility in order to stricting the transport of wood on tives during the period was the inprovide continuous improvement weekends and at night. For legal vestment of R$ 481,000 in highway to activities at the location. reasons, however, the transport infrastructure. In order to meet the was paralyzed in August 2015 and needs of the community and City The company expanded studies has not yet been resumed. Some Hall, the company implemented an and monitoring of water turbidity, initiatives to mitigate the impacts alternative route through the Luis and increased control of erosion of our operations in the region are Carlos District (Guararema, State processes as well as impacts on in progress: of São Paulo), detouring the transfishing. Fibria also included the port away from the center of Santa coastal strip between Nova Viçosa, • Fibria informed the community Branca. Fibria is also undergoing BA, and the city of Prado, BA, in that the plantation Fazenda negotiation with local government its monitoring of the Boto Cinza , Sertãozinho II will no longer be to build a beltway around the city. an estuarine dolphin, among other used commercially if the only improvements implemented. In means of transporting wood is addition, to ensure compliance of through the city of Catuçaba; all monitoring and the conditions the operational teams are parrequired by the environmental ticipating in a forum with replicense, Fibria maintains an inderesentatives of the City Hall, the pendent auditing team that closely local community and the Serra monitors the work and has the do Mar State Park aiming to find autonomy to stop the activity if an an alternate route; irregularity is identified. • A partnership with Brazilian SerFibria participates in and supports vice of Assistance to Micro and the Dredging Monitoring CommitSmall Enterprises (SEBRAE) was tee, alongside local non-governstructured for technical training mental organizations, representaof farmers of the district; three tives from the fishing community, producers in the region particiand the government, such as Chico pate in the dairy chain support Mendes Institute for Biodiversity project in the Vale do Paraíba Conservation (ICMBio). In this region; the project also foresees forum, the company shares knowlthe use of the forests in the edge and presents data about its region for regulated placement work in the region. Fibria also mainof livestock; tains several voluntary programs and specific community support. • The company gathered information concerning the reform of Challenges to overcome the Chapel Nossa Senhora das R$ 12.4 Despite the dialogue carried out Graças, on plantation Fazenda with the communities affected Sertãozinho II, which in the by wood transport, in 2015 the future could be used by the popcompany faced two challenges that have not been overcome. ulation for religious events; Million • In October 2015, Fibria started Total investments Catuçaba, SP – In 2015, Fibria held consensus meetings with maintenance of streets and roads damaged in its operations; work over the last five representatives of public authorities has not yet been completed. years in voluntary, and the community of Catuçaba, required, and other located in São Luis do Paraitinga, Santa Branca, SP – the city with SP, to transport the wood from the the largest number of grievances specific projects plantation Fazenda Sertãozinho II. in 2015 related to Fibria’s wood carried out by Fibria Noise, dust and damage to streets transport. The company boosted and roads used by the company are its relationship with City Hall and in Nova Viçosa, BA, the main grievances reported by local entities aiming to implement and Caravelas, BA 52 2015 Fibria Report FIBRIA Industry highlights year, but this drop followed the The company is potentially Systematic work to increase proexpected rate of change according polluting ductivity and operational stabilto the historic series. Recognizing that the company is ity, combined with sustainability potentially polluting was an imporand lower costs summarizes the Less frequent overall tant step towards placing environoperations in the company’s three shutdowns mental issues on senior manageindustrial units. Management, preEvery 12 months, 100% of Fibria’s ment’s active agenda, as well as vention, control, and innovation plant activities were interrupted for communicating the strategy for the are the employees’ mantra during a period of seven to ten days. This entire organization. The Environtheir daily work at the industrial resolution is instituted by the Minismental Performance Index (IDA) is units. try of Labor and Employment aima tool that evaluates the quality of ing to ensure that all safety parameindustrial processes through indicaIn 2015, Fibria units operated ters are checked for the boilers and tors such as pollution prevention, with 92% stability, the same as pressure vessels. In 2016, for the pollution control and environmental the previous year. With this rate, first time, this pause will not occur management. The index also enters Fibria continues above the global in the Jacareí plant, and in the next into the composition of employee benchmark; in other words, its few years in the other industrial compensation – the team commitaverage production/capacity ratio units, because the law now allows ment, guided by transparency, helps has yielded results over 90%. the interval between shutdowns build value and more lasting results. to be 15 months. The change is Plant stability results in less poldue to the evolution of monitorThe odor challenge lution and fewer operational and ing and maintenance technology. Reducing odor caused by the chemisafety risks, in addition to contribIn five years, less frequent overall cal processes in pulp production uting to meeting the production shutdowns will allow Fibria to save is one of the company’s biggest goal. Despite the stability, there R$ 100 million in services, materials, challenges. In order to mitigate the was a small reduction in pulp proand increase in production due to impact at the industrial units and duction compared to the previous the longer operation periods. the communities where they are Bleaching process in the unit of Aracruz, ES 53 Our strategy located, Fibria organized the Odor Perception Network, groups formed by neighboring residents, partners, From 2011 to 2015, the company has already reached 51% of the total goal. The company priori76% is the total and company volunteers responsible tized discipline in integrated waste for identifying odor changes, which management and applied the 4Rs percentage of generate improved environmental concept – rethink, reduce at the management. source, recycle, and reuse. The water recycled and main benefit to the business so far reused in industrial Dealing with waste has been the increased efficiency Well-designed landfills with sophisin the energy matrix by inducing operations ticated construction techniques thermal inputs (biological sludge and rigorous procedures for use are and primary sludge are burned in essential equipment for the forestry the biomass boiler) and agricultur1 Environmental Performance Index industry. This does not prevent al inputs (inorganic inputs trans(IDA): a management tool that evaluates Fibria from pursuing the bold goal formed into soil acidity correctives, the quality of the product based on three indicators: pollution control, pollution of reducing by 91% its solid waste replacing lime). prevention and environmental managesent to industrial landfills (own or ment, each with a specific weight in the third-party) by the year 2025. final calculation of the index. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDEX INDICATORS (%)1 Aracruz Jacareí Três Lagoas 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Overall IDA 93.6 93.9 94.5 95.0 95.7 95.4 95.0 95.3 95.5 Management 95.7 97.9 98.9 94.6 93.6 94.6 96.9 96.9 96.9 Prevention 93.6 92.5 92.5 97.9 98.9 96.8 93.7 94.7 98.0 Control 91.4 91.4 92.0 92.5 94.6 93.6 94.7 94.7 93.7 Reused industrial solid waste 51% 2013 2014 2015 86.8% 87.1% 84.2% of the 2025 goal for the reduction 73.5% 61.7% of solid waste has already been 70.2% 62.6% reached 23.2% 54.4%2 2 The reuse of industrial solid waste in the Jacareí unit in 2015 was impacted by the increase in the production of ARACRUZ jacareí três lagoas biological sludge. 54 2015 Fibria Report FIBRIA Eliseu Ferreira Barbosa, Operator of the Effluent and Water Treatment Plant in the unit of Três Lagoas, MS National Water Agency Restrictions The industrial unit in Jacareí, SP, is a benchmark THE DOCE RIVER in water use, but the challenge continues to be Fibria built a water pre-treatment station on the enormous. The Paraíba do Sul River that supplies feeder canal that supplies Caboclo Bernardo the region has always had a great flow. In 2015, Channel, which connects the Doce River to Vila due to less rainfall, the Brazilian National Water do Riacho, in Aracruz, ES, ensuring water qualAgency (ANA) imposed restrictions for water ity, local supply, and continuity of our industrial withdrawal by industries. Until 2014, the average operations. flow of the river at Fibria’s point of withdrawal was 70 m3/s. Gradually, the flow was reduced to Caboclo Bernardo Channel covers a catchment 30 m³/s, reaching 15 m³/s in February 2016. area of 1,357 km2, in a course of 46 km, benefiting a population of approximately 15,000, In all industrial units, the company adheres comincluding rural landowners, farmers and completely to best international references, defined munities of Barra do Riacho and Vila do Riacho. as between 30 and 50 m³ of water per ton of pulp (adt – air dried ton). The Jacareí, SP unit The relevant uses of water in the basin of the recorded withdrawal at 26.3 m³ of water per Riacho River, with 1,320 users, includes irrigaton of pulp in 2015. The Aracruz, ES, at 33.3 m3 tion in agriculture, including coffee, cocoa, reviewed its internal controls, also due to lesser papaya, and sugar cane crops. This water suprainfall in 2015, and identified new opportunities plies the communities of Guaraná, Jacupemba, for reuse and reduced withdrawal, which reached Quartel, Vila do Riacho, Bebedouro, Barra do 10% in relation to the previous year. Três Lagoas, Riacho and Indigenous communities, in addiMS, recorded 29.0 m³ per ton of pulp. tion to Portocel, our industrial unit in Aracruz, and other companies in the region. 55 Our strategy Specific water withdrawal in industrial operations (m3/adt1) 33.3 29.0 Aracruz Três Lagoas 26.3 30.5 Jacareí Total 2015 (weighted average) 1 adt – air dried ton of pulp. Total water withdrawal during industrial operations, by source2 Aracruz Jacareí Três Lagoas Total Total (m3) 73,332,572 30,844,572 36,254,494 140,431,638 Volume withdrawn (m3/day) 212,454 84,410 100,707 397,571 Volume withdrawn (m3) 77,545,838 30,844,572 36,254,494 144,644,903 2 All water withdrawn by Fibria’s Industrial units from surface water. Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused in industrial operations Aracruz Jacareí Três Lagoas Total Percentage of water recycled and reused 71% 81% 80% 76% Volume of water recycled (m3) 268,047,989 158,710,724 179,254,004 606,012,718 Total water withdrawn (m3) 77,545,838 30,844,572 36,254,494 144,644,903 Effluents Unit BAT3 Aracruz Jacareí Três Lagoas Total Total nitrogen kg/adt4 0.1 – 0.25 0.23 0.05 0.14 0.17 Total phosphorus kg/adt4 0.01 – 0.03 0.07 0.05 0.08 0.07 COD5 kg/adt4 8 – 23 13.99 6.97 8.20 10.84 BOD6 kg/adt4 0.3 – 1.5 2.17 0.34 0.82 1.39 Suspended solids kg/adt4 0.6 – 1.5 1.55 2.08 3.52 2.20 Volume of effluents m3/adt4 ND 27.93 27.29 22.65 26.36 3 Values according to the Best Available Techniques (BAT) publication, from Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control (IPPC) (2001), for pulp bleached using the Kraft process. 4 adt – air dried ton of pulp. 5 COD – Chemical Oxygen Demand. 6 BOD Biochemical Oxygen Demand. 56 2015 Fibria Report FIBRIA Total investment and expenditure on environmental protection for industrial operations, by type (R$ thousand) Total Fibria 139,195 Total Investments 55,198 Waste 6,085 Emissions 33,722 Water resources 10,766 Remediation of contaminated areas 258 Environmental management 1,074 Other environmental investments 3,293 Total Cost 83,997 Waste (transport, disposal, licenses) 38,669 Emissions (effluents) 20,964 Water resources (monitoring) 21,069 Remediation of contaminated areas / environmental liabilities 0 Environmental management (fixed cost) 1,471 Other environmental costs 1,823 Consolidated Fibria 2013 2014 Goal 2015 2015 Goal 2016 (weighted average) Energy consumed (MWh/adt1) 0.587 0.592 0.589 0.625 0.621 Water withdrawn (m3/adt1) 31.1 30.7 30.6 30.56 30.6 Waste generation2 (kg/adt1) 219.2 212.5 209.3 220.69 209.3 NOx (kg/adt1) 1.3 1.4 1.2 1.38 1.2 BOD3 (kg/adt1) 1.6 1.5 1.48 1.39 1.3 AOX (kg/adt1) 0.07 0.07 0.07 0.069 0.07 Suspended solids (kg/adt1) 1.7 2.0 1.6 2.4 2.2 1 adt – air dried ton of pulp 2 The larger generation of solid waste between 2014 and 2015 is due to increased generation of organic sludge in Jacareí, SP and lime mud in Fibria’s three industrial units. 3 BOD – Biochemical Oxygen Demand. 57 Our strategy Highlights of By going beyond delivering highChlorine free international trade and quality products and services. In 2015, Fibria resumed produclogistics Fibria’s new challenge in the trade ing pulp bleached using the TCF is to make the team more aware (Totally Chlorine Free) process; A long-term relationship with of sustainability values and train that is, without the use of chlorine efficient transport of differentithem to identify opportunities that or chlorine dioxide. The client, ated products developed through will help increase the company’s with its headquarters in Europe, sustainable practices. This is the contacts through its trade relationchose the trade contract with essence of Fibria’s strategy in the ships. The purpose is to create new Fibria because the company uses area of international trade and levels of fidelity and a new way this technology and holds Forest logistics. On one hand, the qualified of doing business: not Business to Stewardship Council® (FSC®) and relationship with major clients enBusiness (B2B), but rather People to Cerflor forest certifications. sures greater planning, commercial People (P2P). regularity, and business stability. On Unprecedented the other hand, the huge volume More resistant fiber contract with Klabin of pulp negotiated allows Fibria for The need for European clients in the The company has signed an unreduced costs and more competiimplementation of new products led precedented contract in Brazilian tiveness when contracting services the Technology Center to develop forestry: sale of 900,000 tons of to supply buyers from Europe, Asia, a more resistant fiber that uses less Klabin’s pulp abroad with Forest and North America. The growing energy to refine. With the project, Stewardship Council® (FSC®) integration between commercial Fibria does not only meet the need certification. Fibria’s solid comprocesses and logistics processes and help reduce client emissions, mercial foundation, competitive further contributes to its good opit also breaks the price barrier for prices, and performance in the erational performance. commodities. In 2015, the company logistics area guarantee Klabin the closed two contracts in the tissue necessary conditions for placing its But how to differentiate within a segment, totaling 60,000 tons, with product in the company’s hands. commodities model and add value a possibility of reaching 100,000 to the whole production chain? tons. Distribution will begin in 2016. Warehouse at the Port of Santos, SP 58 2015 Fibria Report FIBRIA Nursery in Aracruz, ES The solution in the forests Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions are urgent and necessarily involve forests. Climate change affects water to preserving springs, reducing availability, and the forests are water body siltation, and favoring quickly affected. The increase in balance of the water, carbon, and temperature causes more water energy cycles, which leads to bento be used, changing the pattern efits for natural resource conservaof the water cycle and therefore tion as a whole. affecting all those who depend on this natural resource. According to Fibria, there is no way to mitigate the risks related Fibria’s business is characterized to climate change without particiby wood and pulp production pation of forests. Companies from with the least possible use of and the sector therefore become indisFor each two hectares interference with natural resourcpensable players in the search for es. The integration between eucaalternatives that increase carbon of eucalyptus planted, lyptus plantations alternating with sequestration and reduce greenFibria preserves one native vegetation – for each two house gas emissions. hectares of planted forest, Fibria hectare of native maintains one hectare of preforest served natural area – contributes 59 Our strategy More with less The company wishes to include In 2015, based on pessimistic forests as a viable economic, and optimistic climate scenarios for environmental, and social solution the next 30 years developed for carbon fixation. In addition, the by the IPCC – Intergovernmental company believes that it will only Panel on Climate Change, the be possible to take leaps, in terms company estimated how climate of speed, quality, and sheer size of change may affect its business. This the planet’s need, if four main condata also allows for more assertive ditions are guaranteed to forests: long-term forest planning, with impact mitigation actions such as • Expansion in forest areas with developing more resilient genetic sustainable management, material or the demobilization and reduction of deforestation and Of the 6 billion exchange of land assets aiming to restoration of native forests in reduce risk resulting from extreme appropriate areas; hectares of climate change. original forests • Fostering of activities associCOP21, a new beginning ated with the forest productivity on the planet, Fibria participated in COP21 dechain, important for a low-carthere are 4 billion bates in Paris, as a company from bon economy; the forestry industry and member hectares left, and 1 of the Brazilian Tree Industry (IBÁ), • Development of robust mechabillion of them are the World Business Council for Susnisms of remuneration for tainable Development (WBCSD), ecosystemic services (public or tropical forests and the Brazil Climate, Forest, and private), such as carbon stock, Food and Agriculture Organization Agriculture Coalition. water production, and conserva(State of the World Force 2012) tion of biodiversity; 625 Billion tons is the Subsidies of US$ 500 billion per year go to carbon stock of fossil fuels world forests1 582 Billion tons is the volume of carbon released by 12% of the planet’s 1 WBCSD – World Business Council for humankind since forests are Sustainable Development (Vision 2050). 2 IPCC – Intergovernmental Panel on pre-industrial times2 located in Brazil Climate Change. 60 2015 Fibria Report FIBRIA • Advancement in the application Emissions (KG/ADT)2 of technologies that embed sustainability in the agriculture and 1.0 – 1.5 forestry production chains. NOx Reference1 It is also critical to highlight that 0.2 – 0.4 the increase in technology would SO2 Reference1 make a set of new renewable products possible, such as biomaterials and biofuels. Currently, there are large subsidies being paid worldwide for fossil fuels. If at least a part of this amount were 0.21 0.28 0.06 1.37 1.14 1.46 invested in solutions coming from Aracruz Jacareí Três Lagoas Aracruz Jacareí Três Lagoas forests, there would be a leap in product development that may replace materials that have a larger NA carbon footprint. CO2 Reference1 1 Values according to the Best Available Techniques (BAT) publication, from Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control (IPPC) (2001), for pulp bleached using the 318 471 272 Kraft process. 2 adt – air dried ton of Aracruz Jacareí Três Lagoas pulp. Intensity of greenhouse gas (GHG) sequestration and emissions 3,4 2013 2014 2015 Sequestration (tCO2eq/adt)5 3.93 3.65 4.50 Emissions – industrial, forest, and logistics 0.36 0.39 0.34 operations (tCO2eq/adt)5 Emissions biomass (tCO2eq/adt)5 2.46 2.50 2.59 Balance (sequestration emissions) (tCO2eq/adt)5 1.10 0.76 1.57 10% 3 Includes scopes 1, 2, and 3. 4 Gases considered CO2, CH4 and N2O. 5 adt – air tried ton of pulp. of global emissions of greenhouse gases result from degradation and loss of forest structures IPCC – Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 61 Our strategy Of the engineering department of Project Horizonte 2 (from left to right), Carlos Alberto Benedito, process specialist; Darci Bernardi, process specialist; Osvaldo Danillo Destefani Morceli Campesato Pones, project specialist; Fábio Luiz Tavares Vellutini, implementation coordinator, and Flávio Freire Machado, planning and risk coordinators Project Horizonte 2 One of the largest private investments in Brazil With the expansion of the unit in agement and compliance. Therefore, Três Lagoas, MS, Fibria will have one when structuring the project’s govof the largest pulp production sites ernance, Fibria chose the company’s in the world and will consolidate its already consolidated model, in which position as world leader in eucalypdecisions are made jointly. tus pulp with a total capacity of 7 million tons a year. The company formed a committee called the Steering Committee (SC), This major investment in Brazil, with which is responsible for evaluating, a focus on the export market, will deliberating, and supporting deciFibria replicates contribute to the Brazilian trade balsions that are strategic and essential its governance ance, create jobs, improve the quality of life and foster development at for the project, aligned with the governance guidelines and policies model in local, regional, and country levels. and the predetermined purviews, Horizonte 2 in The new production line is expected to enter into operation in the fourth approved by Fibria’s Board of Directors. The Committee is comprised of order to ensure quarter of 2017. members of Fibria’s Executive Board best practices in Governance in and an external consultant, which monitor reports of the project’s physirisk management, Três Lagoas cal and financial progress, and meet compliance and A project the size and complexity of Horizonte 2 requires Fibria’s periodically with the project director about alignment and to discuss the sustainability doubled attention to its risk mandemands that require deliberation. 62 2015 Fibria Report FIBRIA Risk management, eration is as important for the lignin production for application Auditing, Controls, project’s return as the sale of in more value-added solutions. and Compliance pulp. In addition to producing The company also created a Risk and consuming its own energy, • Also in biorefinery, the new unit Management, Auditing, Controls, the company will contribute to provides opportunities for reand Compliance department, the Brazilian energy balance by search about residual biomass which reports administratively to continuously delivering a surplus gasification (bark, sawdust) that the director of Horizonte 2, and inof 120 MWh. would allow the company to dependently to the Statutory Audit supply, with biofuel, practically all Committee (CAE), an advisory body • All water resources of the secdemand that is currently supplied to Fibria’s Board of Directors. The ond pulp production line will with fossil fuels to Três Lagoas. team is responsible for: come from the Paraná River, whose flow is twice as large as • With the implementation of the • Background check of potential the estimated withdrawal for the railway operation, transport of suppliers; Três Lagoas unit (Horizonte 1 pulp from the unit of Três Laand 2). It is estimated that the goas, MS will be done at a lower • Contracts with suppliers conHorizonte 2 project will withdraw cost, increasing competitiveness taining clauses that refer to the 30 m3/adt, already authorized by of the product on the market. Code of Conduct, Anti-corrupNational Water Agency (ANA). Moreover, rail transport is the tion and Human Rights Policy; alternative that proved most • Today, 35% of waste from line 1 advantageous in terms of agility, • Internal auditing according to is disposed of in industrial landreliability, security, capacity, and the timeline approved by the fills. When complete (line 1 and environmental adequacy among CAE; 2), this amount will be 15%, bethe other alternatives evaluated. cause the company will have the • Quarterly meetings to update ability to send a larger volume of the risk matrix and action plans waste to be burned in the power for the project’s priority risks; boilers. • Permanent workshops about • Fine residue from the process expected behavior in line with of cooking wood chips will no the Compliance Program for all longer be sent to landfills. They members of the project. will undergo a new cooking process, with gains in purification The company also instituted a efficiency. master committee consisting of representatives from Fibria and com• Dumping less organic load into panies with autonomy for decisionthe river, the filter yields effluents making to map, prevent, eliminate, with less toxicity. or mitigate identified risks, always complying with the company’s inter• Taller chimneys will be used in nal and external rules. the new unit. This solution helps reduce emission of the NOx gas, When Efficiency is key which contributes to the degraoperational, Horizonte 2 will rely on sophisticated technological solutions that dation of the ozone layer and is present in the pulp production Horizonte 2 will will ensure reduced consumption of process. With more modern continuously chemicals and maximize power generation. Fibria is expanding producequipment and efficient controls, it will be possible to mitigate produce a surplus tion without increasing its impact. generation of odor. of 120 MWh, That is what guarantees our license to operate. Learn more about the • Starting in 2016, the portfolio of contributing differentiators of the project: sophisticated biorefinery projects with the • Energy is a high value-added will advance with the expansion of Três Lagoas. The company will Brazilian energy byproduct. Electric power genbegin studies aiming to increase balance 63 Our strategy Horizonte 2 in figures Expansion of the Três Lagoas unit is the best example of Fibria’s capacity to generate value for its own business and society as a whole. 60 US$ 2.2 major suppliers will work on the project Billion one of the largest R$ 450 ongoing private Million investments in Brazil in tax revenue expected during construction 174,000 hectares of planted forests including own, leased, or forest partnership areas, in addition to wood purchased from third parties, that will supply the new line The company already has a surplus of 107,000 hectares planted or under planting contracts 64 2015 Fibria Report FIBRIA 40,000 3,000 890,000 will be created when hours of training in jobs The project will the new line starts skills and qualification create 40,000 direct operating of specialized and indirect jobs professionals 1.75 3.05 Million Million tons / year will be the tons / year will production capacity be the site’s total for Horizonte 2 production capacity after expansion 65 Our strategy horizonte 2 working Thematic subgroups involving MS, through the Jupiá, MS, railway group: sustainability and all suppliers were created. The terminal, located near a fishing compliance groups are: community with 1,500 residents, where the company maintains a At the height of the construc• Social risks this group assesses warehouse. tion phase, Horizonte 2 will have labor, operational risks, and more than 8,000 workers in impacts upon neighboring comSince then, the company has activity, daily. Given the complexmunities involved, for example, become very close with the comity of the work and the number those risks pertaining to transmunity, despite some conflicts of people involved, Fibria must port at the worksite. related to the trafficking of trucks be aware of the risks. To this and trains at the location. The end, the company organized the • Environmental risks this group relationship difficulties have been Horizonte 2 Working Group: investigates disposal of waste, overcome through dialogue and a Sustainability and Compliance, biodiversity, environmental comset of social initiatives carried out which gathers the 14 largest suppliance, energy and emissions, by Fibria aiming to provide benefits pliers of labor and representatives and water. to the population and minimize of all Fibria’s departments directly the impact of its operations on the associated with the project. • Compliance risks dedicated to region. Since 2011, the company issues associated with regulahas supported cultural promotion The group conducted its first tions and risks to the image and projects (art and music) and projmeeting in December 2015, with reputation of the company. ects for infrastructure improvement the objective of mapping social in the community, such as pedesand environmental, and compliRELATIONSHIP WITH JUPIÁ trian bridges and improvements in ance risks, and prioritizing acIn 2009, Fibria began transporting access ways, contributing to the tion plans to mitigate such risks. its pulp produced at Três Lagoas, local quality of life of families. Support to workers Hiring and services criteria were established to large cohort, estimated 8,000 people at its support Fibria’s employees and contractors, peak, between October and December of boost the region’s economy, and mitigate risks 2016. associated with the work. Learn about some of them below. • Service Center – Located at the site, a support group will guide people concerning meals, transport, safety, medical assistance, demobi• Hiring – Agreements with the Três Lagoas lization of teams, and inspecting the accomcity authorities provides hiring, preferably, of modations serving the project. municipal labor. All suppliers must first communicate jobs available in the region, helping • Suppliers – In a meeting with main suppliers, to foster the local economy. the company presented the vision of Fibria’s value chain, discussing challenges and shar• Medical Assistance – All employees must ing best practices according to the experience have a health care plan. In case of outsourced of each supplier. The purpose was to create personnel, it is the responsibility of the cona mature channel for dialogue and design a tracted company. To facilitate this process, plan collaboratively. Fibria established an agreement with a private hospital in Três Lagoas to serve the suppliers • Fibria Team – An environment was created for that choose this plan. the development of all company personnel. Based on the necessary profiles and perfor• Lodging – Workers coming from other locamance appraisals, employees were invited tions will be lodged in hotels and inns in Três to be a part of the Horizonte 2 team. This Lagoas. Together with restaurants in the city, allowed for the creation of growth opportunithe company is organizing the meals for this ties for other employees. 66 2015 Fibria Report FIBRIA Together, 14 suppliers of the worksite and representatives of the various departments at Fibria formed the Working Group Horizonte 2 – Sustainability and Compliance – created in order to map and mitigate social, environmental, and compliance risks Project Horizonte 2 67 Communication with Our Stakeholders Fibria’s greatest commitment is to produce sustainable wealth for its business and its stakeholders Nursery in Capão Bonito, SP 68 2015 FIBRIA REPORT FIBRIA Based on a qualified dialogue with our strategic stakeholders, high-value initiatives are created for Fibria, the environment, and society as a whole. How Fibria Generates and Shares Admired Profit Fibria builds its reputation around In this section, learn about the main ALSO IN a vision focused on admired profit, projects and results from 2015 THIS SECTION which is committed to creating and for Fibria, its employees and outsharing value with all of its audisourced workers, shareholders and 74 ences, in addition to return for its investors, suppliers, neighboring Meeting with shareholders. The company believes communities, clients, media and the employees that society’s approval, on which government. it depends in order to operate, is a 80 consequence of its ability to put its The value sustainability beliefs into practice. of dialogue Thus, the company quickly learned 85 to relate to its different stakehold25 years of ers and made communication one partnership of its important strengths. 69 Communication with Our Stakeholders VALUE ADDED STATEMENT1 (R$ thousand) 2013 2014 2015 Revenue Gross sales of products and services (less sales returns) 7,047,581 7,236,322 10,281,877 Reversal (provision) for deterioration of receivables 1,950 3,360 1,645 Revenue related to construction of own assets and other 1,932,590 2,158,261 1,719,194 8,982,121 9,397,943 12,002,716 Inputs acquired from third parties Cost of goods and services sold (includes raw materials) -3,943,595 -4,259,045 -4,819,669 Materials, energy, services from third parties and other -464,257 -474,418 -533,212 -4,407,852 -4,733,463 -5,352,881 Gross value added 4,574,269 4,664,480 6,649,835 Retained value Depreciation, amortization and depletion -1,751,947 -1,790,628 -1,827,097 Depletion of wood from partnership operations -111,214 -83,366 -65,141 Net value added 2,711,108 2,790,486 -1,892,238 Value added received in transfer Results of equity income 0 -622 393 Financial income and active foreign exchange variations 835,073 1,050,390 1,701,679 Deferred income tax and social contribution 0 0 1,202,172 835,073 1,049,768 2,904,244 Total value added for distribution 3,546,181 3,840,254 7,661,841 Value added distribution Payroll and payroll charges 592,582 654,462 727,641 Direct remuneration 456,307 508,438 565,250 Benefits 110,337 119,141 133,627 Government Severance Indemnity Fund (FGTS) 25,938 26,883 28,764 Taxes, fees, and contributions 642,089 209,425 1,051,439 Federal 523,028 57,147 899,655 State 82,369 95,564 115,740 Municipal 36,692 56,714 36,044 Accrued interest, losses on exchange variation and lease 3,009,092 2,813,815 5,525,776 Dividends 36,951 81,269 Retained earnings (loss for the period) -706,422 118,633 260,916 Non-controlling interest 8,840 6,968 14,800 Value added distributed 3,546,181 3,840,254 7,661,841 70 2015 FIBRIA REPORT FIBRIA Tamires de Oliveira Martinho, an intern from the drying area of Três Lagoas, MS Employees and outsourced workers Well-prepared and engaged teams lead to Fibria’s results Overall Commitment cesses through new initiatives, as Growth is essential to the pulp well as already existing programs, 16,738 industry. In addition, growth is highlighted below. directly associated with a highperformance culture, involvement Performance management workers, of which of people, and commitment of the In order to strengthen the compaentire organization to the industry ny’s high-performance culture, Fib3,929 are direct project. Such characteristics have ria strives to continuously improve employees and been consolidated every year, as its integrated, dynamic personnel 12,809 are Fibria’s organizational development policies connect more and more to management process, which includes aspects such as skills, merioutsourced workers its business strategies. tocracy, professional aspirations, 1 The value added statement (DVA) aims to and career development, among highlight the wealth created by the company The company prepared its profesothers. Fibria’s goal is to leverage and how such wealth was distributed in the sionals to achieve maximum perpersonal, team, and organizational fiscal periods presented. It is divided into formance in their jobs, and today development, aligned with its valpayroll and payroll charges, (direct remuneration, benefits, and Government Severance we have a team that is engaged in ues and beliefs. Fund (FGTS); taxes, fees, and contributions, a proposal that offers both person(federal, state, and municipal); remuneration al development opportunities and The company’s appraisal cycles of third party capital (interest, lease and strengthens the company’s social involve all administrative and operaothers); and remuneration of own capital (retained earnings and minimum dividend and environmental commitments. tional employees. The direct supermandatory and/or approved over the result In 2015, the company broadened visor is responsible for conducting of the current fiscal year). its dialogue and improved its prothe process, which favors open 71 Communication with Our Stakeholders dialogue about performance and Direct jobs potential. 2013 2014 2015 The company believes that this process will provide many benefits Own employees 3,889 4,004 3,929 over time. Among them: Outsourced workers 13,193 13,064 12,809 • A culture of structured and Total 17,082 17,068 16,738 transparent feedback; • People management and resource allocation based on current performance and future 8% is the turnover contributions to the company; rate for the year • Personal and collective development actions; • A healthy process of succession in all of the company’s departments. Outsourcing: a reality in Brazil and at Fibria Of the 17,000 employees at Fibria, 77% are outsourced workers. These professionals are contracted according to the labor legislation, from companies chosen through rigorous selection processes, mainly to serve the forestry operation. Outsourcing is a reality in Brazil and in the Development Paths What is the career path of each person? To nally, because of time constraints or complexity. what extent is a company able to and responGenerally, they are supervisory positions, which sible for leveraging the professional path of its require professionals who are more prepared to employees? There isn’t enough opportunity or make decisions and relate to various stakeholdspace on the organizational chart to promote ers. everyone. At Fibria, this fact led to structuring a project that respects the limits of the orgaThe company conducted comprehensive internization, and, at the same time, supports the views covering all aspects of people’s lives. The development of its talents. goal was to identify which work experience is lacking that may be acquired parallel to their In 2015, the company launched the Developcurrent jobs, so that they may be ready for new ment Paths in the Forestry Department, charchallenges, whether or not there is a chance for acterized through dialogue with employees a promotion within Fibria. In 2016, the comand leadership. The first step was to map the pany will implement the Development Paths in critical jobs in the Forestry Department, those the Industrial Department and structure indicathat are most difficult to be developed intertors for these projects. 72 2015 FIBRIA REPORT FIBRIA TRAINING 2013 2014 2015 Resources invested in training and development (R$ thousand) 6,268 7,301 7,052 Number of training hours 266,690 223,483 197,031 Total number of employees 3,889 3,804 3,929 Employees who received formal training on policies and procedures related to 466 1,861 1,440 human rights issues and its applicability on the work of employees Total number of hours dedicated to training on policies and procedures 233 7,501 25,082 concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations world, and may be a good alternaments identified energy waste and tive if precariousness is tackled and proposed restructuring one of the Brazilian legislation becomes more valves of the equipment. The idea consistent. Fibria maintains an open was replicated to the CR4 boiler, aldialogue with the legislative and lowing for savings of 16 MWh. executive powers of the Brazilian government, in order to contribute with its experience and opinion. Program i9: 1,586 good ideas Launched seven years ago, i9 is a IN SEVEN YEAR OF i9 program that was put together to stimulate the participation of em6,895 ployees in Fibria’s business through suggestions suggestions for improvements in the company’s processes and in 2,549 their own work routines. The ideas ideas implemented are recorded on the company’s intranet and chosen according 1,024 to criteria such as cost reducemployees participated R$ 1,795 tion, creating value for the client, increasing revenue, environmental i9 IN 2015 Average investment efficiency, productivity, and improving health and safety. 1,586 in training per suggestions employee i9 FOCO In 2015, the company created the 631 program i9 FOCO, geared toward ideas implemented proposals that meet strategic 50.1 needs of the company each year. i9 FOCO IN 2015 The opening theme was energy efficiency, which, in Jacareí, SP, 208 Average number resulted in an innovation in the CR3 suggestions boiler recovery system, in in which of training hours a multidisciplinary team formed 40 per employee by employees from several departideas awarded 73 Communication with Our Stakeholders In the unit of Três Lagoas, MS (from left to right), mechanical maintenance technicians Jefferson Damaceno Colino, Ronaldo Donizeti Garcia, Cláudio Paschoalin, and Amarildo Sportelo Meeting with Employees How to increase employee engagement in regards Progress in communities to company’s objetives? One way is to listen to The participants recognize the company’s evoluthem regularly in a structured manner, aiming to tion in designing actions carried out with the understand their perceptions and what they considcommunities neighboring its operations. The er as relevant aspects to the company’s operations. welfare bias of the projects disappeared. The With this goal, Fibria, organized a meeting in Januproposals providing the benefitting locations with ary 2016 – referring to the year 2015 – with the autonomy in their social and economic developcriteria of joining employees from diverse regions ment over time gained more space. To the group, and departments who participated in the 2015 progress in the social area brings mutual gains Ethos Conference, therefore being a group familiar – for the communities and the company – and with corporate sustainability aspects. Transparency is the result of Fibria’s consistent planning and and objectivity characterize the exchange of views investments in recent years. about three main subjects: the general perception of sustainability at Fibria; strong points of which to Balance and recognition be proud; and what still may be improved. Attention similar to the one dedicated to social and environmental projects is not perceived Where would the company like to be? when it comes to the internal audience. The The ethics with which Fibria conducts its business expectation is for greater balance in Fibria’s and the ability to overcome indebtedness from efforts regarding its stakeholders and strategic recent years were covered in various stages of the aspects. One example cited was the long-term meeting. Sustainability is seen as the company’s goals, which focus on the company’s commitgrowth strategy; however, according to parment to the environment, but do not reflect the ticipants, not all employees have the integrated company’s vision for employees and suppliers, for viewpoint about how sustainability permeates all example. In the wake of this are actions recognizlevels and departments of the company. To what ing employees, which were considered still poorly extent are economic, social and environmental developed in this group’s opinion. aspects considered during project development and how they connect all the areas, were some of the questions posed during the meeting. 74 2015 FIBRIA REPORT FIBRIA OWN Employees by gender and employment type Directors Management Consultants and Coordinators 11 1 89 11 295 108 Men Women Men Women Men Women Administrative Operational total 611 333 2,349 121 3,355 574 Men Women Men Women Men Women Employee retention after maternity / paternity leave Breakdown of minority groups 2015 men1 women Rate of retention of employees who returned to work after 100% 100% 14.61% maternity / paternity leave Women 1 Men are entitled to 5 calendar days. In 2013, the number of days to which women are entitled went from 120 to 180 days; 100% of employees with the right to maternity / paternity leave made use of it. 28.38% Black and Mixed Race Percentage of performance evaluation 15.40% WOMEN men Over 50 years of age Executives – general managers 100 100 and managers Supervisors/technicians 100 100 3.74% Operational 74 27 People with disabilities Administrative 13 20 75 Communication with Our Stakeholders Mirques Ventura da Vitória, Operator in the Drying area in Aracruz, ES Shareholders With the new dividends policy approved in 2015, payment to shareholders is no longer related to the company’s income, but rather to the company’s cash flow. In 2015, R$ 2.1 billion were paid in dividends. Respect in for shareholders and that it would business. Difficult and crucial issues practical terms like to establish respectful practices for the future of the forest indusThe company ended 2015 havwith all stakeholders, without netry, among them climate change, ing concluded the settlement of glecting financial soundness. water, and sustainability, have been its debt. Fibria today has a wellgaining increasingly more space on balanced and comfortable level of Fibria also values transparency in its the agenda of these meetings. indebtedness, in other words, very relationships. In events such as the low financial expense. With this, Investor Tour, carried out annually Also in 2015, the company orthe company managed to make an for company leadership, investors, ganized the 5th Fibria Day, aninterim payment of R$ 2.1 billion in and shareholders from Brazil and nual event at the New York Stock dividends and reformulate its policy abroad, the company strengthens Exchange for analysts and investors in this area, in a clear demonstraits commitment to sharing the risk, from all over the world. tion that it values fair remuneration challenges, and opportunities in its Total outstanding shares 553,934,646 common shares Market value on 12/31/2015 R$ 28.7 billion 76 2015 FIBRIA REPORT FIBRIA Suppliers In 2016, our challenge will be to address the needs of the internal audience, while developing, along with our suppliers, approaches that ensure the best possible cost-benefit ratio. 1,663 Knowing how to share the dollar, expenses also grew. In A 12% higher labor cost in for2016, the most complex endeavor estry, an increase in the price of will be meeting the needs of the Contracts with diesel, and the loss in revenue internal audience at a lower cost, with exports of energy were some while seeking a better cost-benefit companies and of the subjects concerning Fibria ratio with suppliers, which are also suppliers in 2015. The biggest challenge in under a lot of pressure for financial procurement, however, was the results. country’s economic situation. Fibria R$ 6.7 Billion in financial is an exporter, therefore, benefited by the favorable exchange rate. Part of the company’s expenses, In partnership with these suppliers, the company wants to develop new approaches in which produchowever, is also denominated in tivity is the key word. Fibria will volume dollars. With the appreciation of map the suppliers, identify which Transport of chips from Capão Bonito to the production unit of Jacareí, SP 77 Communication with Our Stakeholders are the most important to its processes, and invite them to learn about the best alternatives. SuppliAnother important feature is focus on value creation, through development and certification programs 85% ers need to feel part of the value of local suppliers in the States of Is the percentage of chain and have a sense of commitEspírito Santo and Mato Grosso new suppliers that ment during good and bad times. do Sul. In addition, when acquiring services, we give preference to were approved based Best practices, lower costs local suppliers and/or encourage on social criteria In 2015, dialogue was also decithe setting up of subsidiaries in the sive so that the company could regions where the company operstandardize work requirements ates. With this, we contribute to requested for suppliers in its units. increasing local taxes collection, so Fibria carried out workshops with that the government can propose groups of ten suppliers each, orgaactions for improvements in the nized into Administrative Services, Forestry, Industry, and Logistics. At these meetings, the company municipalities. Approval of companies 81% asked: what are the requirements In the process to approve suppliIs the percentage of demanded by Fibria, and that ers, we conduct analyses ranging new suppliers that make Fibria and their companies from risk-related aspects of the spend more than they should? business or social risks (safety and were approved baAnd, together, they defined a set guarantee of rights to outsourced sed on environmental of actions to standardize requirements for providing services that professionals) to an analysis of the alignment of prospective suppliers criteria imply better and more unified pracwith Fibria’s guidelines on forest tices and lower cost. The company management, environment and chose the three most urgent, all sustainability. Approximately 15% related to technical safety aspects, of the companies that underwent for immediate implementation. the approval process and were not approved, were not able to enter Fibria’s vendor list. i9 of Suppliers Another way of gaining productivFibria maintains 1,663 contracts ity and commitment is stimulating with significant companies and a collaborative culture of innovasuppliers, which equals a financial tion. This is the essence of the pilot volume of R$ 6.7 billion. project i9 Aberto | Fornecedores (i9 Open | Suppliers), launched in Fibria considers significant suppli2015 and initially developed during ers those with annual expense of the silviculture process in Vale do over R$ 5 million, those that supply Paraíba. The project had the objecservices that affect the company’s tive of testing the methodology organizational climate – including for future expansion. The initiative food, transport, or health care plans generated 64 ideas, 26 of which – and those that provide inputs and have already been implemented. raw materials essential for producing the final product (pulp). Our practices in procurement Since 2013 Fibria has been applying Purchases made by Fibria’s team social and environmental evaluaare based on three core aspects: tion criteria considered critical to its economic, strategic and technical. supplier base. In human rights, for The latter involves, among other example, the company evaluated analyses, the approval process and 683 businesses. Of this total, 87% the Services Contracting Commitwere approved and 17% failed or tee. are subject to the implementation of improvement actions. 78 2015 FIBRIA REPORT FIBRIA Companies with a rejected approval Health and Safety Since then, the company has process have up to three months Since 2009, Fibria has been sysimproved its micro-planning of to make the necessary adjustments tematically reducing the number forestry operations. The company and request a reevaluation of the of accidents, with and without adopted more appropriate equipnon-conforming criteria. lost time, at its units. An unprecment and stricter checks for the exedented fact marked 2015: in the istence of beehives. The company SERVICES Contracting last seven months, there was no also maps allergic employees and is Committee record of accidents with lost time studying, with the Brazilian Health The Services Contracting Committee in forestry activity, an operation Surveillance Agency (ANVISA), a (CCS) is a system that hires contracinvolving 13,000 employees dediway to legalize the inclusion of tors at Fibria with the ability to carry cated to the nurseries, plantations, adrenaline pens in safety kits. out a broad analysis of suppliers, harvesting, and wood transport. considering legal, safety, and sustainability aspects, among others. In Despite having a robust safety 2015, the Committee gained new system that reflects strict standards modules and more interaction with such as those in the chemical and other company systems. It became petrochemical industries, in 2015, useful to all activities, not only proFibria unfortunately recorded the curement, in addition to helping the death of one of its technicians in company strengthen the compliance Vale do Paraíba, a victim of anaphyguidelines within Fibria. lactic shock caused by the attack of a swarm of Africanized bees. ABSOLUTE Number of Fatalities 2013 2014 2015 Men 1 1 1 Women 1 0 0 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and number of work-related fatalities 2013 2014 2015 Number of injuries 37 37 34 Loyalty Of Fibria’s 100 largest Injury rate (overall) 0.18 0.19 0.17 suppliers in each Number of occupational diseases 0 0 0 segment, around Occupational diseases rate 0 0 0 70% have been with Number of lost days 14,155 7,882 7,290 the company for over Lost days rate 69.48 39.87 36.21 ten years 79 Communication with Our Stakeholders Rural Land Development Program Isalina Martins de Lima and Noemi de Oliveira Lima, in the Community of Jaó, SP, sieving beans Communities Income, quality of life, capacity building; retention in the field, association formation; and access to public policy are some of the values generated by community projects. The value of dialogue all locations affected by the comThe company seeks to ensure the pany’s operations. social legitimacy of its business through strengthening, in the At the end of each operation, long term, its relationship with the mitigation actions carried out by communities, and integrating their Fibria are evaluated in individual interests when conducting and interviews with neighbors and Operational managing the business. representatives from the communiDialogue A measure towards this goal is the ties, recommended at the dialogue meetings. The results from 2015 In 2015, the company Operational Dialogue, organized to demonstrate that the plans were carried out 671 present beforehand the harvesting plan to neighboring communities, considered positive, with an average effectiveness rate reaching 2.8 dialogues with 4,193 with details about the procedures on a scale of 0 to 3. representatives in the vicinity. The idea is to discuss and agree upon ways to avoid or More than minimize impact on from 100% of the mitigate negative impact. In 2015, neighboring communities, Fibria a total of 671 dialogues were carwould like to avoid it and work communities affected ried out, with the participation of jointly on income generating by Fibria’s operations 4,193 people, covering 100% of strategies for families and local 80 2015 FIBRIA REPORT FIBRIA development. Learning to diaOperational Dialogue logue with such diverse audiences from such diverse cultures was the Effectiveness first condition for the company Number of Number of rate of mitigation Dialogues participants to achieve putting into practice actions hundreds of programs and social actions in recent years. Today Aracruz 432 1,358 2.9 these projects benefit around 6,000 families and over a hundred Jacareí1 118 883 2.8 communities in the regions where it operates. Três Lagoas 121 1,952 2.7 In 2015, the company invested Total 671 4,193 2.8 R$ 26.7 million between values paid by Fibria and those raised by 1 Includes Capão Bonito and Vale do Paraíba the Rede Responsável program. Note: After completion of the forestry operations, the community involved evaluates the process based on a questionnaire applied by the Operational Dialogue team. Each Currently, projects aimed toward answer receives one of the following scores: good (3), fair (2), bad (1), poor (0). The final income generation, such as family score is the result of a weighted average. In 2015, the score was between 2.7 and 2.9 of farming, beekeeping, and crafts, effectiveness (good). correspond to 90% of actions and investments. At the center of the company’s work are aspects such as capacity building; production and productivity; association formation; access to low impact the company sent a proposal of a pilot program to the federal government, whose objective is 90% of the company’s technology; value added to the to give communities participatproduct, and sales. ing in the PDRT the opportunity investments in to acquire land, from Fibria and Rural Land other farmers, through governsocial actions are Development Program ment loans. geared toward The Rural Land Development Program (PDRT) empowers rural Water conservation income generation communities neighboring Fibria During the water shortage, the projects, such as to strengthen their associations and networks and manage agroPDRT is helping its participating small farmers save water in family farming, ecological projects. The focus of irrigation of their crops and other beekeeping, and the program is to support production chains through technical uses. This is seen in Guapiara, a community located in Southern handicrafts assistance and apply low environSão Paulo state, where savings mental impact technologies, in adreached 60%. dition to guiding access to public policy aiming to increase sales In partnership with the Guapiara and determine the social needs of Association of Organic Agriculture the communities. In this way, the (AGAOR), the technical assistance program hopes to contribute to from Fibria’s program offers increased average income of bentraining to members interested efited families and promote local in implementing microspraying in development. their fields. The system consists of a laser-drilled hose that releases The Rural Land Development the necessary amount of water to Program began in 2012, and in irrigate the plantation, avoiding just three years, has reached over waste and reducing the incidence 4,000 families from the States of of fungi and bacteria proliferating Bahia, Espírito Santo, Mato Grosso in soggy soil. do Sul, and São Paulo. As part of the program’s evolution, in 2015, 81 Communication with Our Stakeholders SUPPORT TO LIVESTOCK In 2015, the percentage of selfIn Mato Grosso do Sul, a partnersustaining projects reached 20%. ship with the Brazilian Service of A good example was the plan for Assistance to Micro and Small engaging the community of Boa Enterprises (SEBRAE) is helping Esperança, in Capão Bonito, SP. hundreds of small livestock farmers After three years of actions toward participating in the PDRT to increase strengthening the community, the quantity and quality of the milk management training and structurthey produce. The focus of the ing the residents’ association, the company’s work in 2015 was on community acquired autonomy and improving pastures through alternaindependence to handle its social tive techniques that are accessible issues, deeming Fibria’s intervention to producers. Implemented on an no longer necessary. area of 1,280 hectares of pastures, benefitting 250 small producers. Specific communities Of a total of 566 communities in the At Vale do Paraíba, the company area directly affected by Fibria (comis operating on two fronts. One of munities located within a three-kilothem involves SEBRAE and COMmeter radius around its property or EVAP, a dairy cooperative in the areas leased by the company for euregion, to which the company offers calyptus production), 78 are formed technical services to 40 milk producby traditional fishermen, Indigenous ers in six cities in Vale do Paraíba. peoples, and Quilombolas. On the other, with SEBRAE alone, Fibria provides technical support to 10 Since the beginning of its activity, of their neighboring producers. The Fibria has been improving its ability goal is to enable the future reguto dialogue. The first step was to lated use of the company’s planted understand that the company did areas for this activity. In these two not have sufficient knowledge to projects, the company invested 44% of the total necessary resources. The rest of the investment is the responcoexist and make proposals in the face of cultural diversity, weaknesses, and such differing needs. R$ 34 Million is the total sibility of SEBRAE and COMEVAP. The Indigenous community alone involves four ethnic groups. The invested in social In 2015, Fibria joined the APL, a company sought the help of skilled local production arrangement, specialists, trained Fibria interlocuprojects in the year along with six entities from Vale do tors, and formed a very active mulParaíba. In two years, the group tidisciplinary group. plans to use R$ 1 million towards initiatives such as technical assisToday, the progress in all regions Fishermen, tance, milk quality analysis, pasture is indisputable. There is, however, improvements, and technical visits. a complex challenge to be overIndigenous come: the issue of land reclaimed communities and Self-sustaining projects One of Fibria’s goals is to make 70% by the Quilombolas in Northern Espírito Santo, a sensitive issue, Quilombolas of all income-generating projects whose unfolding involves numerous With the support it supports self-sustaining by 2025. To monitor this goal, the projects people and interests. So, in 2015, the company began dialogue with of specialists and considered self-sustaining will be some important players, such as interlocutors, those that aim to generate income Brazilian Institute for Colonizatoin Fibria learns more and strengthen social capital, and and Land Reform (INCRA) and the no longer receive direct investments State Coordination of Quilombola about its neighbors from Fibria (inputs, tools, equipment, Communities in Espírito Santo, aimand improves its and infrastructure), receiving only ing to find a solution. occasional technical support and/or competency for investments raised in the market by dialogue communities, or public policies. 82 2015 FIBRIA REPORT FIBRIA Partnership with the MST and USP The bitter conflict experienced by Fibria in 2011 ment offers, including ownership of the lot. with the Landless Worker’s Movement (MST) turned into one of the most important cases A couple of concurrent educational and health of dialogue involving the company. The need projects in this process are worth highlighting. to negotiate with Brazilian Institute for ColoniOne of them is the adult literacy program called zatoin and Land Reform (INCRA) and the MST “Sim eu Posso” (“Yes, I Can”), that taught over about the condemnation of 11,000 hectares in 300 people, and whose goal was to achieve Prado, in Southern Bahia, created the Alvorecer zero illiteracy. The Projeto de Saúde (Health (Dawn) Project, considered an unprecedented Project), in partnership with Fiocruz, in Rio experience in sustainable rural production. de Janeiro, operated on two important lines: phytotherapy, with the formation of medicinal The project was developed in partnership with plant beds, and a comprehensive diagnosis of the Luiz de Queiroz School of Agriculture, at the health conditions of participating communithe University of São Paulo (USP) and the MST ties and the local public health conditions. Adin agroforestry production. The project curditionally, a school was built to train technicians rently benefits 1,200 families, which in 2015 in agro-ecology. obtained an income of R$ 1.3 million marketing their agricultural products. Agril Farm In 2015, a small group of families settled down A part of keeping people in the fields involves in the Agril Farm in the State of Espírito Santo, the transition from camps to settlements, owned by Fibria. It was a small occupation that which means that families come out of canvas did not prevent the Company’s activities in that tents located on the lands occupied and start location. Three meetings have already been held to live in their houses, with everything a settlein order to find a solution. Investments in communities (R$ thousand)1 2013 2014 2015 Fibria2 20,658 17,369 20,969 Fibria via Votorantim Institute 2,501 1,925 1,292 Incentivized projects 788 516 1,338 Investment from the Votorantim Institute (own resources and raised via Brazilian 3,506 3,142 4,470 Development Bank BNDES) Rede Responsável3 4,159 12,199 5,691 Total 31,612 35,151 33,761 1 Voluntary contributions and investment of resources in the community, for beneficiaries external to the company. They include contributions to charities, NGOs and research institutes (not related to the Research and Development Department of the company), resources to support community infrastructure projects, and direct costs of social programs. They also include project management costs. 2 The project Assentamentos Sustentáveis (Sustainable Settlements), in partnership with the MST, investment of BNDES, among others, are also included. 3 To obtain the total value of Rede Responsável, it is necessary to add the value of the investment of the Votorantim Institute, as well as the value of sponsored projects to the value reported. 83 Communication with Our Stakeholders Plantation of eucalyptus in Três Lagoas, MS Forest Partners – Forestry Savings Program One of the most important links in the company’s value chain, the Forestry Savings Program, encourages rural producers near the production units to plant eucalyptus. In addition to subsidizing them, Fibria offers ample support structuring the plantations, with benefits for the company, its neighbors, and the environment. Currently, 67,000 hectares from 1,685 producers participate in the program, in 164 cities in Espírito Santo, Bahia, Minas Gerais, and São Paulo. Forestry Savings Program Forestry Savings Benefits Conditions • Subsidies to producers; • Ensures Fibria’s wood supply • Environmental compliance for forest partnership productive • Training and monitoring euca• Generates income for families areas lyptus plantations; • Stimulates local economy • Contracts must meet the needs • Planning and guidance planting of the company and producers other crops • Helps retain the population in the field • Wood bought from third parties undergoes the Program for the • Model provides security to Verification of Controlled Wood producers and Controversial Sources, a process created by Fibria to certify • Protects forests the legality of raw materials • Quality of life • Inclusion in Fibria’s value chain 84 2015 FIBRIA REPORT FIBRIA 25 Years of Partnerships When the program was launched in 1990, Fibria’s intention 30% of Fibria’s wood was to encourage cultivation of eucalyptus in order to supply 5% of the total wood demand in Aracruz, ES. Twentyis supplied five years later, the Forestry Savings Program became one of the most successful partnerships between the company and by neighboring the community. Today, the company’s neighboring producproducers who ers provide 30% of the supply, and cultivation of eucalyptus is the third most important agribusiness activity in Espírito participate in the Santo after coffee and livestock, and its pulp is the first exForestry Savings ported product from the state. Program The Forestry Savings Program was the way Fibria found to include rural communities and producers in its business, generating income, jobs, and value in the field. The financial engineering of the program is one of its strengths: Fibria funds forestry production of its partners, whose debts, converted into wood, are settled only at harvest periods. The environmental appeal is another highlight, since all producers should have their properties regularized according to the rules of the Forestry Code and state laws, the program also encourages the planting of up to 3.5% of native seedlings for forest restoration. FOREST PARTNERSHIP – CONTRACTED AREAS (HA) 2013 2014 2015 Aracruz 56,755 61,080 54,800 Capão do Leão1 28,133 27,458 13,634 Jacareí2 20,508 15,436 8,029 Três Lagoas 2,657 2,656 1,813 Total 108,053 106,630 78,276 1 Unit sold in 2012. 2 Includes Capão Bonito and Vale do Paraíba. Investment in Infrastructure 2013 2014 2015 Aracruz 213,378 353,774 220,781 Jacareí3 720,227 1,622,632 2,737,552 Três Lagoas 1,396,489 1,357,936 4,011,421 Total 2,330,094 3,334,342 6,969,754 3 Includes Capão Bonito and Vale do Paraíba 85 Communication with Our Stakeholders Maria Angélica de Almeida in the nursery of Capão Bonito, SP Clients Each year, client interest in sustainability grows, and with this, an increasing number of visits to learn about the company’s operations in Brazil and neighboring communities. New frontiers aims to identify potentials, risks, Integrated vision Growth less associated with the concept of commodity, implies and needs, so that the company may offer differentiated solutions. Fibria is creating creating more value for clients. new connections Through sales offices located in North America, Europe, Asia, and Fibria’s value proposal, based on a clear position in sustainability, with its clients Brazil, the company is building has sparked the interest of many beginning with its relationships that go beyond the conventional sales processes. clients who come to Brazil to learn about the company’s forestry opsales department. The erations, industrial processes and company wants to The company increased Fibria’s touchpoints in its client base, prohow the company handles impact, and all of its stakeholders. provide differentiated moting an integrated view of the solutions and business starting with commercial activity. This work in many cases, strengthen its is already being carried out and sustainability strategy 86 2015 FIBRIA REPORT FIBRIA Media Fibria’s good performance is reflected in its relationship with the media. The company expanded its radius of press coverage and is recognized by several media outlets and journalists, in Brazil and abroad, as an example of management, governance, innovation, and sustainability Positive exposure • Labor relations and human refor the social networks aiming Fibria’s total exposure in 2015 sources – 4% to strengthen its presence in the increased 30% compared to 2014. digital environment. Fibria wanted Overall, 10,168 national and interPrimary media outlets represented to know who the followers were, national news reports were pub35% (3,414) of the publications in thereby intensifying dialogue and lished in 2015, as opposed to 7,867 2015. In total, 1,183 media outgetting to know better the compublications in the previous year. lets mentioned the company in the pany’s audience. In 2015, the company’s positive period. Three of the company’s exposure increased 40% compared important initiatives deserved more The company defined the profile of to the same period in 2014. The attention from the press: the pubits followers and learned that recnegative exposure dropped 52%. licizing of Project Horizonte 2, the ognition and opportunities to work The most highlighted subjects were: auctioning of the Macuco Terminal for the company are the topics that at Port of Santos, and upgrade in generate the greatest engagement. • Economic relations and investinvestment grade by Moody’s. ments – 46% The monthly average reach before the Social media new strategy, from January to April, • Variations in shares – 27% Fibria is present in social media was 31,676 users/month. Between profiles on Facebook, Twitter, May and November, this number was • Community relations – 11% Linkedin and Flicker. In May 2015, 127,170 users/month representing the company implemented new an increase of over 300%. • The environment – 5% content and intelligence strategy Rogerio Campoy Crancianinov (side), Forest Maintenance Supervisor, and Luis Augusto Bussaglia Sossai (facing forward), Forest Maintenance Technician, in the unit of Três Lagoas, MS 87 Communication with Our Stakeholders Government In recent years, Fibria has signed contracts with institutions linked to the Brazilian government as well as governments in other countries. Fibria believes that, in a democratic • Brazilian Development Bank (BNkiln, and bleaching, at the unit of society, everyone, including comDES) – In 2015, five contracts were Três Lagoas, MS. With final mapanies, has the right to participate signed using the credit limit of R$ turity in 2017, the contract had a in the drawing up of public policies 1.7 billion, defined in 2011, in the remaining balance of R$ 23 million and take part in discussions conamounts of R$ 10.5 million (finanon December 31, 2015; cerning regulatory frameworks. cing industrial investments), R$ 24 The company therefore seeks to million (financing technological • Studies and Projects Financing contribute by defending its point innovation projects), R$ 35 million Agency (FINEP) (April 2011) – for of view through direct contact with (acquisition of trucks), R$ 138.6 the Pulp Customization for Clients authorities and politicians and/or by million (forestry investments), and project. The outstanding balance participating in the various associaR$ 7.5 million (social projects). of this operation was R$ 2 million tions that represent the forestry and On December 31, 2015, consion December 31, 2015, with final pulp and paper sectors, of which dering contracts in force since maturity in September 2019. it is a member, in order to ensure 2005, the remaining balance a stable political and institutional of Fibria loans from BNDES was • Primarily an exporting company, environment and clear and wellR$ 1,851,408, with R$ 963,358 Fibria uses the corresponding tax designed regulations. pegged to long-term interest rate benefit to the suspension of PIS/ (TJLP), R$ 130,205 fixed-rate, R$ COFINS (9.25%) on purchases of In this context, Fibria is guided by a 26,603 SELIC, and R$ 731,242 to inputs, intermediate materials, and structured governance model based a Currency Basket. Additionally, packaging, reaching the freight on corporate values, with a special the company has a balance of contracted in the domestic market emphasis on ethics and transparR$ 5,462 million from FINAME, for domestic transport of the ency, and underpinned by the clear (Machine and Equipment Producrespective products and products guidelines established in its Code of tion Financing), received through intended for export. Conduct and Anti-Corruption Policy, on-lending agencies; approved by the Board of Directors. • Fundo Constitucional de FinanPublic Financing ciamento do Centro-Oeste (FCO) Agreements made by the company (December 2009) – financing for presented the following situation at the purchase of parts and pieces the end of 2015: for recausticizing processes, lime 88 2015 FIBRIA REPORT FIBRIA In the relationship with government and representative entities of the forest, pulp and paper industries, Fibria seeks to contribute to the consistent formulation of public policies and regulatory frameworks. Maicon Albuquerque Tosta and Lucas Thiago da Silva Santos, young apprentices in mechanical maintenance of unit of Três Lagoas, MS]) 89 External Readers After each new edition of Fibria’s Report, we submit the document to be read and assessed by renowned specialists on sustainability in Brazil and abroad. This attitude contributes to improving the Report, from communication with our stakeholders to the business itself. The opinions are published in full, without participation, interference or editing by Fibria. See below. Gustavo Pimentel is the Director of SITAWI Finanças do Bem, a Brazilian organization whose mission is to mobilize capital to a positive social and environmental impact through research, consulting, and development of new financial mechanisms. In 2015, he was chosen the best social and environmental analyst for investors in the world by Extel Independent Research in Responsible Investment. He started is career working on consulting (Accenture), and finance (ABN AMRO, SR Rating). For more than ten years, he has worked in the intersection between finance and sustainability, supporting financial institutions and investors to integrate social and environmental issues in strategy, evaluation of investments, and product development. He holds a degree in Economics from UFRJ, and has an International MBA from IE Business School. In 2015, Fibria seems to have initiThe first goal of a report is to convey ated a new cycle: back to profitabilcredibility to readers from the beginity with debt on a comfortable levning. The interviews with the main el, strong distribution of dividends executives accomplish this purpose to shareholders, expansion of the with mastery, demonstrating full productive base in Três Lagoas, and command of strategic and sustaina shift toward innovation through ability aspects, specific answers to acquisitions and strengthening of actual challenges, and discussion of the Technological Center. The intecontroversial aspects, such as relagration of the sustainability concept tionships with communities, use of into the business, a pillar since the genetically modified organisms, and company was established in 2009, fatalities in operations. continued to gain consistency, and also seems to have evolved from The status for the 2015 goals is reresolution of liabilities to product inported early on, but failing to explain novation, and relationships that will why the forest restoration goal was shape its future. not accomplished. In terms of 2016 90 2015 Fibria Report FIBRIA goals, a total of nine, only one is ing their eco-efficiency indexes in quantitative (forest restoration). relative terms helps to illustrate how The other goals seem to be a set the company pursues its strategic of sustainability actions, from the pillars. The indicators per adt (airstrategic level (e.g., to review reladried ton of pulp) or other relevant tionship scenarios with stakeholddenominators should be extended ers) to the operational level (e.g., to all aspects, whenever possible. to expand silvopastoral projects), including the tactical level (e.g., iniFollowing the same line, Fibria tiating dialogue on the Quilombola helps readers put the company’s land issue). In addition to providing performance into context by numbers, it is necessary to explain indicating the BATs Best Availthe connection between the shortable Technologies, in other words, term goals (2016) and those that what would be the best numbers are long term (2025). for each indicator when using the best technology available in the Fibria states that “growing is esindustry. In addition to establishing sential to the pulp industry.” This the BAT for all indicators, the next could be one of the few clichés step for Fibria should be to explain of the report, but it is addressed the cases where its performance differently: the level of details is below the BAT, and if there are on management of Horizonte 2, plans for improvement. the expansion project of the Três Lagoas plant, provides confidence The report makes good use of case that it is being well executed, and studies and other examples that this could in fact generate value to illustrate and humanize Fibria’s Fibria states that all stakeholders. Moreover, the disefforts for sustainability that go cussion on “decommoditization”, beyond the harshness of numbers. “growing is essential client loyalty through sustainability, Even so, in several cases, basic indito the pulp industry.” and innovation in products and cators were reported with short hisprocesses, shows the company is torical series (1 or 2 years), showing This could be one ready to secure its position in the a snapshot instead of a film. of the few clichés forest value chain. The report’s editorial structure, of the report, but Three cases give a clear demonstracombining more static information it is addressed tion of how Fibria cooperates and (structure, governance) with dycompetes in the Forestry Industry: namic items (highlights of the year, differently: the i) the protection of its intellectual cases, indicators) provides pleasant level of details on property the eucalyptus clones, in the process involving Eldorado Braand fluid reading. However, most of the indicators reported are not management of sil Celulose; ii) the leveraging of its commented, leaving the interpreHorizonte 2, the logistics and commercial structure to distribute Klabin’s supplementation of their causes to readers. In summary, Fibria’s report excels expansion project tary forestry products, and; c) the for the depth of sophisticated and of the Três Lagoas water resilience, when the tailings of the accident in Mariana, MG controversial aspects, illustrating the company’s maturity on susplant, provides affected the water quality of the tainability management, while its confidence that Doce River and paralyzed another company in the industry, but not opportunities for improvement focus on more basic and editorial it is being well Fibria. The latter case, however, issues. Thus, Fibria seems to be executed, and was not mentioned in the report, despite being in the news. well positioned to have the most admired report for the coming this could in fact years of its new cycle. generate value to Fibria’s product and industrial process are relatively simple to underall stakeholders.” stand and, for this reason, report91 External Readers Mark R. Kramer leads FSG, a nonprofit consulting firm founded to devise social impact strategies for many of the world’s largest foundations, corporations and nonprofit organizations. Mark also serves as a Senior Fellow at Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government. He cofounded the Center for Effective Philanthropy, is a member of the Kimberly-Clark Sustainability Advisory Board and lectures in the Executive Education Program of Harvard Business School. Mark has published on topics in philanthropy, collective impact, evaluation and creating shared value. He has coauthored many influential articles in Harvard Business Review with Professor Michael E. Porter of Harvard Business School and in Stanford Social Innovation Review with FSG colleagues. We are pleased to note that Fibria’s supply chain, Fibria has found a 2015 Sustainability Report not only way to create shared value by alignprovides a comprehensive summary ing the company’s success with the of the company’s sustainability prosperity of its local communities. activities, it also documents several Fibria could use ways in which Fibria creates shared A second area where Fibria crevalue. Professor Michael Porter and ates shared value is by protecting its unique stature, Mark Kramer described the concept native forests and biodiversity. and that of the of creating shared value in a 2011 Fibria maintains one hectare of Harvard Business Review article as preserved natural area for each Grupo Votorantim, gaining a competitive advantage from innovations that advance ecotwo hectares of planted forest, and has also encouraged its suppliers to catalyze a nomic and social conditions in the to protect biodiversity and replant collaborative communities where a company operates. Fibria’s report cites at least native seedlings. In addition to the environmental benefits, these effort of the public three ways in which the company efforts contribute to the water and sector, private creates shared value: pest management that is critical to the productivity of eucalyptus sector, and civil For twenty-five years, Fibria’s Forplantations. society to address estry Savings Program has provided training and financing to create A third source of shared value is in water scarcity in new income opportunities for Fibria’s development and training a way that few nearly 2000 local producers. This program also creates value for the of local suppliers. For the expansion of its Tres Lagoas facility, Fibria has other Brazilian company by generating 30% of committed to using local providers institutions the raw material needed for Fibria’s Aracruz facility. By making local wherever possible and providing them with nearly 900,000 hours of could even producers a part of the company’s specialized training. This saves the contemplate. 92 2015 Fibria Report FIBRIA Dane Smith is a Managing Director at FSG. He has 25 years of experience advising senior executives in various industries. He has particular expertise in identifying business opportunities that address serious social challenges. He has recently consulted with BASF, Arauco, and Intel on their Shared Value and CSR strategies. Dane has advised cabinet ministers in Latin America and Eastern Europe on strengthening their economies. His writing has been featured in The Guardian and Forbes. He is the author of white papers on “Shared Value in the Extractives Industries” and “Shared Value in Chile”. He has degrees from Harvard, Wharton, and Johns Hopkins University. He has lived in Brazil, speaks Portuguese and is proud to have a son who is a Carioca. company money and also strengthing in systematic collaboration with other actor in the Brazilian econoens the local economy by providing the broader forestry cluster, Fibria my. Fibria has declared its commitnew professional opportunities for can have a far greater impact in ment to the principles of antithe local population. supporting small and medium supcorruption, yet again, we believe pliers, providing specialized training that Fibria could be a key player in We salute Fibria as a model for opportunities for disadvantaged working collaboratively with comhow to run a forestry business in Brazilians, and encouraging local munity groups, other companies, way that maximizes shareholder economic development. government and global NGOs to value by creating the greatest end corruption in Brazil. possible social and environmental Water scarcity is another critical benefits. Yet there is a limit to the issue for Fibria’s long-term viability. We applaud the global leadership societal impact any company can Here too, Fibria will have to look in sustainability that is reflected in have acting alone. We therefore beyond its own footprint to have a Fibria’s 2015 Sustainability Report, encourage management to go material impact on the issue. Fibria and we admire the ways that the even further by taking the lead in could use its unique stature, and company has already found to establishing cross-sector collaborathat of the Grupo Votorantim, to create shared value. We are confitions to tackle three critical opcatalyze a collaborative effort of dent that Fibria can apply the same portunities to improve its business the public sector, private sector, expertise and creativity to the new and strengthen the nation. and civil society to address water challenge of engaging others to scarcity in a way that few other address Brazil’s shared challenges Although the report references Brazilian institutions could even together in partnership. external partnerships, Fibria could contemplate. do a great deal more to partner with local and national NGOs, with Finally, we note that Brazil’s econgovernment, with other companies omy and political environment in Grupo Votorantim, and even with have been paralyzed by corruption forestry industry competitors, such in a way that creates enormous as Klabin, Suzano, and Arauco. Actcosts for Fibria and nearly every 93 Independent assurance statement Independent assurance statement Bureau Veritas INTRODUCTION METHODOLOGY Bureau Veritas Certification Brazil The Assurance covered the follow(Bureau Veritas) was engaged by ing activities: Fibria Celulose S.A. (Fibria), to conduct an independent assessment of 1 Interviews with the personnel reits Sustainability Report (hereinafter sponsible for material issues and referred to as the Report). involved in the Report content; This assessment was conducted by 2 Traceability of data published, a multidisciplinary staff with expersearching its sources and the relitise in non-financial data. ability of management systems involved; SCOPE OF WORK The scope of this verification 3 Verification of performance data encompassed the Guidelines and related to the principles that Principles1 of the Global Reporting ensure the quality of the inforInitiativeTM GRI G4 (2013) for Susmation, pursuant to the GRI G4 tainability Reports, with regard to guidelines; accountability for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2015. 4 On-site visits to Fibria’s Units at Aracruz (Espírito Santo State), FIBRIA´S AND BUREAU VERIJacareí (São Paulo State), Três LaTAS RESPONSIBILITIES goas (Mato Grosso do Sul State) The collection, calculation and preand the Central Administration sentation of the data published in office located in the city of São the report are Fibria’s management Paulo; sole responsibility. Bureau Veritas is responsible for providing an inde5 Analysis of Fibria’s stakeholder pendent opinion to the Stakeholdengagement activities; ers, pursuant to the scope of work defined in this declaration. 6 Evaluation of the method used to 1 Materiality, Stakeholder Inclusiveness, Sustainability Context, Completeness, Badefine material issues included in lance, Comparability, Accuracy, Periodicity, the Report, taking into account Clarity, and Reliability the sustainability context and the 94 2015 Fibria Report FIBRIA scope of the information pubTECHNICAL REPORT tion (still in the planning phase) lished. • The Report presented by Fibria is and the project management based upon material issues that system were presented, covering The level of verification adopted reflect the study “Review of mabroad issues that demonstrate was Reasonable, according to the terial issues of December 2013.” Fibria’s sustainability policy; requirements of the ISAE 3000 It is our understanding that Standard2, which were incorpothese issues make it possible to • Concerning the impact on hurated to the internal assessment disclose the impacts of activities man rights in the supply chain protocols of Bureau Veritas. in a balanced manner. We point (HR11 indicator), we identified out that the company states in that Fibria has been developing LIMITATIONS AND the Report that a new study to a performance evaluation sysEXCLUSIONS identify the material issues will tem that will address the specific Excluded from the scope of this be performed in 2016; aspects of human rights more work was any assessment of inforconsistently; mation related to: • The Fibria Report verified by us is composed of two publications: • We verified that Fibria, when • Activities outside the defined asone in electronic means and one presenting data about the selecsessment period; physical (paper), which focuses tion of new suppliers based on on the narrative and the perenvironmental, social and labour • Statements of position (expresformance data associated with criteria, considers a suppliers sions of opinion, beliefs, goals, the material themes; and the homologation process that has or future intentions) on the part other, only in electronic means, been performed since 2013, of Fibria; contains more comprehensive therefore including data that experformance data and informaceed the period of accountability • Economic and financial information on non-material themes. of this publication (SO9, EN32 tion contained in this Report Both are available on the Report and LA14 indicators); which has been taken from 2015 website (www.fibria.com. financial statements verified by br/r2015). Additionally, Fibria • Concerning the development independent financial auditors; developed three versions of and impact of investments in ininfographics: One for all stakefrastructure and services offered • Inventory of Greenhouse Gas holders, one specially for local in local communities and econo(GHG) emissions in its entirety. communities and the third one mies (GRI-EC7 indicator), we for customers. In our opinion, verified that the Report presents With regard to the verification printhe infographics demonstrate comprehensive information on ciples of Accuracy and Reliability on a reliable way the company´s the investments in infrastructure of Data, we clarify that our scope processes; and services offered and supwas limited to the data related to ported by Fibria; the twelve most material issues as • Among the targets established shown in the section “About the for 2016 we draw attention to • In the current publication we Report”. The verification process the restructuring of the sustainfound satisfactory information has, given the Reasonable level, ability governance, an issue that on measures for the control and some limitations as to the identifiwas referred to as an opportumonitoring of the impacts on cation of mistakes and omissions. nity for improvement in our last the communities (material issue), Statement; caused by the forest stewardship, including indicators on an • The Report presents for the engagement process with comfirst time a section containing munities that are directly affecta summary of the actions that ed by the forest activity, named Fibria conducted with regards to “Operational Dialogue”; Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs); • Fibria improved the presentation of the indicators associated • The Report has a specific section with the Long Term Targets (up 2 International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 – Assurance Engagements on the Horizonte 2 expansion to 2025), providing the baseline other than Audits or Reviews of Historical project. We verified that the and performance data of 2015; Financial Information main impacts of this new opera95 Independent assurance statement • The Report provides a satisfactomaterial aspects and identified ing traceability of the process. This ry account of expectations that significant impacts, following Report is kept as a Bureau Veritas were generated in the previous GRI-G4 methodology; management system record. Report. The presentation of the achievements against targets • The Report meets the criteria set CONTACT published in 2015, enables the out for ‘In accordance’ reporting www.bureauveritascertification. reader to analyze the evolution with the GRI-G4 at the Comprecom.br/faleconosco.asp of Fibria in the management of hensive level. da opção Abrantelephone (55 11) 2655-9000. the commitments made; gente. São Paulo, Brazil, April 2016. • We noticed that the recommenDECLARATION OF dations made in our previous INDEPENDENCE AND Statement were dealt with by IMPARTIALITY Fibria. Bureau Veritas Certification is an independent professional services RECOMMENDATIONS firm specializing in Quality, Health, Alexander Vervuurt • Improve the selection system Safety, Socialand Environmental Auditor-líder Assurance (homologation) of new suppliers Management, with more than185 Lead Auditor; Assurance Sustainbased on sustainability criteria, years’ experience in independent ability Reports (ASR) so as to present data about the assessment. Bureau Veritas Certification – Brazil accountability period of the Report; Bureau Veritas has a quality management system that is certified by • Improve the methodology of a third party, according to which performance evaluation of suppolicies and documented procepliers based on human rights dures are maintained for the comcriteria. pliance with ethic, professional and legal requirements. CONCLUSION Based on the Assurance that was The assessment team has no links performed, the evidences we had with Fibria and the assessment is access to, and according to the performed independently. scope of work defined in this statement, in our opinion: Bureau Veritas implemented and follows a Code of Ethics throughout • The data and information disits business, in order to assure that closed in the Report adhere to its staff preserve high ethical, integthe GRI-G4 quality and content rity, objectivity, confidentiality and principles competence/ professional attitude standards in the performance of • The Report provides balanced their activities. information regarding Fibria´s economical, social and environAt the end of the assessment, a demental performance, based on tailed report was drawn up, ensur96 2015 Fibria Report FIBRIA Credits and Corporate Information Coordination and Editing Leonardo Genofre Proofreading Bianca Conde Luis Eduardo Sabbado Assertiva Produções Editoriais Cristiano Resende de Oliveira Luiz Carlos Nascimento Kátia Shimabukuru Flávia Bacar Siqueira Maria Luiza Pinto e Paiva Geraldo Magella Patrícia Lombardi English version Persia Christina Machado Gotcha! Idiomas Editorial Committee Ricardo Marcolino Andre Luiz Gonçalves Robert Cardoso Photographs Alber Almeida Roberto Penteado Marcio Schimming Bianca Conde Umberto Cinque Cristiano Oliveira Infographics Danilo Vergilio Alexandre Affonso Everson Zaczuk Editorial coordination Fausto Camargo and design Printing and finishing touches Fernando Brait Report Sustentabilidade Stilgraf Flávia Bacar Siqueira Ana Souza (Project Management) Paper run: XXXX (cover) and XX (core) Geraldo Magella Cristina Zaccaria and Estevam Pereira Font family: Frutiger Next (Adrian Gustavo A. Reginato (Copy and Editing), Fernando Rocha Frutiger, 2000) João Carlos Augusti (Graphic Design and Layout) 97 Credits and Corporate Information Addresses Central Administration Conceição da Barra Commercial and Rua Fidêncio Ramos, nº 302, Rodovia BR 101 Norte, km 49 representation offices 3° andar CEP 04551-010 (trevo) Caixa Postal 010 CEP – São Paulo (SP) 29960-000 – Conceição da Barra Fibria Celulose (USA) Inc. Fone/fax (11) 2138-4000 (ES) Fone 0800 283 8383 18.851 NE 29th Ave., Suite 530 Aventura, FL 33180 – USA Pelotas Fone (1-305) 940-9762 / Industrial Units Rua Gonçalves Chaves, 3830 Fax (1-305) 9409763 CEP 96015-560 – Pelotas (RS) Aracruz Fone 0800 283 8383 Fibria International Rodovia Aracruz, Barra do Riacho, Trade Gmbh s/nº, km 25 CEP 29197-900 Posto da Mata Millennium Park 6 6890 Lustenau, – Aracruz (ES) Rodovia BR 418, km 37 República da Áustria Fone 0800 283 8383 Caixa Postal 100, Posto da Mata Fone +43 5577 62260 CEP 45928-000 – Nova Viçosa (BA) Jacareí Fone 0800 283 8383 Fibria International Rodovia Gal Euryale Jesus Zerbine, Trade Gmbh km 84 SP 66, São Silvestre Três Lagoas 10/F, Golden Centre 188 Des CEP 12340-010 – Jacareí (SP) Rodovia BR 158, km 298, Voeux Road Central – Hong Kong Fone 0800 707 9810 Fazenda Barra do Moeda Caixa Fone +852-2866-7956 Postal 529 CEP 79602-970 Fax +852-2865-2423 Três Lagoas – Três Lagoas (MS) Rodovia BR 158, km 298, Fone 0800 642 8162 Fibria Innovation Inc. Fazenda Barra do Moeda Caixa 101-4705 Wayburne Drive Postal 529 CEP 79602-970 Ocean Terminals – Burnaby, BC, V5G 3L1, Canada – Três Lagoas (MS) Tel +1 604-453-1242 Fone 0800 642 8162 Portocel Fax +1 604-222-9801 Caminho Barra do Riacho, s/nº Forest Units and Offices CEP 29197-920 – Aracruz (ES) Fone (27) 3270-4422 Capão Bonito Rodovia Raul Venturelli, km 210 Porto de Santos Caixa Postal 28 CEP 18300-970 Av. Candido Grafree, s/nº – Capão Bonito (SP) Armazém 14/15 CEP 11013-240 0800 707 9810 – Outerinhos, Santos (SP) Fone (13) 2127-1507 Caçapava Velha Estrada Municipal do Barreiro, s/nº Terminal de Caravelas Bairro Bossoroca Caixa Postal 350 Rua Silveira Lobo, 1369 CEP 12010-970 – Taubaté (SP) Ponta da Areia CEP 45900-000 0800 707 9810 – Caravelas (BA) Fone 0800 283 8383 98 2015 Fibria Report www.fibria.com.br 2015 Annual Report www.fibria.com.br/r2015 | investor relations fibria.infoinvest.com.br | facebook fb.com/fibriabrasil/ linkedin linkedin.com/company/fibria | twitter @fibria_brasil
