2015 SAS Corporate Social Responsibility Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2015 TABLE OF CONTENTS Letter From the CEO About This Report GRI Index Governance & Management Governance Structure Ethics & Regulatory Compliance Supply Chain Continuity of Business Environmental Program Environmental Governance Energy & Emissions Landfill Diversion Water Conservation Green Building Practices Biodiversity Awareness & Enagagement Employees & Culture Workplace Culture Hiring & Retaining Staff Skills Development Health & Safety Education & Philanthropy K -12 Education Higher Education Philanthropy Community Engagement Donation Process CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2015 LETTER FROM THE CEO Since 1976, SAS has been a sustainability innovator through But it takes more than technology to manage and analyze large environmental, social and economic efforts. From our roots helping amounts of data. It takes skills. SAS has made education its primary farmers analyze agricultural data to finding resources to rebuild a philanthropic initiative to help prepare the next generation of innocommunity in Nepal after last year’s earthquake, we’ve been vators. Our long history includes providing analytics training committed to making a significant, positive difference. As we celethrough major universities and our own SAS Analytics U. For brate our 40th anniversary and 40 years of consecutive growth, we students and teachers, we provide free and low-cost options to stand firm as a corporate responsibility leader, supporting the SAS software and training. planet and people through our practices. In fact, SAS proficiency was recently identified as the most valuable Environmental responsibility plays a prominent role in our career skill. Learning SAS for free can be a boost to those looking numerous offices worldwide, which incorporate the most to jump-start their careers. This year, we launched the SAS advanced design, engineering, materials and technology available. Academy for Data Science to further develop these highly marketRecycling and energy conservation are priorities. In 2015, SAS able skills. SAS supports a host of other education initiatives that generated 3.7 million kWh of clean, renewably sourced energy promote science, technology, engineering and math. from rooftop and ground-mounted solar systems. Numerous recognitions in 2015 highlight our efforts as a good corporate As always, SAS views our people as our greatest resource. Since its citizen. inception, SAS has been recognized as a pioneer in corporate culture. Year after year, SAS ranks high on various lists for best workWith 11 Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) places around the world. SAS has seen a direct correlation certifications and more underway, we remain dedicated to green between its workplace culture and business success. We are building standards for all design, construction and renovation. To convinced that satisfied employees mean satisfied customers. advance analytics as a cornerstone of “smart city” management, SAS recently became an Envision America partner. Our aim is to In 2015, we experienced our 40th consecutive year of growth and help municipalities run more efficiently and improve stewardship of profitability, with US$3.16 billion in revenues. This success is limited resources. strongly tied to our SAS community and the investments we make in employee health, well-being and work-life balance. I firmly believe that if you treat employees like they make a difference, they will make a difference. “As we celebrate our 40th anniversary As our world evolves, we must be diligent in safeguarding the and 40 years of consecutive growth, we planet, targeting innovative ways to sustainably live and work. But we can’t do it alone: To change the world for the better, we must stand firm as a corporate responsibility collaborate to explore new possibilities. Being socially responsible is about making tomorrow a priority – today. leader, supporting the planet and Jim Goodnight people through our practices.” CEO of SAS SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2016, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. G127167.0616 Page 3 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2015 ABOUT THIS REPORT Report basics SAS welcomes your comments and questions regarding this report and its corporate responsibility efforts. For questions about this The SAS 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report is report or its contents, please email globalreporting@sas.com. based on the calendar year Jan. 1 to Dec. 31, 2015 and updated annually. All data and information pertains to SAS Institute Inc., Scope and Boundaries the US-based parent company for SAS, unless otherwise stated. Since SAS’ headquarters are in Cary, NC, the scope of this CSR Environmental reports are based on global operations data. report focuses primarily on SAS United States operations. Where The most recent report was the 2014 CSR report, which was available, global data is provided and appropriately labeled. There published online in August 2015. That data has now been have been no significant changes to the scope and boundaries for updated for the 2015 report. In 2015, SAS made strides to SAS; however, there have been improvements in the reporting of improve global reporting of its programs and initiatives, and such boundaries. will continue to improve reporting on offices outside of the US. Because SAS is a software company, much of the company’s There have been no other significant changes during the impact is related to the operation of the company rather than the reporting period. products and services provided to customers. Externally, impacts generally occur related to the business practices of suppliers. The report was developed using Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 sustainability reporting guidelines and was prepared in Examples of various impacts include: accordance with Core GRI requirements. SAS’ CSR efforts focus • E  nvironmental impacts: energy use in offices and data centers, on four core areas: governance and ethics, employees, environwaste, and construction of new buildings. ment, and education and philanthropy. The report can be viewed in a PDF document by separate sections or as a complete report • S  ocietal impacts: compliance with local, national and so information is more accessible and customizable. The report international laws; ethical treatment of employees, customers, format allows for greater explanation and transparency on SAS’ suppliers, partners and communities; supporting and fostering a practices and policies and provides space for updates to relevant strong workforce. and material topics. Over time, this report will evolve in response • F  inancial impacts: creating value in communities where SAS to the needs of stakeholders, employees, customers and the operates; job creation and economic growth; supporting the community. community through philanthropy. SAS® Visual Analytics data visualization software is used to At this time, SAS does not collect environmental information on generate charts and graphs to illustrate the data and provide suppliers or partners; however, the company seeks to work with additional analytics capabilities. This provides far greater visibility, organizations that have a similar approach to reducing their transparency and accuracy in reporting SAS’ environmental environmental impact. All suppliers must abide by required ethics impact. Charts and graphs included in the PDF documents and compliance rules, which can be found in the Supply Chain reflect a specific time frame for gathering and analyzing data for section under Governance & Management of the Corporate this report. Executive leaders and other relevant internal stakeResponsibility website. holders have reviewed content in this report. Page 4 About This Report page 2 Materiality Matrix The CSR Task Force, a cross-departmental sustainability team based in the US, underwent a facilitated process to determine the primary issues that affect SAS and its stakeholders. This included issues that affect the industry as a whole, peer businesses, communities, customers, employees and management. Through this process, the team determined areas where SAS has a significant environmental, social or economic impact. These issues were then rated to determine their importance to stakeholders and/or SAS’ operations. Using the G4 guidelines, these issues have been reported as “material aspects.” Each team member then gathered information specific to these areas of impact for inclusion in this report. The focus areas of this report include: Internal: Issues Relevant to Employees and Management • Workers’ rights • Health and safety • Training for next generation of employees • Talent development • Volunteerism and community engagement • Environment • Energy and Emissions • Water • Waste • Green building • Great workplace External: Issues Relevant to Other Stakeholders, Including Customers, Communities, Governments, Partners, Subcontractors, Suppliers, Etc. • Privacy • Ethics • Anti-Corruption • Bribery • Gift law • Lobbying • Campaign contributions • Export law • Continuity of business • Quality of support • Diversity • Philanthropy • Environment Page 5 About This Report page 3 2015 Materiality Matrix Page 6 About This Report page 4 Stakeholder Engagement SAS’ stakeholders include communities, employees, regulatory and governmental bodies, industry organizations, students and teachers, and business partners and suppliers. Engagement with stakeholders provides SAS with the opportunity to gain a greater understanding of the needs in the community and in the market. It allows the company to build strong partnerships with regulatory bodies and organizations within the industry, and lasting relationships with communities, employees, partners and suppliers. SAS continues to engage with stakeholders both internally and externally, including: Stakeholder Engagement 2015 Communities Employee volunteers, community Employee donations and corporate matching for DonorsChoose.org totaled nearly grants, in-kind donations and training, $135,000, funding 836 classroom projects and benefiting 95,000 students in 49 states. fundraising. SAS employees volunteered 29,000 hours, resulting in $91,750 donated to education from the Employee Volunteer Fund. Employees Enhance the SAS workplace culture by Intranet, webcasts, videos, webzines, blogs and The Hub, an enterprisewide social communicating with and informing networking platform. employees about company activities and internal and external programs. Regulatory and Domestic and international policy and Data protection and privacy; big data; copyright protections; review of legislation government legislation development on topics that targeting frivolous patent lawsuits; revision of administrative policies to ensure strong, affect SAS customers and the developquality patents are issued. ment of new products. Industry organizations Industry associations, think tanks and Public speaking engagements, development or contribution to industry position academia. papers, and one-to-one meetings. Business partners and Meetings, webcasts and representation Board memberships include American Chamber of Commerce to the European Union suppliers on boards. (AmCham EU) Executive Council, Atlantic Council Board of Directors and American Statistical Association. Customers Host ongoing dialogue with customers SAS interacts with customers through the SAS Global Forum conference, customer to answer questions and gather input advisory boards, self-help and assisted-help resources, focus groups, training, books, for product improvement. technical papers, social media, support communities, samples, SAS notes and focus areas, and more. Analysts Inform and solicit feedback from SAS’ Analyst Relations group is responsible for informing, influencing and soliciting industry analysts. feedback from industry analysts and thought leaders with the purpose of validating technology and corporate direction and to provide SAS with a crucial third-party perspective. Students and teachers Free online and mobile curriculum SAS® Curriculum Pathways® provides free online resources and mobile apps for early resources, free SAS software, teacher learners to grade 12. SAS offers free software, training and communities for people to and professor training, summits and gain valuable analytics skills, and supports analytics degree and certificate programs at meetings, classroom volunteers. colleges and universities around the world. SAS is a regular convener of important education meetings, and focuses volunteer efforts on education. External communications Build awareness and shape the External communications helps build awareness and shape the SAS brand by SAS brand through external influencing what others think and say about the company. SAS uses external communications. communications to guide the flow of information to educate and persuade various public stakeholders, including the news media, bloggers, customers, prospects, analysts and partners. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2016, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. G27173.0616 Page 7 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2015 GRI INDEX Indicator Description Reference Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision From the CEO maker of the organization Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization Governance and Management>Governance Structure>Company Profile G4-4 Primary brands, products and services Governance and Management>Governance Structure>Company Profile G4-5 Location of headquarters Governance and Management>Governance Structure>Company Profile G4-6 Number of countries where organization Governance and Management>Governance Structure>Company Profile operates G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Governance and Management>Governance Structure>Company Profile G4-8 Markets served Governance and Management>Governance Structure>Company Profile G4-9 Scale of organization Governance and Management>Governance Structure>Company Profile G4-10 Size and composition of workforce Employees and Culture>Hiring and Retaining Staff G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by None collective bargaining G4-12 Organization’s supply chain Governance and Management>Supply Chain G4-13 Significant organizational changes during None the reporting period G4-14 Precautionary approach or principle is Environmental Program>Environmental Governance>Precautionary Approach addressed by the organization G4-15 Externally developed economic, Governance and Management>Supply Chain Management environmental, and social charters the organization endorses G4-16 Memberships and Associations Education and Philanthropy>Community Engagement Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 List all entities and explain omissions Governance and Management>Company Profile; About This Report G4-18 How report content was defined About This Report>Scope and Boundaries G4-19 List of material aspects About This Report>Materiality Matrix G4-20 Aspect boundary within the organization About This Report G4-21 Aspect boundary outside the organization About This Report G4-22 Restatements About This Report>Scope and Boundaries G4-23 Significant changes in scope or boundary About This Report>Scope and Boundaries Page 8 GRI Index page 2 Indicator Description Reference Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 List of stakeholders About This Report>Stakeholder Engagement G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of About This Report>Stakeholder Engagement stakeholders with whom to engage G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement About This Report>Stakeholder Engagement G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised by About This Report>Materiality Matrix stakeholders Report Profile G4-28 Reporting Period About This Report G4-29 Date of most recent previous report About This Report G4-30 Reporting cycle About This Report G4-31 Contact point About This Report G4-32 GRI ‘in accordance’ option About This Report G4-31 External assurance None Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the organization Governance and Management>Governance Structure>Company Profile Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Organization’s values, codes of conduct and Governance and Management>Ethics and Regulatory Compliance codes of ethics Economic Impact G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and CEO Letter; Philanthropy distributed G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and Not applicable opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at Governance and Management>Supply Chain Management North Carolina only significant locations of operation Environmental Energy G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Environmental Program>Energy and Emissions G4-EN2 Manufacturing based input materials Environmental Program>Energy and Emissions G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Environmental Program>Energy and Emissions G4-EN5 Energy Intensity Environmental Program>Energy and Emissions G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Environmental Program>Energy and Emissions G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of Environmental Program>Energy and Emissions products and services Environmental Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Environmental Program>Water Conservation G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water Environmental Program>Water Conservation recycled and reused Page 9 GRI Index page 3 Indicator Description Reference Environmental Biodiversity G4-EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed Environmental Program>Biodiversity in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas G4-EN12 Description of significant impacts of Environmental Program>Biodiversity activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored Environmental Program>Biodiversity Environmental Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1) Environmental Program>Energy and Emissions G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (scope 2) Environmental Program>Energy and Emissions G4-EN19 Reduction of GhG emissions Environmental Program>Energy and Emissions Environmental Effluents and Waste G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and Environmental Program>Landfill Diversion destination G4-EN23 Total weigh of waste by type and disposal Environmental Program>Landfill Diversion method G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills Environmental Program>Landfill Diversion Environmental Compliance G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total Governance and Management>Ethics and Regulatory Compliance number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Environmental Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers screened using About this Report environmental criteria Environmental Environmental Grievance Mechanism G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental Governance and Management>Ethics and Regulatory Compliance impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanism Social Employment G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee Employees and Culture>Hiring and Retaining Staff hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees Employees and Culture>Hiring and Retaining Staff that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees G4-LA4 Type of injury and rates of injury, Employees and Culture>Health and Safety occupational diseases, lost days , and absenteeism Social Training and Education G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per Employees and Culture>Skills Development employee by gender, and by employee category Page 10 GRI Index page 4 Indicator Description Reference G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong Employees and Culture>Skills Development learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings Social Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices Governance and Management>Ethics and Regulatory Compliance filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanism Social Non-Discrimination G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination Governance and Management>Ethics and Regulatory Compliance and corrective actions taken Social Local Community G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented Education and Philanthropy; partial reporting local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs Social Anti-Corruption G4-SO4 Communication and training on antiGovernance and Management>Ethics and Regulatory Compliance>Anticorruption policies and procedures Corruption G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and Governance and Management>Ethics and Regulatory Compliance actions taken G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by Governance and Management>Governance Structure>Public Policy country and recipient/beneficiary Social Anti-Competitive Behavior G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for antiGovernance and Management>Ethics and Regulatory Compliance competitive behavior, anti-trust and monopoly practices and their outcomes Social Compliance G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total Governance and Management>Ethics and Regulatory Compliance number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Social Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers screened using Governance and Management>Supply Chain criteria for impacts on society Social Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on Governance and Management>Ethics and Regulatory Compliance society filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Social Customer Privacy G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints Governance and Management>Ethics and Regulatory Compliance regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Social Compliance G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for Governance and Management>Ethics and Regulatory Compliance non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services Page 11 GRI Index page 5 Indicator Description Reference Philanthropy and Community Engagement PH 1 Areas of focus for philanthropy activities Education and Philanthropy PH2 Monetary value of charitable contributions Education and Philanthropy>Philanthropy PH3 Employee engagement in philanthropic Education and Philanthropy>Community Engagement activities PH4 Board memberships by employees Education and Philanthropy>Community Engagement PH5 Process for engagwing philanthropy in Education and Philanthropy>Donation Process communities Page 12 GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT Ethics, compliance and continuity of business SAS is committed to high ethical standards in its dealings with colleagues, customers, suppliers and competitors. Robust regulatory compliance practices ensure that SAS conducts business in an honest, respectful, fair and safe manner. Guided by the company’s Code of Ethics, SAS’ compliance practices have earned the company its exceptional reputation as an ethical and responsible employer and business partner. SAS is also committed to building long-term relationships with both direct and indirect suppliers. There are a wide range of best practices to ensure the supply chain remains strong and the company is identifying the best fit for all procurement needs. Continuity of business is paramount as well, with a focus on corporate governance, information security and corporate social responsibility. Page 13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2015 GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT Governance Structure Industries served: Automotive Health Care Media SAS is the leader in business analytics software and services, and the Banking Health Insurance Oil and Gas largest independent vendor in the business intelligence market. SAS High-Tech is committed to employing high ethical standards in its dealings with Capital Markets P-12 Education Manufacturing colleagues, customers, suppliers and competitors. Maintaining the Casinos Higher Education Retail Analytics great workplace at SAS requires an ethical commitment and accountSmall and Midsize ability across all departments, positions and countries. Communications Hotels Business Consumer Goods Insurance Sports Company Profile Defense and Security Life Sciences Travel and SAS Institute Inc. is a North Carolina corporation that has been Transportation privately held since its inception in 1976. Headquartered in Cary, Government Manufacturing Utilities NC, the company operates through functional divisions that include CEO Jim Goodnight and co-founder and Executive Vice President Worldwide Marketing, Sales, Research and Development, Finance, John Sall constitute the board of directors of SAS Institute Inc. Legal and Corporate Services. SAS delivers software and related They also serve as executive officers, overseeing corporate services to customers throughout the world. Sales activities are performance and investment decisions across environmental, conducted primarily through SAS Institute Inc. and its controlled social and economic interests. Goodnight and Sall are the company’s sales subsidiaries in nearly 150 countries. The sales subsidiary principal shareholders. entities are grouped into three regional sales divisions: the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA); and Asia Pacific. Jim Goodnight CEO SAS’ global corporate organization, including our parent company, SAS Institute Inc., and a group of operating subsidiaries, provides software and services to customers in various geographic regions Research & Development SAS Americas Marketing Canada Information Technology Human Resources around the world. The Americas, EMEA, and Asia Pacific regions United States Latin America Caribbean Legal comprise approximately 50 standalone operating subsidiaries. SAS AP Finance Asia Pacific Additional subsidiaries in the EMEA and Asia Pacific regions are SAS EMEA Corporate Services Community Relations dedicated to research and development activities. Together with Europe Middle East SAS Solutions OnDemand Africa several representative and branch offices of these subsidiaries, SAS Sales Operations JMP maintains a corporate presence in approximately 60 international IDeaS jurisdictions. 2015 Data: With approximately US$3.16 billion in worldwide Employee rights, including employment-based compliance issues, revenue in 2015, SAS remains an industry leader in advanced are managed through SAS’ Human Resources Division. The Ethics analytics and one of the largest independent vendors in the and Compliance group in the SAS Legal Division manages other business intelligence market.. compliance responsibilities, including anti-corruption, privacy, trade, lobbying, gifts and anti-aggression laws. Environmental conservation Learn more about SAS® software products. is managed through the Facilities group in the Corporate Services Division. Page 14 Governance Structure page 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Governance SAS maintains a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Task Force comprising employees across business functions, including internal communications, legal, facilities, marketing and external communications. This group meets bimonthly to advance annual goals and priorities, and to address topics related to sustainability throughout the year. The group’s function is to ensure the integration of sustainability efforts across the business. This team works closely with various departments and communicates with SAS executive leadership to ensure that CSR policies and initiatives are considered in all aspects of the business. Public Policy SAS also actively engages in public policy discussions, particularly related to the role of technologies in solving larger societal issues that challenge local, state, federal and international agencies. These challenges include delivering better and safer health care while minimizing fraud, waste and abuse; mitigating environmental impacts while consuming scarce resources more efficiently; providing better stewardship of taxpayer resources with greater government accountability; and helping governments make better use of their data assets to fulfill their missions, such as helping detect terrorist financing and money laundering schemes. SAS actively engages in public policy discussions to help protect the valuable intellectual property resources that are the underpinning of its business. SAS abides by political contribution laws and prohibits the use of corporate funds for political contributions to individual candidates. Corporate contributions may be made to political parties or national or state political party organizations if approved through established procedures. SAS records and reports all corporate political contributions in accordance with applicable local laws. SAS complies with applicable lobbying laws in its operations. Lobbyist registrations and disclosure reports are filed by SAS on a regular and timely basis. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2016, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107773_G27175.0416 Page 15 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2015 GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT Ethics and Regulatory Training The Ethics and Compliance group at SAS has developed courses Compliance to help employees abide by the SAS Code of Ethics and applicable external rules and regulations. SAS provides this training to equip all Robust regulatory compliance and training practices ensure that employees to make the right choices when ethical and regulatory SAS conducts business in an honest, respectful, fair and safe challenges arise. manner. Guided by the Code of Ethics , SAS’ compliance practices Online training was developed under the management and have earned the company its valued reputation as an ethical and oversight of the vice president and general counsel for ethics and responsible employer and business partner. SAS is committed to compliance, with input from many departments across SAS, and maintaining this reputation and conducting all aspects of the with ultimate approval by the chief legal officer. All training courses business in a way that promotes and reflects ethical practices. SAS developed since 2012 are available in English, simplified Chinese, compliance programs use training, policies, processes and audits French, German, Italian, Japanese, Portuguese and Spanish. to ensure compliance in areas such as anti-corruption, international trade and privacy. How SAS monitors completion and renewal of training varies, depending on relevant policies, strategies, trainings and codes. SAS is committed to demonstrating honesty, fairness and accountOnline training completions are tracked by the third-party vendor ability in every decision and action, including each interaction with that helped to create them, as well as by the company’s internal employees, customers, suppliers and competitors. The SAS Code learning management system. Automated reminders are sent to of Ethics helps the company define and maintain high standards those who have not completed training as the deadline approaches, for respect, honesty, fairness and accountability. This SAS Code of and managers are contacted as trainings become overdue. Ethics applies to every employee – at every subsidiary and in every Employees and certain contract workers are required to take some region – as well as all members of the board of directors, officers or all of the following training: appointed by the board of directors and agents. Failure to comply • Code of Ethics. with the SAS Code of Ethics or other applicable policies can result • Information Security. in disciplinary action, up to and including termination. • Export Controls Awareness. The internal version of SAS’ Code of Ethics, which includes links to • SAS Business Ethics in Selling, Buying and Competing. SAS policies and procedures, serves as a central reference for • Respect in the Workplace. employees to respond to situations in an ethical manner consistent • Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. with SAS standards. The external version of the Code of Ethics is • Privacy and Data Protection for Global Companies. available as part of this report and demonstrates to customers, suppliers and other stakeholders SAS’ commitment to being a In addition, all employees and certain contract workers are required great place to work, a great business partner, and a valued commuto take periodic refresher ethics training. nity member. SAS provides specialized training for personnel as needed. For 2015 Data: In 2015, SAS did not have any substantiated, materially example, California employees take Sexual Harassment: Promoting negative incidents with regard to public policy, privacy, corruption, Appropriate Behavior, as required by California law. ethics, bribery, anti-competitive actions, anti-trust violations or monopoly practices, societal impacts, the environment, labor practices, or employee discrimination or harassment; nor were there any sanctions or fines for noncompliance. Page 16 Ethics and Regulatory Compliance page 2 In-person, targeted compliance training is conducted periodically. Persons list and certain other government lists of prohibited parties. These courses are developed by the Ethics and Compliance group SAS also files regular and timely anti-boycott reports as required by in the Legal Division with input from the relevant functional business US law. units. For example, in 2015, SAS conducted anti-corruption training for government sales and marketing groups, privacy training for IT SAS classifies its products according to US export laws and staff, and HIPAA training for employees interacting with data in the makes such classifications available to its customers at the company’s health care center or associated with its health care SAS Current Export Designation Information page. industry solutions. Privacy Employee Feedback The Ethics and Compliance group in the SAS Legal Division works Employees are responsible for appropriately communicating to ensure that SAS’ use of personal data complies with applicable concerns regarding suspected unethical or illegal conduct to a laws, SAS policies and customer expectations. SAS Global Informasupervisor, Human Resources or the Legal Division. Specific procetion Security establishes processes and deploys technologies to dures for reporting concerns are displayed on the Legal Division’s protect the confidentiality, availability and integrity of data in the internal website. Employees may submit comments via email, telecustody or control of SAS. phone help line, or an anonymous report or online form. These groups work closely together to manage data privacy issues SAS does not retaliate against anyone who reports suspected violaand security by, among other things, establishing information tions in good faith. All reports of misconduct are investigated in a governance policies, standards, guidelines and processes based on timely fashion. Unless the complaining individual chooses to remain regulations, business needs and industry best practices. Periodic anonymous, he or she receives feedback on the results of the invesprivacy and security-related assessments and compliance reviews tigation, to the extent allowed by applicable law. include privacy impact assessments for newly developed or modified applications that may affect individual privacy interests. Anti-Corruption The Ethics and Compliance group ensures that SAS’ externally SAS has an anti-corruption program to provide training and moniposted privacy statement accurately reflects its information toring across the company. This program includes an online anticorcollection and use practices with respect to external parties. ruption course for all new employees and certain third parties, and SAS’ privacy statement is global, covering SAS US and its foreign in-person, targeted training for sales, marketing, finance and other subsidiaries and other business units. Translated versions of the affected groups. In addition, SAS has implemented gift, marketing privacy statement with country-specific requirements are linked to event, “revolving door,” and donation policies – as well as review the English version. procedures – to comply with applicable laws and customer requirements. These documents are available to all employees on the SAS requires all its employees to complete training on privacy and Ethics and Compliance internal website. information security. SAS Global Information Security publishes a monthly information security awareness newsletter to inform SAS conducts advance and ongoing due diligence on subcontracemployees about information security and privacy issues. tors, partners and other third parties to verify their reputability and identify and mitigate anti-corruption risks. SAS also contractually requires that its subcontractors comply with the principles set forth in its Code of Ethics, including anti-bribery provisions. SAS also conducts audits and transaction-specific due diligence measures to support compliance in high-risk transactions. Export Controls SAS maintains an export management system complete with product licensing and screening processes that include checking employees, customers and suppliers against the Office of Foreign Asset Control (OFAC) Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2016, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107774_G27176.0416 Page 17 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2015 GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT Supply Chain SAS uses competitive bidding to help ensure competition and fairness in the marketplace for suppliers. SAS’ request for proposal template emphasizes the importance of corporate social responsiSAS builds long-term relationships with both direct and indirect bility, including environmental stewardship and promotion of suppliers. There are a wide range of best practices, tools and supplier diversity. Additionally, if the bidder is not a diverse company, policies to ensure the supply chain remains strong and the it must provide a statement regarding its active supplier diversity company is identifying the best fit for all procurement needs. Direct programs or opportunities it has to subcontract to diverse suppliers. suppliers provide products or services used in creating the services SAS sells. This can include software, hardware, consultants or IT infrastructure. Indirect suppliers in areas such as food services, Supplier Diversity legal and accounting, real estate, facilities services, or travel As part of the Corporate Services Division, the manager of supplier provide support for running the business. SAS also supports diversity is responsible for SAS’ supplier diversity process, including: local businesses. • Reviewing RFPs and contracts and responding to customers with SAS uses mechanisms such as service level agreements, benchdiversity requirements. marking and supplier relationship management to monitor and • Preparing and providing diversity spending reports to customers. manage suppliers’ results. Suppliers are subject to ongoing • Providing information and access to SAS’ procurement opportunianticorruption due diligence, which, proportionate to the level of ties by supporting and conducting various diversity activities and the supplier’s business and risks presented, screens prospective events (e.g., sponsorships, education and attendance). suppliers and relevant or high-risk individuals within those • Providing internal training to buyers and stakeholders regarding organizations. the importance and value of providing access to and utilization of The company also has an advance due diligence process for diverse suppliers and small businesses. suppliers engaged to assist in sales efforts and potential acquisitions. The process involves investigation of the supplier in levels that By developing and maintaining effective relationships with suppliers, are proportionate to the risks presented by the supplier, including the company aims to create value throughout the life of each investigating the supplier’s background, qualifications, conflicts of contract based upon economy, quality, environmental preservation interest, financial condition and history of regulatory violations. and social values. SAS is a member of the National Minority Supplier Development Council and the Women’s Business Center of North SAS has confirmed via supply chain due diligence that no conflict Carolina. SAS is also represented on the boards of various minority minerals are necessary to the functionality or production of any supplier development councils and economic development initiaproduct manufactured by or contracted for manufacture by SAS. tives. Two examples of the representation are the NC Governor’s Working Group for Veterans, Service Members and Their Families; The supply chain compliance program also consists of contractual and the NC Governor’s Advisory Council for Small and Historically requirements for anti-corruption and ethics rules compliance for all Underutilized Businesses. contractors and consultants. SAS also conducts in-person and online training, expense record and expenditure reviews, and audits, as well as global outreach through organizations like the UN Global Compact. SAS voluntarily provides supply chain information for the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and Great Places to Work. Page 18 Supply Chain page 2 SAS’ supplier diversity program has earned several accolades and SAS encourages diverse businesses interested in more information service awards, including: about potential working opportunities and relationships to email supplierdiversity@sas.com. • Triangle Business Journal 2014 Leaders in Diversity Award. • Small Business Administration 2012 North Carolina Veterans Business Champion of the Year. Suppliers and the Environment The environmental impact of business activities extends beyond • Small Business Administration 2011 Minority Small Business the SAS campus and workspaces to the entire supply chain, from Champion of the Year for both North Carolina and SBA’s suppliers to distribution channels to product use. The Southeast Region IV. Environmental Management Program researches ways to incorporate corporate social responsibility into procurement and Supplier Diversity Policy Statement reduce the environmental impact of supply chain processes. To SAS customers represent a wide range of industries, people and accomplish this, SAS: locations – and the company seeks this same level of diversity in its • Strongly encourages employees to give consideration and prefsupplier community. Unlike a typical manufacturing environment, erence to suppliers with environmental practices and programs. the creation of SAS products does not require purchasing materials • Promotes the adoption of environmental principles by contracor component parts, but rather relies on a highly skilled staff of techtors and suppliers, encouraging or requiring improvements. nical professionals. SAS complies with federal laws and regulations that prohibit discrimination in employment based on race, color, • Completes the annual CDP supply chain questionnaire. religion, gender, national origin, age, disability or veteran status. • Makes extensive use of green products, such as environmentally friendly cleaning supplies and low-emissions paints and products As a federal contractor, SAS complies with Executive Order 11246, for campus buildings. The procurement teams routinely assist as amended, and the implementing rules and regulations of the with finding the most efficient and earth-friendly options. Office of Federal Contract Compliance, Vietnam Era Veterans’ • Maximizes investments by eliminating unnecessary purchases, Readjustment Assistance Act of 1974, and the Rehabilitation Act extending the life of assets through repurposing and reselling of 1973. outdated equipment to employees as well as donating materials to educational institutions. Only then are materials processed for In the area of professional services offered to its customers, SAS responsible recycling. provides small business concerns owned and controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals and woman-owned As a software company, SAS has limited risks and concerns in small businesses the opportunity to participate in the subcontracts it regard to raw materials, hazardous wastes and supplier practices. awards to the maximum practicable extent, consistent with efficient Because the primary input to SAS products is intellectual property, performance of the contract. SAS does not currently collect data on GHG emissions and climate Regarding the procurement of goods and services to support change strategy from suppliers. corporate operations, SAS continually seeks ways to make business 2015 Data: In 2015, SAS continued to research options for opportunities available to small businesses and businesses that are: incorporating corporate social responsibility elements into • Minority-owned. procurement processes and reducing environmental impact of • Woman-owned. supply chain processes. As in years past, SAS completed its annual CDP supply chain questionnaire related to greenhouse gas • Disabled-owned. emissions inventory and related climate change management. SAS • HUBZone-certified. achieved a CDP disclosure score of 91 and a C performance rating, • Veteranor service-disabled veteran-owned. a 3 percent disclosure score improvement from last year. The average score/rating of more than 4,000 supplier responses was 60/D. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2016, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107775_G27177.0415 Page 19 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2015 GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT Continuity of Business Through business continuity planning, SAS exercises operational controls to improve organizational resilience. This supports the company’s commitment to meet the expectations of its customers in At SAS, continuity of business (COB) is paramount, addressing an increasingly risk-conscious regulatory environment. threats or hazards that may affect employees and customers and disrupt business operations. COB planning incorporates corporate More information on SAS’ COB program can be found in the governance, information security and corporate social Continuity of Business white paper (PDF). responsibility. SAS is a business partner that customers can entrust with the viability of their operations because of the company’s ability to continue vital customer-facing services and core operations. SAS’ COB initiative involves response and recovery teams from across the organization. These teams work together proactively to develop resilience and mitigation strategies and – in the event of a business disruption – coordinate to return the business to normal operations. SAS’ global business continuity program goals are to: • Prepare employees to know what to do in a crisis. • Provide timely communications between local offices and SAS world headquarters. • Put plans in place to recover SAS’ most critical business operations that support customers. This includes annual qualification of key partner and supplier dependencies to support strategies for continued operations. • Develop backup strategies, such as providing support to customers from another office until the affected office can resume normal operations. • Avoid and minimize business interruptions through greater awareness and risk management. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2016, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107776_D27178.0415 Page 20 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2015 ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM Protecting the environment for a brighter future SAS reduces its environmental footprint with multiyear programs focused on energy conservation and solar projects, emission management, pollution mitigation, water conservation, waste reduction and recycling, procurement and green building. View environmental performance reports using SAS® Visual Analytics to see how SAS uses its own software to collect, manage, calculate and report its global environmental footprint. Top 2015 achievements: • Generated 3.7 million kWh of clean, renewably sourced energy from rooftop and ground-mounted solar systems. • Energy use intensity (EUI) for office buildings decreased 5.4 percent to 16.5 kWh per square foot. • Improved CDP score to 91 with a C performance rating. • Diverted 50 percent of operational waste and 80 percent of construction waste from landfills globally. • Achieved LEED® certifications for three existing office buildings. • Upgraded standard for office copy paper from 30 percent recycled content to 50 percent with Forest Stewardship Council certification. • Reduced paper use per employee from 1,483 sheets to 1,254 – a 16 percent decrease for specific calendar year and a more than 50 percent reduction since 2009. • Launched global interactive environmental awareness website for SAS employees. Page 21 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2015 ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM Environmental Environmental Mandates The following corporate mandates provide guidance for adhering to Governance policy and establishing priorities for environmental initiatives. • Corporate priority. Establish policies, programs and practices for SAS’ sustainability performance is reviewed by executive conducting operations in an environmentally sound manner. leadership to provide guidance on conducting global operations • Integrated management. Integrate environmental policies, in a sustainable manner. programs and practices into all functions, business units and Implementing environmental strategies is largely the domain of global offices. the SAS Corporate Services Division Environmental Management • Continual improvement. Continue to raise the bar on perforProgram. The program facilitates environmental efforts at company mance, aligning with technological developments, scientific headquarters in the US, collects and reports key environmental understanding and stakeholder expectations. indicators for global operations, and provides guidance and • Employee education. Educate, train and motivate employees to support to offices worldwide. Offices around the globe have conduct activities in an environmentally responsible manner. personnel who manage site-specific environmental initiatives. • Assessment. Conduct impact assessments before starting a new activity or project and before decommissioning a facility or leaving Members of the Environmental Management Program are part of a site. the CSR Task Force that meets regularly to address environmental and social responsibility initiatives throughout SAS’ business • Products and services. Provide products or services that have no operations. undue environmental impact throughout the product life cycle – from development to delivery, use and disposal. Environmental Policy • Customer support. Advise and educate customers, distributors and the public in the safe and environmentally responsible use, SAS is an active and committed partner in communities where transportation, storage and disposal of SAS® products. employees live, work and conduct business. SAS recognizes that environmental responsibility is a continuous effort that requires • Facilities and operations. Develop, design and operate facilities prudent use and preservation of natural resources. The company and conduct activities with continual consideration for minimizing encourages business operations around the world to minimize resource consumption, adverse environmental impact and waste. environmental impacts by exceeding all environmental regulations. • Research. Conduct or support research on the environmental To accomplish this, all employees are asked to adhere to the impacts of SAS activities and how to minimize adverse impacts. company’s environmental mandates, integrate environmentally • Contractors and suppliers. Promote these principles to SAS responsible practices, and seek innovative solutions to optimize contractors and suppliers, encouraging and (where appropriate) operational efficiencies. requiring improvements. Page 22 Environmental Governance page 2 Precautionary Approach SAS supports a precautionary approach to minimizing anthropogenic impacts from business operations. This aligns with SAS’ philosophy in five meaningful ways: 1. To ensure business operations do not expose the public and environment to harm. 2. To comply with environmental regulations. 3. To encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 4. To promote environmental awareness via increased transparency and access to meaningful data so analytics can be used to make intelligent and responsible decisions. 5. To show that environmental responsibility is not just about goodwill; it makes good business sense. ISO Compliance The Environmental Management Program applies best practice ISO 14001 Environmental Management System (EMS) processes and structure to include: • Using SAS software solutions and other tools to measure and improve environmental performance. • Ensuring environmental affairs are addressed by executive management. • Addressing immediate and long-term impacts of products, services and processes on the environment. • Providing global direction about addressing environmental concerns through the allocation of resources, assignment of responsibility, and ongoing evaluation of practices, procedures and processes. • Enabling continual improvement of environmental processes. Naturally, SAS uses its own technology to measure and analyze the performance of its sustainability initiatives. SAS software calculates the company’s global carbon footprint and the impacts of business processes and mitigation initiatives. SAS solutions support the application of global standards such as the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and the Global Reporting Initiative. Adherence to global standards provides for measurement and reporting in the countries in which SAS operates. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2016, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107777_G27179.0516 Page 23 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2015 ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM Energy and Emissions Emissions Management and Emissions Mitigation SAS’ Environmental Management Program assigns top priority to SAS decreased energy consumption by 3.4 percent for the past minimizing energy consumption and related emissions from its three years, despite staff growth of 10 percent, facilities growth of 9 operations. The energy and emissions management program percent, and rapidly expanding data center operations to satisfy includes energy sourcing, conservation and generation, policy growing customer demand for computing and storage solutions. compliance, and employee education and engagement. In 2015, 77 percent of SAS energy consumption was sourced from SAS® software improves processes for collecting, understanding electricity suppliers and on-site solar generation. Approximately 28 and managing energy and emissions requirements for facilities percent was used for building heating, ventilation and cooling. worldwide, increasing the ability to report and proactively influence consumption trends. The program uses SAS software to identify 2015 Data: reduction strategies, develop and monitor performance indicators, • SAS’ environmental footprint was mitigated by ongoing investunderstand relationships between measures, determine initiatives ment in energy-efficient technologies, solar, retro-commissioning with the greatest effect, and communicate strategy, goals and of primary office buildings, and adoption of LEED best practices. objectives to facilitate execution. Gains in energy efficiencies for office buildings globally limited Key energy and emissions mitigation initiatives include calculating energy growth to 1 percent or 4,260 gigajoules. and reporting global carbon footprint, building and maintaining • Emissions remained flat and only increased 985 t CO2e. facilities to LEED® guidelines, investing in renewable energy, • SAS achieved LEED certifications for three office buildings at its pursuing new, energy-efficient technologies for operating buildings Cary, NC, headquarters and now has nine LEED certified buildand data centers, and proactively maintaining facilities to the ings globally. highest efficiency standards. • Use of renewable energy remains a priority for SAS as an integral part of a strategy to reduce emissions. In 2015, SAS renewable SAS is also partnering with Envision America/Envision Charlotte energy generation totaled more than 3.7 million kWh. SAS also to help American cities launch smart-city initiatives by harnessing sent a letter to the North Carolina General Assembly advocating the explosion of data sourced from connected devices, social the economic and environmental benefits of maintaining the media and the Internet of Things (IoT) to fuel efficiencies, innovastate’s Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Portfolio Standard tion and improve stewardship of natural resources. (REPS). . • SAS continued support for plug-in electric vehicles by providing charging stations with free electricity and premium parking for employees and visitors. Through 2015, employees at the world headquarters campus own approximately 3 percent of registered plug-in electric vehicles in the state of North Carolina. SAS is a member of the US Department of Energy (DOE) Workplace Charging Challenge and was awarded the DOE Leading the Charge recognition for a second time. Page 24 Energy & Emissions page 2 Energy Efficiency SAS analyzes operational data to optimize development and delivery of its products and services to customers. The efficiency chart below highlights a sustainable trend of decreasing energy growth against increasing revenues. In 2015, SAS’ revenue increased, while overall energy use remained flat, making services more energy-efficient for customers. Energy Variance (Gigajoules) 2015 Energy by Type Revenue vs. Energy Growth Energy use intensity for office buildings decreased 5.4 percent to 16.5 kWh per square foot. Since 2010, the aggregate intensity has decreased 27.6 percent. 2015 Energy by Source (Gigajoules) Office Building Energy Use Intensity View dynamic SAS Visual Analytics reports on SAS energy or see static charts and tables below. 2015 Energy by Region (Gigajoules) View dynamic SAS Visual Analytics reports on SAS emissions or find static charts and tables below. CDP SAS annually completes the CDP Supply Chain questionnaire related to greenhouse gas emissions inventory and related climate change management. This past year, SAS achieved a disclosure score of 91 and C performance rating, a 3 percent disclosure score improvement from last year. The average disclosure score for more Energy Trend (Gigajoules) than 4,000 supplier responses was 60 and a D performance rating. Page 25 Energy & Emissions page 3 Data Center Operations Energy for data center operations is the largest contributor to SAS’ environmental footprint. Over the past decade, the challenge of delivering timely information to support enterprise analytics has increased exponentially. Additional computing and storage solutions, combined with IT globalization, has increased demand for energy and data center space. To maintain the support expected by customers, SAS invested in high-efficiency technologies and design Global Emissions Variance (t CO2e) to construct a new, dedicated computing facility, emphasizing efficiency, flexibility and sustainability. SAS data center operations regularly achieve an average power usage effectiveness (PUE) of 1.35 or better. A PUE of 2.0 means that for every watt of IT power consumed, an additional watt is consumed to cool and distribute power. Thus a PUE closer to 1.0 indicates greater efficiency. 2015 Data: SAS data centers added 35 percent more servers in 2015, but only increased energy consumption by 5 percent. Solar and Renewable Energy Global Emissions (t CO2e) 0 Since 2008, when SAS broke the solar energy 1 megawatt barrier for the Southeast US, the capacity of solar installations in North Carolina has grown to 1,134 MW – ranking No. 2 nationally. SAS proved solar was viable, and the community responded. 2015 Data: SAS’ nine solar installations generated 13,403 gigajoules of clean renewable energy. Since 2008, SAS has generated more than 85,000 gigajoules of solar energy – approximately 94 percent was sold to North Carolina utilities in support of NC’s Renewable Energy Portfolio Standard. At a combined 2.2 MW in capacity, SAS’ solar farms are located on 2015 Emissions by Scope 12 acres at world headquarters in Cary, NC. The photovoltaic (PV) solar arrays generate 3.6 million kilowatt-hours of clean, renewable SAS conducts ongoing greenhouse gas emissions inventory of its Scope 1 energy each year, reducing carbon dioxide emissions by more than and Scope 2 emissions.. 2,000 tons annually — the amount of emissions produced by consuming more than 367,000 gallons of gasoline. • Solar Farm I (December 2008): 1 MW in capacity, 5 acres, and 5,040 panels; generates 1.7 million kWh of clean renewable energy each year. • Solar Farm II (July 2010): 1.2 MW in capacity, 7 acres, and 5,236 panels; generates 1.9 million kWh of clean renewable energy each year. • Building C: 405 roof-mounted panels, 74 KW-capacity solar PV system; generates 100,000 kWh of electricity annually. • Building R: 702 roof-mounted panels, 169 KW-capacity solar PV system; generates 200,000 kWh of electricity annually. • Building Q: 176 roof-mounted panels, 45 KW-capacity solar PV system; generates 60,000 kWh of electricity annually. Page 26 Energy & Emissions page 4 • SAS Sweden: 80 roof-mounted panels, 20 KW-capacity solar PV system generates 25,000 kWh of electricity annually. • Building T: 24 roof-mounted 4-by-10-foot solar thermal panels provide hot water for on-site cafeteria. • Building G: 42 roof-mounted 4-by-10-foot solar thermal panels provide hot water for showers and laundry for the campus gymnasium. • Building C: Eight roof-mounted 5-by-6-foot evacuated-tube type solar thermal panels produce hot water for on-site cafeteria. The system works in concert with a building HVAC chilled water system and uses additional heat extracted from water-to-water heat pumps. Solar Energy Trend (Gigajoules) Solar Energy Variance (Gigajoules) All reports are based on actual resource data collected from owned and leased offices, and intensity metrics applied to approximately 21 percent of leased office space that does not have access to actual data. SAS applies The Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol recommended standards and IPCC Fifth Assessment Report (AR5) factors to report emissions inventories under our operational control. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2016, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107778_G27180.0516 Page 27 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2015 ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM Landfill Diversion Highlights from 2015 include: • SAS diverted 50 percent of waste (1,149 metric tons) from landfills The SAS Waste Management Program at world headquarters through recycling and waste management worldwide. measures and monitors the waste stream, with significant • Construction projects at world headquarters achieved an environmental benefits resulting from efforts at individual and local astounding 80 percent landfill diversion rate on more than 116 levels. For example: metric tons of waste. • SAS provides on-site recycling for aluminum, batteries, card• SAS diverted 100 percent of e-waste from landfills by repurposing board, electronics, magazines, glass, newspaper, pallets, paper, equipment for internal use, recycling and donating to educational plastic bottles, printer cartridges, scrap metal and more. institutions. • SAS strives for 100 percent e-waste recycling by repurposing • Since 2008, the employee electronics recycling program (US) has equipment for internal use, recycling with responsible vendors, collected more than 90 metric tons of personal electronic and donating to educational institutions. hardware for recycling. In 2015, a record 20 metric tons of equip• Polystyrene-based disposables have been replaced with ment was collected from environmentally responsible employees. compostable options. • SAS expanded the Green2Go program to all full-service • Cafeteria food waste is composted and used by SAS landheadquarters’ cafés. The reusable alternative to food to-go plastic scapers; waste vegetable oil is recycled and converted into containers has helped more than 500 participating employees biodiesel fuel. eliminate thousands of containers from landfill disposal. • Online resources reduce paper consumption globally. • SAS strongly encourages the use of biodegradable and recyclable materials. • Building construction projects regularly exceed 80 percent waste diversion from landfills. • Grassroots programs for employees reduce waste and encourage recycling efforts. • Since 2009, operational waste diverted from landfills has Operational Waste Disposal by Year (Metric Tons) increased from 26 percent to better than 50 percent. View dynamic SAS® Visual Analytics reports on SAS landfill diversion or see static charts and tables below. 2015 Data: Globally, SAS disposed of 2,164 metric tons of operational waste in 2015, including paper, food, cardboard, composting, aluminum and plastic, and other nonconstruction waste material. This amount is 16 percent, or 408 metric tons, less than 2014. Operational Waste Variance (Metric Tons) Page 28 Landfill Diversion page 2 Landfill Diversion Rate Trend 2015 Landfill and Recycling Rate 2015 Recycling by Material Type 2015 Operational Waste (Metric Tons) Page 29 Landfill Diversion page 3 Paper Consumption Like most businesses, SAS is dependent on paper products to conduct business operations. SAS is making progress in three key ways: Reduce. SAS has significantly reduced print volumes by delivering less physical media to customers. This includes reducing inventories and increasing efficiencies by using a print-on-demand model; convenient access to online documentation; education and awareness campaigns; and personal choices. Since 2009, the average annual pages of paper used by employees has dropped from 2,631 to 1,254 – a 52 percent decrease. Globally, SAS used 145 Paper Use Trend (Sheets per Employee) metric tons of paper for printing in 2015. Reuse. When SAS does print, employees are encouraged to find creative ways to reuse scrap paper. Ideas include using scrap paper Hazardous Materials for notes, reprinting, packaging material for shipping and on-site As a software company, SAS does not handle raw materials, conflict composting. minerals, hazardous wastes or related supplies typical of traditional manufacturing. While risks are minimal, SAS places the utmost Recycle. SAS recycled 180 metric tons of paper materials in 2015 importance in abiding by industry best practices and governing – 28 percent less than 2014. SAS is not only using less paper, but regulations, including: switched our standard office paper used for copiers and printers from 30 percent to 50 percent post-consumer recycled content. • Compliance with all Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) regulations for handling hazardous materials. In 2015, the average recycled content for all paper at SAS head• Plans for Spill Prevention, Control, and Countermeasure (SPCC) quarters is 34 percent that meet US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulations. 2015 Data: SAS did not have any spills of hazardous materials, oil, fuel, waste or chemicals, and did not have any fines for noncompliance with environmental legislation. SAS is very careful to minimize environmental impact as the company continues to grow. The company strictly adheres to environmental regulations All reports are based on actual resource data collected from owned and leased offices, and intensity metrics applied to approximately 21 percent of leased office space that does not have access to actual data. Paper Use (Metric Tons) SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2016, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107779_G27181.0516 Page 30 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2015 ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM Water Conservation • Despite overall increases, water use per square foot of office space decreased by 0.1 percent. SAS’ 900-acre headquarters in Cary, NC, and 13 owned sites • Returned 49 percent (83,873 cubic meters) of municipal water for globally use water for office and data center cooling, cafés, treatment by local utilities. gymnasiums, landscaping and employee consumption. Water • SAS installed an electrolyzed water system in a headquarters conservation is of paramount importance to SAS, with many café to clean, degrease and sanitize without the use of harmful facilities operating in communities where water shortfalls and water chemicals. The system greatly reduces the amount of chemicaluse restrictions are standard. At SAS headquarters, coupling water based cleaning supplies used for café operations. saving technologies and practice with increased employee awareness has resulted in significant savings. For example: • Low-flow and electronically activated plumbing fixtures greatly reduce employee water consumption, saving 63 percent more compared to standard fixtures. • Rooftop rainwater collection systems capture water for use in bathrooms. • Cooling towers are replaced with high-efficiency models that use reclaimed water. Water Trend (Cubic Meters) • Wastewater options such as reclaimed and gray water lower potable water consumption. • Reducing and customizing irrigation schedules avoids overwatering plants. • Collecting rainwater in retention ponds and cisterns minimizes stormwater runoff and provides water for landscape irrigation. • Native and drought-resistant plants and warm-season grasses require less frequent irrigation. Water Variance (Cubic Meters) • Timely repair of leaking pipes and the installation of low-flow toilets, shower heads and faucet aerators save at least 1.4 million gallons each year. View dynamic SAS® Visual Analytics reports on SAS water conservation or see static charts and tables below. 2015 Data: • SAS water use increased by 7.7 percent in 2015. The 21,390 cubic meter increase was due to increased demands on data center operations, a full year’s operation for a new office building 2015 Water Percentage by Source at Cary headquarters (8,478 cubic meters) and increased irrigaAll reports are based on actual resource data collected from owned and tion needs for Cary headquarters (10,918 cubic meters) and leased offices, and intensity metrics applied to approximately 21 percent of leased office space that does not have access to actual data. regional offices (5,496 cubic meters). SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2016, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107780_G27182.0516 Page 31 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2015 ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM Green Building Practices • Highly efficient HVAC systems integrate economizers, enthalpy wheels, variable speed drives, and various heat recovery systems to increase energy savings. SAS strives to be a leader in environmental sustainability. Around • T5 fluorescent and LED lighting fixtures – along with individual the world, SAS is committed to making a difference. To achieve this lighting controls, motion sensors and automatic timers – save goal, SAS embraces Leadership in Energy and Environmental energy. Design (LEED®) guidelines for new construction and remodeling and retrofitting existing buildings. Since 2005, all new office build• A one-acre sedum green roof minimizes stormwater runoff and ings and data centers have achieved LEED certification. insulation, significantly reducing the heat-island effect for this microclimate. SAS’ nine LEED certified buildings include Platinum-level • Low-flow and electronically activated plumbing fixtures greatly certification for the Executive Briefing Center at world headquarters. reduce employee water consumption, saving 63 percent more Platinum is the highest level awarded by the US Green Building compared to standard fixtures. Council (USGBC). SAS holds a Silver level national membership • A rainwater collection system with two 20,000-gallon cisterns with the USGBC. For offices located in countries that do not use captures water for use in bathrooms. LEED, SAS is incorporating country-specific best practices and • A 655,000-gallon retention pond collects stormwater runoff for pursuing equivalent certifications for new construction and landscape irrigation. maintenance. • LEED existing building certification. Examples of SAS’ commitment to green building practices include: World Headquarters: Building D — World Headquarters: Building C — LEED Gold Certified Data Center LEED Platinum Certified Office Building The 38,660-square-foot facility includes two server farms, providing Building C includes the Executive Briefing Center, café and an additional data handling for expanded SAS® OnDemand offerings, office tower for employees. The Executive Briefing Center uses hosted solutions and continued R&D growth. Environmental cutting-edge technologies to help customers learn about SAS technology designed into the building, which earned LEED Gold software. Building C achieved LEED Platinum certification for water certification by the USGBC, include a reclaimed water system and and energy conservation, the first for any building in Wake County mechanical and electrical systems emphasizing efficiency of and only the fifth in North Carolina in 2011. The building consumes operation. Building D has also achieved LEED existing building 40 percent less energy and 50 percent less water by integrating certification. highly efficient technologies and sustainable features: • Photovoltaic panels generate 100,000 kWh annually to support World Headquarters: Building Q — lighting and building systems. LEED Gold Certified Office Building The 220,660-square-foot office building features rooftop solar • Solar thermal panels provide hot water for the café. photovoltaic panels, highly insulated exterior wall and roofing • Thermal slab floor cooling uses water cooled in off-peak hours systems, highly efficient heating and air conditioning, mechanical by building chillers to help maximize air conditioning efficiency. systems, energy recovery units and a water-side heat exchanger, • Radiant floor heating is used in the atrium for greater occupant extensive use of LED lighting, and reclaimed water use for cooling comfort and minimizes heat loss through the roof. towers, irrigation and toilets. The parking lot has 12 spaces designated for plug-in electric vehicles with access to electric vehicle charging stations Page 32 Green Building Practices page 2 World Headquarters: Buildings S, T & U — LEED Certified Existing Office Buildings In 2013, Building T at world headquarters in Cary, NC, was the first SAS building to be awarded LEED certification for an existing building. Since then, SAS has achieved LEED existing building certifications for buildings S and U. These buildings are Energy Star certified and feature the use of solar panels, energy-efficient lighting and automation controls, and low-flow bathroom fixtures. They have also completed advanced retro-commissioning to ensure optimal performance for all building systems. Solna, Sweden: LEED Gold Certified Office Building Sweden’s newest office building was awarded LEED Gold certification. The facility features geothermal energy wells for efficient heating and cooling, rooftop solar photovoltaic panels, a sedumcovered green roof, and even on-site beehives, which provide natural honey for the cafeteria. Toronto, Canada: LEED Silver Certified Office Building SAS Toronto was the first LEED-certified new office building in Canada. With rainwater harvesting and energy conservation measures saving more than 6 million kWh of energy per year, the SAS building has served as an inspiration for many other new buildings in Toronto. São Paulo, Brazil: LEED Certified Office Building Renovation SAS’ leased office in São Paulo received LEED certification for an office renovation project in 2013. 2015 Data: Green building highlights from 2015 include: • LEED Existing Building certification for three office buildings; SAS embraces Leadership in LEED guidelines for new construction, remodeling and retrofitting existing buildings. • Through 2015, 51 percent of office building space and 61 percent of data center space at Cary headquarters is LEED certified. • Energy Star certification for two additional buildings at SAS headquarters. • Initiating efforts to pursue LEED certification for two more existing buildings at SAS headquarters. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2016, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107781_G27183.0516 Page 33 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2015 ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM Biodiversity The SAS office located in Austin, TX also has a unique biodiversity approach. It is located on 94 acres of mostly undisturbed land where deer and other wildlife freely roam. Only about three acres are used SAS is careful to minimize impact on biodiversity and surrounding for facilities and access roads. The property has intentionally been left habitats as it grows and expands its operational footprint. SAS wild and features a long, winding driveway and natural walking trails adheres to the US Green Building Council LEED guidelines for surrounding the more landscaped areas around the building. protecting natural environments and promoting biodiversity in areas where the company operates. Of approximately 900 acres at The Austin property is home to several types of endangered birds SAS headquarters, about 100 acres feature buildings, roads or and spiders, which are protected by landscaping and conservation other impervious surfaces. The remaining 800 acres are retained as guidelines, such as the Balcones Canyonlands Conservation Plan old-growth woodland, lakes and streams, farmland, natural areas (BCCP). The BCCP is a joint venture of the City of Austin and Travis and approximately 60 acres of maintained lawns, primarily for County that protects habitats for locally occurring species protected employee recreation and landscaping. under the federal Endangered Species Act. SAS works closely with BCCP to maintain the natural integrity of these important habitats. The company applies LEED best practice guidelines for new and existing building projects, smart land use planning and campus 2015 Data: In 2015, SAS achieved Existing Building LEED certificalandscaping, such as: tion for three buildings and initiated certification projects for two • Preserving large areas of open space in construction projects to others. Adoption of green building practices includes a substantial minimize disruption to local ecosystems. effort to minimize environmental impact for both construction and ongoing operation. Building design and construction processes • Reducing the heat island effect by installing white reflective ensure a minimal site footprint, higher than mandated erosion and materials and planting sedum on rooftops. Sedum increases stormwater controls, reduced heat island impact, maximized green insulation, minimizes stormwater runoff and provides habitat space, use of native and drought-tolerant plants, and more. for wildlife. • Collecting rainwater from rooftop systems, retention ponds and cisterns to minimize stormwater runoff and provide water for landscape irrigation. • Harvesting timber from construction sites so artisans can craft unique pieces of furniture and accent walls for buildings. • Restoring land disturbed by construction projects with native and adaptive drought-tolerant plants that help local ecosystems thrive and reduce dependence on water and chemicals. • Growing local produce for SAS cafeterias in on-site gardens. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2016, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107782_G27184.0516 Page 34 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2015 ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM Awareness and park adjacent to the Cary, NC, campus, completing a perimeter fencing project at the local nonprofit SEEDS organization and Engagement collecting tiger footprint data from the Carolina Tiger Rescue to improve techniques for identifying endangered tiger species in the wild. In addition to employing sustainability measures globally, SAS • At SAS’ fifth annual Junk Swap, employees donated gently promotes environmental education and awareness. Activities used, unwanted items that were offered free to other employees include educational campaigns, speaking engagements, SAS solar or donated to the Salvation Army. More than 300 employees farm visits, companywide Earth Day activities, articles on the internal donated household items, including furniture and kitchen green website, white papers and webcasts. By engaging with appliances, sporting goods, books and loads of toys. customers, employees, industry leaders and world leaders, SAS seeks to extend the reach of its sustainability initiatives. • SAS Eco Advocates also partnered with the Duke Nicholas School of the Environment to collect data from our office SAS works with leading international organizations to apply techbuildings and contribute toward a global initiative to reduce nology to address greenhouse gas emissions, as well as other envibird collisions with buildings. ronmental and social concerns. Customers use SAS® software to • SAS hosted conferences for numerous environmental organizagenerate power efficiently, promote better use of critical resources, tions, including the Research Triangle Cleantech Cluster and minimize waste, assist environmental protection agencies, and EarthShare North Carolina. improve the production and delivery of goods. 2015 Data: In 2015, SAS employees joined in various activities Electric Vehicle Support and the to raise awareness about the benefits of renewable energy, Eco-Commuter Program conserving energy, reducing waste, reducing water use, and SAS assigns top priority to minimizing energy consumption and related protecting the environment. SAS held weeklong Earth Week emissions from its operations. The SAS Eco-Commuter Parking celebrations at its world headquarters campus, while offices around Program encourages employees to mitigate the environmental impacts the globe engaged employees with stewardship initiatives. Some of their daily commute by providing specially marked preferred parking US activities included: spaces for plug-in electric vehicles (PEVs), low-emission vehicles and • SAS sent a letter to the North Carolina General Assembly active carpool participants. Eco-Commuter parking includes 100 advocating the economic and environmental benefits of maindesignated PEV spaces with access to 48 charging stations. SAS taining the state’s Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency provides free charging for all employees and visitors. Portfolio Standard (REPS). Through 2015, employees at SAS headquarters in Cary, NC, own • To help celebrate Earth Day, a new and improved SAS Green approximately 3 percent of PEVs in North Carolina. Initiatives website was launched, giving employees a one-stop Employees share the charging station infrastructure by following the resource for learning about all things sustainable at SAS. The SAS Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Use Policy and Guidelines. new global site features environmental performance reports, tools to help employees share ideas and get involved, and links The SAS Eco-Commuter Program also provides subsidized employee to important resources to help SAS minimize the environmental vanpools and bike racks at all office buildings. footprint from its operations. In 2015, SAS was awarded the DOE Leading the Charge recognition • SAS Eco Advocates, an employee volunteer group who supports for a second time. View SAS’ participation in the Department of environmental activities, spent a day revitalizing trails in the state Energy’s Workplace Charging Challenge. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2016, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107783_G27185.0516 Page 35 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2015 EMPLOYEES & CULTURE SAS’ world-renowned culture is based on trust, flexibility and values SAS is not only known as the pioneer in analytics but as the pioneer in workplace culture, SAS’ culture is anchored by meaningful work, excellent leadership and a world-class work environment. The company has been ranked on the Fortune 100 Best Companies to Work For list since the list’s inception for its corporate culture – which encourages work/life balance. SAS employees share a common spirit, a passion for their work, their customers and each other. It’s truly a workplace like no other, based on the belief that happy, healthy people have a passionate engagement with life – and bring it to work. We understand there’s a direct correlation between our culture and business success with 40 years of uninterrupted revenue growth and profitability. If you treat employees well, they will continue to innovate and create amazing software that creates happy customers. Page 36 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2015 EMPLOYEES & CULTURE Workplace Culture SAS’ engaging environment enables employees to build lasting relationships with customers and drive the innovation that sustains the company’s leadership in advanced analytics. SAS is recognized worldwide for being a great workplace and for working to ensure that employees stay healthy, active and engaged. 2015 Data: In 2015, SAS earned 17 workplace culture awards, including the No. 2 ranking on the Great Place to Work Institute’s list of the World’s Best Multinational Workplaces. As part of the Great Place to Work program, SAS participates in GPTW’s Trust Index Survey. This survey aggregates data from the Fortune 100 Best Companies to Work For list to rate participating companies. SAS’ results demonstrate why it is annually recognized as a top employer in the US and beyond. Great Place to Work Trust Index Survey (US only) 100 Best SAS US Score Companies US (Average) Credibility 87 85 Respect 90 86 Fairness 86 84 Pride 92 89 Camaraderie 92 89 This is a great place 94 90 to work SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2016, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107784_G27186.0416 Page 37 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2015 EMPLOYEES & CULTURE Hiring and Retaining Staff US Turnover Summary — 2015 US staff turnover 2013 2014 2015 SAS cultivates the optimal environment for creativity, encouraging employees to take risks and exceed expectations while helping Type them balance work and life. SAS not only invests in employee Turnover number 300 349 353 career development, but also health and well-being through Turnover percentage 4.5% 5.2% 5.1% several services, programs and benefits. By age group 2015 Data: In 2015, SAS maintained its perennially low turnover 19-31 50 45 72 rate while sustaining its worldwide headcount. In 2015, SAS did not have any substantiated and material negative incidents with regard 32-44 105 124 110 to employee discrimination or harassment. At the end of 2015, SAS 45-63 112 128 122 had 14,003 employees worldwide and 7,117 US employees. 64 and up 33 52 49 Voluntary Employee Turnover By gender In the US, the average employee tenure is 11 years, compared to Female 126 156 149 an industry average of 4.6 years.1 Reducing turnover reduces Male 174 193 204 recruitment costs, helping the company retain knowledge and deliver deeper, longer-term customer relationships. This means SAS employees spend more time on productivity and less time Diversity and Equal Opportunity training new hires on their roles in the company. SAS sees a strong SAS’ work teams thrive on a diverse interplay of ages, backgrounds connection between employee loyalty and business success. and perspectives. Employees’ collective strength and passion for what they do ignites big ideas and powerful bonds. SAS continues to 2015 Data: In 2015, SAS’ voluntary employee turnover rate was 5.1 provide equal employment opportunity for all employees regardless percent. The average industry turnover rate is 18.4 percent.2 of age, race, color, gender identity, religion, creed, ancestry, national origin, citizenship, marital status, sexual orientation, disability, medical 1 US Bureau of Labor Statistics condition, veteran status, pregnancy or any other protected class as 2 Ibid. defined by federal, state or local law. To promote diversity and equal opportunity, SAS engages in the following: • Partnered with Enable America for Career Mentoring Day with transitioning veterans. • Women’s Initiative Network (WIN), a SAS interest group dedicated to inspiring, encouraging and empowering women through networking, career development and community service. • Treatment and Education of Autistic and Related Communication Handicapped Children (TEACCH) program provides job coaches for long-term autistic employees who work in SAS cafes. Page 38 Hiring & Retaining Staff page 2 • Food and Service Training (FAST) students from Wake County Public Schools receive credit toward Occupational Course of Study Diplomas by volunteering with corporate mentors to learn basic workplace skills. • Arc of Wake County to help match people in the community with disabilities who are seeking competitive employment with appropriate jobs and on-site coaching. In some cases, students gain work credit to meet requirements for OCS Diplomas. • R3, a summer student program that symbolizes SAS’ commitment to “Recognize, Recruit and Retain” women and minorities in fields of technology. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2016, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107785_D27187.0416 Page 39 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2015 EMPLOYEES & CULTURE Skills Development SAS offers a wide array of training options that enable employees to find their best learning method to meet work and career goals. SAS supports the idea that all employees have a natural desire to Training Breakdown learn and grow. As part of its culture and benefits for employees, SAS provides many opportunities for employees to develop, Classroom 31% whether for specific job skills, business acumen or interpersonal Webcast and video 19% competence. Training includes instructor-led classes, e-learning and live web training. Employees at all levels are encouraged to E-learning 47% pursue training to keep their skills sharp and learn new techniques Reading material 1% to improve their professional capabilities. Training programs include: Employee Type Average Time in Training • Leadership development. Full-time 25 hours • Interpersonal development. Part-time 7 hours • Sales training. • Technical training. 2015 Data: Approximately 95% of employees participated in professional training, totaling 171,663 hours. In addition to skills training, SAS has created a program specifically for employees pursuing leadership and management training. Courses are offered at different levels within the organization to cultivate and nurture internal talent. In 2015, SAS provided 94 leadership development offerings, including 30 courses, training 1,214 people. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2016, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107786_G27188.0416 Page 40 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2015 EMPLOYEES & CULTURE Health and Safety Absenteeism Around the globe, SAS provides a safe and healthy working enviBy providing a safe, nurturing work environment, SAS strives to keep ronment for all its employees. Each SAS office manages its own employees productive and effective in their roles. One measure of health and safety programs. Resources and best practices are availthat success is the absenteeism rate. able from the headquarters office in the US; however, each 2015 Data: In 2015, SAS recorded an absence rate of four days per program is designed to fit the needs of that particular location. full-time employee. This accounts for all types of non-vacation and Many SAS offices around the globe have exercise facilities on-site holiday time, including sick, bereavement, jury duty, military leave of or have access to regional fitness clubs. All employees have access absence and workers’ compensation. to health care coverage that is tailored to the cultural norms and local laws of each region. At the worldwide headquarters in Cary, Injuries/Lost Days — US 2 2013 2014 2015 NC, an on-site health care center provides comprehensive services Total Employees 6,716 6,862 7,117 that promote optimal health. The staff includes family nurse practiCompensation Claims 30 = 0.45% 22 = 0.32% 41 = 0.58% tioners, physicians, registered dietitians/nutritionists, nurses, medical laboratory technologists, a psychologist and physical Lost Working Days 116 129 200.25 therapists. 2 Numbers may vary based on a dynamic time frame. The Security and Safety and Risk Management departments investigate any incidents that pose a danger to company employees or third parties and take measures to reduce or eliminate these hazards. These departments provide additional training and resources to help identify and prevent similar incidents from causing injury or damage to individuals. SAS also has an Ergonomics department that supports employees through personal assessments and training. The department provides further educational resources through an intranet site, which includes FAQs, tips and information about a safe work skills program for manual labor employees. It also provides an assessment request form that employees can complete for a personal work-site evaluation by one of two full-time ergonomics specialists. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2016, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107787_G27189.0416 Page 41 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2015 EDUCATION & PHILANTHROPY Meeting the challenges of the new millennium SAS CEO Jim Goodnight refers to education as the engine of economic growth. By supporting efforts that prepare more graduates for college, work and success in the 21st century, SAS continues to play a vital role in the global community. SAS focuses its philanthropic activities on creating programs at its headquarters in Cary, NC, that can be replicated by other SAS offices around the world. The company provides materials and best practices to help employees at any office launch a program that is a good fit for the community and meets local educational needs. In North Carolina and around the world, SAS targets education initiatives in science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) to ensure the next general of computer innovators has the knowledge and skills to succeed. . Page 42 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2015 EDUCATION & PHILANTHROPY K-12 Education Support for 1-to-1 Learning SAS was a founding partner of the North Carolina 1:1 Learning Collaborative, a public-private partnership providing laptops, The quality of education in the K-12 system directly affects professional development and critical support to schools in rural economic growth and prosperity. In its effort to increase access to areas. The results from the project, now freely available, have skills in the critical areas of STEM, SAS offers several products and become best practices for schools and districts undertaking a services at no cost to schools. 1-to-1 initiative. SAS® Curriculum Pathways® and SAS® Mobile Learning Apps SAS Curriculum Pathways provides interactive, standards-based Triangle High Five Math Collaborative resources in the core disciplines for middle and high school This collaborative effort helps mathematics teachers identify and students in traditional, virtual or home learning environments. From engage highly effective instructional practices and address disparipreschool children to lifelong learners, SAS mobile learning apps ties in math achievement related to race and income. Schools in engage students of all ages. SAS Curriculum Pathways and SAS the Triangle High Five partnership, which includes five public school mobile learning apps are available to every educator in the world at districts, are striving to prepare more students to be successful in no cost. In 2015 nearly 900,000 teachers and students used the free math and achieve their highest potential. Nearly 800 elementary digital resources for K-12. and middle school teachers attended the sixth annual Math Summit at SAS, a two-day professional development event. SAS® Programming for High School SAS provides five days of training, all instructional materials, assessSupport for STEM Careers ments and teaching guides necessary to teach SAS programming SAS again held a SAS STEM Career Day, in conjunction with Hour of to high school students. Students will leave this course with skills Code and Computer Science Education Week, where volunteers that allow them to sit for the SAS Certification exam, a globally ventured into classrooms to generate enthusiasm about careers in recognized certification. These resources are available to educators STEM. In 2015, SAS expanded the scope and impact of this event by at no cost. incorporating activities and content from Code.org, as well as new STEM Career Showcase for Students With Disabilities computer science and statistics lessons. Volunteers engaged SAS partnered with the North Carolina Museum of Natural Sciences students with real-world examples, shared insights from their own to create an annual event where students with disabilities in grades careers and emphasized how school prepared them for success. three through 12 interact with college students and professionals Volunteer participation increased from 25 volunteers at one site in with a variety of disabilities who have forged successful career paths 2013 to over 100 volunteers at schools in four counties in 2015. in STEM fields. Students network with role models who are pushing SAS also supports other organizations devoted to improving the the boundaries of knowledge, building innovative products and quality of education, including the Emerging Issues Forum, BEST NC, creating the technologies of the future. In 2015, more than 200 eLearning Commission, Wake Education Partnership, NC Public students and chaperones attended, with nearly 500 viewing online. School Forum, Business Roundtable and other nonprofits. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2016, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107788_G27190.0416 Page 43 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2015 EDUCATION & PHILANTHROPY Higher Education Analytics Degree Programs SAS partners with traditional and nontraditional graduate and SAS Analytics U ® undergraduate programs around the world to create degree and certificate programs that generate the analytical talent organizations Big data has created an unprecedented demand for analytics talent need to make the most of big data. SAS has helped launch nearly that outpaces qualified applicants. To help fill the skills gap, SAS 40 master’s and undergraduate degrees and 90 certificate programs launched SAS Analytics U, a broad higher education initiative that in analytics and related disciplines. New programs in 2015 include includes free SAS software, university partnerships and engaging ones at American University, University of Melbourne, Oklahoma user communities that support the current and next generation of State University, University of Arkansas, University of Texas at SAS users. Arlington, Michigan State University, Capella University and Asia Pacific University (Malaysia). Free Software for Higher Education and Adult Learners SAS Student Programs and Scholarships Through SAS University Edition and SAS OnDemand for SAS has many programs that recognize, support and propel Academics, professors, students, researchers and independent students toward a career in analytics or other STEM fields. Through learners have free access to SAS software for teaching and learning opportunities such as the SAS Student Ambassador Program, the valuable analytics skills. Students and independent learners can SAS Scholar Award Program, the SAS Analytics Shootout, the SAS jump-start careers and make themselves highly attractive to talentGlobal Forum Student Scholarship Program and others, students hungry employers by building analytics expertise. Downloads of receive valuable assistance, experience, networking and professional SAS University Edition grew 25 percent in 2015, nearing 480,000, exposure at major SAS events. and more than 45,000 people registered for free e-learning courses in statistics and programming. Support to Universities and Community Colleges The SAS Education Division provides training and teaching materials to help professors and instructors incorporate SAS into their teaching. Resources include slides, data sets and printable/editable files of the student manual. These materials are provided free of charge, with copyright permission for professors to use any of the content in their own class notes. SAS also provides numerous guest lecturers to universities and community colleges – at no cost to the institutions. SAS trained nearly 1,800 professors in the use and instruction of analytics in 2015. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2016, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107789_G27191.0516 Page 44 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2015 EDUCATION & PHILANTHROPY Philanthropy • North Carolina Science Festival, a statewide showcase of science activities. • University of North Carolina Data Dashboard, an interactive online SAS provides support to help students succeed in the classroom database built by SAS that gives students, parents, policymakers and graduate from high school. In particular, SAS champions and taxpayers expanded access to detailed UNC system data to programs that focus on the integration of technology that will track system performance. strengthen the education system and increase the number of students entering careers in science, technology, engineering and • University of North Carolina Educator Quality Dashboard, an intermathematics (STEM). Programs must generate a long-term impact active online tool built with SAS data visualization software that and affect significant numbers of people, without discrimination. enables citizens to analyze and display data on the UNC system’s Examples include:: efforts to prepare more and higher-quality teachers and school leaders for the state’s public schools. • #GivingTuesday, a global day of giving. • Triangle High Five, a partnership committed to seeing that • Communities in Schools, the nation’s largest dropout prevention students graduate from high school ready for higher education organization. and careers of their choice. • Computer Science Education Week, a national effort that SAS • University of North Carolina Public Television, which broadcasts joins by providing volunteers with training, activities and award-winning, educational programs that are watched by more materials to work with students and pique their interest in than 4 million viewers each week. computer science. • Wake Education Partnership, an independent nonprofit organiza• College and Career Ready Standards, an effort to define higher tion that mobilizes business and community involvement in Wake learning standards. County schools. • DonorsChoose.org, a national nonprofit that connects donors • YMCA of the Triangle, with 16 facilities to meet community needs with classrooms in need. Each year, SAS matches employee through programs that promote good health, strong families and contributions to the cause. solid communities. • In-kind donations for nonprofit organizations that need computer equipment or software. SAS gives hundreds of thousands of dollars in surplus computer hardware, office equipment and other tangible items to community groups that can benefit from the donation. • Donations of money, software and expertise to numerous colleges, universities and community colleges around the world. • Center for International Understanding, a program to ensure that North Carolina is the most globally engaged state in the nation. • Mapping the Nation, an online resource that reveals the importance of a globally competent workforce and citizenry. Page 45 Philanthropy page 2 Contributions In 2015, SAS donated more than $40 million to nonprofits across the globe. Nearly $1.5 million in community grants was managed by local offices worldwide. In the US, SAS donated more than $39 million of in-kind training, software, hardware, services, volunteer time, and surplus equipment and furniture. 2015 Donations Type Global Total Cash donations Worldwide cash $1,474,226 In-kind donations Software, hardware and $11,188,775 (US only) services Additional JMP® software $1,122,500 donated Value of in-kind of training for $26,660,917 students and educators Surplus equipment/ $282,015 furniture/hardware Total $40,728,433 SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2016, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107790_G27192.0516 Page 46 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2015 EDUCATION & PHILANTHROPY Community • In Mexico, employees collected food to support Casa Hogar de la Esperanza, a home for abandoned girls. Engagement • In Portugal, a team fixed and painted structures at CREACIL, an impairment support association. • In Slovakia, employees collected money for the Children´s As an integral part of SAS culture, the company encourages Hospital Emergency Unit in Bratislava. employees to donate their talent, time and/or finances to projects supporting education, the environment and social welfare. Offices A number of activities took place at SAS world headquarters: across the globe manage programs tailored to fit the needs of their communities and the interest of SAS employees. • 400 children received new clothing as part of the Salvation Army Angel Tree collection. To foster a culture of volunteerism at SAS, the company manages • In 2015, SAS employees donated close to $60,000 to the Employee Volunteer Fund (EVF), which contributes cash to DonorsChoose.org for classroom projects; SAS matched those education-based nonprofit organizations after an employee has donations, resulting in almost $118,000 for 482 unique projects. provided at least 50 hours of volunteer support in three out of four A total of 55,066 students in 36 states have benefited from the quarters over 12 months. partnership this past year. The DonorsChoose.org challenge raised more than $28,000 in donations to classroom projects via 2015 Data: SAS employees in the US volunteered more than the #GivingTuesday campaign at SAS. 29,000 hours through the EVF program, resulting in more than $91,750 paid to schools across the country. Globally, SAS • 20 SAS employees worked with children at the Raleigh Boys and employees volunteer their time in the community. Whether it is Girls Club on STEM activities. collecting toys at Christmas in France, adopting a local school in • 123 pints of blood were donated to the American Red Cross. Canada, raising money for the food bank in Pittsburgh, collecting • SAS volunteers helped raise nearly $150,000 for UNC-TV, the coats for kids in North Carolina, or building Habitat for Humanity statewide public television network. Since 2000, SAS has helped homes across the US, SAS employees generously give their time to raise more than $2 million for public television. improve their communities. • SAS was a founding partner in SummerSTEM, a STEM immersion experience involving six corporations and 50 middle and high Some SAS volunteer projects in 2015 included: school teachers. • SAS employees in 18 countries joined more than 30,000 organi• The below activities served the Food Bank of Raleigh: zations around the world in support of #GivingTuesday, Dec. 1. • Between the child care centers’ food drive and the #GivingTuesday reports that more than $116 million was raised. CanOrnament display, employees donated 6,344 pounds of There were 1.3 million social media mentions, tripling the canned goods. (1,300 pounds more than last year!) number of users reached on Facebook last year. Check out this • The Executive Cooking Challenge raised an additional $752 2015 infographic to learn more. in three cafes. Around the world, here are just a few of the activities: • The Virtual Food Drive monetary donations totaled $2,678. • In Canada, employees donated blood. A group also • All in all, enough food/money was collected to provide packaged and sorted food to help ensure that the hungry 22,942 meals! people of Toronto had food for the holiday season. • In France, employees donated blood and collected toys, clothing and money. • In Greece, employees donated food for refugees. Page 47 Community Engagement page 2 • SAS STEM Career Day. SAS STEM volunteers visited schools and • UNC Board of Governors described their careers, how they chose their career paths, and • UNC Charlotte, William States Lee College of Engineering how SAS and its customers use math, science and technology. (Energy Production and Infrastructure Center [EPIC] Advisory The goals are to increase student interest in STEM careers and Board) courses, to help students connect what they do in school with an • Wake Education Partnership exciting STEM career pathway, and to familiarize them with the • WildTrack varied STEM careers at SAS and other organizations. • World Wildlife Fund US • YMCA of the Triangle Community Board Membership SAS staff members carry the company’s corporate responsibility values outside the office by serving on the boards of community organizations that support education, disaster relief, the arts, science innovation, environmental conservation and other issues important to employees. 2015 Data: SAS employees served on numerous boards, including the following: • American Chamber of Commerce to the European Union (AmCham EU) Executive Council • Atlantic Council Board of Directors • American Statistical Association • BEST-NC (Business for Educational Success and Transformation in North Carolina) • Cary Academy Board of Directors • CSC Strategic Advisory Board at North Carolina State University – Board Emeritus • EDF National Council • Food Bank of Central and Eastern North Carolina • Friday Institute for Educational Innovation (North Carolina State University) • Kids ‘N Community Foundation (Carolina Hurricanes) • North Carolina Museum of Art • North Carolina Museum of Natural Sciences – Friends • North Carolina Public School Forum • North Carolina Science Festival • North Carolina State University Board of Trustees • Ready by 21 • Smithsonian National Museum of Natural History, Advisory Board • The Center for International Understanding Council • US Council for International Business Board of Directors – Executive Council SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2016, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107791_G27193.0516 Page 48 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2015 EDUCATION & PHILANTHROPY Donation Process SAS Community Relations Program: Criteria for Donations Related to SAS’ corporate philanthropy supports strategic initiatives that increase interest and achievement in STEM, with an emphasis in Education the region surrounding SAS world headquarters. If your organization meets the above criteria, follow these steps to apply for a donation: If your organization meets all the below criteria, proceed with the donation application process outlined under the next section, 1. Complete the SAS Donation Application listed below, making “SAS Community Relations Program.” sure to provide all information requested. • Have nonprofit tax exemption status under Internal Revenue 2. Prepare a brief description (three pages or less) of the project/ Service code 501(c)(3). program to be funded or for the in-kind request, including • Have a responsible board of directors serving without answers to the following questions: compensation. • What is the primary mission of your organization? Describe • Show financial stability as evidenced by annual financial your current programs and significant accomplishments. statements. • What issue or problem does your program/project address? • How does this issue relate to SAS’ educational focus, priorities • Employ ethical methods of publicity, promotion and solicitation and criteria? of funds. • What is the scope of your program? Who is your audience • Raise funds without payment of commissions, street solicitations and/or the population to be served? (Include any available or mailing of unordered tickets. program or policy statements that reference geographic • Operate from a detailed annual budget. location, socioeconomic status, or other factors that identify • Request funds for programs or operations with a minimal portion the target audience.) applied to overhead. • What is the program goal or expected outcome of the • Use the in-kind donation to benefit organizational members or program for which support is requested? constituents. • What is the track record of the project/program to be funded? • The SAS Community Relations program does not consider (If new, discuss accomplishments of the organization.) funding or in-kind donations for the following: • How will you measure the success of the program/project and report the results to SAS? • Sponsorship of professional athletic or amateur sports teams or individuals. 3. Provide the following supporting documentation: • Single events such as walk-a-thons, fundraisers, workshops, • A photocopy of the IRS 501(c)(3) letter. seminars, etc. • Evidence of current accreditation (for educational institutions). • Religious causes. • An audited financial statement or detailed information on • Political parties, candidates or issues. finances. • Organizations that are in any way exclusive. • A list of those currently on the board of directors and their • Trips, tours. professional affiliations. • Independent film/video productions. • A separate project/program budget, if applicable. • Requests from individuals. Page 49 4. Return (1) the completed application; (2) description; and (3) all required supporting documentation. Incomplete applications will not be considered. Completed applications are reviewed in the order they are received. Mailing address: Community Relations SAS Campus Drive Cary, NC 27513 Note: Submitted materials will not be returned. For further information, contact CommunityRelations@sas.com. Donation Application Date: Name of Organization: Address of Organization: Contact Person: Title/Position: Address (if different from above): Telephone: Fax: Email Address: Website: How long has this organization operated in this community? The funds being sought are to be used for: Capital Campaign Operating Budget Special Project – project start and end dates: Total budget for current project: $ What percentage is being requested from businesses? Dollar amount or description of in-kind donation requested from SAS: How was this amount calculated? (include overall budget if requesting partial funding): Has your organization received previous support from SAS? Yes No If yes, list year(s) and amount(s): List three to five other major business contributors to this program and the amounts contributed: List names and positions of any SAS employees involved with your organization: Name Title Return completed Donation Application, together with all required supporting documentation, to: Community Relations SAS Campus Drive Cary, NC 27513 SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2016, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107834_G27194.0516 Page 50
