October 11, 2016 © 2016 KIROYAN PARTNERS. All rights reserved. KIROYAN PARTNERS | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 “Kiroyan Partners is as committed to the United Nations Global Compact today as it was in 2009 when we first signed up. The principles provide practical guidance in conducting our business and we reaffirm our commitment to first and foremost conduct business ethically, and more specifically to respect human rights and labor protection, preserve the environment and be actively involved in the fight against corruption.” NOKE KIROYAN President Director & Chief Consultant Prepared exclusively as a report to UNGC. | Jakarta, October 11, 2016 KIROYAN PARTNERS | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 OUR IN 2016 REPORT Kiroyan Partners (KP) took the commitment to walk hand in hand with United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in 2009, and since then UNGC has become a reminder for our company to keep on continuing our initiatives to implement good corporate governance and promote sustainable business practices in our operation. In this regard, KP especially focuses on three main aspects namely environment, social, and profitability. We believe that these aspects are critical to our business growth whilst helping us keep utmost consideration towards existing social challenges. In an effort to report our progress in upholding UNGC principles in the period of October 2015 to October 2016, we are submitting our Communication on Progress (CoP) paper. We believe that our vision to become a leader in the active promotion of sustainable business practices in Indonesia can be strengthened by the support of UNGC’s ten principles that cover various global issues related to human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. These principles have been diffused in our business ethics, culture and company’s operation since we began adopting them eight years ago. This year, we keep the same structure and approach from our last CoP report. A notable difference of this year’s report is in the data collection process. We utilize a questionnaire entitled Global Compact Self-Assessment Tool1 developed by Danish Institute for Human Rights. The questionnaire is very helpful due to its simplicity and practicality in addressing detailed elaboration of each UNGC’s concern. It comprises situational questions that only require yes or no answer and two other responses, which are ‘further attention required’ and ‘not applicable’. We believe that this approach help us reflect on the current situation of our business. The selfassessment tool is also time-saving compared to interviewing each employee. We distributed the questionnaire to all of our employees to get most representative data. To complement the questionnaire, we also collected supporting data to strengthen the report. Finally, the view of management regarding the collected data was obtained through the interview with our CEO. 1 “Global Compact Self-Assessment.” n.d. Web. Oct. 11, 2016. Prepared exclusively as a report to UNGC. | Jakarta, October 11, 2016 KIROYAN PARTNERS | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 HUMANRIGHTS KIROYAN PARTNERS’ VIEW ON HUMAN RIGHTS UNGC encourages and sets the expectation to always emphasizes that every employee has the every business to respect and support human same opportunity to express his/her opinion. rights, starting from fostering respects for There is no favoritism or other kinds of human rights through the business core. UNGC discrimination practice, for example in explains in its website that to foster respect for promotion. The assessment for employee “human rights does not require the business to promotion is also based on skill and competence start from the very beginning. Nor does it need a alone whole management system”.2 In relations to the second principle of UNGC, KP KP stands fully in line with the United Nation ensures that our company does not commit any through its Universal Declaration of Human human rights abuses. It is because human rights Rights3 (UDHR). This declaration has thirty have an integral position in our business core. As articles on human rights, emphasizing that all mentioned in the previous paragraph, our human beings are born free and equal in dignity company’s regulation has been walking and rights. As a company that complies with conjointly with the international proclaimed good corporate governance and corporate social human rights. We respect the rights of our responsibility, KP applies no discrimination and employees by giving them the right to express assesses performance based on competence their views, associate in organization, and boost merit. their ability. Our commitment is stipulated in our company’s In practicing good corporate governance, we regulation for 2014-2016 periods. In particular, believe that business ethics should be applied to Article 3 on Employers and Workers Obligation every aspect of our business because it will help and Responsibility, states the rights of workers to us avoid and overcome issues that may affect have a fair treatment and to act equally towards our company’s reputation. As a public affairs and one another. Article 3 Number 2 of the regulation communications consulting firm, we always also affirms our commitment to upholding the conduct pre-assessment that aims to measure human rights that is in line with UDHR Article 2. It two things. The first is our capability in executing articulates that KP’s employees have the rights to the task and delivering service at our best. The expand their abilities without discrimination second one is about the implication of the against their sexes, races, religions, social origins, service itself. We always try to be objective in and political views. The third point of the same approaching every proposal that comes to our article also shows our respect to human rights by door. When there is an indication of violation of assuring that every employee’s complaint will be business ethics – explicitly or implicitly – we will heard and taken into consideration followed by terminate or decline the proposal even though it an appropriate action. In this aspect, our CEO is financially promising. 2 “Principle 1 | UN Global Compact.” Principle 1 | UN Global Compact. N.p., n.d. Web. Oct. 11, 2016. 3 “Universal Declaration of Human Rights | United Nations.” UN News Center. UN, n.d. Web. Oct. 11, 2016. Prepared exclusively as a report to UNGC. | Jakarta, October 11, 2016 KIROYAN PARTNERS | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 IMPLEMENTATION KP’s commitment to promote human rights is 11.30 AM until 2.00 PM depending on actualized in four categories, i.e. health and personal schedule. This working time is 8 safety; hours, wages and leave; fair treatment, hours less than the stipulated international and community impacts and country risk. worksheet, which is 48 hours. KP never forces the employees to work A. HEALTH AND SAFETY overtime. Overtime is an option that each KP always provides a clean environment for employee may access due to urgent needs. its employees that can support them KP does not provide any overtime fee as executing their task well. A clean personal stated in the company’s regulation but as workspace is maintained and pantry is compensation, the company covers food always vacuumed every day after the working expense and provides transportation service hours end. KP also provides proper working by taxi. Since our working days is only five devices such as laptop, photocopy machine, days, if any of our employees are required to printers, phones and internet connection. In work on Saturday or Sunday because of addition, we also equip every employee with urgent needs, KP compensates them with an two insurances, which are coming from BPJS additional leave entitlement. and AVIVA insurance. According to Article 12 in the third chapter, KP possesses a low risk workplace. It KP offers 15 days annual leave. This amount ensures not to put our employees’ life in is three days more than the minimum leave dangerous situation because our service as a permit stipulated in Indonesian Labor Law strategic communication specialist is mostly 13/2003. Starting from October 2016, KP has conducted in an indoor area. We provide an also provided additional one day leave for induction or short training session with the employees that have been working at KP for new employee, through which we provide every three years. In case of any employee some information about our vision and resumes to work at KP after a break of mission as well as basic safety training such employment, the working period will be as exit access for emergency case. accumulated for additional entitlement. From the questionnaire, 87.5% of the 16 Besides, the employees are also provided respondents – who are KP’s employees – with other leaves for special purpose, for responded that KP fully supports them with a example employee’s and/or their children’s clean and safe working environment. 43.75% wedding; employee’s wife gives birth and/or of them assured the needs of safety training got miscarriage; wife’s, husband’s, child’s, while the other 37.5% considered it not sibling’s, parents’, parents/son/daughter inapplicable for our company reflecting to the laws death; son’s circumcision, child’s fact that KP has a low risk activity and mostly baptism, and child’s graduation. all of the service is exercised indoor. Despite All of KP’s employees have the official this concern, 50% of respondents agreed that permanent employment status. The salary KP has involved them in a safe work and in a that every employee obtains from the healthy working atmosphere. company is believed to be adequate and more than enough to support themselves, B. HOURS, WAGES AND LEAVES which is higher than the regional minimum KP’s regulation on the working hours, wages wage. From the questionnaire, 94% of the and leaves is registered in our regulation respondents stated that their wage is enough Chapter III about Working Time. KP’s regular to support themselves and their dependents. working hours is eight hours per day, Monday The result also describes that 92% of the to Friday. By this regulation, our working time employees agree that the working hours, calculation for a week is 40 hours with wage, and leaves amount are sufficient and flexible lunchtime that is accessible from effective. Prepared exclusively as a report to UNGC. | Jakarta, October 11, 2016 KIROYAN PARTNERS | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 C. FAIR TREATMENT D. COMMUNITY IMPACTS AND COUNTRY RISK KP tolerates no discrimination. Everyone is regarded and treated equally, and expected to To build a community development is a part respect the privacy of one another. In terms of our duty as a communication consulting of religious practice, KP provides the time for firm. KP consistently promotes the client to every Muslim employee to pray including the develop a sustainability action that may Friday’s prayer. Moreover, in order to respect contribute significantly to the community. the privacy of every employee, there is also no CCTV installed in the office to monitor their each and every movement. The fair treatment is also corroborated by the questionnaire result where 90% of respondents affirmed that they never experienced any harassment including physical, verbal, sexual or physiological harassment, abuse or threats. In case such things happen, a decisive action will be taken, starting from warning until contract termination. Besides, repeating our CEO statement, there is no favoritism in promotion. It gives everyone the same and equal chance to have a fair competition. RESULT AND OBSTACLE Looking at our view and our implementation, it can be said that KP has fully embodied the first and the second UNGC principles. The implementation does not only create a regulation to keep the rights of every employee, but its realization can also be seen. This result is also obtained through the employees’ perspective. Therefore, it can be concluded that in this year, we have successfully upheld and contributed significantly to our employee as the realization of our corporate social responsibility. Prepared exclusively as a report to UNGC. | Jakarta, October 11, 2016 KIROYAN PARTNERS | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 LABOR KIROYAN PARTNERS’ VIEW ON LABOR ISSUE KP always supports and upholds the employee’s and the conduct of children exploitation as it is freedom of association and the full right to against the human right. collective bargaining. According to UNGC, “both To become KP’s employee, there are standards worker and employers have the right to set up, of competency that must be fulfilled. There are join and run their own organization without minimum age, education background and interference from the State or any other entity”.4 experiences. These standards work in two ways. This means that no one has the right to keep any Firstly, these standards will eliminate the child member of the company from their activities exploitation practice. Secondly, it will be used as outside of the office. In other words, their activity a basis for company’s assessment in the in collective bargaining is also protected. UNGC recruitment process and even for internal stated that there should be no limitation for every employee assessment, for example, member of the company to voluntarily discuss remuneration set up, job assignment, training and negotiate their interest. and occupational safety and health. To have freedom means that every company There is no discrimination applied in any way and needs an environment that is free of violence, it is also strengthened by our regulation and pressure, fear and threats. This is the main implementation in the previous section about fair reason why company should not force or bind treatment in human rights. any of its employees. UNGC stated that forced labor is “any work or service that is exacted from any person under the menace of any penalty”.5 Responding to this, it is clearly a violation towards human rights. The impact of this practice will definitely lead into an untenable business and we see this as a violation to our mission and vision to be an example of a sustainable corporate. The boundaries of forced labor set by the UN apply to every human being regardless of their age, sex, religion, political opinion, social origin and sexual orientation. With regard to the issue of underage labor, KP will never support the idea 4 “Principle 3 | UN Global Compact.” Principle 3 | UN Global Compact. N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Oct. 2016. 5 “Principle 4 | UN Global Compact.” Principle 4 | UN Global Compact. N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Oct. 2016. Prepared exclusively as a report to UNGC. | Jakarta, October 11, 2016 KIROYAN PARTNERS | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 IMPLEMENTATION We divide our implementation in three sections, remaining percentage stated that it may not i.e. freedom of association, forced and children applicable for KP due to its small size. labor, and discrimination. B. FORCED AND CHILDREN LABOR A. FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION As stated in our view, the practice of forced KP has fully recognized the right of its and children labor violates the human rights employee to have or to join an organization thus our policies. It is then worth reiterating outside of the company and to do a collective that all of our employees are full-time worker bargaining. There is no limitation given for recruited officially and accordingly bound by every employee to enroll in political group, company’s regulation. Minimum age engage in social activity or expressing their acceptance, education background and work economic interest. We let our employees experience are merit-based that KP uses to express their opinion freely and voluntarily to assess and evaluates in recruitment process. let them grow their ability and knowledge. It is To be hired as an intern, he/she needs to be completely acceptable as long as it is done in at least 17 years old and is still studying or the appropriate manner, not violating any had obtained his/her bachelor’s degree. While company’s regulation, defiling the company’s in employee recruitment, he/she needs to be reputation and/or breaking any law. If there is older than 20 years old and had obtained any employee complicit in any form of his/her bachelor’s degree. The successful violation, there will be a punishment. candidate will be offered a working contract However, the decision will not be made by KP that includes the agreement to comply with unilaterally. We respect the rights of our employment regulation. The prospective employees and offering a regulation where employee makes his/her decision voluntarily. they have the opportunity to defend From this hiring process there is clearly no themselves. This is stated in our regulation children involvement. Based on the under Chapter VIII about Violation of questionnaire, 91% of our employees Company’s Regulation. affirmed that there is no forced and children labor in KP while the rest stated that it is Furthermore, we also respect our clients. In irrelevant with the company’s practice. order to keep our company’s reputation in ensuring client’s confidentiality, we always C. DISCRIMINATION give a nickname for each of our projects. By utilizing such technique, every employee may KP assures that there is no discrimination have a discussion in or outside of the office practice in the company. Every benefit from without revealing the classified project that the company is given on merit-based only, may otherwise harm our clients if such regardless the employee’s sex, belief, political information leaks. view and social background. Every worker receives equal treatment and opportunity to The practice and facilitation that KP provides have promotion, salary increase, as well as are supported by 85% of respondents stating capacity development training to improve their agreement with the fact that KP has skills. kept their freedom of association. The Table 1. AGE GROUP AND GENDER AGE GROUP 20-29 30-39 40-49 50-59 60-69 No answer TOTAL F 2 2 0 0 0 2 6 GENDER M 4 3 1 0 1 1 10 TOTAL 6 5 1 0 1 3 16 Prepared exclusively as a report to UNGC. | Jakarta, October 11, 2016 KIROYAN PARTNERS | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 As shown in Table 1, there is no The training opportunity was provided equally discrimination related to age and gender at for both sexes based on their merit in the KP. We have one person in almost every age field. Every employee has two training group, 67.5% are female. Majority of the opportunities annually, which subject is employees are Moslems, while others are related to the company’s expertise. We have Christians and Catholics. The majority of KP’s also objectively increased the salary of seven employees are Sundanese with 31.25%, employees based on their merit and 12.5% Javanese, 6.25% Acehnese, Bataknese, significant progression, as much as 44% in Palembangese and Minangese. total. KP’s objectivity in providing opportunities is approved by 94% of our KP provides eight trainings from October employees. 2015 until October 2016 to its employees. RESULT AND OBSTACLE Our implementation on labor issue – which have employees cannot find the relation between been actualized in supporting the employee’s collective bargaining, forced and child labor with freedom of speech, prohibiting forced and child our business practice as a communication firm. labor, and also restricting the practice of This view may be resulted from the fact that they discrimination – have shown that KP is very may not know further about the application of serious in protecting the rights of its employee. these principles that is caused by the nature of KP is proven to have a supporting environment KP’s business practice as a communication for each employee to express him/herself consulting firm. Yet, KP always provides room for comfortably and to gain more experiences. improvement. This will be one opportunity for KP Through this fulfillment, we are walking hand in to give more attention to educate its employees hand with the UNGC to be an example of a to have better understanding on these principles company with good corporate social and UNGC in general. When KP team member responsibility. has a comprehensive understanding about it and feels the needs, it is possible for us to add a In implementing the principles related to labor chapter in our company’s regulation focusing on issue, we face one obstacle. A number of our this principle. Prepared exclusively as a report to UNGC. | Jakarta, October 11, 2016 KIROYAN PARTNERS | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 ENVIRONMENT KIROYAN PARTNERS’ VIEW ON ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUE Environmental issue has always been a challenge the bin, properly reducing the use of electricity for KP to contribute more. Not only that we are a and water and recycling the paper are some of small enterprise, but our services also rarely the least contribution we do in reducing encounter directly with the nature in comparison environmental waste. with how the natural resources related industries Our CEO asserts that to become a sustainable or goods-producing companies do. Although our company, the triple bottom line, people-planetfootprint can be categorized as limited, this does profit, should be balanced. All of our not mean that we do not contribute something. sustainability policies are aimed at finding To protect the environment KP starts from balance in our environmental, social and financial precautionary, evaluation of responsibility and performance. Whether the contribution is small performance, and promotion of new friendly or big, we believe that our company participates technology. in preserving the environment through prevention Kiroyan Partners believes that commitment in actions, energy reduction and recycling activities. reducing environmental harms should be started even from the smallest step. For a small enterprise like ours, decorating the office with decorative plants, throwing away the garbage in Prepared exclusively as a report to UNGC. | Jakarta, October 11, 2016 KIROYAN PARTNERS | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 IMPLEMENTATION Our vision to promote the practice of sustainable business partners violate social or business comprehensively covers the peopleenvironmental compliance. planet-profit components. KP has always been B. RESPONSIBILITY AND PERFORMANCE trying to contribute starting from the smallest steps from precaution action, reducing waste, As a company who works in the fast pace evaluating the performance, and supporting an communication industry, KP also has a environmental friendly technology. number of consumption to support our performance. In our daily activity, we are A. PRECAUTION using electricity, air condition, water for different purposes, paper, plastics, and some In KP, there are two articles that are set to other household products. It is very important keep the environment healthy and clean. In to measure the use of these items because Chapter VII about Employee’s Obligation and by knowing it then we can start doing a Responsibility, the company encourages all preservation action. employees to keep the comfort, safety and hygiene of the environment. Smoking is As seen in Table 2, starting from the restricted in our office space; however, a beginning of this year, KP has started to smoking area is provided outside of the office reduce the power consumption compared building. Our office assistant is assigned to with the three months prior, which had clean up the dishes and office space on a peaked in November 2015 due to high daily basis. In addition, all employees are workload. Since then we have been trying to obliged to clean up their own desk. Our maintain the use of power so it remains survey this year suggests that 94% of our stable. No electronic devices operate when employees agree that KP has provided a there is no activity in the office. clean and healthy working environment. The electricity consumption includes the use Aside from internal policy, our working of our air conditioner. The control of air relationship – with the clients and conditioner is available throughout the prospective clients – considers building starting from 7.00 AM to 6.00 PM, environmental issue seriously. Referring to Monday to Friday. Thus, there is no overuse the International Organization for this year. Standardization on social responsibility, we The other part of the table indicates KP’s consistently assess if there is a possibility of drinking water consumption that fluctuates any action taken by our counterparts can every month, due to the needs to perform cause environment destruction. If, in our prevoluntary overtime. It is related to the assessment process, we find that our clients’ employee’s right to have clean and sanitized project might potentially cause harm to the water. The water for another purpose, e.g. environment or trigger social conflict, we will toilet use, cannot be measured because it is do our best to find a workable solution to shared with other companies. This fact limits meet the business objective. We even do not our capability to measure the whole number hesitate to terminate contracts whenever our of water consumption. Table 2. ELECTRICITY AND DRINKING WATER CONSUMPTION 2015 2016 CONSUMPTION SEP OCT NOV DEC JAN FEB MAR APR MAY JUN JUL AUG ELECTRICITY 1,210 1,221 1,275 1,064 842 922 872 911 917 925 928 924 (in kWh) DRINKING WATER 25 22 25 28 16 13 24 27 26 15 18 28 (in Gallon) Prepared exclusively as a report to UNGC. | Jakarta, October 11, 2016 KIROYAN PARTNERS | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 C. TECHNOLOGY As the consequence of our consumption, we decrease in paper usage from March to continuously produce paper and household August. Upon assessment, the main reason waste. In our way of becoming a sustainable of the high amount of boxes recycled in company, we work with third party to recycle March was caused by old documents sorting waste. This service is facilitated by the activity. building management, where we are only KP’s other effort to reduce the use of paper required to provide a box to collect all the and encourage the use of environmentallyunused papers. This year, we had contacted friendly technology is shown through the the recycling team twice, first on March 28, annual subscription of digital papers from 2016 for 5 boxes of papers, and the second eight major newspapers in Indonesia, e.g. was on August 18, 2016 for a box of papers. Kontan, Kompas, Bisnis Indonesia, Tempo Data shows that there is a quite significant and The Jakarta Post. RESULT AND OBSTACLE As a small company, KP daily activities do not resources and its contribution. It is not have significant impact in harming the adequately applicable for small and medium environment. We try to be consistently enterprises. More than 50% of the questionnaire responsible in preserving the environment, and responses mentioned that the indicators given contribute in every possible way starting from are not applicable. The questions are mostly pre-assessment, evaluating our practice, and related to air emission, biodiversity, and supporting every environmental friendly new greenhouse gasses. The only way to make it technology. applicable is to narrow these questions down and try to find the similarity between the In implementing three principles of indicators and our practices, e.g. the use and environmental issue, we faced one obstacle that reduction of power, water and air condition coming from the questionnaire. The consumption. environmental assessment questions only focus on big companies that work closely with natural Prepared exclusively as a report to UNGC. | Jakarta, October 11, 2016 KIROYAN PARTNERS | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 ANTICORRUPTION KIROYAN PARTNERS’ VIEW ON CORRUPTION ISSUE In the opinion of KP’s CEO, corruption is a disgrace for the company and the country. This is something that cannot be tolerated. Since the beginning of KP’s business practice until now, there has never been any extortion or bribery taken into consideration. All of our business practices and services always follow the Law of Republic of Indonesia. This represents our commitment to start and build this company with justice, honesty and hard work. With these values in mind we come up with the vision to be an example of a company that adopting the sustainable and ethical business practices. According to the Transparency International, “Corruption is an abuse of trusted power for private gain”.6 Company with a solid work ethics will fight against any form of corruption. It is the company’s responsibility to implement the strong ethics and it shall not stop there. UNGC stated that every participant should “not only avoid bribery, extortion and other forms of corruption, but also to proactively develop policies and concrete programs to address corruption internally and within their supply chains to realize a more transparent global economy”.7 In order to prevent corruption to take place, a company needs a strong regulation that has deterrent effect. This regulation should not only prevent this disgraceful action but also to set the company’s business transparency. 6 “Principle 10| UN Global Compact.” Principle 10 | UN Global Compact. N.p., n.d. Web. Oct. 11, 2016. 7 Ibid. Prepared exclusively as a report to UNGC. | Jakarta, October 11, 2016 KIROYAN PARTNERS | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 IMPLEMENTATION RESULT AND OBSTACLE KP has already regulated regulations that are Corruption can be minimalized and eliminated if aimed to prevent corruption. Those were set with there is an integrated regulation and sustainable the objectives to keep KP free from corruption prevention action that can encourage honesty and to build and strengthen KP’s ethical business and justice. For KP, lessons-learned process practice. happens to be the sustainable process which also serves as the reminder for both employer The regulations are written in our company’s and employees to always conduct responsible regulation in Chapter VIII, Article 32 about and anti-corruption action. Contract Termination. The first regulation states about persuasion to employer or fellow coMoreover, this process has opened the chance worker to perform an action that is in contrary to for KP to improve. One of the possible the law. The second regulation mentions more improvements that KP may take related to antiexplicitly about the act of the corruption itself. It corruption is to expand the company’s regulation states everybody that got a gratification and/or with specific articles on anti-corruption. Through into bribery in any form will have his/her working this improvement, KP will strengthen the view of contract terminated. This ethical practice also the company and it will help with eliminating the applies to every client whose project is handled chance of this action. by KP. In order to maintain this ethical practice, KP always engages all employees to an evaluation session called lessons-learned whenever a project card is finalized. KP has been continuously repeating this method as it provides the opportunity for both employer and employees to practice, learn and be critical in analyzing project, including the financial transparency. This internal assessment serves as a tool for KP to remind each other that we need a strong team with excellent business ethics. This conclusion is supported by the questionnaire resulting in 93.75% of respondents agree with KP’s ethics culture that tries to avoid and eliminate any form of corruption. Prepared exclusively as a report to UNGC. | Jakarta, October 11, 2016 KIROYAN PARTNERS | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 CONCLUSION From KP’s implementation from October 2015 until October 2016 and supported by our CEO’s statement, KP re-assure the company’s commitment to walk hand in hand in practicing business with the UNGC Principles. We take every issue very seriously and we make effort to give a real contribution. We realize that a strong foundation is embodied in the company’s regulation, which states that the employer and employee should have treated each other equally in the spirit of respect and ethics. There is also a regulation focusing specifically on the environment protection and the corruption practice prohibition. As a company that has vision to be a leader in the active promotion of sustainable business practice in Indonesia, KP always encourages the clients to also adopt UNGC Principles. Through the company’s website, we show the world that our service has an international quality that is perfected with good corporate governance and corporate social responsibility principles. Prepared exclusively as a report to UNGC. | Jakarta, October 11, 2016 www.kiroyan-partners.com PT KOMUNIKASI KINERJA Menara Karya, 10th Floor Suite H Jl. HR Rasuna Said Blok X-5 Kav. 1-2 Jakarta 12950 – Indonesia Phone +6221 5794 4694 Fax. +6221 5794 4696 info@kiroyan-partners.com
