At FairPrice, we are guided by our vision to be Singapore's Leading World Class Retailer with a Heart, and this has been fundamental in the way we do business and this has made us so different. The concept of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is not new to FairPrice. Since the start of our first supermarket in 1973, the social mission to moderate the cost of living in Singapore remains an integral part of how we do business today. Over the years, this responsibility has extended beyond this mission. That is why we aim to be the leading responsible retailer, caring and doing the right things for our customers, our staff, our community and our environment. FairPrice has always strived to integrate CSR into our business operations. In 2005, FairPrice became one of the pioneer signatories of the Singapore Compact. In 2010, we set up the FairPrice Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee helmed by senior management across key departments to consolidate and drive our CSR efforts in a more strategic manner. A CSR Committee at Board level was also put in place to track the progress of CSR work in FairPrice. We identified four key sustainable priorities for our business, namely responsible retailing, building a wonderful workplace, community care and maintaining a sustainable environment. Responsible Retailing is at the heart of our business activity. Not only does it determine how we buy and sell the food and daily necessities to our customers, it is also about establishing long-standing relationships with our suppliers with regular audits to ensure food safety is never compromised and product quality is upheld. As a strong team of over 9,000 employees, we value and invest in the teamwork, professionalism and customer focus of every single employee, ensuring FairPrice maintains its focus on being a Wonderful Workplace. Community Care is synonymous with FairPrice and remains core to our business mission and values. We are at the heart of the communities we serve and reaching out to those in need through FairPrice Foundation and our community initiatives. This illustrates our deep commitment to providing a better life for the community. As one of Singapore's leading retailers with over 100 supermarket and hypermarket stores, we recognise that our large network has a significant impact on the environment, which is why Sustainable Environment is another key focus in our CSR framework. Our commitment to be the Best Corporate Citizen means that we manage resources as carefully and as responsibly as we can. FairPrice’s CSR efforts are communicated in our CSR microsite, which is constantly updated and acts as our ongoing sustainability report. Please visit us at http://www.csr.fairprice.com.sg
