TECHNOLOGY TO TRANSFORM LIVES Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 VimpelCom About this report In August 2015, VimpelCom announced that it our reporting, such as treatment of outsourced Overview had signed an agreement to enter into a 50-50 joint activities, basis for estimations, definitions etc. are venture in Italy with CK Hutchison. Under the provided in the section ‘Reporting principles’. Our Scope agreement, VimpelCom will merge WIND with businesses report on a geographical market, rather 3 Italia to create a leading convergent operator than on a legal entity, basis. Working at the frontier to unlock The report applies only to those geographical markets where we had active telecommunication in Europe’s fourth largest market. WIND Italy and 3 operations at 31 December 2015. Italia will continue to operate separately pending new opportunities for customers as Our scope of reporting does not include markets where businesses were sold during the financial completion. As the transaction is not completed, the non-financial performance of WIND is included in this report on the same basis as in previous years. they navigate the digital world. year or businesses where we control less than 50% of the equity, or don’t have management Our HQ in Amsterdam is also included in the scope control and where they are not consolidated in our of reporting for energy, health and safety and financial statements , or where they represent less employee numbers. We provide a list of the than 0.15% of service revenue. During the year we subsidiaries that comprise VimpelCom in our Form have not acquired any businesses in new 20-F available at vimpelcom.com/investor-relations. geographical markets. Further information on the principles that underpin TECHNOLOGY THAT TRANSFORMS LIVES Contents Overview About this report 1 At a glance 2 Chairman and CEO’s letter 3 The context for our CR program 4 Our approach 6 Welcome… Intended audience We intend to make this report available and relevant to a wide audience. Our approach The issues, challenges and opportunities we need to manage arise from the Stakeholders 6 However, as VimpelCom has little brand presence in our markets, it is our ways our business model and value chain interact with our key stakeholders Materiality 8 …to the fourth Group Corporate Responsibility local brands which communicate with our customers on CR issues through and the natural world. The socio-economic, political and regulatory context Governance and strategy 10 (CR) report of VimpelCom, covering the year to their own reports, websites and other channels. Therefore, this report is mainly directly relevant to the following: of our markets mean the importance of these issues may vary across our footprint. We illustrate this interaction graphically on pages 4 and 5. Make Your Mark 12 31 December 2015. This Corporate Responsibility • The governments and public authorities in our countries of operation Understanding this, we recognize and acknowledge that our approach to Corporate Responsibility rests on three main factors: Services for society 20 report is published alongside our Annual Report • Our investors and the financial community Environmental efficiency 24 Stakeholders Responsible behavior 28 and Form 20-F for 2015. We supplement this report • The regulatory bodies that oversee our activities • Our global supply chain partners, international business customers A range of stakeholders have legitimate concerns and expectations about how our company operates. By engaging with them we can understand Social investment 40 with further information on our corporate website, and other corporate partners and evaluate these issues and plan how best to improve our business. Reporting 42 and the reports and publications of a number of • The media and other opinion formers We describe our approach to stakeholder engagement on pages 6 and 7. • Our employees at HQ and across our businesses. Reporting principles 42 our constituent Business Units (BUs) and Operating Materiality We prioritize these issues logically, by assessing the materiality of individual Independent assurance statement 44 Companies (OpCos). Throughout the Report, This report is supplemented where necessary with additional information issues to our strategy and their importance to our stakeholders. We set Glossary 46 available at vimpelcom.com out our approach to this assessment, and the results, on pages 8 and 9. Three-year data summary 47 where we refer to ‘our Business Units’ (or ‘our Responsiveness BUs’), this also implies a reference to our Operating Having identified the priorities, we form our strategy and governance approach (pages 10 and 11), take appropriate action and report on Feedback and contact Companies (or OpCos). our progress. This report describes our response across our most We are keen to improve the effectiveness of our reporting material issues. and therefore welcome feedback on this document, and our corporate responsibility (CR) information on the website. For more information Please contact cr@vimpelcom.com on our Reporting principles and assurance, see page 42 For further details on our business, see online: vimpelcom.com 2 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Approach Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Overview vimpelcom.com 1 At a glance Chairman and CEO’s letter Overview For more information You can find information on our ownership structure at vimpelcom. VimpelCom (NASDAQ: VIP) is an international communications com/Investor-relations and technology company driven by a vision to unlock new opportunities for customers as they navigate the digital world. We are present in some of the world’s most dynamic markets and, at 31 December 2015, we had 217 million mobile customers and 59,0001 employees. Company structure and brands Total Mobile Customers Total revenue (USD (millions) (including WIND Italy) billion) (excluding WIND Italy) 217 222 217 15.9 13.5 Jean-Yves Charlier Alexey M. Reznikovich Headquarters 9.6 Chief Executive Officer Chairman of the Supervisory Board 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 Welcome to VimpelCom’s fourth CR Report, Adjusted EBITDA (USD Net cash from operating covering the 2015 financial year. billion) (excluding WIND Italy) activities (USD billion) VimpelCom’s reporting structure is divided into four regions – Russia, Italy, Emerging Markets and Eurasia, all of which report to the (excluding WIND Italy) This year we began our transformation into a new VimpelCom, introducing six company’s headquarters in Amsterdam, which employs 350 people 5.5 5.6 6.4 new strategic objectives to drive the business into a more streamlined, effective, 5.3 and above all, digital company. It was also the first full year of our flagship CR Our main brands 2.8 2.0 program, ‘Make Your Mark’. We are making good progress in all of these areas, as we continue to serve our 217 million customers, with the support of our 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 59,0001 employees, across a very diverse range of markets. We have a long-term CR strategy, consisting of two main elements. This report provides a review of our progress on Make Your Mark, launched Table 1: Market and brand information Maintaining trust with our stakeholders, by behaving in a responsible way, is in late 2014 on the theme of ‘helping young people to shape their future’. key to securing our ‘license to operate’. At the same time we recognize the We have been delighted in the innovative programs that this has nurtured all REGION COUNTRY OPERATING REVENUE ADJUSTED EBITDA EMPLOYEES MOBILE CUSTOMER MOBILE ARPU MARKET (USD M) (USD M) NUMBERS (MN) (USD) POSITION opportunities from leveraging our technology, our commercial expertise, across our footprint, helping bring more young people into meaningful and the commitment of our employees, to add tangible value to society education, and inspiring new digital entrepreneurs. For example, in January, Russia 4,602 1,825 29,255 59.8 5.2 3rd through products and services, and social investment. Through our own as the culmination of a competition spanning seven markets, 600 teams and Italy 4,913 1,878 6,449 21.1 12.5 1st* actions, and by enabling others, we can make positive contributions to 160 project submissions, 21 teams presented their digital solutions in the (not consolidated, society’s challenges at real scale, helping to tackle many of the issues final of our Eurasia Mobile Challenge in Moscow. Three winners then held for sale) covered by the UN’s new Sustainable Development Goals. This is particularly represented the region at the Mobile Word Congress in Barcelona where the true in emerging markets where the spread of connectivity, mobile internet team from Kyrgyzstan achieved third place overall. Several of our markets Emerging Markets Algeria 1,273 684 3,669 17.0 6.0 1st and mobile-enabled services in areas of financial services, education, health are experiencing very challenging socio-economic conditions and, as we Bangladesh 604 242 2,337 32.3 1.6 3rd* and agriculture are helping to drive socio-economic progress and is the build on the start of Make Your Mark, we look forward to reporting back to Pakistan 1,014 409 6,361 36.2 2.1 1st platform for the fourth industrial revolution of the digital economy. you on the contribution we can make to each of the societies we serve. 2,891 1,335 12,367 85.5 This longer-term vision is implemented through many initiatives, and we We provide further information on all of these issues in the report, which Eurasia Armenia 111 40 2,223 0.8 4.9 2nd have been making progress in our management of the key issues that affect also acts as our ‘Communication on Progress’ in relation to our commitment some of our key stakeholders. For example, our focus on developing a high to the Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We hope you find Georgia 58 10 417 1.3 3.0 ** quality network, driven by developing deeper insights into customer the report a valuable insight into VimpelCom. Kazakhstan 598 276 2,211 9.5 4.4 2nd satisfaction, has been supported by a strengthening of our governance of managing customer data. As we transform our cost base by challenging our Kyrgyzstan 164 91 681 2.7 4.9 ** suppliers to innovate, we have also been rolling out a new assessment Jean-Yves Charlier Alexey M. Reznikovich Tajikistan 118 75 340 1.2 8.1 ** process to ensure they live up to our expectations on human rights and Chief Executive Officer Chairman of the Supervisory Board Ukraine 622 292 3,254 25.4 1.8 1st environmental issues. And, as we operate at the frontiers of the new digital world, we continue to strengthen our compliance program to ensure we Uzbekistan 711 437 1,241 9.9 5.7 1st have a rigorous approach to anti-bribery and anti-corruption. 2,383 1,221 10,367 50.9 1 This figure includes approximately 3,600 temporary contracted employees in Pakistan. These employees are * Market share positions assume pending transactions close not included in our diversity, or other employee-related analysis, for 2015. This will be addressed in future reports. ** no reliable competitor information 2 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Overview Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Overview vimpelcom.com 3 The context for our CR program Overview Contextual challenges and opportunities Our approach to CR is driven by a series of broad contextual Socio-economic Political and Competitive Technology trends context in our regulatory context in dynamics in our and disruptions factors, and by the way our strategy and business model markets our markets markets interact with our main stakeholders. Structure New revenue improvements streams Contextual challenges Capital Flows Manufactured capital We impact on the level of manufactured Optimizing tax and capital structure Capitalize on new revenue streams created by data and opportunities The diagram opposite shows the categories capital through a combination of incremental growth, fixed mobile convergence and B2B of capital as set out in the IIRC’s guidance on investment to improve our physical networks, opportunities We operate in markets with widely varying levels integrated reporting. For VimpelCom, our value together with the effect of network sharing, of socio-economic development. This is illustrated World-class Digital creation process, and the impact that it has on the tower sales and outsourcing agreements. operations leadership by the chart below which sets out the UN Human ‘stocks’ of these six ‘capitals’, can be summarized Our strategic objective of portfolio and asset Development Index (HDI) for the societies we serve. as follows. There are links to sections of the report optimization will drive a more asset-light Superior customer experience, optimizing Corporate Innovative services and products, and best In markets with a low HDI, our mobile services are that provide further information: network approach in the future. distribution and pricing strategy value-for-money data characterized as a ‘lifeline’ – helping to facilitate capabilities, and product portfolio Financial capital Social and Relationship capital upgrading networks basic connectivity and, increasingly, also providing We use financial resources, including reinvestment We rely on building positive relationship a gateway to health, education, agricultural and of profit generated, to influence the value across capital with a variety of stakeholder groups financial services for the first time. Here, our the capitals as guided by our strategy, for example to deliver our business, and this includes key Portfolio and Performance priorities include coverage and reliability of our through investment in our networks, and training relations with government (who provide licenses asset optimization transformation services, and the provision of ‘services for society’. of our employees. Financial value is generated for and spectrum) and business partners such as OTT Monetization of tower Increase efficiency with a new In markets with higher HDI, issues such as privacy our stakeholders, including the providers of players, and the communities which host our portfolio, and disposal of operating model and freedom of expression, the environment and financial capital, through dividends and other facilities. This enhances our ability to provide non-core assets online safety are seen as more important. payments. Further information on our financial services that create social capital in the markets These contextual characteristics also give rise to performance is provided in our Form 20-F. where we operate, through increased connectivity, a series of structural challenges and opportunities, and applications such as mobile financial Human capital services, or our flagship program, ‘Make Your and examples are provided on our website here. We affect human capital through the recruitment Mark’. of new talent, through training and development programs, as well as through the downsizing of Intellectual capital operations, in accordance with our strategy and We influence the value of our intellectual Corporate strategy business performance. capital through investment in developing our services, our engagement with vendors, and Our strategy has six key objectives, and our CR Natural capital our programs with digital innovators through Business model/value chain approach is closely aligned. In particular, our CR We influence the consumption of natural capital programs such as Make Your Mark. We invest approach can help to deliver on Digital Leadership, mainly as a consequence of the materials and in knowledge systems to support our employees’ energy required to manufacture the network Capital inputs Supply Chain Network Distribution Services Support & admin Capital outputs New Revenue Streams and World Class Operations. effectiveness, and look to improve our equipment and mobile devices that underpin operating licenses to enhance our ability Sourcing network Operating radio access Offering services, Providing access and Developing employees, For further information please see page 11. Financial Financial our services, as well as the energy consumed by to provide services. equipment, devices and fixed line networks devices and support to connectivity to facilitate following corporate the operation of networks and other buildings. Human and other services and IT platforms to customers through voice, data and value governance requirements, Human Our operations also generate impacts on natural Natural from global strategic enable the delivery owned and franchised added services to general stakeholder engagement, Natural suppliers and local of services retail stores, call centres public and corporate reporting etc capital which can be positive (using ICT services Manufactured vendors and digital channels customers Manufactured Business model/value chain to reduce material consumption, or travel), Social Key data points Key data points Key data points Key data points Key data points Social or negative (carbon emissions resulting from 28 global strategic 170K base stations (46% 59,000 employees. Our value chain is set out in the diagram opposite, 6,105 fully-branded 217m customers. network operation). Intellectual suppliers. 220 higher risk 3G or 4G/LTE). 99K sites. shops, Smartphone 59,000 Mobicash agents. 26,000 employees Intellectual together with certain key metrics to illustrate our BU suppliers engaged on 1.14m Terabytes of penetration approx. 31% 14,000 calls/ month to completed Code of scale and scope. Supplier Code of Conduct data transmitted. banglalink agri-helpline Conduct training (2015) The interplay of our business model and value chain within the market context, and the needs of our stakeholders gives rise to a series of risks and UN Human Development Index (estimate for 2014 released in December 2015) 0.873 Potential issues Potential issues Potential issues Potential issues Potential issues challenges, as well as opportunities. The more The index ranks countries on a composite measure between 0 and 1. Managing the social and Coverage, reliability Customer satisfaction Privacy, freedom of Anti-bribery and commercially relevant risks are set out in detail A ranking below 0.490 is considered low, above 0.735 is considered high. 0.798 environmental impact and quality of network Page 31 expression and anti-corruption in our Form 20-F. CR-related issues, risks and 0.788 of our supply chain Page 32 protection online Page 29 0.754 (labor standards, H&S, Accessibility Page 35 opportunities are set out in the remainder of 0.747 0.733 0.736 pollution etc.) Energy efficiency and Page 33 Employee diversity this report. Page 37 carbon emissions ICT services to support Pages 38, 39 0.675 Page 24 economic and social 0.655 Anti-bribery and development/reduce Discrimination 0.624 anti-corruption H&S of network-related environmental impact Pages 38,39 Page 29 contractors Page 20 0.570 Page38 Transparency 0.538 Page 30 Pakistan Bangladesh Tajikistan Kyrgyzstan Uzbekistan Armenia Algeria Ukraine Georgia Kazakhstan Russia Italy 4 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Overview Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Overview vimpelcom.com 5 Stakeholders A company can achieve its business 800 • responding to these issues in a way that, wherever possible, provides positive outcomes THE NUMBER OF INTERACTIONS objectives only with the cooperation for the business and stakeholder WITH INVESTORS IN 2015 of its stakeholders. • reporting our performance transparently, in full. WIND stakeholder VimpelCom has a wide range of stakeholders, all having some type of ‘transaction’ with us. The ‘currency’ of these transactions is trust, and we aim to build and maintain trust by: By engaging with stakeholders, directly or through indirect channels such as the media, we are able to improve our understanding of the issues we face, and are better able to find PROPORTION OF EXECUTIVE BONUS LINKED TO CUSTOMER SATISFACTION 15% engagement process WIND focused its 2015 stakeholder engagement process on understanding the context of the Approach appropriate solutions. This document is an telecommunications sector evolution in the next • understanding who our main stakeholders are 5 to 10 years. The stakeholders consulted were important engagement channel and aims to • understanding how our business activities, report our performance in these areas and identified by the relevant company units, with products and services affect them, positively or provide helpful information for our stakeholders the goal to cover the most material aspects negatively, and which of these issues are the most (see page 1 on intended audiences). (based on WIND’s 2014 materiality matrix) and important to address collect thoughts on the future for our sector. For further details on issues that we and our The eight topics covered included: mobile stakeholders focus on, please see page 14. network reliability and coverage; responsible marketing; customer satisfaction; data protection and security; economic development; electromagnetism; accessibility (technical availability and affordable prices); and energy OUR APPROACH use and climate change. TO STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT For more information We provide examples of specific projects in the social investment section on page 40. Engaging through standards, Membership of GeSI also facilitates access to Other Organizations Engaging with specific stakeholders More formally, in some markets we work with trade the Make Your Mark program to officials and are projects such as the climate change programs, At market level, our BUs are also members of relevant unions on employee remuneration and welfare discussing how to best leverage the growth principles and membership supply chain capacity-building work program and stakeholder organizations: In addition to engagement through organizations and issues. For example, in Algeria, UGTA is the trade potential of digital start-ups. organizations the Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative, targeting • Beeline Russia subscribes to the Safe Internet other channels, we also engage continuously with union representing our employees. We also exchange views with government officials improvements in the conflict minerals issue in specific stakeholder groups. We provide some We participate in multi-stakeholder organizations and the ICT supply chain. League, the Mobile Etiquette Charter and the examples below. Engaging with investors on the future of telecoms, and raise specific industry this is an efficient way to identify and address issues. Russian Operators Charter on Combating Child We engage with our private and institutional challenges. These include, for example, 3G/4G These organizations are involved in a variety of United Nations Global Compact (‘UNGC’) Pornography, and Kyivstar signed the ‘Code for Engaging with customers shareholders regularly. We engage with our major license and spectrum access, SIM card replacement, actions, including the formation of sets of principles, We have been signatories to the 10 UNGC Principles the Prevention of Cruelty to Children in the Internet We engage with our customers every day through our shareholders LetterOne and Telenor through their and network sharing. the development of standards, creation of since 2013 and this helped inform our CR strategy and Online Resources’ various retail, online, call center, social media and other representatives serving on the Supervisory Board, stakeholder forums or panels, sharing knowledge and the formation of our Business Principles. Both channels. We analyze our customers’ satisfaction in the Annual General Meeting (AGM) and other ad Our broader discussions also include local or the pooling of resources to conduct research. We Mobilink and Kyivstar are signatories to the UNGC • Mobilink is a member of the Pakistan Centre for detail through various processes, including a new hoc meetings. Our approach to certain CR-related representatives from international financial are active in several such organizations, and in their own right. Philanthropy and the WWF Green Office Initiative network quality app, to determine how we can issues was specifically discussed at the 2015 AGM. institutions (IMF, World Bank) and development contribute our energy and ideas while making use improve. Customer satisfaction is a key component In addition to the quarterly results announcements, banks (ADB, EBRD) in markets of operations. Finally, World Economic Forum • Nearly all our businesses are members of industry we participate in a number of global meetings where of resources, tools and insights to strengthen our associations – either global organizations such as of the senior executive bonus scheme and this is analysts and institutional investors are also invited business. Some key examples include: We continue to be a strategic partner of the World covered in more detail on page 31. to ‘site visits’ which, in 2015, included Georgia, government representatives are present, such as the Economic Forum. At the 2015 Davos meeting, our the GSMA, or country-focused organizations such World Economic Forum and OECD Eurasia Week as the Russian Association of Networks and Services Kazakhstan and Russia. GSM Association (GSMA) Co-Founder & Chairman Emeritus, participated in the Engaging with employees Business Forum. We participate in several strands of GSMA’s work ICT and cross-industry governors meetings, as well as or the Association of Telecommunications At our headquarters, and across the business, we Our Investor Relations team responds to ad hoc and were recently invited to join the Program in the International Business Council agenda. He was Operators of Tajikistan engage our employees in many ways. For example, we investor and analyst enquiries. There were more Engaging with suppliers Leadership Group for its ‘Ecosystem Accelerator’ also a speaker at the CEO Series of sessions: ‘The Case communicate face to face through ‘town hall’ meetings than 800 interactions with investors during the Our engagement with suppliers is necessarily more • Most businesses are members of their national at arm’s length. We are currently rolling out our new program. This program links very closely with our for Corporate Trust’. chamber of commerce or an international version to discuss financial results and strategy, through articles year. We receive very few enquiries from the Make Your Mark program and enables us to engage and videos on our intranets (many covering CR topics), ethical investment community but respond as Supplier Code of Conduct (which involved supplier VimpelCom delegates took part in the Annual Meeting (e.g. American Chamber of Commerce) input) and assessment process. Our largest global more broadly within the industry and with key through social media, and by using targeted surveys, fully as possible when this occurs. stakeholders. Our Chief Technology Officer of New Champions in China. We participated in several • Djezzy is a member of Hawkama El Djazaïr – the such as on compliance perceptions, and the new suppliers recently attended a supplier day in represents our business on the GSMA Board. regional events and projects: European Commission Algerian Institute of Business Governance. business strategy. Engaging with government and policy makers Amsterdam where we re-emphasized the Code, Briefing, Italy Country Briefing, Scenarios for Ukraine, We meet regularly with government officials and our compliance processes. Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI) and New Economic Vision for Ukraine. Standards and Guidelines We also work with our employees to help our regarding our operations, and to discuss how We are an active member of the GeSI Human We follow a number of multi-stakeholder defined community engagement through volunteering. VimpelCom can contribute to enhanced Engaging with NGOs and the community Rights Working Group, and are particularly involved VimpelCom was also involved with ICT initiatives standards and guidelines. Our reporting meets GRI Examples of our employees supporting those less connectivity and digital transformation. As part of At HQ level, the majority of our engagement with in the work relating to operating in challenging and events such as the Future of Internet initiative version 4 guidelines at the ‘core’ level, follows the fortunate are set out in the social investment section our technology and infrastructure investments in NGOs is through the organizations already described environments. Two of our BUs participated in a and ICT Strategy Meeting. We continued to work guidance in the AA1000 series of standards and is on pages 40 and 41. countries such as Ukraine, Georgia, and Italy for above. At market level, our BUs engage with a very project looking at human rights and site security, in the WEF Global Agenda Councils: Future of influenced by the guidance issued by the International example, we engage to understand and align with wide variety of NGOs, typically those focused on helping to inform our supplier engagement in Telecommunications; and Social Innovation. We also Integrated Reporting Council. local needs. In Ukraine, we are working with key development issues such as education and those this area. We have also been members of the continued our support of the Social Entrepreneurship government bodies on e-governance following a working with marginalized communities such and Young Global Leaders communities. Several of our markets have adopted ISO standards as people with hearing or sight impairments, materiality working group. Both programs are (WIND and Djezzy), and the social accountability symposium organized by VimpelCom to share the multi-stakeholder in nature, facilitating access latest best practices and solutions from Silicon environmental organizations such as WWF, standard, SA8000 (WIND and Mobilink). or in relation to disaster relief. to a broad range of expert views. Valley. In Pakistan and Bangladesh, we showcased 6 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Approach Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Approach vimpelcom.com 7 Materiality For more information on our approach to materiality and last Human rights year’s performance, visit vimpelcom. Our CR approach is designed to The GeSI assessment involved a multi-stakeholder The results of the assessment are indicated in com/responsibility The responsibility of corporations to respect Our approach to human rights interview exercise and also referenced work our materiality matrix and influence the focus focus on the most important, or done by the Sustainability Accounting Standards of our strategy and our reporting. Some issues human rights has become a particular focus for some stakeholders. The UN Guiding Principles We aim to focus on managing the human rights material, issues for our business. Board (SASB), which published a list of may not feature highly in the matrix but on Human Rights states: “Business enterprises issues identified through the materiality potentially material issues for the ICT industry are nevertheless reported as part of our Assessing CR issues for should respect human rights. This means that assessment. These include issues such as privacy, These are the CR issues that exercise the in April 2014. We participated as a member of Communication on Progress against the greatest influence over the assessments and the GeSI Materiality Working Group and UNGC principles. materiality they should avoid infringing on the human government surveillance, supply chain labor Approach decisions of stakeholders, and are most rights of others and should address adverse standards, health and safety, and access to so were well-positioned to assess if this new, telecommunications, and we cover these issues relevant to the commercial success of the For mobile operators, some issues such as service human rights impacts with which they are detailed research should affect our existing later in the report. We have signed up to the company. Assessing materiality needs to quality remain fundamental to their CR agenda. Each issue was scored against the involved.” This responsibility to respect human materiality position. UNGC Principles relating to human rights, balance a number of different factors, such as: Other issues such as privacy continue to rise following criteria: rights is a global standard of conduct that The GeSI report was referenced in our 2014 in importance as technology races ahead of applies to all business enterprises wherever confirming and formalizing our commitment. • The issues of higher concern to stakeholders. assessment, but in 2015, we took the issues regulatory frameworks and we have seen Relevance to business strategy they operate. Stakeholders bring a wide range of We are an active member of GeSI’s working group identified through this report and conducted developments such as the judgment of the – Relevance to Customer Experience on human rights which involves engagement with perspectives, and help identify our most critical Since the publication of the UN Guiding a full internal scoring exercise involving input Court of Justice of the European Union which stakeholders through a High Level Panel and an environmental, social and economic impacts, – Relevance to Digital Leadership Principles in 2011, the performance of from several key functions at HQ level, and input invalidated the EU-US ‘safe harbor’ programme. Advisory Group. We are particularly focused on the and the most significant issues for society that businesses in relation to human rights has from all of our BUs, to ensure we captured the As many of our businesses operate in emerging work strand ‘operating in challenging environments’ are linked to our activities. Understanding their – Relevance to New Revenue Growth come under heightened review. Businesses local perspectives on issue priorities. BU input economies, our materiality matrix tends to and are actively engaged in the project to produce perspectives helps us ensure we take the right operating in the ICT sector have come under was weighted on the basis of customer numbers, be dominated more by social and economic – Relevance to Cost Efficiency good practice guidance on human rights issues issues into account particular scrutiny and this has been and consolidated to provide a company-wide development rather than environmental issues. relating to the provision of security services at – Relevance to Reputation reinforced through the publication of the • The issues most linked to the success of the perspective. remote radio base stations which has involved two (risk or enhance) EU Guidelines for the implementation of the business. This is to ensure we understand We also look at issues that arise during the year UN Guiding Principles specifically for the ICT of our most relevant markets. the issues where there is the most direct through dialogue with our local management Importance to stakeholders – sector. It is clear that many of the issues connection with the success of our business. to what degree is the issue: In 2015, we conducted desk-top human rights teams and stakeholders, a review of the media identified in our materiality matrix (page 8) due-diligence reviews of two of our markets which and risk alert services and, this year, by – On Government/Policy maker agendas? contain human rights implications. Reassessment of materiality in 2015 confirmed that we are capturing the key high-level We have reassessed materiality based on two conducting a benchmarking of our assessment issues in our materiality assessment. General against that of several other international mobile – A Customer/Media/Public issue? factors: the results of a major new materiality human rights training was not provided in 2015 but assessment commissioned by GeSI in 2014, and operators. In 2015, the investigation by the US specific aspects were covered under the headings – Important to employees? significant events that have occurred in the Securities and Exchange Commission, the US of anti-bribery and anti-corruption, and as part of intervening period. Department of Justice and the Dutch Public – An NGO Issue? the new ethical procurement process. Prosecution Service (Openbaar Ministerie) (see pages 28 and 29) remained a highly significant – Part of CR indices/a GRI issue? issue, and several markets also experienced This approach allowed a well-rounded sporadic civil unrest and violent incidents, view of the significance of the individual including Ukraine, Bangladesh and Pakistan. issues. Our 2015 materiality matrix Ethics: Transparency Connectivity: Service quality and responsible Digital issues: Privacy and freedom of expression marketing (relating to government) Connectivity: Access to services HIGH Digital issues: Online child safety Ethics: Anti-bribery and anti-corruption Connectivity: ICT and empowering women Digital issues: Privacy and data security Employees: Health and safety Services for society: Social benefit Contribution: Economic development Employees: Diversity, discrimination, Services for society: ICT Solutions for a Employees: Talent Acquisition, Retention, Importance to stakeholders employment conditions low-carbon economy Development and Reduction Environment: Energy efficient networks and Supply chain: Labor standards and other issues MEDIUM products Reporting focuses on the shaded areas. Reporting is also Contribution: Tax payments required on certain additional issues due to being a signatory Other: Safety while driving of UN Global Compacts Other: Use of physical security services Ethics: Board compensation, independence Employees: Employee engagement and diversity Digital issues: Net neutrality and zero-rating Environment: Climate change mitigation and e-waste LOW Supply chain: Environmental impacts, inclusive supply chains and conflict materials Other: RF emissions and health concerns LOW MEDIUM HIGH Relevance to Business Strategy 8 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Approach Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Approach vimpelcom.com 9 Governance and strategy Table 2: CR strategy framework overview CR Governance the significant volume of charity requests they receive. Reporting on CR performance to local Kyivstar and our Central Asia businesses regularly publish documents covering their charity, Management Committees varies from BU to BU volunteering and environmental programs. STRATEGY ELEMENT RELEVANCE TO THE RELEVANCE TO STATUS SUMMARY We set out our broader corporate CATEGORY with some updating on projects weekly, to more Banglalink has also taken the first steps in AND BUSINESS PRINCIPLES BUSINESS STRATEGY STAKEHOLDERS governance arrangements on page formal quarterly or annual updates. compiling a first report. At this stage, we are not 28, and in detail in our Annual Approach to risk management requiring our BUs to reach GRI v4 compliance with their reporting. Approach Report and Form 20-F. VimpelCom operates an enterprise risk Make Your Mark Make Your Mark will help create new Make Your Mark will contribute to Make Your Mark was launched at the Make Your Mark management approach, with CR-related issues Management systems services and new revenue streams, creating more sustainable and end of 2014 and has stimulated the Business Principles: and contribute to digital leadership. productive societies where our development of projects across all At HQ, the CR team changed its reporting line considered as part of the quarterly risk review A number of our BUs have implemented We transform lives through innovative More broadly it will create a more business, our customers and other our businesses, particularly relating to report to the Group Chief Corporate and process. We assess risks regularly, based on their CR-related management systems, the most mobile applications with social, positive business environment and stakeholders can prosper in the to digital entrepreneurism. Regulatory Affairs Officer who, in turn, reports likelihood and the potential severity of the impact prominent example being WIND in Italy, which economic and environmental benefits. strengthen our brand. long term. to the Chief Executive Officer. The team had on the business, and prioritize and mitigate them has developed an approach which comprises not access to the top operational committee for based on the risk appetite of the business. only ISO 14001 (Environmental Management), issue-by-issue decisions, featuring twice on the OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health and Safety agenda in 2015. In December, a progress report Risk appetite, and our risk management approach, Management) and SA8000 (Social Accountability), on CR was made to the Nominating and is established by the Group Executive Committee. but also ISO 9001 (Quality) and ISO 27001 Services for society Developing commercial services with Developing ‘services for society’ can Several of our markets have developed Certain risk factors affecting our operations are high societal benefit in areas such as bring benefits to society at scale. By innovative services in these areas and Corporate Governance Committee of the (Information Security). Business Principles: mobile financial services (MFS), mHealth increasing the efficiency and reach of are building the scale of the impact, Supervisory Board of the Company. set out in the Form 20-F filed with the US We transform lives through innovative and mAgriculture help profitable growth education, health, financial services particularly in MFS. Securities and Exchange Commission. Djezzy in Algeria has also implemented an mobile applications with social, by creating new revenue streams. and agricultural support, we help In 2014, we launched our Business Principles, environmental management system to ISO 14001 economic and environmental benefits. communities. which help communicate our CR agenda to Each quarter the CEOs of the BUs must complete standard. employees and other parties. During the year a compliance sign-off process to confirm they we have been developing a communication are in compliance with VimpelCom policy and campaign for the Principles that we will roll out procedure. Community engagement Encouraging employees to volunteer in Communities benefit directly from Our BUs have a rich legacy of during 2016. The Principles augment the existing Benchmarking our reporting their community, and making corporate support of local good causes through community engagement and continue Sharing value CR reporting Business Principles: contributions to good causes is cash and in-kind donations, and the to both donate and volunteer. Code of Conduct, which covers a broad range A number of our businesses have been producing We aim to improve the quality of our We support community projects and motivating, and helps set a positive impact of our employee volunteering. Increasingly we are using our of compliance issues relating to the personal their own CR reports for some time. WIND Italy reporting and we participate in a number encourage employees to get involved. performance culture, while strengthening technology to enable our customers behavior of employees. has produced reports for many years, the latest of benchmarking opportunities. Our result our brand. to contribute as well. We share CR best practices across the businesses, reaching GRI G4 ‘core’ compliance, with from the Dutch Government’s Transparency and discuss emerging issues, through monthly independent assurance in line with the AA1000AS Benchmark is shown on page 30. In addition, calls and our intranet. assurance standard. Mobilink has produced we entered the 2016 Corporate Register Environmental efficiency Improving energy efficiency, network By improving our energy efficiency we We continue to closely monitor our several CR reports since 2008 and Beeline Russia Reporting Awards, focusing on the ‘Relevance sharing and use of renewable energy are making a contribution to tackling energy consumption, and to roll out Business Principles: (where economically viable) all contribute climate change, which benefits a wide efficiency initiatives. We continue We have not mandated any particular governance published a comprehensive first CR report in and Materiality’ category. We ranked 13th We minimize the environmental impact to transforming our cost base. range of people. to make good progress in reducing approach to CR for the BUs, though all BUs and December 2014. out of 29 companies that entered, narrowly of our operations, the products and reliance on diesel fuel in Pakistan. OpCos have CR officers or small CR teams. Several missing inclusion amongst the 10 shortlisted services we sell, and our supply chain. of our OpCos have formed committees to closely companies. assess and formulate appropriate responses to Our Strategy The six priority areas are: Engage in the global agenda Engaging in global initiatives and organizations focused on CR helps us to Provides opportunities for stakeholders to engage with us, and to benefit from We have signed up to the UNGC Principles. We are active members of • Capitalizing on new revenue streams created Our Business Principles Business Principles: learn, access relevant tools and guidance, our improved CR performance. GeSI, particularly in relation to human In August 2015, recognizing the by data growth, fixed-mobile convergence and We are open and transparent with and improve our performance. rights. We participate on the WEF 1. We transform lives through innovative major trends facing our industry, business to business opportunities mobile applications with social, economic all our stakeholders. Global Agenda Council on Social Innovation. we announced six strategic priority • Emerging as a digital leader from the transition and environmental benefits areas for focus in the coming years. to a mobile data-centric model and simplified 2. We are honest with our customers and digital customer experience protect their privacy Transparency Being open and honest with people Provides opportunities for stakeholders Our Group CR Report has increased These trends include cost and (e.g. customers) and reporting openly on to put forward their points of view, its score on the Dutch government’s • Achieving superior operating costs through 3. We act to ensure we respect human rights Business Principles: pricing pressures, the rapid transformation of our cost base We are open and transparent with material issues is part of building provide feedback on our performance Transparency Benchmark and is in 4. We do business in an ethical way, with world-class operations. and become partners to address specific accordance with GRI v4. More of our migration to data, the need to Managing risk all our stakeholders. issues. BUs are reporting and WIND continues • Optimizing our telecommunications portfolio no tolerance of bribery or corruption capture and monetize new revenue through in-market consolidation, monetizing 5. We are open and transparent with all our to support its ‘Transparency Forum’. streams and the requirement to be our tower portfolio and disposing of non-core stakeholders flexible and agile in an increasingly assets 6. We minimize the environmental impact of Responsible behavior By identifying and responding to key Focus areas: In 2015 we: our operations, the products and services issues including bribery and corruption, Ethical behavior – enhancing compliance Continued to strengthen our digital world. • Continuing to build world-class operations we sell, and our supply chain Business Principles: privacy, ethical procurement, health and measures to address corruption risks. compliance program We are honest with our customers • Structural improvements to optimize tax safety etc. we contribute to building Health and Safety – consistent standards Approved a Group Health and Safety 7. We support community projects and and protect their privacy. world-class operations. and capital structure. encourage employees to get involved We act to ensure we respect to protect employees, contractors and Policy the public. human rights. We provide more detail on the development of Procurement – improving human rights Launched a Supplier Code of Conduct these objectives and steps to implement them, We do business in an ethical way, with and environmental performance of and assessment process in our Annual Report and Form 20-F. Our CR no tolerance of bribery or corruption. supply chain. Please visit: strategy is designed to support these objectives, Privacy – managing customer privacy, Approved a Customer Data in the context of stakeholder priorities. This is To view our interactive strategy diagram while using anonymous data for Governance Policy illustrated in the diagram on the right, together and see how our elements fall into commercial purposes. with highlights of how we are implementing three categories, go to our strategy. vimpelcom.com/responsibility 10 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Approach Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Approach vimpelcom.com 11 Make Your Mark THE NUMBER OF BUSINESS UNITS IN 2015 WITH MAKE YOUR MARK INITIATIVES 100% In late 2014, we launched a Group-wide program called Make Your Mark (‘MYM’), which focuses on ‘Helping Young People Shape Their Future’. The aim was for all of our markets THE NUMBER OF BUSINESS UNITS SUPPORTING START-UP ACCELERATORS IN 2015 2 to instigate programs that would support this goal. We are making good progress. Make Your Mark OUR PROGRAM’S AIM TO HELP YOUNG PEOPLE SHAPE THEIR FUTURE What is the aim of Why are we driving How are we implementing Make Your Mark? Make Your Mark? Make Your Mark MYM is a group-wide program where all our With MYM we are aiming for a ‘win-win’ for society From the start, MYM has been built on two main BUs and OpCos contribute initiatives under a and our business. In several of our markets, literacy philosophies: common theme. and educational challenges can limit the size of our customer base. By supporting education we can • Build on existing successes and our core The aim is to help young people find solutions to the bring more people into the digital world, creating competencies challenge of achieving sustainable development. benefits for them and broadening our market. These may be highly personal and localized – how • Adopt a top-down and bottom-up approach. can I access a basic, decent education and help Equally, a key strand of our commercial strategy is to Following this approach, we have focused on myself and my family? Or they could be national, achieve digital leadership, creating a new ecosystem sharing good practices across our markets, identifying regional or global – how can I contribute to a more of digital services for our customers, as well as success and looking to replicate these models wherever sustainable environment, secure a better healthcare transforming our own processes and business appropriate. Equally, we have looked to coordinate system, improve the availability of jobs, or a more model through digital enablement. The ideas for individual market projects with regional approaches productive economy so I have a better future? achieving this do not come only from within our where possible, and conduct targeted research to help company, or from established international digital us intervene effectively in developing digital ecosystems. The goal of MYM is to empower young people giants, but also potentially from hundreds of small, to make a positive difference to their own lives, digital start-up businesses providing content and Our work with a variety of stakeholders is also helping and the lives of others, through increased access solutions for local people and issues. shape the program. For example, as well as participating to education and through inspiring social in the WEF’s Global Agenda Council on corporate social entrepreneurship, particularly in the digital arena. By encouraging young entrepreneurs to start new innovation (page 6), we were invited to join the GSMA’s MYM includes three interrelated themes: digital businesses, we can uncover valuable data Project Leadership Group for their new strategic services for our customers, and contribute to program ‘Ecosystem Accelerator’. The GSMA program development of a vibrant digital ecosystem in our aims to maximize the ability of mobile operators to work Educate – use technology and other resources markets, flowing across our networks. with innovators to help grow unique, commercially and to bring education to people who might socially sustainable products and services in developing otherwise not have access to it And finally, as well as benefiting from the direct commercial impact of this new wave of digital markets. Support – help young people with creative services, we aim to inspire these entrepreneurs to Locally, our MYM focus has helped develop stronger digital commercial ideas to build businesses look at some of society’s big challenges – very local links with players in the digital start-up community, and careers or even global – and contribute digital solutions. The relevant government departments, private investors indirect impact of this on prosperity, education, and enterprise bodies, as well as universities and health, productivity, access to financial services, business schools. Inspire – encourage young people to turn their empowerment and good governance, will all help energy and enthusiasm into digital solutions During 2015, we have seen activities across the markets create a better long-term business environment to for social, economic and environmental converge towards a more common MYM model. This in support our financial success. challenges. turn is now driving a re-evaluation of the program to assess how we can grow and strengthen it. 12 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Make Your Mark Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Make Your Mark vimpelcom.com 13 Make Your Mark — continued What have we achieved in 2015? Our progress is best described through a series of linked case studies, together with our first attempt to measure and report on actual impact. We intend to refine and strengthen this aspect of the program as it continues to evolve. ADDITIONAL LEARNERS RECRUITED TO MOBILINK’S MLITERACY PROGRAM 4,050 NUMBER OF YOUNG PEOPLE PARTICIPATING IN BEELINE ARMENIA’S JOB SKILLS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM 500 Make Your Mark EDUCATION PROJECTS Donated IT equipment/connectivity Mobile-enabled education projects in schools and other institutions Algeria Pakistan Djezzy has launched ‘iMadrassa’, a new digital In 2009, Mobilink developed a pilot scheme with Pakistan tutoring service, aimed at helping high school UNESCO and the Bunyad Foundation to educate Mobilink has established an additional six ICT students in Algeria prepare for their graduation rural women, a group mostly excluded from the labs in Pakistani schools adopted by NGOs examinations. Working alongside a local e-learning conventional educational system in Pakistan. The (10 computers per school), which will serve provider, Djezzy’s service is accessible through any project started in 2009 with 250 female learners 3,500 students at any one time, as part of its ICT mobile or fixed internet connection, and follows in rural Punjab, and by the end of 2013, included Education Enhancement Program. The program the National Education Program curriculum. It 5,000 women across the country. Mobilink’s has been provided in collaboration with primary offers students a number of options and costs, mLiteracy program helps teachers offer a basic and secondary schools serving marginalized depending on which courses they are taking. literacy curriculum using SMS – with free areas across Mobilink’s communities. With connectivity for teachers and learners. The this addition, Mobilink has now established program’s project facilitators organize classes 11 computer labs in various educational in small learning centers in villages, often in the institutions across the country. houses of local elders, and learners’ responses are logged to monitor their progress. Tajikistan Armenia Kazakhstan The project has expanded to enabling rural We provide internet connectivity to a secondary Beeline donated equipment to create a computer We connected a further 10 institutions (such as special women to better manage domestic finance, and school in the Darvazs district as well as free wifi in class in a study center – founded by celebrity singer schools and orphanages) to free high-speed internet in to raising subjects such as religious tolerance and Tajikistan’s first co-working space ‘TJLab’, Antikafe Nune Yesayan – designed specifically for socially 2015, bringing the total number of connections under equal opportunity. The program has noticeably ‘Kvartira’. We also donated 35 computers to three disadvantaged, disabled and orphaned children. our ‘Unlimited Opportunities’ program to 15 in total, reduced gender bias in mobile use, and schools, providing approximately 2,800 children and benefiting more than 5,000 children. To learn participants have reported a heightened sense of with access. more, watch the video at www.vimpelcom.com. security through having access to this means of communication. In early 2014, the Mobilink Foundation secured Other education initiatives a third-party grant to extend the scope of the Ukraine Algeria literacy program in 2015. This has enabled us Kyivstar has introduced a campaign to help As part of its efforts to support youth education, Djezzy to enroll approximately 4,050 additional learners develop Science, Technology, Engineering and has opened a new reading room in the city´s historic and 160 community teachers. Mathematics (STEM) education. The project Casbah, working with the Casbah Association. There are The mLiteracy has won awards from both the focuses on talented schoolchildren, studentapproximately 62,000 people in the immediate area of GSMA and Ethical Corporation magazine. To learn programers and young entrepreneurs. the Casbah, many of whom are children or young more watch the video at www.vimpelcom.com parents. The reading room will focus on the needs of In 2015, Kyivstar supported 13 academic Armenia In addition, Beeline supports the NGO ‘Gates of elementary schoolchildren from low-income families. competitions on polytechnic education, helping Beeline Armenia and the Children of Armenia Armenia’ with a project which helps 60 pupils Djezzy also completed work on a media library for with out-of-school activities and education for Fund launched a joint ‘Agro School’, a project from 12 remote villages take part in courses on children in Beni Abbes, in western Algeria. more than 3,500 children in all parts of Ukraine. which aims to integrate digital and agricultural animation, digital media, gamification and film The company held three summer schools to train education at the grass-roots level. creation, in the Tumo technological center. The Armenia young mathematicians in Lviv, Odessa and Kyiv. project is designed to help young people access Working with the Armenian Republican Union of Agro School includes building a greenhouse, With this support the Ukrainian students ranked digital technologies and boost their skills and Employees, Beeline launched a program called theoretical and practical training, exchanges of number one for mathematics in Europe by gaining employability. ‘Enhancement of Youth Competitiveness on the practice with other high school students, and 11th position in an international event in Thailand. Armenian Labor Market’. It aims to boost young people’s online marketing and sales of products generated skills in business and career planning, and setting up and by the project. Approximately 235 high school running businesses, so enhancing their competitiveness students from Getashen have taken part. in the labor market, and contributing to prevention of migration. More than 500 students took part in 2015. 14 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Make Your Mark Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Make Your Mark vimpelcom.com 15 Make Your Mark — continued RESEARCHING THE SUCCESS FACTORS EDUCATION INITIATIVES OF DIGITAL ECOSYSTEMS FOR ENTREPRENEURS Understanding the context for digital A clear recommendation from the DEEP research was Russia – Plan B entrepreneurism to investigate how to support targeted education for To help Russia’s SMEs in challenging economic times, In 2014, we published research aimed at gaining a would-be digital entrepreneurs. In this section we look Beeline Russia has joined forces with Skolkovo, the better understanding of the international digital at examples of how our BUs are doing this. country’s leading business school, and RBC, a business ecosystem and the potential role for mobile operators. media platform, to offer a joint educational program The report, ‘Enabling Entrepreneurs in a Mobile World’ Italy called ‘Plan B’. The aim is to help entrepreneurs study recommended three key steps for mobile operators to Latuaideadimpresa aims at promoting entrepreneurial a variety of business models and see how they can be better support young tech entrepreneurs: culture in secondary schools. WIND is the main implemented successfully, and get fresh ideas, new partner of Confindustria, the Italian Association of contacts and advice from professionals. Make Your Mark a) Shifting their corporate culture and mindset to Enterprise, and the initiative is also sponsored by the adapt to the world of digital entrepreneurs Ministry of Education. Students from more than 100 Plan B events are held in Moscow, Saint Petersburg, schools have uploaded their business plans on to a and 14 other Russian cities and cover business b) Gaining a more detailed understanding of the needs topics like leadership, teamwork, technology and of digital entrepreneurs, to identify the practical web platform (www. latuaideadimpresa.it) which has had more than 490,000 visitors. Students, teachers management. Guest lecturers include a number support required of leading Russian business leaders, including the and entrepreneurs can also interact on the theme of c) Creating the right environment for innovation to entrepreneurship, business innovation and the skills Beeline Russia CEO. flourish by entering into creative partnerships with required in the world of employment. other players in the ‘ecosystem’. We are working on all three of these elements. On a), our commercial strategy is already making us far Armenia Ukraine more digitally oriented, and this will bring greater In Armenia, Beeline continued to run its Kyivstar has been running its series of ‘Business engagement with start-ups. For b), we have conducted successful ‘DigiCamps’ – technology-focused Hub’ lectures and meetings for some time. targeted research in 4 markets: Algeria, Russia, Ukraine summer camps which aim to help young people In 2014 and 2015 it held 10 meetings with and Georgia (see below). And for c), this MYM section develop their innovative and digital business experts in different areas, attended by 3,000 highlights how we are building partnerships with a ideas using our experience, skills students. The Business Hub Facebook page variety of players from the GSMA, to universities such and technologies. is followed by 5,300 subscribers. as LUMS, to the Georgian Association of Young Financiers and Businessmen. 4 155 ACCELERATORS AND INCUBATORS MYM research in Georgia Beeline Georgia, and the country’s Association of NUMBER OF MARKETS WITH DETAILED NUMBER OF STAKEHOLDERS Young Financiers and Businessmen, have launched DIGITAL ECOSYSTEM RESEARCH INTERVIEWED OR SURVEYED a project which addresses challenges faced by the country’s entrepreneurs. The aim of the project is The DEEP research also highlighted the important The success of the WBF/LUISS Enlabs model is such that Mobilink in Pakistan to stimulate the growth of small businesses, which Digital Entrepreneur Ecosystem Research (DEEP) the provision of business-focused education for role of high-quality start-up accelerators and the government of Pakistan (Ministry of IT and the Mobilink has collaborated with Lahore University represent the most significant segment of the During the year, we commissioned detailed talented IT professionals with limited business incubators in building vibrant ecosystems and we Pakistan Software Export Board) asked for advice on of Management Science’s (LUMS) Center for Georgian economy as the self-employed make up 60% research, looking at the digital start-up scenes in experience, developing competitions, supporting have been building on the success of our most developing an accelerator/incubator. This was provided Entrepreneurship (LCE) to provide mentorship to of the country’s employed population. The research Russia, Ukraine and Algeria. As part of the study, accelerators and incubators, and perhaps most mature example of this – WIND Business Factor/ through materials and during a visit by members of the 15 start-ups. These young businesses have been aims to identify the most pressing issues facing AT Kearney interviewed over 20 VimpelCom senior importantly, helping start-ups commercialize LUISS Enlabs. WIND and Enlabs team to Islamabad. The team also selected after an extensive awareness raising and Georgia’s self-employed, as identified by Beeline’s managers across the markets and at HQ, and over their offerings at scale. The first of the resulting advised the government of Bangladesh on developing scouting process and undertake a four month recent study, including the availability of information 35 market stakeholders, including successful white papers, on Russia, is available on a similar approach. intensive incubation program before getting the on government initiatives and access to partners entrepreneurs, universities and business schools, our website. WIND Business Factor/LUISS Enlabs in Italy opportunity to pitch at an investor day. As well as and sponsors. investors, accelerators, ICT corporations and WIND Business Factor (WBF) launched in March 2011 to supporting the program financially, Mobilink is also government representatives. In addition, nearly support new entrepreneurs through a ‘social business providing mentors, and the ability for the selected 100 start-ups responded to an online survey. network’. The website focuses on the three key factors teams to develop and test their applications on the entrepreneurs need – relationships, knowledge, and Mobilink platform. Currently, nine applications are The research analyzed each ‘ecosystem’ across opportunities – and includes more than 600 editorials being developed through this program for an a number of factors, including internet and providing advice, and 200 video tutorials. It runs regular intended release in February 2016.. smartphone penetration, ICT talent, regulation, competitions where finalists are invited to pitch their customer base, education, investment market ideas to investors. WBF now has more than 27,500 Amsterdam HQ and other related factors. The market position members, almost 5,000 start-up and business ideas, and In 2015, we developed a partnership with in relation to start-ups was then examined to over 19,000 social media followers. StartupAmsterdam, a public-private initiative focused understand how these factors were supporting or on developing Amsterdam into one of the top three constraining growth of digital entrepreneurism. WIND is also a key sponsor of the LUISS Enlabs incubation program – a unique collaboration between start-up locations in Europe. The two parties hosted There was significant agreement among the LUISS business school in Rome and start-up investor/ one of ‘The New Web’ LaunchPad Meetups, an stakeholders that there was a strong role for accelerator, Enlabs. The incubator provides working initiative that connects start-ups with the corporate mobile operators to play in supporting the space and an intensive mentoring program to selected world. This event, hosted at our Amsterdam HQ, saw ecosystem. It identified a number of specific start-ups, culminating in the opportunity to pitch our senior business leaders and 30 entrepreneurs areas, varying in emphasis from market to products and services to investors at the end of the discussing areas for collaboration on future mobile market, where mobile operators could make acceleration period. To watch a video about the project technologies and the business models that will take a valuable intervention, including supporting visit vimpelcom.com the digital world forward.5. 16 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Make Your Mark Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Make Your Mark vimpelcom.com 17 Make Your Mark — continued MYM in Numbers COMPETITIONS FOR DIGITAL Measuring the impact of all of these MYM initiatives is not straightforward and does not lend itself to the use of a single indicator. For more information To watch a video about these projects START-UPS/IDEAS Therefore we have set out below a series of indicators to illustrate our progress. We intend to refine this over the coming years. visit vimplecom.com The DEEP research indicated that competitions for Eurasia Mobile Challenge registered to participate – the second highest start-ups and digital entrepreneurs are effective level of regional registrations from around the Educational Programs ways to identify innovative ideas and help raise the world. Approximately half the submissions came KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS IN 2015 EXAMPLE PROJECTS KPI DEFINITIONS quality of business plans. They also provide a from Russia, with the balance spread relatively platform to gain the attention of investors. In 2015, evenly amongst the remaining markets. More The number of children/young adults benefiting from: we supported a number of competitions: than 425 people participated in the acceleration Free internet connections (institutions) 8,500 Free internet connections to Estimate based on the number of schools/ events at various venues, or by live streaming. schools and institutions in orphanages (x the approximate number of Armenia Kazakhstan and Tajikistan children per institution) etc. where we provide Approximately 160 submissions were eventually Make Your Mark In Armenia we ran the ‘Hackathon [YAN] Childhood free internet access received across four categories (entertainment 2015’ contest for innovative ideas and solutions. Teams and culture, environmental benefit, social Donated computer equipment 12,150 Significant programs in Estimate based on the number of children/ of programers and non-programers developed benefit and ‘other’) with ‘social benefit’ Algeria, Pakistan, Armenia students likely to have access to donated prototypes of their web and mobile applications, which generating the most submissions. and Tajikistan equipment were assessed by a panel of experts and mentors. Seminars on various technologies were also given, and Three winners from each country were selected mLiteracy programs 4,240 Mobilink mLiteracy program The number of participants in literacy programs founders of various successful Armenian start-ups As part of our ‘top down’ approach to implementing and competed in Moscow in the regional final, in Pakistan where the use of mobile technology is integral passed on their experience. MYM, we identified an opportunity to introduce with the three winners of that pitching event going to the delivery a regional program which became known as to the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona to Algeria ‘The Eurasia Mobile Challenge’, a digital solution compete against winners from other regions (Latin Other relevant education programs 4,300 Support for ‘STEM’ students Other programs which impact on digital skills or To help customers take advantage of the opportunities competition running across seven of our markets: America, sub-Saharan Africa, Europe etc.). The in Ukraine are technology-relevant presented by the launch of 3G, Djezzy has been Armenia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Russia, three EMC winning teams and ideas were: supporting national competitions to develop new Tajikistan and Uzbekistan. This is a regional ‘chapter’ of the Global Mobile Challenge, a competition run 1. Artasian (team from Kyrgyzstan) – with a digital applications and support local developers. commerce platform for craftspeople from Competitions have been held in connection with two by the Applied Innovation Institute (AII), and Mobile World Capital. VimpelCom, with Huawei as across Central Asia to bring their products to Djezzy-sponsored events, the first-ever ‘3G Cup Algeria’, a global market co-founder, supported the Eurasia region which was largely for mobile development, and the competition, one of six regions in total. Digital Entrepreneurism third FIKRA Conference, Algeria’s signature digital 2. Mdirect (team from Kazakhstan) – in a market KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS IN 2015 EXAMPLE PROJECTS KPI DEFINITIONS conference connecting key participants in Algeria’s The competition was advertised to young people where 87% of the 3.7 million vehicles are more political, economic, cultural and academic life. across the seven markets, particularly at than seven years old, an application for finding The number of young people universities and technical colleges, through and buying auto parts online Event participants focused on specific platforms Attending entrepreneurship educational events 10,531 Business Hub in Ukraine, For example, start-up classes, ‘camps’, (Android, Apple, Windows Phone) and themes such as traditional and social media. Teams registered 3. Stolik (team from Uzbekistan) – a mobile (classes, conferences) Plan B in Russia, LUMS ‘weekends’ or lectures given on games, m-Health, m-Enterprise, Social Media and their concepts and were invited to participate in application which enables diners to find scouting events in Pakistan entrepreneurism/start-ups at VimpelCome-Learning. More than 850 participants participated in acceleration days supported by local VimpelCom restaurants and book online. and skills-building programs supported events 3G Cup Algeria and 125 in the FIKRA competition. In all, teams. Nearly 570 teams from across the region in Armenia 11 applications have been selected for further support, Russia ‘big data’ analysis approach. The winning Entering digital entrepreneur competitions 5,283 Eurasia Mobile Challenge, Either from records of individual participants, or and the developers of the five top ideas have received Uber and Beeline launched ‘UberPITCH’, a project application prototype was able to send FIKRA, Seedstars and 3G cup estimated on the basis of the number of teams support to formally establish their own companies. to support innovative entrepreneurship in Russia. missing-people alerts to customers in the in Algeria, WIND Business multiplied by an assumption of the number of In addition, Djezzy also supported the SeedStars Algiers Participants could order an Uber taxi where leading relevant zone, with continuously expanding Factor in Italy people per team (three) event, being the local element of ‘SeedStars World’, and business people (including Beeline’s CEO and Chief search territory and alert mail-out. Participating in accelerators/incubators 159 LUMS Centre for The number of individuals, or estimated from participated on the judging panel. This entity promotes, Strategy Officer) and mentors would be fellow Entrepreneurship in the number of teams/projects, hosted in links and finances start-ups in more than 50 countries passengers – and then had 15 minutes to present Pakistan and LUISS Enlabs VimpelCom-supported facilities worldwide. Local start-ups compete to attend the their projects in the taxi and get helpful hints. in Italy annual final held in Lausanne, for prize money of USD1.5 million. More than 100 ‘UberPITCHES’ were made – the event was vastly over-subscribed with more than 3,000 applications. Winners received an opportunity to present their projects at the This table estimates the number of people that Make Your Mark has impacted directly. Our objective is that the benefit of these interactions will be Eurasia Mobile Challenge (above). multiplied many times over as the talented young people in question use their new skills and opportunities to make their mark on the world. We are already working with individuals and teams who have come through our various competitions and acceleration programs to develop their ideas and prototypes into Beeline, in collaboration with the Bauman mobile applications that can benefit society and we hope to report on this in more detail in our next report. Moscow State Technical University, also held the Bauman Urban Hack competition, where the As awareness of Make Your Mark grows, primarily through social media, we hope to attract an increasing number of people to participate in the students were asked to create a prototype of a underpinning initiatives. mobile service for finding missing people, using a NUMBER OF TEAMS REGISTERED FOR THE EMC 570 NUMBER OF PEOPLE PARTICIPATING IN ACCELERATION DAYS 425 NUMBER OF EMC SUBMISSIONS 160 18 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Make Your Mark Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Make Your Mark vimpelcom.com 19 Services for society Several of our businesses are developing ‘societal’ services in areas such as financial services, health, MFS MFS is a key priority within our overall business our customers, and our focus is on providing improved access to basic financial services, such education, and agriculture. as transferring money and paying bills. strategy and is managed from the very top of 8m We can create value for our shareholders and broader society Services for society can: the company. An MFS steering committee To gain scale and really significant impact, it is critical to build the whole ecosystem. This meets monthly, chaired by the Group CEO. The by designing and providing services which bring specific MFS USERS SERVED BY BANGLALINK – have a real impact at scale for the steering committee is highly cross-functional – requires participation from financial institutions, populations we serve. A more prosperous, agreement to accept mobile payments positive benefits over and above simple connectivity. By demonstrating the range of disciplines critical 28,000 educated, productive and healthier to developing a successful expansion of MFS – equipment by merchants and, above all, making the most of our technology and our operational population will also support the growth of our business including representatives from Technology, acceptance by our customers of the service. Finance, Fraud Investigation and Commercial expertise, we can develop large-scale solutions which address BANGLALINK CASH POINTS – generate additional revenue through functions, as well as a number of BU CEOs and This sort of development has been seen in Pakistan where Mobicash service was introduced some of society’s problems, while also achieving commercial incremental sales of data services our specialist MFS team. by Mobilink. In just under two years, what started We already offer a variety of services across as a simple mobile transfer service – individuals success. This supports our strategic objective of developing – encourage innovation, and create services many of our markets, playing an important role could send money to other individuals – has that reduce churn and increase brand loyalty new revenue streams. – build deeper relationships with government, in building local mobile money ecosystems and further enabling financial inclusion. In Russia evolved to include a range of financial services, allowing people to pay bills, deposit savings, make communities and local NGOs, which in turn and Ukraine, MFS is seen as a key element of payments for goods at merchants and online can lead to a better regulatory environment the move from cash-based to cashless societies, stores, purchase air-time and even procure health for our business. improving security and trust in financial insurance through the ‘Sehat Sahulat’ program transactions such as salary payments. In countries in the near future. WE PROVIDE AND CREATE SERVICES It is not always straightforward to find a business approach that at least covers costs, but this is key such as Italy, our focus is on areas such as e-ticketing, and paying for parking and content. to sustaining programs for the long term. We are The greatest positive socio-economic impact of constantly exploring the opportunities in this MFS can be seen in developing economies with FOR A BETTER SOCIETY area, and our Make Your Mark program is all about encouraging young digital entrepreneurs to develop their ideas and applications to run over limited banking infrastructure, such as Pakistan and Bangladesh. There are 2.5 billion unbanked people in the world, a proportion of whom are Services for society our networks. By far the most significant ‘service for society’ that we provide is MFS. Kyivstar launches mobile Financial inclusion in Bangladesh payment app In Bangladesh, Banglalink plays a pivotal role in financial inclusion by working with a range Launched in 2015 with our financial services of the country’s major MFS service providers partners, the Mobile Money application lets users and banks to act as a network and distribution pay for utility, internet and pay-TV services from provider for their MFS, all regulated by their handset, as well as pay for goods or top-up the Central Bank and Bangladesh bank cards. Mobile Money includes approximately Telecommunication Regulatory Commission. 1,000 payment options, and payments are instant. The Banglalink network currently serves almost Over 700,000 unique users were registered by the eight million MFS users, about a quarter of all end of the year, and over 1.5 million transactions MFS customers in the country. Banglalink also had been performed. Approximately 11% of use is has approximately 28,000 cash points and by handset, 3.5% through tablets, and the balance provides connectivity for money transfer though PCs. services for Bangladesh Post Office branches In addition, all prepaid Kyivstar subscribers can across the country. In 2015, the retailer base withdraw cash by visiting one of 1,000 participating has been expanded to ensure availability of MFS post offices around the country and can also deposit services for customers across the country and cash at 250 branches of a major supermarket chain, to include the Bangladesh Post Office Money as well as withdrawing through the cash-back Transfer Services in the distribution network. service. This service helps provide extra financial flexibility for customers struggling with the financial crisis in Ukraine. As well as ‘in-country’ transfers Mobicash: supporting 500,000 MFS can play a key role in active mobile accounts generating additional value from Mobicash, recognized as the fastest growing MFS remittances. According to the deployment by the GSMA, is contributing towards World Bank, an estimated USD25 financial inclusion across Pakistan. Mobicash has the largest distribution network of over 59,000 billion a year is sent home by agents in 633 cities, towns and villages of Pakistan, migrant workers to families in with an extensive suite of financial services. Enabling USSD based registration helped Mobicash to reach Eurasia and Russia. MFS can add 550,000 active mobile accounts within nine months. additional security, traceability and In December alone, Mobicash conducted over value to this, by slashing the costs 4.7 million transactions amounting to over USD88 million in value. paid in money transfer. 20 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Services for society Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Services for society vimpelcom.com 21 Service For society — continued Distribution of emergency Other Services for Society Kyivstar promoting support funds through Mobicash Mobile Agriculture Service e-governance We continue to provide a portfolio of services Kyivstar supported a hackathon event held in Mobicash was appointed to distribute the Punjab for the farmers of Bangladesh. These include a the city of Vinnitsa (population 370,000) to Government’s allocated funds in inaccessible specialist call center (Krishi Jigyasha (7676)), and brainstorm ideas that would help it become a areas affected by severe flooding, which a ‘voice-based’ virtual agricultural market place ‘smart city’, providing digital government impacted more than 2.5 million people. Mobicash (Krishibazaar (2474)) for buying and selling services for its residents. Over 100 set up fund distribution centers in 38 locations produce. In 2015, Krishi Jigyasha received participants – mainly IT professionals and across the province, equipped with a Biometric approximately 14,000 calls a month and public figures – came together for two days to Verification System (BVS) to ensure transparency Krishibazaar receives 480 monthly hits. work in teams to develop innovative ideas to throughout the process. Mobicash helped 22,000 affected families with USD250 each, cashed out In 2015, we entered a partnership with the make life easier for residents and to share best through any Mobicash retail outlet. USD5.25 International Food Policy Research Institute practices from other metropolitan areas. The million was distributed within seven days. (IFPRI) funded by USAID. Under this project winning team, ‘Smart Query’, developed a the IFPRI acquired 500 handsets and SIMs for project to automate queues at citizen service In addition, Mobicash coupled the BVS with centers and other public institutions. Other farmers. Farmers receive data or talk-time as its mobile accounts, to distribute a total of finalists created projects covering issues such a reward for completing surveys for the IFPRI. USD20 million to over 60,000 families displaced as: measuring environmental risk at a given by anti-terrorism activities by the army in two Mobile Health Services location in a town or city; public transport phases of operation. We continue to develop and distribute mHealth schedules and accidents; and a question and services. In Ukraine, our pre-natal and ante-natal answer service to help communication with Banglalink also engaged multiple government care, eyesight protection, and emergency first representatives of the city authorities. organizations and NGOs, including Bait-ul-Maal aid applications generated over 27,000 and Idara-e-Taleem-o-Aagahi, to reach Kyivstar also showcased its innovative downloads in 2015. more than 6,000 beneficiaries with social aid MobileID technology, which can help facilitate disbursements. In Kazakhstan, our ‘Dariger’ app provides efficient and secure access to government Services for society information on diagnosing and treating some of administrative services, by providing secure the more common types of disease. It has now identification technology and an electronic been downloaded over 25,000 times on Android signature via a mobile device. and over 3,200 times on IOS. In Russia, there is a strong focus on improving accessibility for people with disability (see page 34). 22,000 NUMBER OF FLOOD-AFFECTED In Pakistan, the Mobilink Guardian personal safety FAMILIES SUPPORTED BY MOBILINK’S MFS-BASED application has generated approximately 17,000 AID DISTRIBUTION downloads and is now being considered for introduction to our Bangladesh customers, who USD5.25m already access our shortcode medical advice line. AMOUNT OF In Armenia, we are developing two mobile apps AID DISTRIBUTED specifically designed to help disabled children, the first of their kind in Armenia. NUMBER OF PARTICIPANTS IN E-GOVERNANCE HACKATHON 100 NUMBER OF CALLS PER MONTH TO AGRI-HELPLINE IN BANGLADESH 14,000 NUMBER OF DOWNLOADS OF ‘DARIGER’ HEALTH APPLICATION IN KAZAKHSTAN 28,200 NUMBER OF DOWNLOADS OF ‘MOBILINK GUARDIAN’ APP 17,000 For more information Find out more about these services through CR webpages. 22 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Services for society Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Services for society vimpelcom.com 23 Environmental efficiency The impact of climate change, pollution, water shortage and other resource use issues will become more significant, particularly for emerging economies, and especially those vulnerable to drought, flooding and other weather extremes. Environmental issues are prominent in the UNGC Principles and we are reporting on our programs to reduce our main impacts. WE FOCUS ON PROGRAMS THAT REDUCE OUR IMPACT Managing environmental issues makes 180 good business sense in: GeSI Smarter2030 and POTENTIAL CARBON EMISSIONS SAVINGS ACHIEVED THROUGH MOBILE Reducing cost – Resource efficiency generally means cost efficiency other studies/initiatives in 2015 TECHNOLOGY IN EUROPE AND THE US MT VimpelCom is a member of GeSI and this 20% Managing risk – By helping to address global organization has been focusing on the potential environmental issues we can help reduce for ICT to play a leading role in combating POTENTIAL REDUCTION OF GLOBAL CO2E impacts on customers and infrastructure climate change. GeSI has produced a series of EMISSIONS BY 2030 ENABLED BY ICT Environmental efficiency high profile studies in recent years, and this has continued in 2015, with initiatives including: Innovation – It can lead to products and services which use mobile technology to help • ‘GeSI Mobile Carbon Impact – How mobile people and businesses reduce their impact communications technology is enabling carbon emissions reduction’ (http://gesi.org/ Reputation – Improving our reputation with news?news_id=94). Authored by the Carbon customers, communities, employees and Trust, the report analyzes the use of mobile government. technology in Europe and the US, finding that M2M initiatives – Banglalink it enables savings of more than 180 million traffic app As well as focusing on reducing our own tonnes of carbon emissions a year, with the environmental impact, we know there is a growing largest savings currently being made in the In the Bangladesh capital, Dhaka, crippling recognition that technology is a key component of operation of buildings and transportation. traffic jams occur. To help its customers, the fight against climate change, and that mobile This is an amount greater than the total Banglalink is developing a traffic monitoring technology can help people and businesses reduce annual emissions of the Netherlands and five feature to integrate into its ‘My Banglalink’ their carbon emissions. digital self-care app for its smartphone times higher than the emissions from mobile customers. Machine to Machine (M2M) services – the networks potential for energy efficiency Traffic monitoring is a low-cost service, and • The SMARTer2030 report (http:// uses our own masts around the city, with M2M is highlighted in GeSI studies as a potentially smarter2030.gesi.org/), which extends important element of carbon emission reduction. low-cost off-the-shelf IP cameras with their previous analysis horizons to 2030, and looks own continuous power supply. As well as We are a member of the M2M World Alliance, a at ICT-enabled sustainability from a holistic helping customers navigate more effectively partnership of seven leading operators around the world, and provide M2M services to point of view. The report shows that ICT has around the city, the improved traffic flow corporate customers in: the potential to enable a 20% reduction of should have a positive impact on traffic global CO2e emissions by 2030, thus holding carbon emissions. Transportation: freight and fleet monitoring, emissions at 2015 levels, and effectively and ‘smart car’ solutions decoupling economic growth from emissions Following the trial, Banglalink is now developing a better version of the service Telemetry: monitoring data from utilities and growth. SMARTer2030 also contains and is working with local authorities on production recommendations to decision-makers, how to best deploy it. businesses and consumers on what actions Consumer electronics: navigation and personal are needed to make the most of the devices technology benefits. Healthcare: remote monitoring of patients. 24 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Environmental efficiency Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Environmental efficiency vimpelcom.com 25 Environmental efficiency — continued Managing environmental issues Energy use and greenhouse their grid energy from certified ‘green’ sources Network efficiency measures also has a significant impact on the emissions Our Code of Conduct states we will meet local gas emissions data calculation (see case study opposite). Our As most of our greenhouse gas emissions Green Office initiatives Mobilink saves 39.5 million regulatory requirements and relevant We collect performance data on our emissions are reported net of this amount. originate from energy use in our network, this is Mobilink became the only operator in Pakistan liters of diesel since 2013 international environmental standards, aim to the main focus for our energy efficiency with three Green Office Certifications. greenhouse gas emissions as follows: It is challenging to gather highly accurate data on With power outages often lasting up to 16 reduce emissions and waste, and use natural programs. resources responsibly. Environmental issues are Scope 1: Emissions from fuel consumption energy consumption for several of our markets hours a day in Pakistan, Mobilink’s base stations also represented in our Business Principles. and we rely on a mixture of data sources including We are applying a series of energy efficiency run on diesel when the grid fails. In 2015, the (generally from diesel generators) to operate measures across our network infrastructure, Energy use, and the related greenhouse gas network base stations that do not have reliable invoices, by extrapolation from known actual including an extensive program of equipment WIND meets emission company continued to adapt base stations to access to national power grids, and for heating, energy performance of different types of base use hybrid battery systems, meaning they only emissions, are our main environmental impacts. cooling and powering buildings and offices station, and from estimates. The results in the ‘swaps’ where existing units are being replaced reduction targets revert to diesel once the batteries run down. In We drive cost efficiency improvements (including charts and tables below should be interpreted and enhanced with more efficient equipment. this way, diesel use dropped from 67 million (mainly with diesel and natural gas). In 2015, WIND achieved the emission targets energy costs) through our Network Performance in that context. Other initiatives are illustrated in table 3. liters in 2013, to 41 million liters in 2014, and We also report emissions from vehicle fuel. defined as part of the WIND-WWF partnership Management Forum and undertook a detailed now to 27.5 million liters. . Approximately 82% of our total carbon footprint We are increasing the extent of tower sharing on energy and climate, reducing emissions per review of energy costs in a number of BUs Scope 2: Electrical power consumed by our relates to operating our network. Within the with other operators and this can have a positive unit of traffic by 34% compared to 2013 on in 2015. network, buildings and offices. total energy use is a small amount (0.04%) of effect on energy consumption and other the basis of energy efficiency measures. This Several BUs manage their environmental We do not collect emissions data relating to air renewable energy. This is generated from our 282 environmental factors, particularly where future was supported by an increase in renewable programs through an environmental management travel, or on other Scope 3 emissions, such as use solar-powered base stations (2014, 118) and the agreements will involve a greater level of ‘active’ energy purchased, from 30% to 70%. system. For instance, WIND Italy has an integrated of products and supply chain-related emissions. significant solar arrays on buildings in Italy and infrastructure sharing. We are including energy In March, WIND was the main partner of management system approach which also Bangladesh. In addition, WIND Italy was awarded consumption targets in new network The charts below indicate an absolute decrease in ‘Earth Hour’, the worldwide WWF event for incorporates health and safety, social power efficiency certificates (TEE) by the management outsourcing agreements. both Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO2e emissions. The raising awareness of climate change, accountability and data security standards, and appropriate regulatory body, totaling 29,431 Scope 1 reduction is driven by the substantial In 2016, we expect to complete the WIND merger, supporting it with an online campaign. In Djezzy in Algeria is also certified to ISO 14001. tonnes CO2e (2014, 29,040 tonnes CO2e). savings in diesel in Pakistan (and to a lesser as well as a merger of our Mobilink business with December, WIND was supporting the We were not subject to any fines relating to our extent, Bangladesh) described in the case study We operate a fleet of approximately 5,300 Warid in Pakistan. These transactions would lead Christmas WWF campaign ‘save the humans’ through a mobile and social media campaign 39.5m management of environmental issues in 2015. on the opposite page. The Scope 2 reduction vehicles (2014, 5,900), approximately 40% diesel to extensive consolidation of base stations, results from reduced energy use in several of our (2014, 36%) and 55% petrol-fueled, as well as four typically resulting in decommissioning of approximately 20% of sites. LITERS OF DIESEL FUEL SAVED BY larger business units driven by energy efficiency electric cars and approximately 275 vehicles MOBILINK SINCE 2013 measures, equipment modernization and the sale fueled with CNG. or sharing of towers. WIND’s purchase of 70% of PROPORTION OF GRID ENERGY PURCHASED BY WIND THAT IS ‘GREEN’ 70% Environmental efficiency Chart 1: Total CO2e emissions Chart 2: Total CO2e Emissions per unit of Table 3: Network Energy Efficiency initiatives (tonnes millions) network traffic (tonnes/terabyte) NUMBER OF RADIO BASE STATIONS 1.6 1.38 3.5 3.07 1.35 2015 2014 2013 1.4 1.17 3.0 1.15 1.10 Radio access network – energy efficiency initiatives 1.2 0.99 2.5 1.0 1.88 FREE-COOLING UNITS 11,996 11,742 11,577 2.0 0.8 Potential to reduce site energy consumption by 20 to 25% – we are introducing free-cooling 1.5 units in indoor Radio Access Network (RAN) sites 0.6 1.01 1.0 0.4 HYBRID UNITS 8,170 7,671 3,768 0.2 0.21 0.25 0.5 Sharing the power load between batteries and diesel generators when the power grid 0.16 0 2015 2014 2013 0 2015 2014 2013 is unavailable can cut diesel usage and carbon emissions by up to 20% Scope 1 Scope 2 OUTDOOR UNITS 28,109 24,183 18,845 Most of the new sites are built in ‘outdoor’ cabinets instead of the traditional ‘indoor’ shelters, saving operational energy required by up to 50%. Where possible we swap Chart 3: Number of BTS using Chart 4: Total energy use existing indoor sites into outdoor cabinets renewable energy (solar or wind power) (MWh millions) POWERS SAVING FEATURES 58,269 38,285 46,537 300 3,500 282 37 152 Switching off some radio elements that are not needed when the traffic is low reduces 250 3,000 32 388 264 energy consumption of base stations by 20 to 30% depending on the site configuration 383 2,500 2,521 2,498 200 2,241 2,000 150 118 1,500 100 56 1,000 50 500 0 2015 2014 2013 0 2015 2014 2013 Network (Base stations Oﬃces and Vehicles and related buildings other Buildings and equipment) 1 The 2013 vehicle emission ﬁgure is overstated due to a conversion factor error. 26 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Environmental efficiency Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Environmental efficiency vimpelcom.com 27 Responsible behavior In this section we discuss the remaining issues identified in our materiality matrix, as grouped into clusters of related topics. Anti-bribery and anti-corruption In 2015, we continued to strengthen the RiskClarity Survey governance, policies and procedures focused on Transparency relating to Nearly 24,000 employees participated in anti-bribery and anti-corruption compliance, with disclosures on anti-bribery the company’s second RiskClarity survey a particular emphasis on building a strong and anti-corruption (conducted by the Corporate Executive compliance team and carrying out extensive Board), helping to assess how our corporate training and awareness-raising across the business. In November 2015, Transparency International culture is developing. The ‘Integrity Index’ (Hungary) published its report ranking the 35 We recognize that a strong and comprehensive largest telecoms companies (29 operators and measures attitudes and perceptions about approach to compliance is needed to protect our seven key drivers influencing a business’s 6 equipment suppliers) on the reporting of the business and our stakeholders. We have put in OUR COMMITMENT ethical climate. Our overall score was 5.41 measures they take to prevent corruption, place a risk management, compliance, and information on subsidiaries and holdings, and out of 7.00 (5.30 in 2014) and all seven governance structure that includes a focus on drivers showed improvement. key financial information. VimpelCom ranked anti-bribery and anti-corruption risks and issues eighth out of the 35 businesses assessed, and that extends from the group level through to scoring 88% for disclosures relating to its TO OPERATE RESPONSIBLY each operating company. We have continued to make progress in establishing a more coordinated and strengthened framework, adding resources, anti-corruption program. relevant procedures, training, and awareness Our comprehensive Group Compliance Charter initiatives to the program. This will remain a key sets out the organization, operation and focus as we regard it as a critical part of our governance of compliance management for the Business ethics future development and a particular focus of our Group, including the role and responsibilities of senior management team. our global Risk, Ethics and Assurance Committee, In this section we cover three key aspects the Group Compliance Program and Group of business ethics: corporate governance, Compliance Function. The Group Chief anti-bribery and anti-corruption, and On February 18, 2016, VimpelCom announced agreements with the U.S. Securities and Compliance Officer reports to the Group Chief transparency. Executive Officer, also having direct access to the Exchange Commission (“SEC”), the U.S. Corporate Governance Department of Justice (“DOJ”), and the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board of VimpelCom is a public company listed on the Dutch Public Prosecution Service (Openbaar Directors to which he reports at least quarterly. NASDAQ, and is subject to all of the applicable Ministerie) (“OM”) relating to the previously We now have over 30 full-time compliance listing and disclosure requirements as a foreign disclosed investigations under the U.S. Foreign officers across our headquarters and business Responsible behavior private issuer. VimpelCom is also subject to the Corrupt Practices Act and relevant Dutch units, covering all our operations. Compliance applicable Securities and Exchange Commission laws, pertaining to VimpelCom’s business officers in our BUs report with a solid line to the reporting requirements, including filing an annual in Uzbekistan and prior dealings with Group Chief Compliance Officer. Our compliance report on Form 20-F each year, with audited Takilant Ltd. The relevant agreements roadmap covers: risk analysis; policies and consolidated financial statements. have been approved by the authorities procedures related to key risk areas; organization Our Supervisory Board has authority for strategic and relevant courts. and commitment (including appropriate decisions for the Group. Shareholder approval As part of the agreements, VimpelCom paid messaging from senior management); training policies and procedures are also in line with fines and disgorgements to the SEC, DOJ and and awareness; screening; record-keeping and applicable requirements. The Supervisory Board OM in an aggregate amount of USD795 controls; reporting; internal audit and monitoring; has a number of committees, including the million. VimpelCom has agreed to a deferred remedial and corrective actions; and program Finance and Strategy Committee, the Nominating prosecution agreement with the DOJ, a leadership. and Corporate Governance Committee, the consent with the SEC, and a settlement We have carried out compliance risk assessments Compensation Committee, and the Audit agreement with OM. In addition, VimpelCom’s in all of our markets with the assistance of Committee. subsidiary in Uzbekistan, Unitel LLC, has independent external counsel, and also put in Further information on our approach to entered a guilty plea with the DOJ. VimpelCom place an Investigations & Disciplinary Committee. corporate governance, the members of our has also agreed to oversight by an We are reinforcing the importance of our leadership teams and the Supervisory Board independent compliance monitor to promote compliance program with both educational videos and its committees is available in the Form continued, and regular, compliance on key compliance topics, and reinforcing the 20-F and our corporate website. enhancements across the Company and its ‘tone at the top’ regarding the importance of subsidiaries. VimpelCom’s cooperation in anti-corruption/anti-bribery compliance with a the investigation and actions in rapidly variety of approaches, including a video message resolving this matter, together with from our Group CEO. substantial upgrades to its compliance program, have been recognized by the authorities in the agreements. 28 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Responsible behavior Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Responsible behavior vimpelcom.com 29 Responsible behavior — continued Our Code of Conduct provides group-wide followed in each of the countries in which example, in Russia, key areas of customer ‘detraction’ standards designed primarily to deter wrongdoing we operate. Awards and ratings for Serving customers were around a lack of transparency in charging, and Programs and promote honest and ethical conduct, compliance failing to prevent SPAM to customers. Fixing this helped We continue to strengthen our culture of ethics and with applicable governmental laws, rules and Corporate Website Our customers are the center of our business. to raise Beeline Russia’s customer satisfaction scores regulations, prompt internal reporting of violations, foster individual accountability by placing emphasis Providing a high-quality, reliable and accessible significantly (we increased our Net Promoter Score Customer engagement in Russia and accountability for adherence to the Code. on compliance training, both at our headquarters VimpelCom’s corporate website, www. service is fundamental to our commercial success, (rNPS) scores – see below – by 11 points over 12 and throughout the BUs. During 2015, more than vimpelcom.com, is aimed at all key corporate and an important contribution to the socioBeeline has introduced a customer engagement The Code of Conduct reinforces the company’s months), and we have been progressively simplifying our 26,000 employees worldwide completed Code of stakeholders, providing timely and accurate economic development of the populations we program where senior executives, sometimes requirements for compliance with all applicable tariffs, improving charging practices and reducing Conduct training sessions which include an information. The website uses responsive design, serve. This is reflected in our materiality including the BU CEO, contact customers who laws, including the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act incidence of SPAM across our markets. extensive module on anti-corruption/anti-bribery ensuring the layout adjusts for all screen sizes. assessment and the prominence of customerregister an unsatisfactory experience with our (FCPA) and other applicable anti-corruption laws compliance. Additional specialized training was centricity in our business strategy. In 2015, we have focused on building long-term services, and have not had their concerns and regulations, as well as adherence to all company Since its launch, VimpelCom’s corporate website provided to around 2,900 key employees on sustainable capability to improve overall customer adequately dealt with. The executive takes accounting policies and controls. has received 10 international awards, including This section looks at how we manage the delivery of our applicable anti-bribery regulations, including the experience. Much of this is about enhancing our personal responsibility to ensure the issue is The Code states that, in addition to applying to its FCPA. The Supervisory Board received tailored two honoring it as best-in-class among core service through the lens of our network customer engagement. Some of the key initiatives satisfactorily fixed. This is not only valued by employees, officers and directors, VimpelCom compliance training in 2014 and the Management participating telecom-related sites. Most performance, customer satisfaction and the online include: the customer, but also helps ensure our senior expects ‘anyone doing business on the company’s Board in 2015. We intend to repeat this in 2016. recently, it was ranked the top corporate website services. Issues relating specifically to online services, leaders experience day-to-day customer issues, behalf’ – a category that includes agents and other in the Netherlands by Comprend in its annual and the impact our services can have on under-served • Closed feedback loop – we have implemented a and understand how problems can arise and third parties – to also comply with anti-bribery and Transparency 2015 Webranking review. communities are covered elsewhere in the report. new system which helps us to more accurately, be resolved. We will introduce this initiative anti-corruption laws. To reinforce this, in December It is important for leading international companies consistently and efficiently identify the root causes of progressively to other markets. to be transparent about their challenges as well Customer satisfaction and responsible marketing customer dissatisfaction, enabling more rapid 2015, we launched the Due Diligence Business Customer experience is a major differentiator in the Partner Compliance and Screening Procedure. This as their successes. We engage regularly with our rectification of customers’ problems. We have key stakeholders and see this report, our financial mobile industry, and therefore a key element of our deployed this in eight of our markets and will do so in Procedure is an addition to the range of policies and strategy. procedures (addressing issues such as conflicts of reporting disclosures, and our websites as key all markets by the middle of 2016 windows on our company. We measure the success of our programs through the interest, gifts and hospitality, incident management Many factors influence customer satisfaction with • Usability testing – making the voice of the customer relative (rNPS) – the degree to which customers would and investigation, and social investment project Our CR reporting continues to develop, with our our services, including the value for money and reliability more central to product and service development recommend our services to others. In particular, we approval) that support the Group Anti-Bribery and 2014 CR report achieving core compliance with of the products and services offered, and the quality through involving BU customer experience teams monitor performance against our highest scoring Corruption Policy. We also implemented our M&A GRI v4, and introducing a ‘moderate’ level of of products and services we provide. We cover our throughout the process. This has resulted in competitor and review this through quarterly reporting Due Diligence guidelines relating to compliance assurance. Our progress is shown by our ranking general approach to serving our customers in our measurable improvement in the uptake of products and the governance process described above. Results issues. As part of our headquarters ‘Supplier Day’, in the Transparency Benchmark (http://www. Annual Report. and services, and a reduction in product ‘bugs’ and can be seen in Table 4. the importance of both our anti-bribery and transparantiebenchmark.nl/en), which rose from complaints anti-corruption program, and our Supplier Code of We have been running a Customer Excellence Program The importance of rNPS is reinforced by the fact 179th (of the 500 largest Dutch companies) in in all our markets since 2013. The ‘voice of the customer’ Conduct (see page 37), were emphasized to our 2013, to 92nd in 2015. WIND achieved second • Enhancing retail experience – in 2016 we will that 15% of the annual bonus of all members of global strategic suppliers. is a mandatory item on BU executive committee launch a new operator store format and significantly VimpelCom’s leadership team is dependent on prize at the Italian Social Reporting Award meeting agendas and the Steering Committee is chaired (Premio Bilancio Sociale), organized by the Social expand our footprint, in order to deliver a better meeting NPS score targets. We operate a whistleblower process that allows by the Group CEO, with Chief Officers from Technology, customer experience and monetize data revenue employees to contact a third-party service provider Reporting Library (www.bibliotecabilanciosociale. Commercial, certain Regional CEOs and other functions, We manage advertising locally to ensure it is appropriate to raise concerns, anonymously if desired. All cases it) and Areté Foundation. Other BUs, including as well as shareholder representatives. • Center of Excellence (‘CoE’) – as part of our new for local standards and culture. We take the standards of reported are duly assessed and, if appropriate, Mobilink in Pakistan and Beeline in Russia, also operating model, bringing together our top customer our marketing activities seriously and monitor our investigated by internal or external teams. We prepare detailed CR Reports. In 2014, the focus of the program was to fix some basic experience experts in a CoE in Moscow to support compliance performance carefully. Our annual continue to take measures to ensure these policies areas where performance needed to improve. For teams in BUs, and roll out capabilities and skills. performance can be seen in Table 6. are adhered to and the appropriate procedures are Forum Table 4: 2015 Performance on Net Promoter Score Table 5: Anti-competitive action compliance Responsible behavior 2015 2014 2013 WIND Transparency Forum Number of instances of non-monetary 19 7 14 Number of markets meeting or exceeding their sanctions relating to anti-competitive The WIND Transparency Forum recognizes projects 4 out of 12 rNPS targets behavior that improve transparency in Italian society, and honored three initiatives in 2015. The Public Number of markets placed first or second in their Number of anti-competitive cases brought 1 13 5 Institutions award went to ‘Open Coesione’, a 7 out of 12 markets on rNPS through conflict resolution processes governmental portal uploading details on Italian projects supported with EU funding. The Services Number of markets improving their rNPS relative Fines relating to anti-competitive behavior 2.24 0 0.06 9 out of 12 (USD M) award went to ‘Eduscopio’, a website helping parents to best placed competitor and students evaluate high schools based on the performance of their graduates at university. ‘Confiscati Bene’, a map and a public database of all Table 6: Marketing Compliance the properties confiscated from captured Mafiosi, 2015 2014 2013 won top honors in the Digital Projects category. Number of incidents relating to our marketing 13 13 6 In addition to the awards, WIND also publishes an activities that resulted in a penalty online magazine with the goal of inspiring users by Number of incidents that resulted in a warning 17 12 23 highlighting innovative initiatives for transparency from the relevant body and open data. Number of incidents of non-compliance with 0 1 1 a voluntary code Fines relating to non-compliance with laws or 1.7 0.4 0 regulations covering the provision and use of our products or services (USD M) 30 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Responsible behavior Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Responsible behavior vimpelcom.com 31 Responsible behavior — continued Network coverage and reliability that is discriminatory. It is in our commercial The coverage and reliability of our network are Table 7: Network Quality – 2G/3G Call Inaccessibility HD-Voice for CIS markets Accessibility interests to enable as many people as possible to fundamental elements of our customers’ access the mobile internet and give our customers experience and are regulated as part of our UNSUCCESSFUL CALL SET-UP RATE (VOICE) In 2015, we launched high-definition voice Modern telecommunication services allow a wide range of choice. We structure our offering operating licenses. Developing and maintaining MONTHLY AVERAGE NUMBER OF MARKETS services (HD-Voice) for 3G in three CIS billions of people to connect, but some groups accordingly. our network is the largest area of capital % 2015 2014 2013 countries – Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and in society struggle to access the benefits of this. expenditure, and accounts for a large proportion The development of our device portfolio is a key Uzbekistan. HD-Voice is now improving sound The poor can have difficulties accessing pillar of our commercial strategy and is managed of our sourcing activities. 0-1.0 8 6 6 quality for millions of Beeline subscribers in communications because of affordability. Mobile through a steering committee chaired by our Group In 2015, we invested significantly in our network 1.0-2.0 4 5 5 these countries and helping to improve operators have been working for many years to CEO and other senior leaders from HQ and our infrastructure. As a result it receives a significant network perception and rNPS scores. make services affordable, and constantly growing businesses. From our research, the price of 2.0+ 0 1 1 degree of management attention and detailed penetration rates are indicative of continuing smartphones is the most significant barrier to planning. We review performance through the We continue to deploy high-speed services across progress (see table 11). This is aided by low-cost accessing the benefits of mobile data services and Operational Performance Boards held with each our markets with the advance of 3G and 4G/LTE tariffs, falling prices in basic handsets and so the delivery of affordable smartphones is our BU, which involves executive-level officers from technology. The speed of deployment depends on smartphones, and the increasing availability of main focus. Commercial interests in increasing data the HQ and BUs. We have also introduced Capex our license agreements. 4G/LTE services now second-hand phones. usage very much align to helping to address this key Table 8: Call Drop Rate cover half of the populations in Italy and Georgia, Investment Committees at the BU level which element of the digital divide. MONTHLY AVERAGE NUMBER OF MARKETS and over 40% in Russia. All our markets other As well as basic connectivity, we are bringing new play a crucial, cross-functional role in our drive than Georgia (which moved straight to 4G/LTE) value-added services to customers, many in to target Capex spend more effectively by % 2015 2014 2013 have 3G population coverage of over 25%, with emerging or transitional economies, often prioritizing and bringing more discipline, structure 0-1.0 12 10 9 free-of-charge. Our BUs are providing low-cost and rigor to the way we make Capex investment Russia and Italy at over 90% coverage. Although or free access to internet services through a number Free wifi on the bus in decisions. 1.0-2.0 0 2 3 Kyivstar received a 3G license only in early 2015, the technology had been rolled out to 3,300 sites of channels and options. We continue to grow Kazakhstan and Tajikistan Improvement and management of network 2.0+ 0 0 0 by the end of the year. Basic 2G coverage is over our partnership with the Wikimedia Foundation performance is supported by the Chief to provide free Wikipedia access to VimpelCom Beeline Tajikistan has installed wifi routers in 10 80% in all markets other than Pakistan and public buses in Tajikistan’s capital, Dushanbe, as well Technology Officer Forum which controls the Tajikistan where terrain and other issues such as customers. Through Wikipedia Zero, mobile activities of various technical working groups customers have free access to the mobile version of as in its international airport terminal, in cooperation power availability constrain network roll-out. with the Dushanbe City Administration. The project focused, for example, on technology architecture Wikipedia with a lightweight, text-only fast version and performance (cost) management. We are not aware of any other major operator of the site. At the end of 2015, VimpelCom was the is the first of its kind in the country. The project is that has designed and developed quality world’s largest supporter of Wikipedia Zero with the being implemented through Beeline Tajikistan’s 3G Network performance can be summarized guidelines as a reference model in terms of service available to over 180 million customers network and allows customers to enjoy free mobile through the KPIs set out in tables 7 to 10. culture, organization, process, tools and systems. across Algeria, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Russia, internet at a speed of up to 7.2 Mbit/s. Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Ukraine. In Kazakhstan, 160 buses in Almaty and Astana have In Pakistan, we continue our partnership with Opera been connected to free public wifi, bringing the total Software ASA, and OLX, where we offer customers a to over 300 buses across nine cities in the country. Table 9: Coverage of mobile telecommunication services basic package of free internet access – the only price Also in Kazakhstan, we support an education NUMBER OF MARKETS being an initial exposure to advertisements before program, ‘Internet for You’, to help people improve browsing can start. Our VimpelCom brands their digital skills. The average age of attendees is 49, POPULATION COVERAGE % 2015 2014 2013 continued to offer 0.facebook.com, where and the course is offered in local language and 2G 3G 4G 2G 3G 4G 2G 3G 4G In 2015, our businesses in Kyrgyzstan and customers have the unique opportunity to stay Russian to increase its accessibility. It has been Uzbekistan (and we plan to launch in other online with their friends using Facebook from their attended by more than 400 people. You can learn 95-100 6 1 0 6 1 0 4 1 0 mobile phones free of charge. We are open to BUs during 2016-17) launched a new mobile more about these projects by watching a video at 90-95 1 1 0 1 1 0 2 0 0 application for customers, that will help innovative bundling and pricing of internet services www.vimpelcom.com. us improve network services further. The for our customers, but do not take any approach Responsible behavior 85-90 3 0 0 3 0 0 3 0 0 ‘Mobile Agent’ is installed on smartphones 80-85 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 and monitors data related to network performance and customer experience Table 11: The growth in subscriptions from 2000 to 2014 (source ITU) 70-80 2 1 1 1 1 0 2 0 0 connected with different types of user activity, MOBILE SUBSCRIPTIONS PER 100 INHABITANTS 50-70 0 4 1 0 3 0 0 3 0 such as browsing, using apps, watching a video 2000 2014 or making a call. After the session has finished, 0-50 0 4 1 1 4 0 0 2 0 the data can be aggregated and analyzed. Algeria 0.27 92.95 No deployment 0 1 9 0 2 12 0 4 12 This new initiative ensures that quality of Armenia 0.57 115.92 service and experience can be measured in Bangladesh 0.21 80.04 real-life and real-time conditions, giving us the ability to experience the network as the Georgia 4.11 124.94 customer perceives it. Subscribers can upload Italy 74.13 154.25 Table 10: Network Quality – Bit-rate from public crowdsourcing (Open Signal) feedback and become active contributors BIT-RATE DOWNLINK by reporting problems and so participate in Kazakhstan 1.35 172.19 LAST 6 MONTHS AVERAGE NUMBER OF MARKETS network improvements. The Mobile Agent Kyrgyzstan 0.18 134.46 > 50 % MBPS 2015 2014* 2013* complements traditional measurement of 4G/LTE POPULATION COVERAGE network performance and enables Pakistan 0.21 73.33 IN GEORGIA 5.0-10.0 1 – – improvements for the customer. Russia 2.22 155.14 3.0-5.0 1 – – This further supports our move from a 300 1.0-3.0 9 – – Tajikistan 0.02 95.13 NUMBER OF BUSES IN network development model based on KAZAKHSTAN WITH OUR 0.0-1.0 1 – – aggregated technical KPIs, to a model based Ukraine 1.67 144.08 FREE WIFI 12 – – on customer centric KPIs. Uzbekistan 0.21 78.42 *Not previously reported. 32 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Responsible behavior Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Responsible behavior vimpelcom.com 33 Responsible behavior — continued Privacy, data protection and Government access Digital Issues commercial use of data Mobile operators rely entirely on governments for The legitimate boundaries of data analysis and access to radio spectrum and operating licenses. A key strand of VimpelCom’s strategy is digital use by companies for commercial purposes Operating licenses, all over the world, often contain Smartphone penetration across our markets is 31%, leadership. As voice revenues stagnate and continues to be debated. As an operator, we must clauses allowing government to access customer ranging from over 50% in our most mature markets decline, the growth of data traffic across our ensure that commercial benefits of analyzing and data where this is necessary for purposes such as to 12% in markets where price remains a significant networks, and new internet-based business using the data we hold (within legal limits), are crime prevention and national security. barrier and high speed networks are still a relatively models, provide opportunities to provide realized in accordance with the law and not at new phenomenon. enhanced services to customers, while growing the cost of the trust our customers place in us. In different countries, this can operate: Our range of affordable smartphones and tablets new revenue streams and streamlining our own • by presentation of a court order to the operational processes. Our businesses operate in markets with varied continues to grow, and these are either ownregulatory regimes on data security and privacy. operator, requiring the operator to provide branded, or co-branded with selected vendors. Data traffic on our network has grown from During 2013 and 2014, we compared these local specific data items In 2015, we shipped 0.6 million ‘affordable’ devices, 0.44 million terabytes in 2013 to 1.13 million approaches with the different regulatory which were priced significantly below mainstream • by presentation of a court order to the terabytes in 2015, and this explosion in use, and frameworks in force around the world and operator, after which the government can device market prices. We have committed to of internet access, creates challenges for us and developed a Group standard intended to bring all selling more than four million smartphones in 2016, access the relevant database directly, our customers, as well as the obvious benefits. operations (including those operating in countries facilitated by the operator including one million own-branded and co-branded where no regulatory frameworks exist), to an smartphones in a price range from USD30 to As the digital environment and data are not • by direct access to the relevant data, following confined to national boundaries, the situation is appropriate level of customer data protection. USD120. We procure ultra-low cost phones Subsequently, each of our BUs developed a plan a court procedure, which does not require the (non-smartphones) through our BUs. complicated – digital players are often multiinvolvement of the operator. country organizations but legal frameworks are to address any gaps highlighted by this extensive Improving access to the internet for economically often national. Transferring data across exercise. In early 2015, our Customer Data We have BUs which operate under each of these disadvantaged people is also supported by local international borders can be a legally complex Governance Policy was approved. This sets out types of regime. Several of the license initiatives such as introducing local languages to exercise, as seen in recent developments such the standard referred to above and through this agreements we operate under also forbid any Google Translate, and helping develop basic as the judgment of the Court of Justice of the we aim to maintain the trust of our customers form of disclosure on the nature or extent of literacy. European Union, which invalidated the EU-US as we manage their personal data. The Policy access to data, which constrains what we are able ‘safe harbor’ program, which facilitated the establishes four key Privacy Principles: to report on this important topic. As well as facing economic issues, people with eyesight or hearing problems, or dexterity issues transfers of personal data originating in Europe • Transparency can also have difficulties accessing services. to the USA. Additional steps, such as written agreements, are now necessary to legitimize • Processing Purpose and Data Minimization such data transfers. Similarly, operators are • Customer Rights seeking clarification and practical guidance on the requirements of a recent Russian ‘data • Protection of Information. Special services for people localization’ law which requires that all personal During 2015 we continued to monitor the with disabilities data of Russian citizens (whether customers or implementation of the BU plans referred to employees) are stored on servers in Russia. Beeline Russia has a particular focus on above. We recognize the importance of this developing assistive technologies and services Building the digital skills of Privacy issue to our customers and are always trying Many of the benefits of mobile services are to improve. for people with reduced capabilities, and elderly smartphone users possible only because operators collect and people. Initiatives include: In line with this, we require our businesses to Although some customers can afford a hold data on their customers, such as information • In 2014, becoming the first Russian operator with on billing, location and browsing preferences. report on incidents relating to managing smartphone, they may lack the confidence or customer data. This is summarized in table 12. a sign language service in retail units. Marked with digital skills to make full use of the functionality. While benefiting society in many ways, ICT an ‘ear’ sign, three shops offer these services in In Eurasia, five of our markets are aiming to also provides potential for data to be misused, Moscow, and similar services have been launched overcome this with the launch of the Beeline including criminally, for financial or political gain. in St. Petersburg-based sales and customer ‘Start’ app in September 2015. This is a starter Continuing public concern over personal privacy service offices as well. This pilot project offers kit that highlights the best apps to help them includes fears that: Responsible behavior information services, as well as location and get the most out of the digital world and • irresponsible use of personal data by navigation support for sight-impaired and other introduces them to the most popular apps corporations could lead to activities that mobility-challenged individuals and digital services in their country, as well as intrude on the privacy of individuals, or Beeline’s customer self-care app, ‘My Beeline’. financial loss, reputational damage or other Table 12: Privacy performance • Supporting the international M-Enabling Summit harm to individuals 2015 2014 2013 Russia 2015 conference, the first time it had been held in Russia • major data security breaches and cyber-attacks Number of 1 6 50 may put the personal data of individuals at risk complaints received • Since 2006, offering a special price plan for from third parties people with hearing disability, and in 2011-12 • government has substantial access to personal relating to our launching free mobile access to ‘zero zones’ in the data, which may intrude on privacy, curtail management of internet. Beeline also provides a special price public protest or free speech. customer privacy option ‘Message’, developed for people with hearing and visual disabilities. It is based on Number of 4 2 16 research conducted with the Russian Society of complaints received from regulatory the Deaf (RSD) and Russian Society of the Blind bodies relating to our 31% (RSB) cultural-sport rehabilitation complex management of • Beeline has also been a long-term partner of the OVERALL SMARTPHONE customer privacy PENETRATION Peace & Love festival, specifically for people with Number of instances 5 16 34 hearing impairment. 600,000 of customer In addition, in Kazakhstan, we provide a free internet AFFORDABLE data loss SMARTPHONES connection to a library for visually impaired people SHIPPED IN 2015 in Shymkent which is accessed by more than 5,000 people in the region. 34 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Responsible behavior Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Responsible behavior vimpelcom.com 35 Responsible behavior — continued chains. We are therefore already focused on Supply chain 93% a substantial proportion of our ethical Table 13: Engagement with GSS procurement risk. GLOBAL STRATEGIC SUPPLIER In the telecommunications supply chain, we NUMBER % ASSESSMENTS COMPLETED occupy a position between our customers – the We summarize our engagement with these global OF GSS OF GSS general public, businesses and governments – and strategic suppliers1 (GSS) in table 13. Assessments 26 93% 220 the vast, complex network of suppliers that The assessment measures performance in four completed NUMBER OF LOCAL HIGHER-RISK design, produce, distribute, build and maintain categories: environmental performance; labor Assessments 2 7% SUPPLIERS ENGAGED IN 2015 the network equipment, the devices we sell, and practice performance; fair business practice not yet started the services that support our operations. performance; and supply chain management It is in our interests for our supply chain partners to performance. The results of the assessments maintain excellent quality and value for money, but completed and analyzed at the end of 2015 indicated also for them to operate responsibly. Strikes, that no GSS fell below the overall risk threshold for Table 14: Engagement with local protests, negative publicity or poorly managed performance in their overall scores, or their scores higher-risk suppliers environmental costs or impact, will affect our on the four individual categories of performance. NUMBER OF reputation and profitability, and so responsible Following the successful pilot exercise with GSS, LOCAL % OF LOCAL sourcing is a necessary commercial, as well as we have been rolling out the assessment process SUPPLIERS SUPPLIERS moral, activity. with high-risk suppliers where procurement is Assessments 54 25% During 2015, we have been continuing to develop our managed at BU level. Risk is determined by the size completed approach to ethical procurement across our HQ and of annual business with the BU, together with an analysis of the potential for labor, health and safety, Assessments in 2 1% BU procurement activity. As part of this process, we or environmental risk factors to be present – largely analysis have finalized and published our Supplier Code of Conduct (SCoC). The SCoC is based on best practice based on the supplier’s type of business. Assessments in 54 25% guidance and standards born out of extensive progress Our GSS have been monitored by other businesses in consultation with many relevant parties, through our sector for some time and, though there is always Assessments not yet 110 50% work carried out by the ICT sector. room for improvement, they generally have good started The SCoC covers our expectations of supplier systems in place. We expected the roll-out at BU Total higher-risk local 220 100% performance across a range of issues including labor level would be more difficult as most local vendors suppliers approached standards, child and forced labor, health and safety in our markets have not previously been assessed in first campaign practices, environmental performance etc. and on these issues by any customers. We therefore includes expectations that our suppliers will also be anticipated a much lower engagement rate, and responsible for the assessment of their own supply lower performance category scores. In 2015, we chain. We invited over 40 of our top global vendors, launched phased engagement campaigns in Italy, Conflict minerals and prospective vendors, to a supplier day in Russia, Bangladesh and Pakistan. Markets in our Responsible sourcing of minerals is covered by our Amsterdam where the SCoC was shared with all Eurasia region started their campaign towards the SCoC, and encourages suppliers to “exercise specific participants and covered in presentations. end of the year and this is reflected in the overall Freedom of expression As well as network closure, we may be requested Online safety due diligence on the source and chain of custody of results in table 14. Freedom of expression is a basic human right and to block certain websites. On some issues, such To assess our suppliers against the SCoC, we are these minerals and make their due-diligence is frequently in the spotlight as a result of the as child pornography, there is generally universal Due to its very open nature, the internet can rolling out an approach based on the E-TASC tool This response rate is typical of first campaigns in measures available on request”. Through our growing use of the internet for hate speech and agreement on the need to censor and report bring certain risks, including the exposure of developed by GeSI and the EICC. The tool follows these types of markets and we recognize that membership of GeSI we support a number of incitement to extremism, as well as peaceful civil such sites. children to inappropriate content, or encounters existing best practice and codes, and reflects implementation of this engagement and assessment programs relating to where the production of the protest. For a mobile operator, freedom of with ‘predatory’ users. consultation with GeSI/EICC members and a broad approach will be challenging. As expected, the metals used in ICT components may fuel conflict Our commercial instincts are to enable the scoring of the completed assessments also indicates or have associated social, environmental and Responsible behavior expression concerns can range from very specific group of stakeholders. E-TASC, which is managed on maximum amount of network traffic, and Since 2012, Kyivstar in Ukraine and Beeline in humanitarian issues. GeSI takes a three-pronged issues affecting a small number of users, such as behalf of GeSI by EcoVadis (gesi.ecovadis.fr), is a the long-term nature of the program. therefore, it runs counter to our objectives, and Russia, have provided customers with parental approach to improve the transparency and the blocking of a particular website, to the web-based CR performance monitoring platform and the trust customers place in us, to block popular control solutions and extensive education We request suppliers who score below our traceability of mineral sourcing, focusing on key enforced closure of the mobile network in one or is based on a comprehensive set of ethics, labor sites such as YouTube or social media platforms. programs that help them protect children from designated risk threshold score on any component, or stages in the supply chain: more cities, which affects millions of customers. rights, health and safety, and environmental criteria However, we must comply when the government, internet threats. Beeline also subscribes to the on overall score, work with us to develop corrective Russian national initiatives: the Safe Internet which closely align with our SCoC. Approximately action plans. We are unlikely to terminate supplier • Tracing minerals from the mine to the smelter This is a complex issue as freedom to express a through the law, requires sites to be blocked or League, the Mobile Etiquette Charter, and the 1,800 ICT sector suppliers are currently evaluated relationships immediately on the basis of the E-TASC by supporting a ‘bag and tag’ in-region sourcing view for one group can be deeply offensive to networks to be closed. Russian Operators Charter on Combating Child through E-TASC. score alone, unless we identify other additional red program another. A closed network can be restrictive for those wanting to organize legitimate political Throughout 2015, we have been discussing Pornography. flags, such as bribery and corruption issues. With any Starting in late 2014, we initially tested E-TASC with • Identifying and validating conflict-free smelters protests, but could be important for security internally and externally the options available to suppliers falling below a threshold, we are discussing In Italy, WIND supported the Department of our global strategic suppliers who represent for suppliers to source metals from through a agencies combating terrorism. Research1 us to mitigate concerns on these topics. This has how to prioritize areas for improvement. Education, and police campaign on the safe use approximately 56% of our total technology spending Conflict-Free Smelter Program developed through indicates that network closures increased globally included: of the internet. This involved a roadshow, with a in 2015, and tend to have the most complex supply 1 Global strategic suppliers are defined as those having both high supply a multi-stakeholder process between 2005 and 2014 and several of our • Joining a meeting of the Telecommunication risk and high profit impact (key to successful business delivery). specialized vehicle travelling through towns and markets, including Pakistan and Kazakhstan, Industry Dialogue on Freedom of Expression • Supporting relevant stakeholder efforts such as villages to raise awareness of potential risks and experienced government instructions to close our and Privacy as an observer the Public-Private Alliance for Responsible Minerals solutions. networks in areas of these countries. The balance Table 15: Assessment Results Trade, a joint initiative between governments, between providing safety from terrorism and • Consulting with colleagues across our BUs. companies, and civil society to support supply other threats for citizens, and restrictions We continue to monitor what is a highly complex % OF LOCAL SUPPLIERS chain solutions to conflict minerals challenges in on civil protest, and vital day-to-day uses of and sensitive issue. Suppliers scoring lower than overall risk threshold 22% the Democratic Republic of Congo and the Great communications, is complex and controversial. Lakes Region of Central Africa. As a mobile operator, we must act in accordance 1  enter For Democracy and Technology (http:// C Suppliers scoring lower than environment risk threshold 28% with our license agreements and other relevant network-shutdowns.cdt.info/timeline.php) Suppliers scoring lower than labor risk threshold 28% legislation on this issue. For more information Suppliers scoring lower than fair business practice risk threshold 37% More information is available on the Suppliers scoring lower than supplier management risk threshold 48% GeSI website (gesi.org). All supplier assessment data is at December 10, 2015. 36 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Responsible behavior Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Responsible behavior vimpelcom.com 37 Responsible behavior — continued A number of our markets, including Ukraine, We have postponed the Internal Audit review of Forced, compulsory and child labor With more than 59,000 (see footnote on page 2) Employees Pakistan and Bangladesh, have continued to our H&S program to 2016, to allow BUs time to Beeline University gets 15th We strictly prohibit any forced, compulsory employees across 14 countries, and with over maintain operations during times of civil unrest adopt and implement the new Group H&S Policy. or child labor, as stated in the Group Code 40 nationalities represented in our HQ, it is VimpelCom is a signatory to the UNGC Principles and sometimes armed conflict. Here, we must *Injuries from incidents at work, or whilst traveling on Anniversary Refresh of Conduct. We will not employ or contract no surprise that we operate a huge variety of and several of these are relevant to how we carefully manage the personal security of below the age of 15 or a higher minimum age employee development programs. A number manage employee matters. business, which result in at least one day away from Formed in 1999 by VimpelCom Founder individuals trying to maintain network coverage work (typically requiring medical attention). if stipulated by local employment law or of these are highlighted across these pages. and services, including, for example, replenishing Dmitry Zimin as a political discussion club, mandatory schooling law. In this section, we look at how we keep our Russia’s Beeline University has evolved over Knowledge management employees safe, how we engage with them and diesel in remote generators. Freedom of association and collective bargaining We operate in markets with very different the years into Beeline Russia’s in-house We are not aware of any breaches of this. We operate a state-of-the art Knowledge develop them, and how we treat them fairly. We have provided further definition and guidance training and development arm, with 23,000 Management Platform designed to improve regulatory and cultural approaches to freedom Diversity and Discrimination Health and Safety (H&S) on reporting of injuries but recognize there is still of association and collective bargaining. In many employees participating in its programs efficiency and productivity while also supporting room for improvement in data quality. In 2015, In the businesses which reported (including the digital transformation of the business. The Although a large proportion of our employees of our markets unionization is not the norm, annually. we are reporting 100 work-related serious Group HQ), 54% of employees were male. Of total new digital environment improves the way we work in offices and face a relatively low level of whereas in others, for example Italy and Algeria, In its 15th anniversary year Beeline University employees, 2,526 were part-time employees hazard, we must manage a broad range of H&S injuries* to employees but it is likely that this there are regulatory frameworks in place where connect, communicate and collaborate, helping represents an under-reporting of the actual has updated its curriculum and increased the (72% female). There were nearly 20,000 new hires us to foster innovation and make use of risks. The main risks relate to: all our employees are covered by a collective involvement of senior leaders in developing it. (46% male) – a new hire ratio of 35%. position. bargaining process. knowledge from experts and best practices • Road-traffic accidents – employees or The new curriculum is structured to mirror The age and gender of the members of our across the Group. contractors distributing products or Currently, few of our BUs receive reports from Approximately 23% of employees (17%, 2014) are network, or other contractors, on fatalities the main functions of a company. Functional Supervisory and Management Boards can be Leadership development program equipment. This is particularly risky in emerging covered by collective bargaining agreements. This leaders in the business teach relevant subjects found in our Form 20-F. Across our Leadership markets where road and traffic conditions are incurred while working on VimpelCom sites. percentage is an indication of the high variability The Inspire Leadership Program is based at HQ and This position will change with the introduction when it makes sense for them to do so. Team as a whole, comprising 150 senior leaders, supports our top 150 leaders in transforming our not well regulated in local cultural and regulatory norms as there are Beeline Russia’s CEO acts as University Dean. gender and age diversity numbers are as shown of the SCoC (see page 37), and we expect our no Group-wide restrictions or limitations on the business. The program is designed to future-proof • Working at height and electrical risks – building suppliers to rigorously ensure the safety of in table 16. a high-performance culture through enhanced ability for employees to associate (or unionize), or Beeline University at a glance and maintaining the network involves working their employees. request collective bargaining processes. We strictly prohibit discrimination of any kind and leadership capabilities that we apply consistently with electricity, and on base station masts. • More than 200 internal courses our Group Code of Conduct covers discrimination across the Group, while still making the most of Workers must also be careful to limit their There were no reported work-related fatalities In all our markets, the lowest wage is at least • 217 internal experts local culture. A three-day program includes content relating to our employees in 2015. Sadly, in by race, religion, sex, age, national origin, sexual exposure to radio emissions when working equal to the statutory minimum wage (two • 315 external trainers and providers orientation, marital status or disability. Our on a huge range of business issues. close to antennae. Pakistan, two contractors died. Both were markets do not have this legislation). In four • 12,000 annual e-learning participants Human Resources Standards document reinforces murdered by third parties – one while carrying businesses, the lowest wage paid is at least out his duties as a security guard, the other while • 400 electronic and mobile library books this, setting out minimum requirements for HR Within VimpelCom, H&S is governed by many local labor protection laws and regulations, and distributing devices and top-up cards to retail triple the statutory minimum (all in the CIS functions across the Group, and stresses the need Employee engagement around region). No markets reported any discrepancy to maintain a meritocracy, uninfluenced by other our operations have H&S procedures covering outlets. As noted on page 9, recognizing the between the entry-level salaries for male and factors. the new business strategy specific activities. Several of our BUs have formal potential threat to the health and safety of female employees. H&S management systems, and WIND Italy has employees and contractors working in higher-risk Following launch of the new business strategy Employee engagement and development we encouraged employees to respond to a achieved certification to OHSAS 18001 as part of areas, we initiated a project within GeSI’s human At VimpelCom we are committed to investing in its integrated management system approach. rights work program looking at the provision of survey on the new objectives. The survey our people to ensure they have the skills and indicated an awareness rate of 72% across During 2014, we developed a Group Health and security for base stations, particularly in remote resources needed to develop successful careers Safety Policy which was approved in April 2015. areas. This research is ongoing. a sample of HQ and BU employees. and deliver exceptional services to our customers. Table 16: S enior leadership* diversity MiniMBA program Eurasia Digital Days % of senior leadership that are female 20% To broaden VimpelCom’s leadership To familiarize employees with both the power development activities while deepening and potential of smartphone and data use, the Responsible behavior % of senior leadership who are natives of the country 61% where they are employed relevant knowledge among emerging leaders, Eurasia Business Unit has conducted a series we launched a ‘MiniMBA’ program in of sessions called ‘Eurasia Digital Days’. % of senior leadership aged below 30 1% cooperation with Coleago, a London-based consultancy specializing in telecoms, covering With average smartphone penetration in % of senior leadership aged between 30 and 50 82% these markets somewhere around 20%, it is four major subject areas: finance, strategy, % of senior leadership aged over 50 17% commercial, and technology. important for us to teach customers how to use smartphones, but also for us to learn to * Senior leadership is defined as the Management Board, plus the market CEOs and their direct reports. use them ourselves. The Digital Days included a number of common features: • Recognition of specific employees as ‘digital gurus’ and giving them the opportunity to Chart 5: New Hires By speak with their peers about their own Banglalink wins Business Region (%) smartphone use Best Employer award 1 • Activities to encourage and increase 3 smartphone use among employees Banglalink received a Best Employer Award 1 9 from one of Bangladesh’s leading job portals, Bdjobs.com being named as top employer in • Discussion of how best to encourage the telecommunications sector, and joined customers to begin and increase their own sector champions across a total of 10 different smartphone use. industries. The award is based on an online survey with 5,000 online participants. 87 Russia Italy Eurasia Emerging HQ Markets 38 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Responsible behavior Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Responsible behavior vimpelcom.com 39 Social investment Health We promote a wide range of health initiatives in the teaching support to students in marginalized schools and distributing course books, reading materials and In Russia, and across our central Asia businesses, our teams marked the anniversary of the end of World War countries and communities we serve. In Algeria this stationery. The Foundation also helped run a Book II with a social media campaign to honor surviving year, Djezzy again ran its breast cancer-screening Reading Activity at the Greenland Society of Special veterans. We also provided free calls for veterans to help We are proud of our record of supporting program for female employees and made charitable Education in Lahore. In Tajikistan, we helped provide reconnect them with comrades, friends and family. In donations to the association ‘Nour Doha’ (fight free Internet services in schools and provided food the communities we serve, through against cancer). More than 1,000 Djezzy employees for a boarding school for underprivileged children. Tajikistan, we provided diesel generators for hospitals and schools. Mobilink, in Pakistan, funded upgrades to charitable donations, providing in-kind took part in the company’s fourth annual blood In Kyrgyzstan, we helped create a mobile electronic the Women Welfare and Development Center to help donation program. Banglalink and WIND also dictionary and were involved in a project to promote women develop skills that allow them to earn a living services, employee volunteering and social promoted blood donation by employees. In Pakistan, the education of journalists on economic subjects. for their families. Mobilink organized Pakistan’s largest corporate Our teams in Armenia ran computer classes, provided sponsorships, and by helping and encouraging blood donation drive, and collected over 1,200 pints internet and IPTV services for schools, and helped set The Torchbearers Volunteering program ran a wide variety of projects across Pakistan, including efforts our customers to donate to good causes. of blood. Mobilink also took part in the nationwide Pinktober campaign, aimed at raising awareness of up a project to motivate young, talented people to build their futures. WIND, in Italy, provided mentors for three to combat social exclusion, provide assistance to an breast cancer. Beeline in Russia provided tablets and high schools. orphanage, and provide food for old-age homes in smartphones with free internet and mobile Lahore, Islamabad and Karachi. Mobilink Foundation communication for doctors and health teams Environment organized Disability Equality Training at the Mobilink providing hospice palliative care. As a company we are keen to help protect the House in Islamabad, followed by a visit to the Al-Farabi environment. Our employees and customers often National Special Education Centre for Physically Education share these concerns, and together we are working Handicapped in Islamabad, where staff took part in an We support a wide range of projects in the area of on a range of community projects around the world interactive session with children with special needs. education, both for children and adults. In that have an environmental focus. Our team at Pakistan, the Mobilink Foundation once again held Banglalink was involved in the International Coastal Culture WE’RE DEDICATED TO its annual day of celebration to mark the end of the Clean Up Day 2015 and the year-long Cox’s Bazar In Armenia, we promoted classical music development, academic year, recognizing the efforts of young Beach Cleaning project. and a project to use movies to introduce children to students pursuing education despite difficult the culture of other countries and famous works of circumstances. Mobilink distributed 150 school In Kazakhstan, Beeline volunteers took part in a tree cinematographic art. We also supported the restoration planting event at the country’s Disabled Children’s and digitization of manuscripts in Matenadaran. In SUPPORTING THE COMMUNITIES WE SERVE bags, along with stationery and painting materials. Mobilink also ran a ‘Teach 2 Transform 2015’ activity at Parents Association in Almaty and in the National Georgia, we supplied financial support to the Georgian the Master Ayub Park School, with volunteers providing Cleanup Day across the country. Mobilink Foundation National Centre of Manuscripts. ran a clean-up project in the Margalla Hills and introduced an ‘Adopt a Plant’ scheme at the Islamabad Fund-raising During 2015, our businesses provided financial zoo. Beeline Georgia activated a special number office. Staff in Tajikistan were involved in tree planting, Our staff and businesses are involved in a wide range donations of approximately USD1.3 million, plus allowing customers to make donations for flood while in Ukraine 550 eco-volunteers from Kyivstar of general fund-raising activities to help charities and donations of services and equipment valued at relief. In 48 hours, more than 30,000 calls were planted 500 new trees and bushes across 23 cities, worthwhile organizations. For instance, in Georgia, approximately USD0.4 million. Our staff often give made and 20,000 GEL in aid raised to help victims 15 parks, and a botanical garden and zoo. Two-hundred Beeline employees took part in the ‘Wings for Life World freely of their own time to help disadvantaged of the natural disaster. Beeline Georgia employees Kyivstar volunteers also took part in Veloday in four Run’ in Tbilisi. In Italy, WIND raised funds for non-profit people in their communities, and our businesses also volunteered in the city’s clean-up operation. cities, promoting the use of bicycles. initiatives through an SMS donation program as well as also allow employees to volunteer during working raising money for Save The Children through a program hours. In 2015, this amounted to over 6,000 hours In Tajikistan, Beeline launched a short number Community whereby customers can contribute 50 cents from their of time (over 750 days) during working hours. for donations via SMS, to help victims of natural Our people take part in a variety of projects around the own account to support charities – with WIND matching disasters. We also collected 100kg of warm clothes world aimed at helping society generally, and in the donation. In Kazakhstan we supported the Volunteer Here, we briefly outline some of our social at our offices, for humanitarian aid. particular those marginalized or suffering from ill health Society of Mercy fund and a range of other charitable investments. You can find more details of all of these or poverty. In the Netherlands, 60 volunteers from projects, including the Kenes Center of complex projects, and many more from around the world, In Pakistan, a heatwave that gripped Karachi and VimpelCom HQ helped with community projects in rehabilitation and the Hospice for Children project. by visiting our web pages. surrounding areas during the month of Ramadan, Amsterdam´s Zuidoost (Southeast) neighborhood. claimed over 1,300 lives. Mobilink initiated a relief Teams in Pakistan held a fundraising event in Child Helpline International campaign that included hospital treatment and collaboration with renowned singer Rahat Fateh Ali Khan Our company and people are committed to helping distribution of 10,000 bottles of mineral water, 6,000 at the Islamabad Marriott on February 21, 2015. All improve health, living conditions and safety among boxes of juice, 4,000 ice packs, 4,000 hand-sized proceeds went towards the Subh-e-Nau Disability children throughout the world. VimpelCom, along towels and 40 cooling mist fans. Mobilink also Program. The Mobilink Foundation, in collaboration with several other operators, has agreed to support supports a Mobile Emergency Alert System for with Rotary Club and the World Health Organization, the GSMA’s partnership with Child Helpline schools by donating smartphones. Software on the also provided and fitted 50 polio victims with braces, International. We have pledged to support and devices links the school with police in the event of and provided rehabilitation. In Russia we continued our promote child helplines in all our markets, providing terrorism, fire, kidnapping or robbery. long-standing cooperation with the Podari Zhizn fund free calls for users. During 2015 we created and – the first Russian mobile charity service. Donations explored partnership opportunities to help support In Russia, Beeline continued to support the NGO Liza provide help for severely ill children. Our staff in Russia or establish new child helplines, and the system is Alert and over the past four years there have been also helped collect more than 1.5. million rubles through Social investment now operational and providing free calls in five over 30,000 calls to the missing children hotline. In a charity run, while in Ukraine, 450 company countries. We are still working on partnerships in a 2015, nearly 2,500 were found alive as part of this volunteers ran a charity marathon in Kiev. further six countries. In Armenia, the helpline had initiative. Beeline also provided 100 volunteers with received approximately 1,200 calls by the end free communications and ran a series of workshops of the year. for search-and-rescue teams. Emergency situations and disaster relief Children During emergencies, reliable communications can In Algeria, volunteers from Djezzy helped renovate mean the difference between life and death. We are an orphanage for abandoned babies. In Russia, proud to be able to use our resources and expertise Beeline is an official partner of the Winners Games to help alleviate the effects of emergencies and – the biggest competition for children who have disasters, and assist those bringing relief to the survived cancer. More than 500 children aged from affected areas. 7 to 16, from 15 countries, took part in the 2015 6,000 games, competing in six sports: swimming, athletics, In 2015, heavy floods in the Georgian capital, Tbilisi, football, shooting, table tennis, and chess. NUMBER OF resulted in 19 deaths, extensive infrastructure VOLUNTEERING HOURS damage and an escape of animals from the city’s 40 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Social investment Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Social investment vimpelcom.com 41 Reporting principles and assurance This section provides an overview of our approach to preparing this report. AN OVERVIEW TO RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE REPORTING Reporting standards Material aspects On pages 8 and 9 we set out the approach we have In several businesses, we have outsourcing agreements relating to the building, management GL) and we see this as an important step in improving quality and insight. The scope of the • division of responsibilities between dataowners (responsible for providing initial data), completion. For this report, the performance of WIND has been included fully, in line with and guidance taken in identifying our material aspects, based on and maintenance of our network assets. Where this assurance includes this PDF document, but not finance officers (responsible for the reporting the position in previous years. industry research and engagement, local and global is the case, we have attempted to record the key the additional information on our website, and data entry process) and local CR officers Preparation of this report is guided by the Global sustainability context, the views of HQ and local impacts such as energy consumption, and relevant although there is clearly a strong correlation and Feedback and contact (responsible for checking data quality and Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines and the teams, and our own direct engagement with experts health and safety performance of contractors (when crossover between the two. You can see the We are keen to improve the value of our content) principles set out in the AA1000 series of and stakeholders on VimpelCom premises). We do not intend to scope of their work, their conclusions and reporting and therefore welcome comments on standards (including AA1000 APS, AA1000 AS and report on the broader impacts of outsourcing observations on pages 44 and 45. • sign-off of locally generated data by the local this document, and our CR information on the AA1000 SES). Expert input partners as these issues should be included in their Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial website. Please contact cr@vimpelcom.com Each year we consult a wide range of experts to own CR reporting. Similarly we do not report on the Data assumptions and estimations Officer We have prepared this report to be in accordance prepare the CR Report – in particular to identify our The key area where we have made assumptions, Disclaimer with the core requirements of the GRI version 4 impacts of our suppliers. • review of consolidated data by Group CR and This Report contains ‘forward-looking statements’, as the priority (material) issues. This year we managed this and have to make estimations, is in relation to our guidelines (G4). We have provided a GRI Table Group-level data owners. phrase is defined in Section 27A of the U.S. Securities Act process through our engagement in the GeSI We have described the reporting boundaries for energy use and carbon footprint. The bulk of our of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the U.S. Securities online, while pages 1 to 11 set out how we have materiality and human rights studies. material issues in the GRI reference table. energy consumption comes from our network, In 2015, we again commissioned DNV GL to Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking approached the key Principles of Inclusivity, which is made up of approximately 170,000 base provide an independent assurance review of our These studies identify which sustainability issues are Data quality and assurance statements are not historical facts, and include statements Materiality and Responsiveness set out in the stations, some of which are not connected to data reporting processes, the report content and most likely to be material for companies in the ICT During 2013 and 2014, we implemented a relating to, among other things, our CR Strategy, our AA1000 APS standard. We have also started to national power grids. This means we have to certain specific KPIs. partnerships, our expectations regarding completing the provide elements of the International Integrated industry. GeSI defines material issues as those that reporting system to gather performance estimate consumption based on a mixture of WIND and Warid mergers, and our initiatives, goals, future Reporting Council (IIRC) guidance, with the substantively influence the assessments and decisions information from across our markets. The system, invoice information and knowledge of technical Acquisitions and disposals market developments and trends, anticipated regulatory introduction of the graphic on page 5. of stakeholders, and that have significant influence developed by Oracle, mirrors the Hyperion capabilities of different types of equipment. Any businesses acquired by VimpelCom will not approvals, and network and service developments, as well over the commercial success of ICT companies. Financial Management system currently used for need to submit CR performance data until the as the anticipated benefits from such activities. The VimpelCom has previously signed up to the 10 financial reporting. During 2014, the CR reporting For several of our businesses, we estimate energy end of the financial year following the year of Definitions forward-looking statements included in this Report are Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. system became more deeply integrated into the consumption for the final period of the year as acquisition. The CR performance data for any We have defined the KPIs we have adopted using based on management’s best assessments of VimpelCom's This Report includes our Communication on broader financial reporting system and controls. invoices are not yet available. We have done this businesses that we sell will be excluded from the the information provided in the GRI v4 guidance strategic and financial position and of future market Progress (COP). The table online provides a through reference to other invoices received CR Report for that year. Adjustments to prior year conditions, trends, and other potential developments. cross-reference between the COP and various material. Where we have developed KPIs specific to During 2014, we rationalized our CR KPIs to during the year and for the same period in the our sector, these are based on accepted industry ensure they aligned more with GRI G4, and with figures to reflect this will be made where The actual outcome may differ materially from these sections of the report. previous year. We have calculated carbon dioxide appropriate. statements. Certain factors that could cause actual results practice – for example the level of network traffic our existing financial reporting. We have designed equivalent emissions arising from energy to differ materially from those discussed in any A number of our BUs and OpCos prepare their own and numbers of base stations. This year we have our KPIs to focus on our most material issues and, In August 2015, VimpelCom announced that it CR reports, some of which also follow the GRI purchased from national electricity grids with forward-looking statements include the risk factors also provided a Glossary of Terms. wherever appropriate, represent data already reference to conversion factors provided by the had signed an agreement to enter into a 50-50 described in the Company’s Form 20-F and other public guidelines (see page 10). used for management purposes. In 2015, we joint venture in Italy with CK Hutchison. Under Boundaries International Energy Agency. filings made by the Company with the U.S. Securities and Scope of reporting, and completeness increased the number of KPIs to include the agreement, VimpelCom will merge WIND with Exchange Commission. The Company disclaims any For this report we have focused on our own information on diversity within our leadership Internal data control measures As indicated on page 1, we have focused our operations. However, this focus includes several 3 Italia to create a leading convergent operator in obligation to update developments of these risk factors or team, and our performance on ethical We have defined a series of control measures to Europe’s fourth largest market. The formal to announce publicly any revision to any of the forwardReporting reporting on our largest markets. We have not impacts that arise through the use of our products included our operation in Laos in the scope of procurement. We continue to develop and help improve the quality of our data gathering. regulatory review process has commenced with looking statements contained in this release, or to make and services (e.g. privacy and online safety, improve our reporting processes across corrections to reflect future events or developments. our data collection process for this year. We are applications in health, education, agriculture etc.) as These include: the submission of the merger control notification reporting information by brand or country, rather the Group. to the European Commission on 5 February 2016. well as on our approach to ethical procurement. than legal entity. A list of the subsidiaries that We have again commissioned external • controls within the reporting software which VimpelCom expects that the transaction will comprise VimpelCom is provided in our Form 20-F. We are focused on improving the measurement of independent assurance of the report from DNV ‘lock’ data once approved at different levels complete around the end of 2016, subject to our Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions and so have not GL Business Assurance Services UK Limited (DNV to prevent unauthorized changes regulatory approvals. WIND Italy and 3 Italia started to quantify our Scope 3 emissions. will continue to operate separately pending 42 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Reporting Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Reporting vimpelcom.com 43 Independent assurance statement Scope and approach DNV GL’s assurance engagements are based on the assumption that the data and information Opinion work programme examining the provision of security for base stations. This is an example of The report reflects where the company is on the material issues that affect the industry, including There is an automated process for consolidation of data reported by sites, which minimizes the risk of VimpelCom Ltd (‘VimpelCom’) commissioned provided by the client to us as part of our review On the basis of the work undertaken, nothing how issues identified locally are shaping the examples of steps it is considering to move consolidation errors. DNV GL Business Assurance Services UK Limited have been provided in good faith. DNV GL came to our attention to suggest that the Report Corporate Responsibility strategy at corporate forward. This includes assessing various industry expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility level and future reports should provide more initiatives on freedom of expression and privacy The strength of our opinion on data accuracy has (‘DNV GL’) to undertake independent assurance does not properly describe VimpelCom’s for any decision a person or an entity may make information on these processes. and through consulting with colleagues across been further supported by inclusion of site level of the Corporate Responsibility Report (the adherence to the Principles. In terms of reliability based on this Assurance Statement. Business Units and Operating Companies about checks in Moscow in the assurance process this ‘Report’) for the year ended 31 December 2015. of the performance data, nothing came to our Responsiveness how to address stakeholder concerns on these year. Overall we found a good understanding of attention to suggest that these data have not The extent to which an organisation responds to We performed our work using DNV GL’s assurance methodology VeriSustain™, which is based on our Basis of our opinion been properly collated from information reported stakeholder issues. topics. We encourage VimpelCom to disclose more on its activities in these areas in the the Group data requirements and appropriate processes for data collection and collation. At site at operational level, nor that the assumptions professional experience, international assurance A multi-disciplinary team of sustainability and next report. level there are opportunities to improve overall data used were inappropriate. While VimpelCom can demonstrate clear best practice including the International Standard assurance specialists performed work at reliability, through increasing the proportion of examples of responsiveness this can be improved VimpelCom’s approach to mobile financial measured versus estimated data; and to improve on Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000), headquarter level and site level. We undertook We believe that the report is in accordance with and we recommend that VimpelCom should services (MFS) is a good example of a commercial completeness, by confirming locations currently and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) the following activities: the ‘Core’ elements of the GRI G4 Guidelines. develop and disclose shortand long-term targets initiative that also brings social benefits to excluded and expanding reporting to cover these. Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. We evaluated for Corporate Responsibility taking account of the report for adherence to the VeriSustain™ Principles (the ‘Principles’) of stakeholder • Review of the current corporate responsibility issues that could affect VimpelCom and are of Observations stakeholder issues. communities. As opportunities arise to extend the use of this technology, we recommend As VimpelCom’s Corporate Responsibility interest to stakeholders Without affecting our assurance opinion we VimpelCom should explore additional ways to programme and reporting matures we recommend inclusiveness, materiality, responsiveness, The ‘Make Your Mark’ program, which enables all also provide the following observations. report on the positive socio-economic impacts of extending existing internal controls and oversight as completeness, neutrality and reliability. • Review of VimpelCom’s approach to Business Units and Operating Companies to these products. well as external assurance to a broader range of stakeholder engagement and recent outputs. Stakeholder inclusiveness contribute initiatives under a common theme, has performance indicators, covering all VimpelCom’s We evaluated the performance data using the This did not include any direct engagement The participation of stakeholders in developing matured in the past year. VimpelCom has now Neutrality material issues. reliability principle together with VimpelCom’s with stakeholders and achieving an accountable and strategic developed an initial series of indicators to The extent to which a report provides a balanced data protocols for how the data are measured, response to sustainability. illustrate progress. We support VimpelCom’s account of an organisation’s performance, For and on behalf of DNV GL Business Assurance recorded and reported. The performance data in • Review of information provided to us by intention to refine these further in the future. delivered in a neutral tone. Services UK Limited scope was: Energy Use (EN3, EN6), Greenhouse VimpelCom on its reporting and management VimpelCom continues to engage with London, UK Gas Emissions (EN15, EN16, EN19), Injuries and processes relating to the Principles In 2015 VimpelCom, conducted desk-top human stakeholders across Business Units and Operating The Report presents a reasonably balanced 23rd March 2016 Fatalities (LA6). rights due-diligence reviews of two of its markets Companies and at Group level. The Report account of VimpelCom’s performance, and case • Interviews with selected Directors and senior which captured the key high-level issues for its London, UK We understand that the reported financial discloses material issues identified as relevant studies provide some information on how managers responsible for: Regulatory Affairs, materiality assessment. Going forward, we data and information are based on data from to each stakeholder group and the reasons for priorities, approaches and performance vary 23rd March 2016 Procurement, Mobile Financial Services, recommend VimpelCom should conduct a due VimpelCom’s Form 20-F, which is subject to a engagement. Last year we recommended that across Business Units and Operating Companies. Compliance, Legal, Investor Relations, Finance diligence review that goes beyond desk-top separate independent audit process. The review VimpelCom should consider disclosure of more We recommend providing further information on and Corporate Responsibility. Review of analysis. Anne Euler of financial data taken from the Form 20-F is not detail on how Group level engagement influences this in future, in particular on the challenges selected evidence to support issues discussed. Principal Consultant and Lead Assuror within the scope of our work. corporate responsibility practices at a local level The implementation of the Group Health & Safety faced. We were free to choose interviewees and UK Sustainability, DNV GL – Business Assurance and, conversely, how local engagement influences Policy has not progressed as fast as anticipated We planned and performed our work to obtain functions covered by interviews While the roll out of the Business Principles and what is identified as material at Group level. and we recommend focusing on accelerating this the evidence we considered necessary to provide • A site visit to VimpelCom’s operations in We note that some progress has been made the internal audit review of the Health and Safety going forward to ensure it is robustly program have been delayed to 2016, VimpelCom a basis for our assurance opinion. We are Moscow, Russia, to review process and systems and this should be built on going forward. This implemented across all Business Units and has continued to strengthen its arrangements providing a ‘moderate level’ of assurance. A ‘high for preparing site level corporate responsibility is particularly important given the challenging Operating Companies. VimpelCom should also for anti-bribery and anti-corruption compliance level’ of assurance would have required data and implementation of corporate societal context of many countries where develop and report further key performance at global and local level. In future reports, additional work at Group and site level to gain responsibility strategy. We were free to choose it operates. indicators to describe health and safety. Mark Line further evidence to support the basis of our the site we visited and it was selected as the VimpelCom should report on the challenges Materiality Senior Principal Consultant and Reviewer assurance opinion. largest operation in the Group The Supplier Code of Conduct has now been faced during roll out and implementation of Without affecting our assurance opinion we also UK Sustainability, DNV GL – Business Assurance finalized and published with successful supplier these programs. In addition, we recommend Responsibilities of • Review of supporting evidence for key claims and data in the report. Our checking processes provide the following observations. engagement at global level. As expected, reporting additional indicators beyond ‘training undertaken’ for anti-bribery and anti-corruption engagement at local level has been more VimpelCom and of the were prioritised according to materiality and The Report describes the process for updating the materiality matrix in 2015 incorporating input challenging. We recommend VimpelCom should compliance. DNV GL Business Assurance Services UK Limited is part of DNV GL – Business Assurance, a global assurance providers we based our prioritisation on the materiality of issues at a consolidated Headquarters level from across all Business Units and Operating include information in future reports on actions taken to improve roll out at local level. Reliability provider of certification, verification, assessment Companies and relevant Group functions. The The accuracy and comparability of information and training services, helping customers to build VimpelCom has ultimate responsibility for the • Review of the processes for gathering and output was benchmarked against the top 10 presented in the report, as well as the quality of sustainable business performance. Completeness preparation of the Report. In performing our consolidating the specified performance data issues identified by comparative operators, giving underlying data management systems. How much of all the information that has been www.dnvgl.comm assurance work, our responsibility is to the including VimpelCom’s internal processes for confidence that all material issues have been identified as material to the organisation and its VimpelCom has robust Group level internal controls management of VimpelCom; however our collating evidence to support data reported identified. stakeholders is reported. Reporting statement represents our independent opinion from Business Unit in place for data reliability. These include a Group and is intended to inform all of VimpelCom’s We restate last year’s recommendation that The Report provides information on the issues reporting manual with data definitions, a process stakeholders. DNV GL was not involved in the • Operating Company level to Group. We future reports should provide more details on that have been identified as material. We note for logging data queries from Group and responses preparation of any statements or data included in checked data consolidation on a sample basis. governance arrangements at Business Unit and that many material issues as identified by by Business Units and Operating Companies, and the Report except for this Assurance Statement. Operating Company level. This year the report VimpelCom are not covered by the GRI G4 a formal sign-off process for Business Units and • An independent assessment of VimpelCom’s outlines how the contractor fatalities in Pakistan Operating Companies to ensure data ownership. We have no other contract with VimpelCom and Guidelines, although VimpelCom discloses all reporting against the Global Reporting led to the initiation of a project within GeSI’s this is the second year that we have provided applicable indicators to meet the Core elements Initiative (GRI) G4.Guidelines. (Global e-Sustainability Initiative) human rights assurance. of G4. 44 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Reporting Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Reporting vimpelcom.com 45 Glossary Three-year data summary1 3G/4G/LTE 3G, short form of third generation, is the third generation of mobile telecommunications technology. 3G telecommunication networks support services that provide an information transfer rate of at least 200 kbit/s. Later 3G releases also Economic value generated and distributed (USD M) 2015 2014 2013 provide mobile broadband access of several Mbits/s for smartphones, tablets and laptops etc. 4G, short for fourth generation, succeeding 3G. Two 4G systems are commercially deployed: the Mobile WiMAX standard and the Economic value generated (operating revenue, interest and dividends received) 14,541 19,697 22,687 first-release Long Term Evolution (LTE) standard. Economic value distributed: AA1000 series of standards AA1000 series are principles-based standards to help organisations become more accountable, responsible and sustainable. They address issues affecting governance, business models and organizational strategy, as well as providing operational guidance on Payments to suppliers 11,413 14,182 16,155 sustainability assurance and stakeholder engagement – see http://www.accountability.org/standards/index.html ‘Active’ and ‘passive’ network To reduce costs and improve capital efficiency, operators are increasingly sharing elements of their physical networks. ‘Passive’ sharing is Payments to employees 1,175 1,539 1,806 infrastructure sharing easier to achieve contractually, and relates to the non-transmission related equipment (masts, cabinets, and the physical site itself). ‘Active’ sharing is more complex but also includes some sharing of transmission equipment. Active sharing has greater potential for Payments to suppliers of capital 1,741 2,247 4,746 energy saving. Payments to governments (taxes and license payments) 985 1,206 1,546 ARPU Average revenue per user. Community investment (including sponsorships) 1 2 2 (Radio) Base station/base A piece of equipment that facilitates wireless communication between user equipment such as mobile phones, tablets and computers transceiver station/BTS with wireless internet connectivity, and a network. Total 15,315 19,176 24,225 EBITDA Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization Economic value retained -774 521 -1,568 Electronic Industry Citizenship The EICC is a non-profit coalition of electronics companies committed to supporting the rights and wellbeing of workers and communities Coalition (EICC) worldwide affected by the global electronics supply chain. VimpelCom is not a member of the EICC. Network and Environment Form 20-F A form issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) that must be submitted by all ‘foreign private issuers’ that have listed Network Traffic – combined voice and data traffic (terabytes) 1,137,338 736,454 440,544 equity shares on exchanges in the United States. Physical Base station sites 98,918 95,859 90,102 Global e-Sustainability In collaboration with members from major Information and Communication Technology (ICT) companies and organizations around the Initiative (GeSI) globe, the Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI) is a leading source of impartial information, resources and best practices for achieving Base station sites using renewable energy 282 118 56 integrated social and environmental sustainability through ICT. (http://gesi.org/) GRI guidelines The Global Reporting Initiative (known as GRI) is an international independent standards organization that helps organizations Base stations using power-saving technology 58,269 38,285 46,537 understand and communicate their impacts on CR-related issues. Following the GRI Guidelines helps to structure reporting around the Total CO2e emissions (tonnes millions) 1.15 1.39 1.35 most critical impacts – be they positive or negative – on the environment, society and the economy. G4 is the most recent version of the guidelines and are designed to be universally applicable to all organizations of all types and sectors, large and small. CO2e emissions per unit of network traffic (tonnes/terabyte) 1.01 1.88 3.07 GSMA The GSMA (http://www.gsma.com/) represents mobile operators worldwide, with nearly 800 operator members, as well as more than 250 companies in the broader mobile ecosystem, including handset and device makers, software companies, equipment providers and Use of diesel in network operations (MWH) 93,139 128,467 178,482 internet companies. The GSMA operates the GSMA Mobile for Development Foundation which brings together mobile operators, donors and the international development community to drive the positive social impact of mobile technology. Employees2 ICT Information and Communication Technology. Number of employees 55,392 56,024 54,523 International Integrated Integrated Reporting is seen as an evolution of corporate reporting, with a focus on conciseness, strategic relevance and future New hire turnover rate 35% 30% 31% Reporting Committee (IIRC) orientation. The IIRC has produced guidance which aims to support the development of an integrated report as a concise communication about how an organization’s strategy, governance, performance and prospects, in the context of its external environment, lead to the Diversity – the proportion of female senior leaders 20% not reported not reported creation of value in the short, medium and long term – http://integratedreporting.org/ Proportion covered by collective bargaining agreements 23% 17% 17% ISO 14001 ISO 14001 sets out the criteria for an environmental management system and can be certified to. It maps out a framework that a company or organization can follow to set up an effective environmental management system and can be used by any organization Work-related fatalities 0 2 0 regardless of its activity or sector. SA8000 SA8000 is an auditable certification standard that encourages organizations to develop, maintain, and apply socially acceptable practices Work-related serious injuries (total) 100 159 116 in the workplace. It is based on the UN Declaration of Human Rights, conventions of the International Labour Organisation, UN and national law, and spans industry and corporate codes to create a common language to measure social performance. Other Indicators SIM Card A subscriber identity module or subscriber identification module (SIM) is an integrated circuit chip that is intended to securely store the Average smartphone penetration 31% not reported not reported international mobile subscriber identity (IMSI) number and its related key, which are used to identify and authenticate subscribers on mobile telephony devices (such as mobile phones and computers. Complaints received from regulatory bodies relating to our management of customer privacy 4 2 51 United Nations Global The UN Global Compact (https://www.unglobalcompact.org/) is a voluntary initiative which supports companies to do business BUs ranking 1st or 2nd in their markets on NPS 7 out of 12 7 out of 12 not reported Compact (UNGC) responsibly by aligning their strategies and operations with 10 Principles on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption; and take strategic actions to advance broader societal goals, such as the UN Sustainable Development Goals, with an emphasis on Global strategic suppliers completing E-TASC assessment 93% 85% not reported collaboration and innovation. Local higher-risk suppliers completing E-TASC assessment 26% not reported not reported Unstructured Supplementary USSD is a protocol used by GSM cellular telephones to communicate with the service provider’s computers. USSD can be used for WAP Service Data (USSD) browsing, prepaid callback service, mobile-money services, location-based content services, menu-based information services, and as Financial contribution to charitable organisations (USD M) 1.3 3.0 2.1 part of configuring the phone on the network. Reporting Unlike Short Message Service (SMS) messages, USSD messages create a real-time connection during a USSD session, making USSD more 1 All figures include WIND Italy. responsive than services that use SMS 2 These figures do not include approximately 3,600 temporary contracted employees in Pakistan. World Economic Forum (WEF) The Forum (http://www.weforum.org/) was established in 1971 as a not-for-profit foundation and is headquartered in Geneva, Switzerland. It engages the foremost political, business and other leaders of society to shape global, regional and industry agendas. It is independent, impartial and not tied to any special interests, working in close cooperation with all major international organizations. 46 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Reporting Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Reporting vimpelcom.com Headquarters Claude Debussylaan 88 1082 MD Amsterdam The Netherlands Tel:+31 (0) 20 79 77 200 Fax: +31 (0) 20 79 77 201 Contact Point Sohaib Arshad Head of Corporate Responsibility Tel: +31 (0) 20 79 77 200 Email: cr@vimpelcom.com The paper stock dictates which version to use. Mix, 100% or Recycled. (Core is always Mix). &S Chain of custody number is Prints in Pantone 626c, black, white or darkest 014531 available Pantone colour. Links to external or third White outline party versions for websites placing into artwork files are included to the right of each option. m width 17mm are provided purely for convenience and does not imply or mean that VimpelCom endorses or accepts any responsibility ® ® ® ® ® for the content or use of such websites, which responsibility VimpelCom expressly disclaims. w.fsc.org Paper www.fsc.org www.fsc.org www.fsc.org www.fsc.org MIX MIX This documentPaper MIX is printed on Chorus MIX Lux MIX per from Paper from from Paper from Paper from sible sources sources It is manufactured Gloss. responsible responsible sources mill with at aresponsible ISO sources responsible sources ® C014531 FSC C014531 ® FSC C014531 ® FSC C014531 ® FSC C014531 ® 9001 and 14001 accreditation and is FSC® ® (Forest®Stewardship Council) certified. ® MIX MIX MIX Paper from This document has been printed using Paper from Paper from responsible sources responsible sources responsible sources FSC C014531 ® vegetableFSC inks.® C014531 FSC® C014531 c.org www.fsc.org www.fsc.org ® ® MIX MIX Paper from Paper from responsible sources responsible sources c.org FSC® C014531 www.fsc.org FSC® C014531 MIX ® Printed ® in the UK by®L&S Printing ® ® Company Ltd. Designed and produced by w.fsc.org SALTERBAXTER www.fsc.org MSLGROUP www.fsc.org www.fsc.org www.fsc.org 00% 100% 100% 100% 100% per from Paper from Paper from Paper from Paper from sible sources responsible sources responsible sources responsible sources responsible sources C014531 FSC® C014531 For further FSC C014531 ® details on our FSC business, ® C014531 FSC® C014531 see online: vimpelcom.com ® ® ® 100% 100% 100% Paper from Paper from Paper from responsible sources responsible sources responsible sources FSC® C014531 FSC® C014531 FSC® C014531 .org www.fsc.org www.fsc.org ® ® 100% 100% Paper from Paper from responsible sources responsible sources .org FSC® C014531 www.fsc.org FSC® C014531 100% ® ® ® ® ® w.fsc.org www.fsc.org www.fsc.org www.fsc.org www.fsc.org YCLED RECYCLED RECYCLED RECYCLED RECYCLED per from Paper from Paper from Paper from Paper from sible sources responsible sources responsible sources responsible sources responsible sources C014531 FSC® C014531 FSC® C014531 FSC® C014531 FSC® C014531 ® ® ® RECYCLED RECYCLED RECYCLED Paper from Paper from Paper from responsible sources responsible sources responsible sources FSC® C014531 FSC® C014531 FSC® C014531 .fsc.org www.fsc.org www.fsc.org ® ® RECYCLED RECYCLED Paper from Paper from responsible sources responsible sources
