EXPERIENCE COMMITMENT INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Contents 1 P. 5 INTRODUCTION 2 P. 6 WELCOME LETTER 3 P. 8 VALUES, MISSION, VISION 4 P. 11 THE YEAR 2014 IN FIGURES 5 P. 12 NEW ADVANCED MANAGEMENT MODEL 6 P. 14 CUSTOMER COMMITMENT 7 P. 16 19 INVOLVEMENT OF THE PERSONNEL 8 P. 20 23 SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 9 P. 24 INNOVATION 10 P. 26 BALANCE SHEET 1 VICINAY SESTAO S.L. — Av. de Altos Hornos de Vizcaya, 2 48910 Sestao (Bizkaia) — Tel. +34 944 20 20 00 Tax Identification Number (CIF.) B/95698049 4 INTRODUCTION — Vicinay Sestao is a company dedicated to providing solutions for anchoring floating apparatus in the offshore world. We perform our activity in a way that is environmentally, socially and economically sustainable, in order to play our part in protecting the welfare of future generations. This report is prepared on the basis of an analysis of the information provided by the people who form part of the organisation, as well as the reflections coming from our relationships with our customers, suppliers, public administrations, associations and research centres, among other stakeholders. CERTIFICATIONS: ISO 9001 ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 Vicinay Sestao forms part of the Vicinay Marine group: 5 WELCOME LETTER 2 6 — This is the first sustainability report that Vicinay Sestao has produced. For us, sustainability is a very broad concept. We are aware that all of the elements that make up a business are related to sustainability in some way, either directly or indirectly, which means that we have to put this concept into practice in several aspects: environmental, financial and social. We have created Vicinay Sestao following this philosophy. When designing and building our facilities, endorsed by CE certification, the priority has been the health and safety of the personnel. Our concern for protecting the environment has led us to implement innovative measures to reduce energy consumption and CO2 emissions. Our commitment to society covers several aspects, including our desire to work with suppliers from the region, encouraging interest in industrial and technological careers by opening the doors of our innovative facilities to the young people who visited us in 2014, and working with associations that support youth employment through offering internship agreements at our company. We have also sponsored associations for minority sports, among other actions. Moreover, the sustained and balanced financial policy that we have followed during 2014 has led to some satisfactory results for the organisation, shareholders and other stakeholders. We have entitled this report Experience, Commitment and Innovation . For us, innovation is never immediate, it involves a long-term vision and significant investment. Vicinay has always been characterised by creating room for continuous improvement, by its ability to overcome the past, its adaptation to change and even for shaping the future, often anticipating the needs of the market. This innovative nature and continuous effort to perform better is the result of our long history, which dates back to the 17th century when the Vicinay family started to work in the forging business in Ochandiano, a traditional ironworking town. With the passing of time, the company grew until it became the Vicinay Marine group, a leading brand in offering fastening solutions for floating apparatus in the offshore industry. Sestao is the group's new development, with a new advanced management model and infrastructures which allow us to enhance our productive capacities and achieve a milestone in chain production. Asier Pinedo Cuesta Director of Vicinay Sestao Vicinay Meetings 2014. 7 VALUES MISSION VISION 3 — Values Safety as a personal and collective right and responsibility to work without harming people, working equipment or the environment. Integrity as the ethical behaviour of people and the organisation, through professionalism, honesty, respect, equality, transparency and consistency. Belonging as a commitment to the organisation and to people. Being in and with Vicinay Sestao, and sharing the future in a team, provides satisfaction for the people taking part in the project. Sustainable growth, both technological and human and in terms of results, in a way that allows us to hold a position of leadership, ensuring the needs of future generations. Innovation as a commitment from the personnel to knowledge, lifelong learning and applying emotional intelligence to supply products and services that provide value to people, customers and the organisation. Winning picture from the 2014 Vicinay Sestao photography competition. Author: Pedro Calvo 8 With a desire for our organisation to be recognised as a world leader for its Safety, Quality, Management and Innovation — — Mission Vision VSSL focuses its business project on: VSSL builds its future: The invention, design, production and delivery of high With a desire for our organisation to be recognised as value added products and services, adapted to the a world leader for its Safety, Quality, Management and customers and focussed on the offshore exploration Innovation. and production industry. With a human team, balanced in terms of men and Carrying out its activity safely and in an innovative and women, capable of adapting to and managing diversity socially responsible manner, aimed at creating profit and change to achieve the business targets. and allowing for sustainable growth. Making our company a meeting place and a place of The ability and emotional intelligence of people, fulfilment for our personnel, customers, investors and without discriminating on the basis of gender. other stakeholders. Collaboration with allies, shareholders, customers, suppliers, knowledge centres and other stakeholders identified. And reaching out from Bizkaia to the World. 9 THE YEAR 2014 IN FIGURES 4 “A science built only on the basis of its applications is an impossible science, because truths are fruitful if they are linked together in a chain, and if one is interested only in those truths expected to produce an immediate result, the intermediate links will be missing and there will be no more chain”. Nuccio Ordine 10 PEOPLE EMPLOYED SEVERE Satisfaction of the LOCAL Accidents SUPPLIERS Suppliers 160 0 4,28 out of 5 88% Women Men 12% 88% Rate of ABSENTEEISM 2 ,71% (Below the sector average) SHARE of the Tonnes MARKET MANUFACTURED 23,000 t 45% of the sector Expectations Satisfaction of Satisfaction of Sense of MET the CUSTOMERS the PERSONNEL BELONGING Average 4,1 out of 5 4,08 out of 5 4,38 out of 5 AGE 39 years 97% Hours of Total INVESTMENT TRAINING INVESTMENT in R&D over 5,4 % of working time over BILLING BILLING Hours of 20,6 % 1,57 % INVESTMENT HSEQ in TRAINING TRAINING per person SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION 1,21% 917,33€ 0,7% EBITA 11 NEW ADVANCED MANAGEMENT MODEL 5 Our management model is based on the proposal by the Euskalit foundation, promoted by the Basque Government: Advanced Management Model . This model is the result of the consensus of people belonging to different organisations and institutions. Its purpose is to promote the application of its principles in Basque organisations and to contribute to sustainable development. STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES 1ST OBJECTIVE 2ND OBJECTIVE SAFETY SATISFIED CUSTOMERS 3RD OBJECTIVE 4TH OBJECTIVE BILLING PROFIT At Vicinay Sestao we work through processes. The personnel from the different functional units of the organisation contribute their knowledge and 5TH OBJECTIVE 6TH OBJECTIVE come together in a common goal: meeting the expectations of our customers. MANUFACTURING EFFECTIVENESS 12 STRATEGIC AXES To generate a long-term vision with a clearly defined strategy When defining the strategic axes we consider the mission, vision, values and strategic plan of the company, as well as the needs of the customers and other stakeholders. The specific objectives for 2014 have been: greater productive capacity, continuous improvement of quality and safety, and constant innovation. To focus the company on STRATEGY To encourage a sense of the customers, differentiating belonging and the health and itself through the value offered safety of its personnel S PER We offer fast and flexible ER SO We score 4.08 out of 5 in a solutions to urgent needs, such as M sense of belonging. the delivery of the Ichthys project CUS EL TO NN 0 serious accidents during the which will allow Japan to supply fine tuning of the new facilities. its energy demand following the 2.71% absenteeism. shut-down caused by the nuclear PROFIT accident in Fukushima. INN Y OV IE T AT C IO SO N To enhance the commitment To apply innovation in all to society areas of the company Sustained employment To achieve a satisfactory financial outcome despite the automation and Investment in new CE certified for the different stakeholder in a sustained robotisation of the production machinery. Investment in R&D: 20% of and balanced manner process. income. Reduction of electricity, water Chain manufactured: 23, 000 t. Idea management: Annual and gas consumption by 4%. Chain delivered: 19,021 t. book of improvements which Profitability: 10% of sales. includes ideas contributed by Effectiveness: 56%. people from the organisation. Long-term investment, to obtain benefits for the organisation and society. 13 Customer Commitment 6 1 ORDER GULF OF MEXICO In order to ensure the sustainability of the organisation we consider it important to provide differentiating values that can be appreciated by our current and future customers. The perception that has reached us from the different companies who use our products and services is that with the commissioning of the new Sestao plant we have achieved greater speed and flexibility in responding to their needs. Tonnes CONTRACTED 29,212 t Tonnes MANUFACTURED 23,000 t Tonnes DELIVERED 19,021 t Visit to the Vicinay Sestao facilities during the “Lessons Learnt” Technical Seminar. 14 — 4 ORDERS NORTH WE SHARE KNOWLEDGE WITH OUR SEA CUSTOMERS AND STAKEHOLDERS 2 ORDERS NORTH SEA UNITED KINGDOM SECTOR Themed technology seminars are a way to share knowledge with our customers and to make progress in the quest to optimise our services and products for the offshore world. In 2014, after visiting the cities of Singapore and Houston, the Lessons Learnt technical seminar tour 2 ORDERS ended in Bilbao. Organised by Vicinay Marine, its 1 ORDER task was to detect and analyse errors and launch new GHANA INDONESIA improvement solutions. International industry leaders: Chevron, APL, National Oilwell Varco, Aker Solutions, Total, Statoil, Sofec, DNV-GL, Whittaker Engineering, Idesa and Gerdau, had the opportunity to take a close look at the effort and investment made by the group to create the new Sestao factory, the technological Map of contracts by area advances incorporated and its modern infrastructure. During 2014 we also participated in the most important trade fairs in the offshore world: Offshore Technology Conference (OTC) and Offshore Northern Seas (ONS). — NEW CHALLENGES Expectations We are entering periods of oil extraction at great depths MET Satisfaction of and in extreme areas like the Arctic, not forgetting the 97% the CUSTOMERS new projects for renewable energies, such as large 4,1 out of 5 offshore wind turbine platforms, where Vicinay Sestao is involved in offering innovative anchoring solutions. SHARE of the MARKET 45% of the sector 15 INVOLVEMENT OF THE PERSONNEL 7 — One of the main objectives that Vicinay Sestao takes into account when building a sustainable company is caring for its personnel. We are mainly concerned for their safety, professional opportunities, satisfaction and sense of belonging. In order to suitably address all aspects relating to the personnel, we work using processes. In the process, personnel is an issue integrated into different areas: Social, HSEQ, Industrial, Engineering, Works committee, etc. The criteria that we have followed to meet all of these commitments is based on the principle of prevention: improving working conditions, greater work satisfaction and greater equality between men and women, among other things. Satisfaction of Average the PERSONNEL 4,08 out of 5 Sense of AGE 39 years BELONGING 4,38 out of 5 Follow-up meeting for the Management Plan. 16 No. of people No. of people employed by employed by GENDER AGE From 31 to 40 years old Women Men > 61 years old 43% 12% 88% 9% < 30 years old 13% From 51 to 60 years old From 41 to 15% 50 years old 20% — — Occupational Health and Safety EFFECTIVENESS IN PRODUCTION The Vicinay Sestao facilities have been especially At Vicinay Sestao we have implemented the Project: designed following advanced habitability and Improving the Effectiveness of the Production ergonomic principles to improve the quality of work. Lines, based on Lean principles. The objective is For us, it is not just about having technologically for the processes to be planned in order to make the efficient equipment, we are also concerned that the work profitable, giving prominence to the personnel. facilities are in optimal habitable conditions. For this an internal communication plan for the equipment has been established, with protocols for identifying incidents that are registered in each SERIOUS handover, so that the working groups can provide specific solutions to each problem. Accidents 0 FREQUENCY SEVERITY OEE Rate Rate Effectiveness rate of the equipment 46,67 0,54 Rate of 56% ABSENTEEISM 2 ,71 % (Below the sector average) 17 — TRAINING AND Education For the smooth running of the company we consider it important to continuously train our employees and regularly assess their performance. Such analysis helps us to detect specific learning needs and establish development plans for improving their skills. The Aula Vicinay programme is an intensive training process undertaken by everyone who joins the company. Its content includes both the organisation's principles and its way of working, as well as the specific practices for the appointed position. In 2014, the year of commissioning the Vicinay Sestao factory, we saw good change management and an excellent attitude of involvement and companionship from the people working in our organisation. Hours of TRAINING 5,4% of working time Hours of HSEQ TRAINING 1,21% INVESTMENT in TRAINING Training as part of the Aula Vicinay programme. per person 917,33€ 18 — Principle of equality between men and women We are operating in an industry that has traditionally been male-dominated. At Vicinay Sestao, thanks to the automation of the production processes, we have made it possible for women to also perform manufacturing jobs. Percentage of WOMEN by area: FINANCIAL SOCIAL/CSR PROJECTS 100% 100% 50% MANAGEMENT TEAM SUPPLIES 44% 33% HSQE INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING 33% 7,5% 5,2% — Work-life balance We maintain agreements that are adapted to the specific needs of each person, in order to achieve a balance between family and work life. For the forthcoming 2015 financial year we have agreed to put into writing the First Work-Life Balance Protocol. 19 8 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY — Every year we consider the needs of the society in which we live and how Vicinay Sestao can contribute to providing solutions, going beyond our contractual commitments. The actions that we perform in the area of Social Responsibility are included in the framework of the annual Action Plan for the VCRS process, developed by 12 people from different areas. In 2014 we participated as attendees and also as speakers in social forums, and we even worked more proactively, examining where we can best focus our social work. We have also tried to involve our stakeholders in these commitments. We are members of IZAITE, Association of Basque Companies for Sustainability, and are part of the United Nations Global Compact, a worldwide corporate sustainability network that allows us to share experiences with other member institutions. Young people graduating from the www.pactomundial.org www.izaite.net Learning by doing entrepreneurship project, 2014 course. 20 — — RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN PROMOTING SPORT 85% of our suppliers are from our regional area, which We collaborate with sports associations such as means that we generate wealth in the area and also the Kaiku rowing club and the Basque pelota club, minimise the use of transport, with the consequent Lagunartea. reduction in environmental impact. — — ENCOURAGING youth employment CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT PORTAL We support the creation of employment by working At Vicinay Sestao we create an internal environment together with different associations and institutions, that encourages the contribution of ideas that can offering internship contracts at our company and generate value for the brand. We have a computer specific training. application that is used as a suggestions box, through Novia Salcedo Foundation: internship which anyone from the company can contribute contracts. initiatives. It is also for channelling those coming from our stakeholders. The next step is for a group of people from different areas to review and assess each suggestion in order to select the viable projects that we Ahalbidetu: internship contracts for the can launch. second edition of the Learning by doing programme. 30% of Lanbide: training in our production process. SOLUTIONS to 58 SUGGESTIONS — Creativity Sessions SOCIAL 7% of In order to offer solutions to customers regarding our ACTIONS 0, EBITA products and services, we run creativity sessions in which we bring together different people from different areas to link ideas and contribute innovative solutions. 21 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY — Vicinay Sestao was certified with the ISO 14001 standard in 2014. This internationally accepted standard creates the need to reduce both the environmental aspects and their impact through continuous improvement. Our factory has been designed taking into account the most advanced energy efficiency principles and systems; soundproofing to minimise noise pollution, and the management of waste, which is separated out in our own recycling point. — RAISING AWARENESS OF THE ECOLOGICAL CULTURE We regularly hold meetings to make personnel aware of waste recycling and energy consumption savings. 12 Annual AWARENESS meetings HAZARDOUS WASTE 0,3 kg HW / t chain finished 22 — CARBON FOOTPRINT 2,35 ENERGY EFFICIENCY t CO2 / t finished chain In 2014 we began to implement the ISO 50001 management system, which includes the most advanced Consumption of Installation of energy efficiency practices. Our next challenge for 2015 is ELECTRICITY LED to obtain this certification. 0,99 kwh/kg lighting finished chain SAVING Use of less polluting energy sources, such as 4% electricity and induction systems that generate a lower Carbon footprint. Consumption of GAS Use of the heat from the furnaces to warm up the 1,85 kwh/kg domestic hot water, through heat exchangers that chain finished are specially designed for our facilities. Installation of meters for measuring energy Lining Recirculation of the furnaces consumption which allow for segmented monitoring of warm air to OPTIMISE with LOWER the consumption and the systematisation of energy saving for better thermal inertia of gas operational control. 23 INNOVATION 9 — Innovation forms part of one of the organisation's strategic processes, and is reviewed regularly. Each year a decision is made on what strategic lines to follow and an innovation agenda is designed for the forthcoming financial years. In 2014 our main objectives were: to invest in innovation, in both the production and manufacturing processes and our products and services, and above all to promote the knowledge and learning of our personnel. REPORTING OF OUR INNOVATION 2 PUBLICATIONS 6 PRESENTATIONS INNOVATIONS 2 PRODUCTS 6 PROCESSES Vicinay Sestao has been involved in research and development projects to boost offshore wind energy, offering innovative anchoring solutions. 24 — — INVESTMENT AGENDA 2014 INNOVATION AGENDA 2014 Design of the Vicinay Sestao building, classified by Advanced chain identification. Ihobe as a green building. ø220mm R5 chain. Construction of the factory with: Optimising the quality of the materials. Improved logistics due to large capacity cranes. Chainmatic. Fast cutting saws. Katebegi. Self-guided vehicles. NDT. Ergonomic and automated manufacturing machinery. — High load capacity robots. SURVEILLANCE: Strategy, Laser measurement system in testing. Management and Technology Shot-blasting robots. We keep an eye on our surroundings, we observe how the Advanced waste management system. market is progressing and we work in collaboration with universities, technology centres, suppliers and customers to Own dock with access to the estuary. search for new solutions. Personnel training with a training budget of € 917.33 per person. INVESTMENT in R&D over Total BILLING INVESTMENT 1,57 % over BILLING 20,6 % 25 10 — Finance A sustainable business is also a profitable business. 2014 was a year in which, despite significant investment being made to open the factory, we have BALANCE achieved good profitability. The financial balance sheet for this financial year also includes social aspects. SHEET In other words, not only have we created value for our own brand, but we have generated wealth throughout the industrial framework in which we operate. PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT 31.12.2014 31.12.2013 ONGOING OPERATIONS Turnover 57,004 891 Changes in inventories of finished goods 7,968 31 and work in progress Work performed by the company for its assets 408 458 Supplies (41,773) (922) Other operating income 8 0 Personnel costs (4,542) (117) Other operating costs (10,300) (280) Amortisation/depreciation of fixed assets (3,025) 0 OPERATING PROFIT/LOSS 5,748 61 Financial income 0 15 Financial expenses (456) (1) Exchange rate differences 0 5 FINANCIAL PROFIT/LOSS (456) 19 PRE-TAX PROFIT/LOSS 5,292 80 Corporation tax 80 3,988 PROFIT/LOSS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 5,372 4,068 Values expressed in thousands of Euros. 26 BALANCE SHEET 31.12.2014 31.12.2013 NON-CURRENT ASSETS 68,316 57,933 Intangible fixed assets 1,033 0 Tangible fixed assets 62,646 53,931 Deferred tax assets 4,637 4,002 CURRENT ASSETS 20,125 8,875 Stocks 9,424 1,652 Trade and other receivables 8,947 4,154 Short-term investments in group and associated companies 0 3,000 Short-term accruals/deferrals 25 0 Cash and other equivalent liquid assets 1,729 69 TOTAL ASSETS 88,441 66,808 31.12.2014 31.12.2013 NET WORTH 38,337 32,965 Equity: 38,337 32,965 Capital 20,000 20,000 Issue premium 8,927 8,927 Reserves 4,038 (30) Profit/Loss for the financial year 5,372 4,068 NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 26,822 0 Long-term debts 26,572 0 Deferred tax liabilities 250 0 CURRENT LIABILITIES 23,282 33,843 Short-term debts 2,626 0 Short-term debts with group and associated companies 305 3,590 Trade and other payables 20,351 30,253 TOTAL LIABILITIES 88,441 66,808 Values expressed in thousands of Euros. 27 FORTHCOMING CHALLENGES Every project that we undertake is the result of ideas from many people, of hours of research, of months or even years of work, of trials, designs, testing, of two-way relationships with customers and suppliers, of exchanges with society, with their aspirations, needs, desires. With all of that we construct Vicinay Sestao day by day. 28 Progress in HEALTH and SAFETY for the personnel Increase the Continue growing in a SATISFACTION sustainable MANNER of the customers and shareholders Be a BENCHMARK in the oﬀshore industry LEAD innovation MINIMISE the projects environmental impact Open new fields of RESEARCH Continuous ADVICE and after-sales TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE 29 — Vicinay Sestao's commitment to sustainable development in its three dimensions — economic, social and environmental — is reflected in this 2014 Report, where we wanted to show the desire to make reliable and accurate information available to everyone. — For more information: www.vicinaysestao.com rsc@vicinaysestao.com
