UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2015 Communication on Progress 2015 1 Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally P1 proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. P2 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association P3 and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; P4 Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and P5 Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. P6 The UNGC Principles Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to P7 The UN Global Compact environmental challenges; asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental P8 a set of core values in the responsibility; and areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of P9 and anti-corruption: environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including P10 extortion and bribery. The above icons appear in the document to indicate that the relevant principle is addressed by an activity mentioned in the page. As shown above, the colour of the icons indicate the broad area being addressed. Other UN Initiatives MESSAGE OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Caring for Climate Over the past three decades, MAS has created a Having taken part in the Caring for Climate initiative from August distinctive corporate identity. The distinction was 2008, MAS is one of 400 companies from over 65 countries to fuelled not only by production efficiencies and be a part of this movement. The world’s largest global coalition, strategic innovations, but also the sustainable and Caring for Climate is led by the UN Global Compact, the UNEP, ethical approaches adopted. MAS is a people’s and the UNFCCC. Based on the consensus that climate company-a company which has grown while change will affect business and society in vital ways, consultants from the UNGC, UNEP, supporting livelihoods and nurturing communities. and WBCSD prepared a statement titled “Caring for Climate, The Business Leadership These initiatives are designed and driven by all internal Platform”, and it is this statement which offers participants an opportunity to demonstrate stakeholders collectively, who have overwhelmingly climate leadership. MAS chooses to endorse and implement the Caring for Climate initiative embraced the concept of social and environmental through CEO support, tactical changes within the organisation, and on-going public sustainability. communication. The social and environmental issues we seek to address are growing more complex in all Women’s Empowerment Principles the countries and regions we operate in. In spite of these challenges, it is imperative that The Women’s Empowerment Principles are the end result of a collaboration we continue to be multiple-stakeholder-oriented, and be driven by the triple bottom line between the UNGC, the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality (UN of people, planet and profits. MAS therefore intends to aggressively promote a culture of Women). The principle offer guidance to companies on how to empower environmental sustainability, which cascades throughout our organisation, and expands women in the workplace, marketplace, and community. The seven principles beyond our facilities to our ecosystem of business partners, customers and communities. are as follows: It is in this backdrop that I present the 12th Communication on Progress to the United 1. Establish high-level corporate leadership for gender equality. Nations Global Compact. In 2015, we focused on augmenting our core, investing in the 2. Treat all women and men fairly at work – respect and support future through innovation and autonomation, and maximizing human potential. Accordingly, human rights and non-discrimination. MAS unveiled Sri Lanka’s largest rooftop solar plant at the MAS Fabrics Matrix plant in 3. Ensure the health, safety, and well-being of all women and men workers. Thulhiriya this year, which is capable of producing 1 megawatt of power. We furthermore 4. Promote education, training, and professional development for women. piloted the “Team Leader to Group Leader Project”, which creates the opportunity for many 5. Implement enterprise development, supply chain, and marketing practices that to further their careers. In a year in which we saw our headcount increase by 5,956 people, empower women. 6. Promote equality through community initiatives and advocacy. the MAS On-boarding programme was reviewed and a greater emphasis was given to 7. Measure and publicly report on progress to achieve gender equality. the MAS Values and Culture. We also made significant headway in the standardisation of HR Process and Policy. MAS embarked on the journey of data analytics in 2015, which MAS was involved in the consultation process when the seven principles were formulated. provides real-time information to support HR decision-making. It must also be highlighted In November 2011, the Chairman of MAS signed the CEO Statement of Support for the that our Director of Women’s Empowerment continues to serve on the UN WEPs Awards Women’s Empowerment Principles. MAS Holdings (Sri Lanka) and Mr. Mahesh Amalean, Committee for the third consecutive year, while MAS actively contributes to the steering Chairman of MAS Holdings, were awarded the Women’s Empowerment Principles committee of the Global Compact Sri Lanka Network. Leadership Award 2013 Cultural Change for Empowerment Award 2013 for MAS Women Go Beyond, a distinctive programme established in 2003 that challenges the accepted This report further outlines our environmental and social responsibility efforts, our norms of garment industry employment for women in Sri Lanka and the South Asia region. achievements and our plans for the future, which are in line with our corporate strategy. Our ongoing work in the areas of environmental responsibility, workplace diversity, gender Business for Peace equality and ethical conduct are discussed at length and in depth. I also take this opportunity After a decade of researching the role of business and its to reiterate our continued support towards the 10 Principles of the Global Compact. contribution to peace, in September 2013 the UN Global Compact launched the Business for Peace initiative. The Shakthi Ranatunga platform assists companies in implementing responsible Director Group Human Resources business practices in conflict-affected and high-risk areas. MAS Holdings (Pvt.) Ltd. MAS endorsed the initiative in September 2013, and is proud to be one of the founding participants of Business for Peace. MAS AT A GLANCE 08 OUR VALUES 10 COMMITTED TO EXCELLENCE • The Way We Work • Living Green • Women Matter • Champions by Nature STRENGTHNING COMMUNITIES • Education 69 • Building a Sustainable Future APPENDICES 76 MAS AT A GLANCE MAS is the region’s leading manufacturer of intimate apparel, performance wear and swimwear. Our world-class apparel Following is a brief description of our values. We learn, understand and facilities spread over 15 countries provide embed them in our daily work practices. employment to over 76,000 people. Our Element MAS Building Block What it means to us… design, innovation and manufacturing excellence inspire the world’s leading Values Honesty & Integrity Being truthful and transparent in all our actions fashion and retail brands. Our products Passion for Excellence Giving the best of our ability to deliver and services are enhanced by a vertically uncompromising value integrated supply chain, and supported by Trust & Mutual Respect Trusting others ability and being respectful of a full scale lean enterprise platform. We have our differences broadened our focus beyond apparel, to Humility Being modest about our status provide SAP-based IT solutions to the global apparel and footwear industry. MAS also Freedom with Accountability Enjoying our freedom at work while delivering owns Sri Lanka’s first international lingerie responsibly brand, amanté, and has diversified through Core Strengths People Driving force behind our success design and manufacturing to encompass Partnerships Our long-standing relationships with our lifestyle and fashion solutions. Our people partners are our pride; a global team distinguished by our passion and drive for excellence. Product Focus Our undivided attention on giving the complete We nurture our people into world-class solution champions. We draw strength and support Process The way we do things from our community as a responsible Profitability Achieving our targets in numbers corporate, whilst investing in their wellbeing and that of future generations. At root, MAS Culture Entrepreneurial & Innovative Taking ownership, pushing boundaries and is not just a business; it is truly a way of life. Our Values creating newness in everything we do Collaborative Willingness to work together despite our There were a strong set of beliefs which our differences leaders shared in common that strengthened Teamwork Willingness to play any role in a team with our culture, which we defined as the MAS equal enthusiasm Values. Our core beliefs and ideas became our greatest strength and has bought MAS Cautiously Aggressive Taking calculated risks by carefully evaluating from a single manufacturing facility to a situations global fashion and lifestyle brand. Participative Management Willingness to support others Communication on Progress 2015 8 Communication on Progress 2015 9 brought in, to enrich the 35 participants programme lineup.Unleashing Personal Potential – our internal programme for undergraduates interning at MAS also continued in 2015 with COMMITTED TO EXCELLENCE P1 over 100 undergraduates participating in the signature two day programme. P1 Everything we do is guided by this set of principles which define our character For more information on this project refer to ‘Strengthening Communities’. P2 P2 and culture; they have been at the core of MAS since its inception. These enduring qualities are the shared convictions that we bring to our professional Skills for Work and personal conduct – they are a fundamental strength of our business. P3 This four year programme provides a cohesive understanding on the corporate world and P3 its key elements to university undergraduates. THE WAY WE WORK P4 Social Media Recruitment P4 With the evolution of digital platforms in the corporate sphere, we now officially uses social Competency Based Recruitment P5 media platforms including Facebook, Linkedin and Instagram for its recruitment and P5 As one of the largest employers in the country we have to ensure that we attract and retain corporate presence. the best talent. In order to successfully identify the right candidate we follow competency based interviews and competency based assessments. The Deloitte team who developed P6 P6 Learning and Development at MAS Competency Based Interviewing skills, trained our Recruitment Champions who share their learnings to train the others among the HR fraternity and employees who conduct interviews P10 One MAS Onboarding Programme P10 for their respective teams across the business. Over the years, we have been fortunate to attract some of the most talented professionals in our industry. They stay to build rewarding careers because of our entrepreneurial spirit, We are currently developing a competency based assessments tool which will help identify a commitment to our people and the high expectation for excellence. Our people are our and recruit the best talent that will fit the required competencies of the respective job roles. most valuable asset – they are skilled problem solvers that believe challenges can be opportunities. In order to create the right working environment and set, all new recruits must Recruitment on T2o attend the “MAS Onboarding” program. We embarked on a newly revamped programme Since the inception of MAS, each SBU fulfilled their recruitment functions separately. Last in an effort to streamline our approach facilitated at Group Level. year we introduced a recruitment platform which has a standardized recruitment process across the business. This is facilitated by Talent2o, an HR platform at MAS and also the MAS The new workshop promises two days of intense activity and engages newly recruited Careers job portal where all job openings are posted to internal employees and external employees from SBUs to experience the MAS culture. As part of this experience, all new users. This initiative gives a wider visibility and better job opportunities to internal employees recruits also participate in the “MAS Values” session which is an interactive insight session within the business. on our values and embedding them into our work-life routines. The session was conducted by our internal management team with more than 300 new employees last year. We believe Recruitment Core Team that intellectual capital is critical to providing innovative solutions and, ultimately, having a A Recruitment Core Team was formed to manage all recruitment related initiatives within positive economic impact. MAS. The team spans across all SBUs and the core team contributes in the groupwide decision-making to further strengthen the recruitment process of MAS. Competency Based Development Needs Assessment and Development of Programme Calendar Employer Branding University Relationships Learning and Development at MAS took a bold leap forward by incorporating its first-ever MAS works closely with the State and Private Universities and has established itself as competency-based development needs assessment and analysis, in June 2015. Over an employer of choice for the younger generations of our country. We partake in this 4000 of the executive and management cadre were trained on the new MAS competency initiative by sponsoring events and participating in Career Days in addition to conducting framework covering leadership, professional and technical competencies aligned to their of training programmes, internships and other programmes on “how to face an interview”, specific job families and roles.The process has a self-assessment, an agreed assessment “CV Writing” and “Conducting Mock Interviews”. These partnerships assist students to between an employee and manager and an individual development plan created based groom themselves and be well prepared for employment. We have also partnered with on the skill or knowledge gaps identified. This helped all those who participated in the new organisations such as British Council to attract potential candidates. process, to understand where their development gaps lay and then discussed their needs with managers who in turn used the information to develop individual development plans The flagship programme “MAS Awards” also continued in 2015 with a new entrant – customized and catering to the individual employees learning needs, Jaffna University represented by five of their Management undergraduates participating. in collaboration with HR. The programme was also re-vamped with the addition of a new element “Sustainability” Communication on Progress 2015 10 Communication on Progress 2015 11 Organizational Training and P1 Structure Development P2 1. 2. a. Standardize TM / TL & a. Standardized Selection P3 GL Job Roles and 15 criteria for TL and GL Competencies b. Have eight standardized b. Identified and mapped training material P4 career pathway from TM c. Presented a draft for TL/ to GL GL Training Manual P5 c. Brainstorming sessions to identify a solution for future Production Executives P6 issues With the understanding that “one size does not fit all” when it comes to development needs, the process enables the focusing on specific individual development needs being P10 identified by using the data, and thereafter, to craft learning solutions catering to the needs and individual learning styles of employees. This results in making learning more fruitful and interactive, and also ensures that the knowledge / skills gained were brought back into the P1 workplace. Compensation General P2 Internal trainers as well as external service providers, trainers and institutes working with MAS are also in the process of being educated on the new competency framework and needs 3. 4. based on the same in order to create more aligned learning solutions – be it knowledge or P3 skills to be developed in the arena of technical, leadership or professional competencies. a. Internal Salary survey to a. Standardize TM/ TL and Structured programmes are in the process of being crafted using the analysed competency identify the gaps and GL Job Roles and 15 P4 based needs for target groups such as high potentials and upwardly mobile executives opportunities of Factory Competencies and managers. Floor level compensation b. Identified and mapped P5 i. Presented to MAS career pathway from TM Several technical skill building programmes are also being designed keeping in mind Apparel Board and to GL specific job families and the competency needs such as the garment technology and Divisional Excos c. Brainstorming sessions to P6 fabric technology programmes. b. New Sustainable & identify a solution for future Performance driven Production Executives HR Symposium P10 compensation model for issues Group HR also organized the first ever Group-wide HR Symposium which brought a network TL/ GL Pilot Plants which of 300 MAS HR personnel for an insightful two day programme spanning subjects from the is aligned with the existing MAS standards latest in HR trends to being a networking opportunity for the growing HR community within i. SQDCM based MAS. performance driven compensation structure for Grooming Leaders TL and GL We have commenced a group wide initiative Team Leader to Group Leader Project (TL/GL) ii. Standardized TL to groom leaders within the company to embed company values and live within them while allowance they strive to be leaders in their capacities. The programme will provide dynamic mentoring c. Conduct a TL/GL and coaching sessions which will aid them to move ahead from their current positions in Business case to quantify the company. The TL/GL focuses predominantly on maximizing efficiency at the workplace the benefits of the initiative and coaching / mentoring for team members, team leaders and managers. Communication on Progress 2015 12 Communication on Progress 2015 13 P1 P2 AUDITS P3 As we stated in the reports earlier MAS is equipped with divisional central compliance audit teams which conduct audits integrating labour, health, safety and supply chain P4 security. Apart from this, customer audits are also conducted throughout the year. There are also central audit tools shared with strategic business units empowering them to P5 conduct self-audits. Our fully integrated internal audit tool has been enhanced further to include the monitoring of on-site service providers, to align with the evolving requirements of our customers and the need to drive compliance standards in the supply chain. MAS P6 Intimates Central Compliance Audit Team conducts audits integrating labour, health, safety, supply chain security, and brand protection biannually. Customer audits were P10 conducted throughout the year, and MAS Intimates has an average rate of 94%, sustaining P1 the image we have created over the previous years. Our transparency, commitment, and the persistent effort to maintain standards of exceptional performance has convinced the P2 brands to empower us by training our compliance team through joint audits in order to do self-audits on their behalf in the long-term. This is a landmark achievement for MAS in terms of trust, integrity, and capacity for self-reliance, as perceived by our customers. A P3 web-based compliance share point is in place and used by the Compliance team as a platform to share the above information and other compliance related activities and best Compliance and Risk practices. Meanwhile divisional audit tool was also automated for MAS Intimates with the P4 Management assistance of MAS-TS with the annual audits numbering to 40. P5 We believe that an ethical, honest Sustainable Apparel Coalition’s Higg Index web platform is now being utilized by MAS management of the business, in addition Intimates to share Compliance and Environmental performance data with Gap and H&M. to being crucial to building trust in the P6 In exchange, the customer has decided to waive off audits. The Higg Index provides a Company, is a non-negotiable path in order tool for the apparel and footwear industry to assess sustainability throughout a product’s for us to fulfil our Vision for 2020. As a key entire life cycle, from materials to end-of-life. The metrics created by Higg Index are limited P10 management pillar, compliance is enforced to a company’s internal use for the evaluation and improvement of labor standards and at all company levels, translating into environmental performance. The Higg Index is an apparel and footwear industry selfpolicies, structures, and mechanisms that assessment standard for assessing environmental and social sustainability throughout ensure business continuity, prevent the risks the supply chain. Launched in 2012, it was developed by the Sustainable Apparel associated with our activities, and streamline Coalition, a nonprofit organization founded by a group of fashion companies, the United communications for handling of any breach States government Environmental Protection Agency, and other nonprofit entities. of our standards and principles Communication on Progress 2015 15 •• Brands •• Employer’s Federation of Ceylon P1 •• Federation of Chambers of Commerce and Industry of Sri Lanka •• Institute of Engineers, Sri Lanka •• National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health P2 •• Industrial Safety Division of the Department of Labor •• District Factory Inspecting Engineer • 18 Internal Assessments have been conducted for 2014 across MAS Active facilities •• District Labor Department P3 in Sri Lanka while continuously working with the new Jordan factory approvals and •• Board of Investment continuation with the Indian SBU. •• Central Environmental Authority of Sri Lanka • Unichela Koggala first in Sri Lanka to be awarded Green rating by PVH brand based P4 on sustainable compliance practices. •• Regional Medical Officer / Public Health Inspector •• International Labor Organization • Eight Compliance forums and seven ES forums were conducted in 2015 to share •• Commercial Audit Companies P5 knowledge and standardizing the systems. •• St. John Ambulance • Linea Intimo continued the Chemical Leasing Project in collaboration with National •• Sri Lanka Red Cross Cleaner Production Centre. The scope of optimizing chemical usage at waste water •• Fire Department P6 treatment processes. •• Air Force Personnel • First ever occupational health and safety forum was organized involving with national •• OSH Experts cleaner production centre and Lanka responsible care council. Leading personalities •• National Armed Forces P10 from leading organizations in Sri Lanka actively involved in the conference. Customers, P1 •• Security Agencies MAS Active employees, representatives from other businesses in apparel industry were •• Fair Labor Association, USA among the participants. •• BSCI (Business Social Compliance Initiative) • A knowledge sharing program was conducted at University of Kelaniya HR P2 undergraduates on Labour compliance. • Nine training programs were conducted on a divisional level on Compliance and ESH P3 for Executives and Managers. Approximately 520 ESH & Compliance training programs were conducted at the SBU level. • HR MAT Training calibration was conducted for MAS Active Synergy with a score of P4 Key stakeholders who 3.33. Self-assessments commenced for MAS Active Linea Intimo NVS. Pre work for play an important role in training calibration for HSAT and ESAT commenced as well. • PVH launched their revised global supplier guidelines in 2014, which is utilized to assess P5 the overall management of their Global Supply Chain and empower suppliers to monitor internally. PVH uses a color our social compliance coded rating system to indicate the compliance status of factories. Green rating would activities mean that Factory meets/exceeds code standards and factory systems in place to P6 identify and manage problems emerging in the workplace. • Follow-up/assessments will take place on an 18 to 24 month cycle as opposed to 12 P10 months cycle which is the common practice. • Four knowledge sharing programs were conducted for groups of undergraduates on safety culture and change management in OSH. 1. One program for engineering undergraduates of University of Moratuwa 2.Three Programs for facilities Management undergraduates of University of Moratuwa • A new mentoring program was launched with UOM. Initially five students were involved in the program which is currently functioning. • Four training sessions were conducted for compliance point persons. Five divisional Some of our Risk and Compliance related activities for 2015: level labour compliance/ C-TPAT/IR trainings conducted covering 90 employees. • 13 SBUs of MAS Active has got certified on ISO 14001:2004 & OHSAS 18001:2007. • MAS Active Shadowline and Asialine were successfully completed and the GSV • MAS Active Linea Intimo NVS went for certification and rest of the facilities had assessment received certification for two years. re-certification assessments in 2015. • MAS Active continued with Global Chemical Stewardship Program called Responsible Care Initiative. 12 SBUs of MAS Active certified under RC initiative. • 13 SBUs of MAS Active has got certified on ISO 14064 standard which is based on green house gas emission reporting. Communication on Progress 2015 17 FAIRTRADE FOR MAS ACTIVE MAS Active Leisureline has achieved a key milestone by sucessfully obtaining the Fairtrade accreditation. MAS Active reached out for this PROJECT UPDATES certification on the request of and to support the partnership with Patagonia. Leisureline appointed the new Fair Trade Committee in June and an awareness session Fair Trade is a product certification system which is an alternative approach P1 was carried out to the the manufacturing plant on Fair Trade. The Fair Trade Committee to conventional trade based on a partnership between producers and determines the manner in which the Fair Trade premium is utilized in a way that it will uplift traders, businesses and consumers. The international Fairtrade system is the livelihood of employees. The much awaited distribution of the first Fair Trade premium P2 made up of Fairtrade International and its member organizations which funds took place on the 10th of September with the participation of team members, EXCO represents the world’s largest and most recognized fair trade system. members and the Management team. 492 employees received a goods pack worth P3 P1 Rs. 3000 which included nutritious food items, essential goods, medicine and stationary. The Fair Trade system is used widely in agricultural products where the focus is on giving the Leisureline is the first and only plant to be Fair Trade Certified on the request and to support farmer a fair farm-gate price. This is now gaining momentum in the manufacturing industry the partnership with Patagonia. Fair Trade premium is paid by the Patagonia to MAS as 1% P4 where the intention is to get additional benefits for workers through a fair trade premium P2 of the FOB for the products with Fair Trade certification tag on it. that is paid by the end consumer. The Fair Trade system works by determining the gap between the living wage and the actual earnings of an average worker. In order to bridge P5 P3 this gap, a Fair Trade premium is paid by the brand (Patagonia) to the supplier (MAS). The manner in which this premium is used is determined by a committee which includes worker P6 representatives that will be used for the betterment of the employees such as employee P4 welfare and activities that would benefit communities around them. Leisureline already has a Fair Trade Committee (FTC) in place which is the elected representatives of the P10 P5 ERB. The Fair Trade premium for Leisureline has been determined as 1% of the FOB when the Fair Trade premium is paid, the product will have a Fair Trade certification tag on it. Fair Trade brings consumers, factories, and brands together to support a transformation P6 to sustainable supply chains. By setting standards, establishing a rigorous certification system, and engaging the end consumer, Fair Trade provides a unique opportunity to P10 change the nature of the sourcing relationships, add value throughout the supply chain and provide more benefits to workers. Communication on Progress 2015 18 Communication on Progress 2015 19 NURTURED AND VALUED. At MAS, we are working to build a corporate culture that not only understands and values P1 difference, but embraces it. A culture where employees recognize that diversity helps our business to grow and prosper. And a culture in which every employee can contribute meaningfully to the business while being true to their authentic selves. P2 SUCCESS STORY Diversity and Inclusion brings us together and allows us to celebrate everyone’s P3 uniqueness. It’s about people. The employees and teams who build inclusive cultures Upul Dissanayake, one of our Hearing & Speech Impaired who unleash their potential as they work to improve the lives of our customers. For MAS Team Members from MAS Active Shadeline represented Active, supporting education and disability inclusion was the key theme for the year 2015 P4 Sri Lanka at the first ever SAARC Deaf Chess tournament across all the Strategic Business Units located in Sri Lanka and overseas. on 21st May 2015 in Bangladesh. He is one of the two P5 candidates who qualified for this competition from Sri Programmes initiated by our SBUs including those of MAS Active has been successful Lanka. Sri Lanka was placed third in the ranking at the and impactful over the years including empowerment of differently abled employees by completion of this tournament. MAS ACTIVE Shadeline other trained employees, introduction of sports and outdoor activities and counselling P6 has provided the support and encouragement to ensure sessions. MAS Active currently employs over 129 persons with various disabilities ranging Upul and his team go from strength to strength. from hearing impaired to the physically handicapped. P10 Communication on Progress 2015 20 Communication on Progress 2015 21 LIVING GREEN We continue to aggressively drive environmental sustainability to the core of our business by implementing standards across all our facilities P7 in Sri Lanka and driving a culture of sustainability among our 76,000 strong workforce. P8 In 2015 the growing mandate for Environmental Sustainability at MAS was refreshed with the P9 appointment of a new board member to oversee this core part of the group. The group refreshed policies for water, waste and chemicals, managed its overall environmental footprint through its internal MAS Calibration Tool. The group also unveiled some breakthrough projects such as the 1MW solar solution at a major fabrics facility and a state of the art sludge dryer in the Biyagama industrial zone. 2016 will see the group’s foreign facilities join this roadmap as it continues to make environmental conservation a key focus in the roll out of the integrated sustainability strategy. Communication on Progress 2015 22 Communication on Progress 2015 23 Achievements in 2015 Governance & Strategy •• 39 facilities in Sri Lanka certified under ISO 14064:2006 P7 The commitment to sustainability at MAS is a daily routine and isn’t limited to landmark •• 33 manufacturing facilities in Sri Lanka certified under ISO 14001:2005 projects. A dedicated community of sustainability professionals and practitioners at MAS •• MAS won the top 4 accolades at the National Green Awards 2015 include a Director of Environmental Sustainability as well as a Central Team and a growing •• Sri Lanka’s largest roof mounted solar solution of 1 MW unveiled at MAS P8 network of Sustainability champions who run weekly if not daily initiatives across all MAS Fabrics Matrix. facilities. •• MAS Intimates Linea Clothing powered by 8% and MDS powered by 12% P9 solar energy As of June 2015 the challenging role of the Board member overlooking Environmental •• MAS Active Linea Intimo pioneered the world’s first chemical leasing concept Sustainability at MAS has been transferred to Sarinda Unamboowe who brings his own for waste water treatment •• MAS Environmental Sustainability Calibration tool V1.2 was rolled out and all sense of passion and direction to the role. P7 SBU’s have successfully achieved a “PASS” Rating •• Development of the MAS Restricted Substances List (RSL) to meet global Fresh in his role as the Group Director in charge of Environmental Sustainability at MAS, ZDHC and brands requirements and become free of toxic chemicals by Sarinda Unamboowe, Board Director for Environmental Sustainability has committed the P8 2018 group to the areas of waste disposal, the curbing of hazardous chemical usage in the •• Refreshed the MAS Water Policy manufacturing process and renewable energy usage as three major areas that MAS will P9 •• Refreshed the MAS Waste Management Policy focus on, within the scope of Environmental Sustainability. •• Launched the new MAS Chemical Policy The Environmental Sustainability Steering Committee (ESSC) established in 2011 We continue in our efforts to reduce emissions, water and energy even as production continues its work with direction from the Executive Director for Environmental Sustainability volumes increase. We are using more renewable energy sources each year, investing – Sharika Senanayake – and remains responsible for overseeing the group’s application in R&D that has turned out innovative solutions for waste and chemical management of precautionary, proactive and innovative approaches to ES. and always reinforcing innovative ways to integrate our sustainability performance into every business operation. The ESSC is further supported by the Central Environmental Sustainability Team (EST) which reports to the Director for Environmental Sustainability. •• Across MAS, plant level executives work in tandem with group level work streams on initiatives which directly enhance our environmental performance. •• The Board of Directors guides the overarching vision for MAS as a sustainable apparel company. •• The Director of Sustainability articulates and implements this vision with a broad agenda to manage the strategy, funding, resources, organisation and execution of each one. •• The ESSC acts as an advisory body that supports the development and implementation of the above strategies across the group at plant level. •• The EST acts as a central team that records, facilitates and directs sustainability data, shares and communicates the language of sustainability at MAS and schedules key events and milestones across the group. Communication on Progress 2015 24 Communication on Progress 2015 25 Environment Management System The scope and implementation of our Environmental Management System has been continuously bolstered with the expansion of ISO 14001 for 33 plants and ISO 14064 status for all 39 SBUs and the development of the MAS Calibration Tool and the continuing deployment of the Eco Tracker. • ISO 14001:2004 certified – Environmental Management System • ISO 14064:2014 certified – Greenhouse Gas accounting and verification • MAS ES Calibration Tool Version 1.2 Member of MAS Board of Directors Director Environmental Sustainability The MAS Environmental Sustainability Calibration Tool Central Environmental Environmental Sustainability Steering Committee (ESSC includes 5 Sustainability has been a cornerstone of MAS since its inception in 1987. In 2010 Environmental Sustainability team divisional leaders of the MAS Group and specialist ES work stream Sustainability was identified as a core value for the organization and we have been making Heads) steady progress to establish the right foundations from within. 5 Divisional Leaders Work Stream Heads In 2014 the Environmental Sustainability teams built an internal standard – the MAS Divisional Representatives Energy Environmental Sustainability Calibration Tool that would take our facilities to net zero impact. It was developed to assess, benchmark, rate and subsequently improve existing infrastructure P7 Facility Representatives Emissions in all our facilities. P8 Chemicals 2015 witnessed the roll out of version 1.2 which has been implemented at all operational The work streams are responsible for initiating facilities across MAS. Version 1.2 saw the inclusion of the Chemical Management framework strategic projects and creating and sharing best Water which involved ongoing work to align MAS with global ZDHC targets as well as its own goal P9 practices within MAS for a more holistic approach to be zero-toxic by 2020. All facilities achieved a ‘Pass’ rating in assessments carried out by to our environmental performance. Waste the central environmental engineering team in October/November 2015. Eco product Past learnings, new technology & internal best practices will be incorporated into future versions of the Calibration Tool through the continuous improvement methodology of lean Culture management, and move MAS constantly forward to our goal of a net zero impact facility. Standards The MAS Eco Tracker Biodiversity KPI Intensity Measurements Processes and Systems As the operations of the group differentiate widely, we evaluate data for water, energy and Environment Management System emissions using a system of intensities. The Apparel cut and sew sector which manufactures P7 garments contains the largest number of facilities and has a measurement denominator of The foundations for the sustainability journey of MAS were laid in 2010. It began with a sewing / work hours. The Fabric division with more energy intensive processes for textile vision to standardise environmental performance and management. Today, over 33 MAS P8 manufacturing has a measurement denominator of fabric output. Other divisions (See facilities are ISO 14001:2004 certified while another 39 have achieved ISO 14064:2006 Table 1 for Intensity Measurements per Activity / Division) within the group run specialist status. Newer facilities outside Sri Lanka are set to adopt the same international standards operations such as silicone garment, seamless garment and accessory manufacturing and to manage their environmental footprint. P9 are measured accordingly with relevant denominators for intensity We are also also committed to publishing our emissions data, which is gathered and independently verified in line with the ISO 14064:2006 standard. It is the only voluntary Sri Lankan signatory publishing data on the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) among global brands. Communication on Progress 2015 26 Communication on Progress 2015 27 Table 1: Intensity Measurements Summary Intensity Measurements Activity Non-grid Emissions Water Electricity Energy Apparel Cut & MJ/unit of hour Kg CO2E/unit of l/per person/10 kWh/unit of hour Sew worked hour worked hour shift worked Seamlessly MJ/Kg of dyed Kg CO2E/kg of l/Kg of dyed fabric kWh/Kg of dyed Knitted Garments fabric dyed fabric fabric Garment MJ/unit of hour Kg CO2E/unit of l/Kg of dyed fabric kWh/unit of hour Accessories worked hour worked worked Apparel MJ/unit of hour Kg CO2E/unit of l/per person/10 kWh/unit of hour Components worked hour worked hour shift worked Fabrics MJ/Kg of dyed Kg CO2E/kg of l/Kg of dyed fabric kWh/Kg of dyed Processing fabric dyed fabric fabric The MAS Integrated Sustainability Strategy In 2015 we validated the final phase of a holistic strategy that will be our framework to P7 ensure that sustainability targets and metrics are merged with our business processes, Eco Product Innovation plans and reviews. Implementation of the integrated strategy is now underway with a new P8 P7 vision being articulated across the group for how sustainability is perceived and acted on In 2015, Eco Product work stream created an MAS specialized definition to identify the sales within MAS in the next 10 years. P9 turnover of sustainable products and expanded its product portfolio to include recycled polyester, recycled nylon, organic and BCI cotton as well as coffee fiber. P8 Sustainability Communications MAS Intimates used over six million meters of eco fabric in 2015. As a group we have P9 The flow of stories from across MAS on its sustainability projects continued both within achieved US $28 million as sales turnover from its sustainable product range in 2015. and outside. We continued to keep all our stakeholders from customers to employees informed and equipped with accurate information at a constant level. Regular internal communiques were bolstered with key events to generate awareness while key calendar events such as Earth Hour and World Environment Day were celebrated across all facilities. In 2015 several major stories made headlines in the media from Linea Intimo’s Chemical Leasing innovation to the Matrix solar rooftop project. Communication on Progress 2015 28 Communication on Progress 2015 29 For Matrix whose rooftop now carries the weight of 3,900 solar PV panels, roughly the size of 1.3 football fields, the project began with a simple decision by its CEO Ivan Brown that solar power will somehow be part of its energy mix as an extension of their sustainability P7 investments. P8 Matrix operates as a dedicated knitting facility and Ivan says the solar investment is a milestone that adds further value to a product which already has the environment in mind with the use of recycled polyester and closed loop initiatives. P9 P7 Outcomes in 2015 P8 ONE MEGAWATT OF POWER ONE PART OF A BIGGER STORY SPOTLIGHT 1: MAS UNVEILS ONE OF SOUTH “Business and industry think of sustainability projects from a revenue growth or ASIA’S LARGEST SOLAR SOLUTIONS WITH P9 cost perspective and that needs to change.” says Ivan. “Why not adopt a simpler A STATE OF MIND approach of change that comes from the inside change that happens simply for our At the launch of its one megawatt rooftop solar own peace of mind? It may never make financial sense to some but it does, and it carries solution, the greatest, biggest or best isn’t far more value and inspires more conversations than a one off project which takes the stage good enough. The real switch to renewable for a matter of time.” solutions is sometimes a simple change of mind and how determined you are to look WHAT IS OUR ENERGY FUTURE ? beyond cost. The solar story is not a new one to us The industry has a choice – to keep denying how energy trends are changing worldwide and but our commitment to renewable energy went a seek only payback or take a moral stand on social and environmental grounds and adopt notch higher in 2015 with the unveiling of Sri Lanka’s clean energy as a leap of faith. largest rooftop solar plant at the MAS Fabrics Matrix plant inside its Fabric Park in Thulhiriya. Communication on Progress 2015 30 Communication on Progress 2015 31 Energy & Emissions New in 2015 • Chiller installation expected to save up to 45000 Kwh per month • Over 20 other energy projects expected to save nearly 30000 Kwh in total »» Switching to LED lighting »» AC replacement »» Skylights We approach energy usage and efficiency with the constant application of new technologies, new methods and fresh ideas. As our business grows we have made significant progress into integrating energy efficiency standards into all our plants since our first LEED certified plant in 2008. Energy continues to be the most challenging and yet most exciting area of sustainability performance for MAS. In 2015 we increased our renewable energy component to over 46%, and bolstered our commitments to: •• Identify and implement energy-efficiency projects throughout our plants •• Apply ISO 14001:2004 standards for 33 plants •• Building sub meters for all major utilities Measurements Energy Mix •• Calibration Tool Ver 1.2 All fabric plants now use biomass as a major •• Eco tracker energy source. Almost all the Fabric facilities •• ISO 14064-1: 2006 have a higher biomass energy footprint than from electricity or furnace oil. MAS ENERGY MIX (GJ) Purchased Electricity 42.12% Diesel 2.95% Kerosene 0.53% Biomass 46.09% HFO 6.61% LPG Renewable electricity 1.54% 0.15% P7 P7 Our biomass usage has increased by 10% in 2015 compared to 2014. Our renewable Ajay Amalean Managing Director of MAS Brands says the electricity usage is 10 times more than 2014 due the solar installations that took place in group’s commitment to sustainability goes beyond unveiling P8 2015. P8 marquee solutions. P9 Energy Managers’ Forum P9 Amalean reveals “46% of MAS runs on renewable energy and the culture of self-driven change and constant innovation is something we The MAS Energy Team continued to enhance the technical competency of the will carry into the future. Our journey to make a difference to the group’s energy management system through the Energy Managers’ Forum and environment began in 2010. We wanted to set the benchmarks a four day comprehensive energy management training conducted with the and raise our capabilities. This is just the beginning of a journey collaboration of Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy Authority. The 2015 Energy Manager that will be continued by several generations of MAS.” forum focused on solar and BMS training. Communication on Progress 2015 32 Communication on Progress 2015 33 Energy Projects ACTIVITY/DIVISION % DIFFERENCE % DIFFERENCE •• Noyon Lanka installed a Biomass Thermic Heater with a capacity of 2.0 MKCal/ 2015/2010 2015/2014 Hr as the first thermic heater for the group. P7 APPAREL CUT & SEW 12.67% -3.68% •• Installing a second chiller system in Linea Aqua. Expected savings from this project are 45,000 Kwh per month SEAMLESSLY KNITTED P8 GARMENTS 38.89% 9.98% •• Matrix installed 1 Mwh solar system this year. It has been functioning since Sep 2015 GARMENT •• Linea Aqua 1 has expanded 2014’s 55 kwh solar power to 250 kwh in 2015 while P9 ACCESSORIES 29.63% -10.49% Linea Aqua 2 installed a 5 Kwh solar system in 2015 APPAREL COMPONENTS 1.68% -6.39% •• MAS Intimates installed solar Photovoltaic installation at Linea Clothing (100 kWp) FABRICS PROCESSING 15.80% -3.86% and at MDS (170 kWp) •• A negative value denotes an intensity increase while a positive value means a reduction in intensity. See Table 1 for Intensity Measurements. Energy Intensity Targets for 2015 •• 4% Reduction in Electricity Intensity for all divisions In 2015 all divisions were allocated a combined intensity reduction target for electricity. Emissions While each division measures their intensities differently in 2015 seamlessly knitted P7 garments which is one of the group’s largest consumers of electricity achieved While we have reduced our energy intensity as a group by 18% considerable reductions in their electricity intensity. Fabrics, Apparel cut and sew, from the 2010 baseline, our emissions intensities show high spikes garment accessories and apparel components all recorded increased P8 due to the grid emission factor that comes from the heavy coal base of the grid. •• We are constantly expanding the garment production capacity as well as developing innovative methods of producing garments. As our facilities New in 2015 P9 introduce new styles which require different types of embellishment our •• Verification of GHG Inventory under ISO 14064-3: 2006 electricity usage has increased. •• Installation of solar panels The Emissions team was able to verify the 2014 emissions database against ISO 14064 international standard. These Electricity Intensity data have also been submitted to the Carbon Disclosure 17.09 18.00 Project (CDP), a public disclosure which was published kWh/ Unit of measurement 16.00 14.00 in July 2015. Our 2014 greenhouse gas inventory report 12.00 10.44 has been certificated with 100% reasonable assurance for 10.00 8.84 8.00 7.45 7.15 7.03 Scope-1 and 100% reasonable assurance for Scope-2. 6.00 4.00 2.41 2.00 1.03 0.90 1.69 In 2014, MAS was certified to have emitted 15,296 tCO2e for Scope 0.00 -1 and 43, 467 tCO2e for scope -2. Apparel cut and Fabric Processing Apparel Seamlessly knitted Garment sew Component Garments Accessories Function Intensity 2010 Intensity 2014 Intensity 2015 For 2015 we are in the process of verifying our greenhouse gas emissions according to ISO 14064: Scope 1&2. External audits will be complete by May 2016. Communication on Progress 2015 34 Communication on Progress 2015 35 Despite being affected by the increased use of non-renewable The national Grid emissions factor for each year will be revised energy sources by the National Grid, emissions reduction using the latest published verified electricity generation data by P7 P7 initiatives continue to move forward with the emissions team the Ceylon Electricity Board. The Calculation will be validated focusing on securing a sustainable biomass supply and through ISO 14064 verifications each year. The latest factor preparing the group for ISO 14064 certification for 2015. P8 available is for 2014, which was used to calculate the emissions P8 for 2014/2015 period. P9 P9 Emissions Breakdown Emissions Intensity 14.00 12.62 EMISSIONS BY FUEL (MTCO2E) kgCO2e/Unit of measurement 12.00 Purchased Electricity 10.00 88.57% 8.00 6.39 6.49 6.00 5.01 3.96 4.00 2.69 1.59 0.98 2.00 0.42 0.53 Apparel Cut and Fabric Processing Apparel Seamlessly Garment sew Component knitted Garments Accessories Function LPG 0.73% HFO Diesel Intensity 2010 Intensity 2014 Intensity 2015 Kerosene 7.13% 3.04% 0.53% Emissions Intensity Considering the fluctuating nature of the national grid DIVISION / FACILITY % DIFFERENCE 2015/2010 % DIFFERENCE 2015/2014 emissions factor we will no longer peg our KPIs to CUT & SEW -25.55% -2.86% emissions intensity numbers but will continue to work on reducing our overall emissions intensity internally. SEAMLESSLY KNITTED GARMENTS 48.57% 9.41% Grid Emission Factor GARMENT ACCESSORIES 37.98% 25.96% 0.7 APPAREL COMPONENTS -46.87% -5.39% 0.6 FABRICS PROCESSING 37.98% 25.96% kg CO2e/ Kwh 0.5 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 The CDP was created in 2000 to collect data and create resources Year in order to help companies, investors and governments in their fight against climate change. We closed our climate change strategy and emissions inventories for the Apparel Sector in Sri Lanka for the year 2014 in the CDP system in July 2015. Communication on Progress 2015 36 Communication on Progress 2015 37 Renewable Energy P7 New in 2015 •• Installed 1 MW solar PV project which is currently functioning at MAS Fabrics Matrix P8 •• Addition of 195 Kw solar PV to ongoing project and a new installation of 5kw at another facility •• Expanded technology options for use of renewable P9 energy •• 295 kWp solar panels and 57 cu.m biogas units for renewable energy at MAS Intimates In 2015 we continued to raise our renewable energy component up to 46.25% of total energy sources. Since 2010 our renewable energy share has tripled. % Renewable energy 50.00 45.00 40.00 35.00 Percentage 30.00 25.00 20.00 15.00 10.00 5.00 0.00 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Water Water is a key component of our production process which gives us more reasons to P7 invest in its sustainability and its protection. We see both motivation and opportunity to reduce our water consumption in our P8 own operations and introducing innovative products and services that help our P9 customers to reduce their water and energy consumption. It also positions us favourably in a market where apparel and textile brands are continuously looking for ways to make their supply chain more sustainable. Communication on Progress 2015 38 Communication on Progress 2015 39 New in 2015 •• Accredited Water Quality Lab shared as a national P7 resource •• Installing rain water harvesting •• Sensor taps to reduce water usage P8 •• 5% overall reduction of water intensity from 2014 •• 40% reduction of water intensity since 2011 in Fabrics which is the biggest user. P9 Measurements Water Intensity •• Calibration Tool •• Eco Tracker Target for 2015 • A minimum of 3% reduction in water Intensity YOY All plants started measuring water intensity reductions since 2011 apart from Apparel cut & sew and Apparel components which started measuring intensities in 2013. Year on year all functions recorded intensity reductions except apparel cut and sew and garment accessories . Water Intensity 475.93 500.00 P7 L/ unit of measurement 384.29 400.00 318.68 316.58 300.00 250.01 200.00 181.79 P8 135.31 59.85 57.92 79.50 100.00 P9 Apparel Cut and sew Fabric Processing Apparel component Seamlessly knitted Garment Accessories garments Function 2011 2013 2014 2015 •• A negative value denotes an intensity increase while a positive value means an reduction Building on these commitments, in 2015: in intensity. See Table 1 for Intensity Measurements. •• We constantly updated plant infrastructure and systems to increase our water efficiency. •• We tracked and analysed our water usage via the company’s ECO-tracker database. •• Low flow aerators to canteen taps Linea Clothing, Linea Intimates, Thurulie, Vidiyal, Unichela Biyagama and Unichela Panadura •• Casualline Rainwater harvesting system capacity increased to 12 cu.m and 150 cu.m per month rainwater is being used for flushing during rainy season. •• Vidiyal Installed a new Reverse Osmosis system for raw water treatment •• Linea Aqua Naiwala A project to divert all excess treated water from the plant for agricultural practices at a nearby school. This transformed ‘waste water’ into a useable resource and helped the school to divert its useable water for pastoral needs. The Sustainability Team at Naiwala also constructed a tube well, providing ample clean and safe water for drinking and for sanitation for 1200 children in the school. Communication on Progress 2015 40 Communication on Progress 2015 41 Chemical Management Work Stream The Chemical Management System was implemented across MAS to support the global P7 drive of Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals in the supply chain by 2020. We have set ourselves a target a target to eliminate 11 hazardous chemicals by 2020 in process, non-process and its supply chain. The MAS Chemical Management Work Stream (CMWS) P8 was initiated in 2013 with the intention of making our products free of toxic chemicals by 2020’. We will ensure the safety of our people, our consumers and our environment through P9 proactively understanding and prudently selecting every chemical and raw material used within MAS. MAS Restricted Substances List (RSL) The MAS Manufacturing Restricted Substances List (MRSL) consists of the Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC) MRSL chemicals and some additional chemicals which is referred as ‘Research List’. Research List contains chemicals which have irreversible impacts either to human or to the environment and some of these chemicals would be included in the future ZDHC MRSL revisions. In 2015, we have published one version update to the MAS MRSL. MAS Chemical Management Policy In 2015, we have published the first Chemical Management Policy for the MAS group. The following areas are covered under the policy: 1. Chemical Purchasing 2. Chemical Inventory 3. Chemical Handling and Use 4. Chemical Storage 5. Chemical Labelling 6. Chemical Disposal 7. Training on Chemical Use Chemical Assessments in all MAS SBUs The Chemical Management section was introduced to the Calibration Tool version 1.2 and we have completed Calibration Tool assessments in all our SBUs in last year. Along with these audits we have carried out water testing (incoming water and dye house raw effluent) Chemicals against the ZDHC 11 priority chemical groups through Bureau Veritas, Sri Lanka. Target Supplier Awareness Sessions •• To make MAS and its products free of toxic chemicals P7 In 2015, we have engaged with the Dye house and Printing chemical suppliers to give an by 2020 awareness on our roadmap of making ‘MAS and its products free of toxic chemicals by 2020’. New in 2015 P8 •• One version update to MAS Manufacturing Restricted Substances List (MRSL) •• Published the MAS Chemical Management Policy P9 •• Conducted Chemical Assessment in all MAS SBUs •• Conducted Supplier Awareness Sessions •• Chemical Management Workshop •• Non Process chemical harmonization •• L Brands Chemical Assessments Communication on Progress 2015 42 Communication on Progress 2015 43 Chemical Management Workshop Waste The MAS Chemical Management Workstream organized a workshop for those who are P7 responsible for Chemical Management in SBUs. External speakers from the National Waste Management System Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) Sri Lanka, Sri Lanka Institute of Nano New in 2015: Technology (SLINTEC) and Bureau Veritas conducted lectures during the workshop. P8 •• MAS Waste Management Policy •• Reduced Plastic Zone expanded P9 •• Sludge Dryer system installed Waste management continued to be a large focus at MAS with fabric waste continuing to be a challenging frontier which we have strategically targeted as a key focus. In 2015 we completed a group wide waste management policy that will guide the group to a long term solution combined with an integrated strategy to facilitate innovation in finding solutions towards a zero landfill vision and a goal of value P7 enhancement. The MAS group continued to increase the percentage of waste that is P8 disposed sustainably through a dedicated waste management policy that continues to: P9 Identify types and quantities of waste generated Evaluate the waste diposal method Discover and develop susatainable waste disposal technologies Non Process Chemical Harmonization Replicate technology and streamline waste disposal We began harmonizing our non-process chemicals last year as part of aligning to ZDHC standards and as the first phase we have conducted trials with environmental friendly janitorial and stain removing suppliers Achieve goal of zero waste to landfill across all our divisions. Fabric waste by disposal method L Brands Chemical Assessment In 2015, Limited Brands conducted Chemical Assessments in our Energy Recovery business namely Stretchline, Noyon Lanka, Trischel Fabric and Textprint Recycle 31.58% 31.32% Lanka. The MAS Chemical Management Workstream engaged and helped our facilities to successfully pass the audits. Reuse Recycle Energy Recovery Incinerate Landfill Other Incinerate 0.25% Reuse Landfill 30.52% 6.33% The measurement of waste disposal methods grew more refined in 2015 as we determined to judge the volume of waste that is disposed sustainably across MAS. Communication on Progress 2015 44 Communication on Progress 2015 45 SPOTLIGHT 2: MAS IS WINNING THE WAR ON SLUDGE ONE BRICK AT A TIME P7 The operation is 95% dependent on the heat of the sun with solar radiation used to evaporate the unwanted water FROM SLUDGE BRICK TO SLUDGE BOT – THE JOURNEY fraction. The state of the art Green House facility has the In 2011 we began extensive research and development to create P8 ability to harness more than 1.6 Million Kwh of free energy a long term solution for the problem of ETP Sludge. So began the annually via solar radiation annually. The one-man facility Great Brick project at the MAS Fabric Park in Thulhiriya which has P9 is complete with Climate Sensors, PLC’s (Programmable become one of the group’s most sustainable initiatives towards Logic Controllers) and SCADA (Supervisory Control zero landfill . After months of intense R&D the teams achieved a and Data Acquisition) solutions for remote monitoring breakthrough which turned ETP sludge into eco bricks. Since then for engineers to view and control the parameters from MFP has perfected the process and has converted all its sludge to anywhere via GSM. thousands of bricks. In 2015 the zone turned all of its 600 tonnes of ETP sludge into 70,000 bricks, tiles and grills that have been used P7 “This is the first large-scale industrial model implemented by the group for the landscaping of its own facilities. in Sri Lanka which clusters ETP Sludge generating and collecting points, conducts advanced analysis on sludge quality, conducts transport carbon footprint reduction P8 RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENTS CONTINUED WITH MODERN TECHNOLOGY analysis, and finally co-processes the sludge into energy recovery stage.” In 2015 we expanded the breakthrough project to the Biyagama Industrial Zone with the Harsha Deraniyagala DGM of the Hydro & Environmental unit of MAS Fabric Park says “We P9 construction of a Solar Sludge Dryer that will take its water commitments to new heights. The facility will help dry the 1,600 tonnes of wet sludge we produce in Biyagama each year. want to stop the malpractice of dumping ETP sludge.The harm done by effluent waste The industrial zone in Biyagama alone produces 5,000 tonnes or one fifth of Sri Lanka’s seeping into our groundwater is a national problem and threatens future water resources. total sludge output. We hope they can extend the service to industry peers inside the zone If we generate enthusiasm about this solution we hope more companies will follow and a in the future. national policy on the management of ETP sludge will finally take effect.” Biodiversity, Community & Culture In 2015 MAS not just continued its commitment to raising awareness and protecting resources which sustain our communities and the environment but we refreshed our group-wide projects with a collaborative approach for key calendar events such as Earth Hour and World Environment Day. Group-wide projects Built at a cost of USD 450,000 the 10,000 square foot sludge drying facility will help us to manage 1,600 tonnes of wet sludge per year by reducing it to 550 tonnes of dry sludge that World Environment Day will then be used as a co-processing fuel under strict controls. For the first time in the history of MAS we combined and converted our multiple tree planting initiatives into one which grows and sustains trees for two years. Titled ‘Root for Trees’ this World Environment Day campaign resulted in over 6,500 trees being planted across MAS with a system to monitor each sapling as it grows in the next two years. The idea was to grow forests together. Communication on Progress 2015 46 Communication on Progress 2015 47 In 2015 the focus was on (1) Sustainable long term tree planting P7 (2) Forestation (reforestation, afforestation) “Root for trees” aims to achieve the blue sky which is forest P8 cover increase in Sri Lanka. The goal was to identify exceptional projects from SBU’s and develop them to mini Singharaja or P9 Kanneliya level. Facilities were encouraged everyone to follow the successful analog forestry concept of Thuruwadula at MAS Fabric Park. They were also advised on planting native or useful (fruit, herbal, medicinal) species and were supported with required information by the Central ES team. P7 P8 P9 Slimline and Slimtex Initiated a large scale Dikkale forest cleanup project partnering with local schools, Urban Council and the Police to remove plastic and polythene from the forest. Earth Hour We collectively saved 32 Mwh this Earth Hour. Earth Hour celebrations at we saw hundreds of staff, communities, management come together to engage, inform and connect under a theme of “using your power for change” for Earth Day 2015. Over several days before and beyond Earth Hour, MAS facilities across Sri Lanka held dozens of initiatives from intensive awareness within facilities, to numerous energy saving measures and ideas and inspiration on Earth Hour for government and community leaders, schools, and their own staff. Our Earth Hour message went beyond the walls of MAS into city centers, hospitals, and police stations. We went well beyond simply shutting off power for Earth Hour and used our collective power to unite for maximum impact this year. MAS Intimates Casualline won a special recognition award from MAS Holdings for impacting more than 10,000 communities for Earth Hour. “Casualline engaged all religious, governmental and non-governmental institutions of Mawathagama for Earth Hour celebrations in 2015, March 28 resulting in entire town switching off lights and raising awareness on Climate Change”. This was the largest public event ever to be organized by a corporate for Earth Hour Sri Lanka. Communication on Progress 2015 48 Communication on Progress 2015 49 MAS Active Contourline Fights the Plastic The Eco Club of Contourline decided to hunt down the scourge of polythene and plastic P7 in 2015 with several campaigns across the year. The campaigns ran through Yala National Park one of the most visited national parks which is also one of the largest dumping grounds for stray polythene and plastic bottles despite the best efforts to stop their entry P8 into the reserve. Contourline’s hunt for plastic went from the dry arid plains of Yala to the chilly foothills of Adam’s Peak, Sri Lanka’s fourth highest peak and the central capital of P9 Kandy. Over 1,500 kilos were collected within 10 hours at each location, with bottles, bags and lunch wrap making up the largest part of the haul. Linea Clothing | Linea Intimates | Unichela Panadura | Casualline | Silueta Butterfly Garden “Battichcho” The ‘Battichcho’ programme conducted by the Linea Aqua Naiwala team was initiated in 2012. This is a programme held Experiential Programme P7 annually. The main objective of the programme is to create for Children of all Staff opportunities to enhance the talents and creativity of the kids of the employees, which they cannot gain from the school. P8 Linea Clothing and Linea Intimates 80 awareness boards were The programme is conducted on various topics and include installed on Forest and Water conservation at Knuckles Forest information on animals, how to protect the environment and P9 Range, Upper Mahaweli Catchment Areas and Water Sheds conservation, while teaching them in protecting themselves with partnership with Mahaweli Authority and Forest Department as well. Students between the ages 6 – 12 participated and Initiated the construction of an analog forest on a two acre land benefited from the programme in Pallekale BOI zone. BEE Programme The BEE (Build an Eco-friendly Employee project was initiated by the team as means of spreading awareness across the Team Members. A chosen module is given a 20 minute introduction to ISO 14001 highlighting the impact to the environment, how to be a green citizen and initiatives done by Linea Aqua. Communication on Progress 2015 50 Communication on Progress 2015 51 Community Support & MAS Intimates Thurulie Awareness •• Pilot Organic Home Gardening training model is P7 being implemented at Thurulie with the objective of replicating the same model in other MAS Plants. P8 The project looks at training employees on treating soil, making organic fertilizer, pest control, planting, monitoring and P9 maintenance. Sustainability Calendar Every MAS plant initiated their own lineup of activities, ideas Events and environmental awareness events at each milestone on the 2015 calendar. MAS World Environment Day MAS World Water Day Earth Hour Most MAS plants have their own sustainability teams, clubs and calendars which proactively drive projects throughout the year. Sustainability events and days are marked across MAS with high visibility via engaging communications and passionate people always on the ground. Everything we do is guided by our focus on the “greening” of management, products, processes, workplace and communities. Our Environmental Sustainability policy guides and supports the continuous enhancement of a greener environment through our business. Communication on Progress 2015 52 Communication on Progress 2015 53 WOMEN MATTER MAS Recognized Their Incredible Women and Their Real Lives P1 We continue to lead the way in Women’s Empowerment in the Apparel Industry in Sri Lanka having 76,000 associates and of P2 which 70 % are women. Since its launch in 2003 the MAS flagship initiative Women Go Beyond (WGB) has grown from strength to strength seeing more females becoming economically P6 empowered and advancing in their career at the workplace, whilst fulfilling their family expectations and becoming inspirational role models in their community. 2015, has been a significant year for WGB with the expansion of its network locally and internationally, engaging employees through non-work related skill development, educational and awareness programs while supporting and providing opportunities for females to perform well and giving tangible and intangible moral support to create a balanced family life. WGB continued its efforts to develop a process to encourage gender equality at all levels of the organization and promote a conducive working environment, facilitating the establishment of group wide policies on harassment and discrimination. Female associates were given opportunities to increase selfconfidence, self-reliance and decision making power through awareness programmes and skill development. It continues to impact the female associates, their colleagues, families and the communities they belong to. Communication on Progress 2015 54 Communication on Progress 2015 55 Mainstream Gender Equality – Engaging Males We continued our its efforts to mainstream Gender Equality among all employees of the company, to ensure that the workforce is benefitted equally at all levels of the organization and to create a culture of gender sensitive and inclusiveness at the workplace and home by establishing a framework. We have achieved a 5% increase in gender equality. Gender Sensitivity Training Gender sensitivity training for female executives was conducted with two workshops impacting 49 employees as a new initiative. The program was conducted by Ms. Shyma Salgado, National Program Manager, Fundamental Principles & Rights at Work – International Labor Organization (ILO), Colombo. P1 P1 The objectives of this programme were to enhance the understanding of improving skills P2 P2 on promoting equality and respecting diversity for family and workplace harmony and to Career Advancement identify the challenges faced by women in their multiple roles, with emphasis on work-life balance. It also helps create an open space / discussion forum to share their experiences P6 Career Development for MAS Women P6 and to build individual capacity to support career advancement. Two leadership training programs were conducted to build soft skills to support career development. 52 empowered women were impacted by this training. In addition we continued engaging male executives and managers and sensitizing them on the importance of gender role to share responsibilities. This year 82 male executives were Role Model Development impacted through this program. This is a fast track program for Empowered Women to become leaders and role models to their fellow associates, families and to their communities. Work-Life Balance – Spotlight Story Creating Dialogue on Gender Equality at Learning to Speak English The first batch of 10 Empowered Women successfully passed the Workplace last year. The six month course was conducted at the Rainbow Institute of Communication. To create a dialogue on gender equality, MAS Active organized a special debating Gold coins were awarded for best attendance, highest marks and most significant competition in celebration of the improvement to motivate and encourage other participants. International Women’s day. It was a new experience for all employees who Meanwhile, the Personality Development program helped our associates build their participated at this event. The goal of this personality through a physical wellbeing for a better quality of life. competition was to create a dialogue on gender equality at workplace and surface some of the issues faced by women in the apparel sector. Both male and female participation was encouraged and the competition included topics such as working hours, harassment at work, overtime and gender and career advancement. This will be held as an annual event for the continuation of dialogue on gender equality. Communication on Progress 2015 56 Communication on Progress 2015 57 Past Winners Alumni Forum – 2015 This forum was organized by 236 past winners who received the opportunity to gather at a P1 common forum to share their best practices and learnings from WGB led initiatives. Career Advancement – Spotlight Story Stripes of Courage Fundraiser and P2 Scholarship P6 Career Advancement – Spotlight Story GAP Inc. P.A.C.E. Program MAS Intimates worked with P.A.C.E. Global initiative representatives in preparation for the launch of the Gap Inc. P.A.C.E Program, piloting this initiative at Slimtex. The inaugural batch P1 of 200 participants from Slimtex, selected through an open application and competitive selection process will join over 30,000 women across 10 countries who have already P2 been through the program. A special scholarship award was given to recognize MAS Active division female associates Several pre-preparation steps were conducted: P6 for the progress in their higher education and careers. The scholarship award is funded •• An open call for applications from team member level employees at MAS through proceeds from staff sales carried out for the management and executives of the Intimates Slimtex division. •• Presentation of the program to Senior Leaders and direct supervisors of the proposed participants The objective of this scholarship is to promote the active engagement and retention of •• Selection of Trainers and a Master Trainer for the Program female employees at the workplace. •• Intensive Trainer the Trainer Programs conducted in August and December •• Key Influencer Sensitization was conducted for various groups who would come Career Advancement – Spotlight Story – Alternative Career Paths for Women in direct contact with participants – supervisors, managers, family members etc. •• Continuous dialogue with Gap Inc. P.A.C.E. Global Initiative representatives and MAS Active provides various opportunities for women master trainer to contextualize the syllabus to suit Slimtex to enter unconventional work roles within the industry. •• Collection of indicative data on the participants This adds the emphasis of individuals’ qualification and interest rather than socially assigned gender MAS Intimates will conduct this under the Career Advancement Pillar of the Women Go specific work roles. With this initiative MAS Active is Beyond program. There are clear synergies with WGB, and a globally constructed Life formally developing female Mechanics, Printers and Skills learning curriculum, contextualize to Sri Lanka and MAS Intimates will clearly enhance Cutters. the cognitive development initiative that we can offer to our team members. P.A.C.E.(Personal Advancement and Career Enhancement) life learning program was introduced by Gap Inc. in 2007 to provide opportunities for female apparel industry workers, to enhance their leadership and life skills, to help their professional and personal growth, to gain the skills and confidence they need to advance at work and in life. Many women say P.A.C.E. has been life changing, teaching them tangible skills while shifting their perception of themselves and their abilities. In September 2015, Gap Inc. committed to educate one million women throughout the world by the end of 2020. Communication on Progress 2015 58 Communication on Progress 2015 59 KEY OBJECTIVES: •• Positively impact participants by providing them with foundational skills and P1 support that will help them advance in the workplace and in their personal lives •• Create a sustainable and scalable program model that benefits all participants and contributors P2 •• Have a positive impact in the communities by strengthening relationships with Gap Inc. strategic vendors P6 LIFE SKILLS LEARNING The P.A.C.E. curriculum covers a variety of topics related to life skills that are crucial to the growth and development of the participants. Each module is designed to enhance specific competencies and to help participants understand concepts in a holistic way. Currently the program covers up to 8 modules of learning: (1) Communication (2) Problem Solving and Decision Making (3) Time and Stress Management (4) Water, Sanitation & Hygiene (5) Execution Excellence (6) General and Reproductive Health (7) Financial Literacy and (8) Legal Literacy and Social Entitlements. Execution Excellence is a module of learning that teaches workers how to apply their newly learned skills, particularly in the workplace. Additionally, the topics of Safety & Security and Gender are integrated across all of the modules. Gender describes gender roles and norms and how gender influences opportunities and access to resources. The life skills education component of P.A.C.E. consists of approximately 65-80 hours of learning and usually covers an 8-10 month timeframe. Commencing with the first cycle at Slimtex in February 2016, this would become a selfsustaining program for Slimtex. MAS Intimates would then take the learnings, and implement this across other plants that manufacture Gap products within the Division as a next phase, WORK LIFE BALANCE and then onto all plants across Intimates. Happy Family Life Program As part of the work life balance initiative under Corporate Women Go Beyond program, “The Happy Family Life” awareness program has continued to develop individual wellbeing and to reduce stress, both at the workplace and at home. P1 Additional programs were conducted due to high demand. We also extended this awareness sessions to communities of the employees and their spouses (husband). P2 2714 females & males were impacted through the 14 workshops conducted. P6 Getting More Out of Life Objectives: •• To improve knowledge on Sexual & Reproductive Health. •• To achieve the desired behavioral change with regard to reproductive and general health. •• Personality development and grooming for female employees to build confidence and groom role models Impacts: Getting More Out of Life (Female) 6 programs – 597 Getting More Out of Life (Male) 4 programs – 82 Communication on Progress 2015 60 Communication on Progress 2015 61 Other Significant Projects: Unichela Koggala Pregnant Mothers and baby care awareness program – The objective P1 was to make pregnant mothers aware, so that infectious diseases can be prevented during pregnancy and after. Furthermore, a guide to a safe pregnancy and delivery is also demonstrated. P2 MDS Awareness on Loan taking and Crib process To educate employees about the P6 Credit Information Bureau (consequences of having bad debt) and loan taking process. As it was identified that many employees were unaware of the risks involved in taking loans and signing as guarantors for others. MDS Art of Parenting Session Project requested by Management and conducted by Prof. Piyanjali De Soyza (Prof. in Clinical Psychology / Senior Lecturer Medical Faculty University of Colombo). Rewarding Excellence P1 Akshya Launch in India WGB was launched in MAS Active Akshya, strengthening the presence of the programme in India. Other – Global Recognition •• Shanaaz Preena, Director Women Go Beyond Programme and Women Advocacy P2 continued serving as a member of the United Nations Women Empowerment Rewarding Excellence – Spotlight Story Principles (UNWEPs’) leadership group and UNWEPs’ CEO awards committee. Abhimani 2015 P6 •• Member of Panel discussion on “Effective Strategies for Supporting Women’s Economic Empowerment on the Continuum of Informal to Formal Work” at the We rewarded our exceptional female associates at the Abhimani Indian Ocean Rim Association (IORA) Women’s Economic Empowerment Event Empowered Women of the Year Awards Ceremony 2015. The •• ADB Best Practice Case awards ceremony recognised the efforts of our women who have overcome great challenges in order to achieve excellence, while Impacts of the Program balancing a successful career and personal life. Winners were chosen from the female associates of the 76,000 MAS workforce and their Total Impact of the Programs achievements were evaluated by a panel of eminent personalities representing areas including personal development, career guidance WGB Pillar SBU Level and entrepreneurship. This year’s ceremony awarded 42 empowered No of Programs No of Impacts women from MAS manufacturing facilities in Sri Lanka, India and Bangladesh, and also recognised 5 special award winners who had Career Advancement 376 9873 excelled in leadership and guidance (The Promoter), entrepreneurship Work-Life Balance 933 231278 (The Venturer), innovation and continuous improvement (The Game Skill Development 224 31365 Changer), community service and sustainability (The Spirited) and Rewarding Excellence 102 77804 excellence in sports (The Contender). Other Branding Programs 271 23793 Total 1906 374113 For more projects under this section – Refer to Appendices: Women Matter Communication on Progress 2015 62 Communication on Progress 2015 63 CHAMPIONS BY NATURE Sport is an intrinsic part of our culture. As a company MAS has been consistent in its P1 support of individuals with active sporting careers as well as those who have the potential to be successful sportspeople. P2 Super Fighter ‘Super Fighter’, Sri Lanka’s first ever reality sports programme directed to scout for hidden boxing talent, was launched in the beginning of this year. It was started with the aim of creating opportunities for skilled youth by identifying and nurturing talent to provide elite pathways for the next generation of boxers across the country. The objective is to focus on promising boxing talent among schools, targeting the 2020 Tokyo Olympics. This programme is a method of empowering youth and improving livelihoods through sport. Sirasa Super Fighter is the world’s first reality boxing programme and Sri Lanka’s first ever reality sports programme. Communication on Progress 2015 64 Communication on Progress 2015 65 MAS Holdings, the Boxing Association of Sri Lanka and Sirasa are planning on Season 2 for 2016, as another potential pool of P1 talented young boxers plan to step into the ring. Boxing P2 Archery •• Thivanka Ranasinghe of Slimline won two Gold medals and Senanga Nawaratne of •• Shashikala Kumarasinghe of Unichela Biyagama qualified for the South Asian Games Slimline won a Gold medal at the International dual invitation Boxing meet held in 2016 and set a new national record Mauritius •• Lahiru Rathnadeevakara of Slimline won a Silver medal and Neel Hettiarachchi won a Badminton Bronze medal at the International Boxing Tournament held in Doha •• MAS Badminton team won the Mercantile Badminton Open Individual Championship, •• Gayan Jayaweera of Slimline won a Bronze medal at the Indonesian International in the men’s, women’s, singles, doubles and mix doubles categories. MAS was also Boxing meet. He won another Bronze medal at the International Boxing meet in Finland crowned triple winners in the tournament in November •• Slimline became Champions at the Clifford Cup 2015. Gayan Jayaweera won the Cricket P1 coveted trophy for the best boxer of the meet •• Anjelo Jayasinghe represented Sri Lanka Cricket A Team and participated in the New •• MAS Southern became the Women’s Champions at Clifford Cup 2015 and Erandi De Zealand Tour Silva won the best boxer in the women’s category •• MAS Intimates Unichela Cricket team emerged champions in the Premier League P2 •• This is the fourth consecutive year Slimline became Clifford Cup champions in Boxing and Six a Side Mercantile Cricket Tournament •• Many boxers from across MAS Intimates won medals at boxing tournaments such as •• Casualline won the T20 Softball Cricket National Championship 2015 the Layton Cup, ABA Novices and Intermediate Boxing Tournament •• MAS Active Cricket team emerged champions at the Mercantile Premier League and Premier Knockout Tournament for the second consecutive year Rugby •• Fazil Marija of Linea Clothing was appointed as the captain of the Sri Lanka Rugby Fencing team •• Unichela Panadura won the National Fencing Championships 2015 and Manjula •• MAS Rugby team retained the Mercantile Rugby Championship for the fifth time. Fernando was adjudged Best Fencer of the Tournament Table Tennis Swimming •• Nirmala Jayasinghe of Linea Clothing is Sri Lanka’s No. 2 ranked Table tennis •• MAS Swimming team retained the Mercantile Swimming Championship for the fifth player, becoming the National Champion for doubles and representing Sri Lanka consecutive year. as Captain at the World Championship (China), Asian Championship (Thailand) and Commonwealth Championship (India) Karate •• MAS Table Tennis team emerged champions at the Mercantile Knockout Table Tennis •• Anura Bandara of Slimtex was placed first at ISKA Karate Tournament tournament •• MAS Women’s Table Tennis team emerged champions at the Mercantile Premier Volleyball •• League and Premier Knockout Tournaments •• Casualline excelled for the fouth consecutive year winning the Mercantile Volleyball Super League Trophy 2015, also becoming the Mercantile Volleyball Trophy Pistol Shooting Champions and Winner of the Rupavahini Volleyball Championship Trophy (Women’s) •• Ruwini Abeymanna won a Silver medal at the Asian Air Gun Championships in the •• Stretchline men’s and women’s Volleyball won the BOI Volleyball Championship women’s team event which was conducted in India Chess Weight Lifting •• MAS Chess team emerged champions at the Mercantile Championship and •• Lochana Girihagama of Linea Clothing represented Sri Lanka at the Commonwealth Ashanthi Rajapaksha was adjudged Women’s Chess champion Weight Lifting Championship and was placed fourth Wushu Basketball •• Eranga Weerasinghe won the Gold award at the second International Health Qigong •• Sudesh Ahamed of Unichela Biyagama was a Silver medallist at the SABA Games Competition in China. 2015 (3 on 3 championship and 12-man Squad ) For projects under this section – Refer to Appendices: Champions by Nature Communication on Progress 2015 66 Communication on Progress 2015 67 Strengthening Communities With humility and mutual respect instilled in the way we work, giving back to the community is an essential part P1 of our values and culture for over three decades. We leverage our success, scope and resources to make a positive difference in the communities we operate in. P2 Communication on Progress 2015 68 Communication on Progress 2015 69 EDUCATION P1 The Eco Go Beyond ProgrammePhase 2: Continuing with the 30 schools of the 2014-2016 Programme In 2015 we commenced Phase 2 of The Eco Go Beyond Programme of 2014-2016. Through P2 An awards ceremony was held on the 5th of November at MIMT for the high achievers of the programme this year, schools were introduced to four new concepts whilst continuing 2015 in the 10 subcategories Green Cover, Biodegradable Waste Management, Nonthose introduced in 2014. These new concepts were namely, the keyhole garden raised biodegradable Waste Management, Nutrition, Water Conservation, Energy Conservation, bed cultivation system which incorporated composting and organic gardening, biodiversity P8 Sustainable Lifestyles, Productivity Biodiversity Conservation and Awareness Creation. A conservation through the butterfly garden, the multicultural activity to promoted greater very unique feature of the agenda this year was the inclusion of an address by Lasitha understanding on cultural diversity and the school newsletter on sustainable development Premakumara a former student of the Eco Go Beyond School Team of Maputugala Maha to promote awareness creation on the subject. Vidyalaya who is currently a Finance Trainee at MAS Legato based in Bodyline – Horana. Lasitha’s testimony paid tribute to the Eco Go Beyond Programme, which he attributes to The programme is currently conducted in the 13 communities of Mahiyanganaya, have developed his confidence, ability to present his work and work in a team. Mawathagama, Biyagama, Horana, Hanwella, Pimbura, Pannala, Kuliyapitiya, Pallekelle, Thulhiriya, Awissawella, Koggala and Embilipitiya. The rollout took place through 30 workshops within 31 day to impact 4678 students, 277 teachers and 425 parents and wellP1 wishers 5380. Furthermore 5400 handouts were distributed. This brings the total impacts of the programme for students only from 2006 to date to just over 39000. P2 As a further improvement to the programme, the Residential Eco Go Beyond Leadership Camp held annually at MIMT was extended by a day, to two and an half day in all. This P8 helped in incorporating more practical based sessions. 119 students and 58 teachers attended this session. The following statistical achievements are those of the schools for the period January August of 2015. Number of new trees planted1400 New grass grown – 10217.5 m2 Amount of compost19201.1 Kg Plastic collected for recycling – 220.7 Kg Iron collected for recycling 406.8 Kg Sisu Waruna Paper collected for recycling 1046.3 Kg The main focus of MAS Intimates in the area of education has been the implementation of the ‘Sisu Waruna’ programme. This programme is aimed at providing information, Glass collected for recycling 147.7 Kg skills and expertise to students and youth to meet the challenges of the future, as well 28 of 30 schools are measuring their electricity consumption as encouraging talented students to become youth leaders. The four main programmes All 30 schools are measuring their water consumption conducted through Sisu Waruna are: Number of items removed from the canteen -114 • Express Learning Programme New healthy food item additions -172 • Leadership Training for Youth Number of completed 5S projects -278 • Year 5 Scholarship Programme • Internal Scholarship Programme Communication on Progress 2015 70 Communication on Progress 2015 71 Recognising Young Talent The MAS Awards programme commenced in 2008 by Deshamanya Mahesh Amalean, P1 Chairman, MAS to identify young talent and provide robust training specifically for the apparel International Schools Category with the project: Eliciting tangible shifts in behaviour by industry. The objective of the programme is to identify all-round students from the University engaging with the community in educating the benefits of equal access to all levels of of Moratuwa, Peradeniya, Kelaniya, Jaffna, and build their skills and competencies ranging P2 education for every child without any disability or gender sensitivity. from leadership, collaboration and networking, to grooming and presentation skills. These students participate in a series of innovative workshops and receive hand on industry BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE FOR OUR COMMUNITY exposure, while being guided into honing their professional presence in the corporate environment. In addition, the MAS management also provides direct mentorship and We are proud to be good neighbours in the cities, towns and villages we work in, sharing guidance through reflective peer learning. This year saw the entrance of a new University – our resources, our time and our expertise. We strive to support community improvement University of Jaffna also joining the programme. Five students from the Management faculty in areas including infrastructure development, reconciliation, healthy and active lifestyles, participated in the programme. This increases the count by 35. community recycling and education. We have also been proactively involved in disaster relief efforts in communities facing crisis, diversity and inclusion. Unleashing Potential P1 In a broader perspective, all interns at MAS are benefitted by another unique opportunity MAS Intimates continued our association with the Consortium of Humanitarian Agencies with the “Unleash Potential” programme, run by 361 Consultants. The two day programme (CHA) and the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce, who are establishing a network platform creates experiential learning and simulations, fundamentals such as grooming, having the to link all agencies and organisations working on disaster management. This is a national P2 right mind set and appreciation of being a disciplined, balanced and informed individual. level platform to support the Disaster Management Centre, linking civil society and private With well over 500 participants being enriched by it, “Ready to Unleash” remains one of the sector. It is also linked to the Asia Pacific Alliance Platform in Japan. The platform will most eagerly awaited programmes in the journey of an intern at MAS and continues to be assist national efforts in disaster management and MAS Intimates has been part of the a flagship programme in MAS efforts to equip employable graduates and undergraduates consultative committee to formulate this plan. with needed tools. Over 120 participants attended the programme this year. Through this platform we have access to; Hand in Hand Sustainability Initiative •• Information on humanitarian and development assistance CIMA Sri Lanka, in collaboration with the Global Compact Network Sri Lanka, created •• Partnership with donors and humanitarian agencies the Hand in Hand sustainability initiative via a competition format which aims to engage •• Utilization of grass roots networks students of international schools and tertiary education institutions the importance of social, •• CSR activities economic and environmental development and inspire change. •• Professional knowledge in humanitarian response and development sensitivity •• Disaster Risk Reduction (DRR) in development •• DRR Advocacy – influence policy As members of the Global Compact Network Sri Lanka MAS served on the programme •• Community Based Disaster Risk Reduction Programmes formulation committee as well as on the judging panel for the second consecutive year. MAS was also the Principal Sponsor of the Awards Ceremony. In January 2015 a member of the Central CSR Team of MAS Intimates participated in a training programme on “Humanitarian Relief Through Psychology” to understand the The winning teams of 2015 were : Team ‘Green Troops’ from the University of Moratuwa manner in which appropriate relief items are made available / distributed; how camps are Overall Winners of the Local / Foreign University category with the project: Promoting the organized and located; and the provision of services to an affected population and how use of agro-ecological solutions to improve food production and farmers’ incomes, while this all plays a role in a person’s ability to heal from the disaster. An awareness on how the protecting the soil, water and climate which phases out the use of fertilizers and highly work conducted will have a string effect on the affected population’s well-being. This was hazardous pesticides. conducted by Dr. Piyanjali de Zoysa who is a Senior Lecturer in Clinical Psychology at the Faculty of Medicine, University of Colombo. Team ‘Vision of Hearts’ from Imperial College Kandy overall winners of the CIMA Tuition Colleges Category with the project: Build and upgrade a rural education facility to provide In June 2015, MAS Intimates facilitated a programme for the Eco Go Beyond Leadership a safe, inclusive and effective learning environment and improve competitiveness of Camp with A-PAD Sri Lanka to conduct a DRR training programme. The four hour practical economically disadvantaged students. skills session on Disaster Preparedness was conducted by Ms. Anoja Seneviratne, Director, Mitigation Research and Development, Disaster Management Centre. It was an interactive Team ‘The Resistance’ from Lyceum International School Panadura overall winners of the session where 30 students and 15 teachers actively participated. Communication on Progress 2015 72 Communication on Progress 2015 73 In October 2015, Management from MAS Intimates Vidiyal participated in the A-PAD SL SANHINDA COMMUNITY NETWORK International Symposium on “Public-Private Partnership towards Disaster Resilience and P1 Sustainable Development” in Jaffna. The Sanhinda project was designed by the MAS Active Sustainable Business Division to address key social issues faced by the Disaster Preparedness communities which many of our employees reside in. The project P2 In November 2015, MAS Intimates Vidiyal, provided dry rations and other was funded through partnering with Lululemon Metta Movement and required items for 250 families who were displaced due to heavy rains and was implemented by MAS Active Contourline in the community. The floods in Thirumurukandy , Ponnagar and Santhapuram. project activities will help to improve the family life, family health & financial management of the targeted beneficiaries. The programme New Initiatives: The Future Trust is designed to be conducted by key capable employees of MAS The Future Trust is a Fund which was created by the goodwill of a group of volunteers from ACTIVE Contourline who are residing in the selected locations and will Unichela Panadura in order to address the need to carry out community development act as leaders and connecting the organization with the communities. projects within the community. The projects undertaken by the members of the Trust range P1 from providing financial aid, to housing to distributing free books. A summary of the projects carried out are as follows: P2 •• “Wisdom”This project is one of the Trust’s main projects and involves providing free school exercise books to children •• “Raise Me Up” – Building roofs for the under privileged •• “Life” Providing financial aid for those who are critically ill •• “Blue Sky” Provide monetary relief to those who are multitalented •• “Respect”Supporting senior citizens of the community through psychological support services •• “Nature” To initiate projects to reduce the carbon footprint by focusing on reforestry and energy conservation This project focuses on the family life, family health and financial management of communities. ______________________ Activities include: •• Health camps •• Eye clinics •• Sessions on reproductive health •• Family planning •• Alcohol prevention activities •• Awareness on domestic violence •• Legal aid and community watch groups creation •• Mental wellbeing and physical exercise activities such as Yoga •• Counselling sessions for families •• Financial management For more projects under this section – Refer to Appendices: Strengthening Communities Communication on Progress 2015 74 Communication on Progress 2015 75 APPENDICES •• Happy Family Life Program •• Team Building WOMEN MATTER •• Sunsilk Hair And Care Advice •• Social Expectation & Personality Development •• Awareness On Alcohol Prevention 1. Career Advancement •• Awareness On Sore Eyes Epidemic •• Soft Skill Training For Team Members •• Health Camp •• Computer Classes •• Suicide Prevention •• Mechanic Training For Female Employees •• Awareness On H1N1 •• Team Building Training •• Awareness On Familiarization For The Zone •• We Can Change Our Future Program •• Positive Thinking Session •• English Classes •• Work Life Balance •• Importance Of Career Program •• Goal For Life Training •• Team Leader Leadership OBT •• Yoga Session •• Leadership Training •• Beauty Culture Training •• Training For Cutting Female Employees •• God Mother Meeting •• Industrial Engineering Diploma •• Gathering With God Mothers And Below 3 Months Employees •• Excel Workshop •• Care Leaders Meeting •• Quality Training •• Dental Clinic •• Empowering, Motivating & Focusing Training For Women •• Build Up Written Skills •• 5S Awareness Initiative By EWY Winner •• Cookery Demonstration Program •• Legal Implications For The Working Woman •• Domestic Violence Session •• English Class Awards Ceremony •• Program On Ergonomics •• HR For Non HR Training •• Stress Management •• Tailoring Course (Conducted By EWY & Runners Up) •• Breast Cancer & PAP Test Clinic •• End Line Printer Training For Female Employees •• Domestic Violence •• IE Basics •• Importance Of The Job And Responsibilities •• Motivate And Sponsor Higher Education •• First Aid •• Nutrition For Pregnant Mothers And Awareness On Related Legal Guidelines 2. Work-Life Balance •• Getting More Out of Life Program •• Counselling Induction •• Drug Prevention Program •• Mental Wellbeing Program •• Mind Relaxation Through Art Therapy •• Awareness Session Family Planning/ Reproductive Health/Hiv & Aids •• Siddhalepa Ayurveda Clinic •• Program For Pregnant Mothers •• Consultation From Doctor Of Std Unit •• Succeeding In Life Through Having Proper Goals, Values & Financial •• Selection For National Athletics Games Management •• Care Leaders Meeting •• Global Trends For The Garment Industry And Impact For MAS Journey •• Driving License Training •• Violence Against Women Program & Child Harassment Program •• Disabilities Awareness Session For Non-Disabilities •• Legal Aid Clinic •• Survey On Childcare Facilities At Mas Active Operations Centre •• Loku Akka Meeting •• Preparations Activities For The Operations Centre Crèche & Field Visits To •• Awareness On Labour Law WSO2 And MIT Crèches •• Parents Meeting •• Extremes Are Easy Strive For Balance •• Street Drama To Create An Awareness Of Early Marriages & The •• Friendly Netball Match Consequences •• Gender Sensitivity Training For Managers, Execetives & Senior Executives •• Healthy Moms & Healthy Babies •• Gender Sensitivity Program For Females •• Awareness On Nutrition •• Progressive Muscle Relaxation Program •• Awareness On Mental Wellbeing For Pregnant Mothers •• Train Applicants Of Abhimani Program •• Awareness Session Family Planning/Reproductive Health •• Stress Management & Money Management Training •• Time Management Session •• Updating The Library •• Handicraft Session •• Personal Hygiene And Grooming Communication on Progress 2015 76 Communication on Progress 2015 77 •• Learner Permit Issuing 3. Skill Development •• Panhinda •• English Class Awards Ceremony •• Sewing Class On Saree Making •• Mercantile Athletics Meet •• Fabric Painting Class •• Notice Board And Pa System Commendation •• Shoes Sewing Training •• Kaizen Day Celebration •• Cake Class •• Reward For Carol Team •• Handicraft Session •• Abhimani •• Tailoring Class •• Curtain Sewing Course 5. Other – Branding Programs •• Saree Dressing Program •• Induction For New Recruits About WGB Activities •• Singing Rehearsal For Avurudu Uthsawaya / Bhakthi Geetha •• Management Review Meeting •• Debate Competition •• Active Goes Beyond Newsletter •• Volleyball & Netball •• Awareness On Preparation For Abhimani •• People Handling Skills •• Hitha Mithuru Sithuvillla •• Dancing Practice •• “Did You Know” Column In WGB Notice Board •• Fabric Painting Class •• Distribute T Shirts For All Team Members (Alumni) •• Fabric Painting Class •• Awareness For School Children Within The Plant Of The Plant’s Activities •• Training On Debating •• Awareness Outside The Plant •• Sitha Mithuru Nadha •• E-Mail Campaign •• Greeting Cards Creation •• Active Sports Women Newsletter •• Mental Well-Being Program •• Women Leadership Achievement Awards: E-Newsletter •• Fabric Painting Course •• E-Flyers For International Women’s Day •• Professional Presence Training •• Key Tag Distribution •• Time Management Session •• Women’s Day -Celebrating Women Informative Presentation •• Handy Craft Session •• Unilever Promotion •• Zumba Class •• KPI Review Meeting •• Social Dancing Class •• Beauty Culture Training CHAMPIONS BY NATURE •• HIV / AIDS Poster Competition •• Coached Boxing to selected school Children in Biyagama Area by Silueta •• Shoe Sewing Training •• Women’s disabled Volleyball team was provided with uniforms for the •• CBB Tournament Paralympics by Silueta •• Ribbon Embroidery Training •• Donation was made to the Shilpa Shalika Sport event and netball match in •• Hear Me Out Program the Kuliyapitiya area by Slimtex •• Coached fencing to selected school children in Sri Lanka by Silueta 4. Rewarding Excellence •• Linea Clothing / Intimates sponsored a student of Mahawatte Maha •• Debate Competition Certificates Vidiyalaya to participate in the Judo Championship •• Diriya Pola •• The former coach of the national Volleyball team who is also an employee •• Gift Pack For Pregnant Mother of MAS, trained the Sri Lanka Women’s disabled Volleyball team •• Essay Competition •• A program to introduce and develop skills / techniques of sports for the •• Dancing Competition Wattegama Educational zonal schools was organized by Linea Clothing / •• Thai Pongal Art Competition Intimates •• Panhinda •• Sporting goods were donated to the Galigamuwa Madyamaha Vidyala in •• Women’s Day Celebration Galigamuwa by Trischel Fabrics •• Rewards For Beauty Culture Course Winner & Tie & Dye •• An international Karate tournament was sponsored by Thurulie •• Select Best God Mother •• The daughter of an employee was sponsored by Linea Aqua to compete •• Women’s Day Celebration With Red Carpet Treatment Giving All Female in a Karate Competition in India Team Members A “ Nil Manel” Flowers •• Cricket t-shirts were distributed to the Pannala National School by Slimline •• Rewarding Payments For A Team Member To Give Food Pack For Pregnant •• A talented student from Kirindiwella Central College was provided sporting Mothers goods by Linea Aqua to enhance his skill in sports •• Distribution Of A Pouch •• A donation was made to the District Magistrate’s Court for the Inter-Court Sports Meet by MAS Fabric Park. Communication on Progress 2015 78 Communication on Progress 2015 79 COMMUNITY HEALTH EDUCATION •• Stretchline built an area for patients, visitors and staff at the Biyagama •• MAS Active donated school items to HIV/AIDS students and organized a Base Hospital dedicated specifically for their meals and as a waiting area. Christmas program in collaboration with Lanka Plus •• 15 water boilers were donated to the Homagama Base Hospital by •• Management Trainees of Matrix donated stationery items, bags. Shoes etc. Stretchline to celebrate New year with the newly joined students of the Kohombadeniya •• Thurulie organized a Breast Cancer Awareness Program which was carried Primary school out by Mr.Jayarathna of the Cancer health education unit •• Capacity Building of Teachers by Casualline A special project to provide •• Bodyline organized a special three day Health Camp for the area residents OBT training and positive thinking sessions was held covering all teachers. •• The Dompe Hospital was cleaned and re-painted by Linea Aqua OBT sessions were conducted by Prasanna Weerasinghe (Slimline), in the •• Thurulie conducted a nursery development project to increase hygienic Mawathagama MMV and sanitary practices at a Thulhiriya Nursery •• Books & stationary to Eeriyagolla Sunday School prize giving were •• Bodyline distributed 90 stationery packs to the students of distributed by Slimline Sagarapalnsooriya M.V Kalupahana K.V and Handupelpola K.V •• The “Sisu Waruna” – School Prefects Leadership Development Program •• An awareness program on pregnancy and maternity clinic was organized 2015 was jointly organized by MAS Casualline and Thrurulie in Warakapola by Linea Aqua at the Dompe Hospital and the Naiwala Maternity clinic with the participation of nearly 200 Senior School Prefects and 25 School •• An installation of Tube well at Vinayagapuram in Kilinochchi by Vidiyal Teachers •• Total upgrade including colour wash and total roof repair to the Habaraduwa •• Computer Facilities for Mandawala Primary School were provided and Occupational Health Center Facility was carried out by Unichela Koggala upgraded by Linea Aqua •• Donation of table cloths, two fans, three water filters with stands was •• A donation of school bags with water bottles, lunch boxes, stationery was made to fulfil the requirement of pregnant mothers and childrens clinic by made by Thurulie to team members’ children Thurulie •• Seminar for Grade 5 Scholarship Students by Casualline The Seminar for •• Donation was made to the Kandy General Hospital to purchase two spinal Grade 5 Scholarship Students 2015 was organized by Casualline with the boards and seven Air Mattresses by Linea Clothing/Intimates participation of nearly 600 Students •• Bodyline conducted a Home Gardening program and 5S program for 60 •• Linea Aqua provided books & stationary for approximately 300 grade 5 students and six teachers from three schools scholarship students •• Linea Aqua has provided mattresses to an elder’s home in the Hanwella •• A donation was made towards the prize giving of Sri Seelananda Dhamma area School Thulhiriya by MAS Fabric Park •• Dental Clinic was organized by students to increase the health standards •• Facilities including furniture were repaired and improved by Matrix for and conditions in the Thurulie area Elipangamuwa school •• Linea Clothing / Intimates donated children’s park items to Manikhinna •• A donation of compost was made to Mainnoluwa Maha Vidyalaya, Hospital Warakapola as part of sustainability project by MAS Fabric Park •• Blood Donation Camp towards Pannala National School was organized •• The classrooms and furniture of the Ebidigala School were re-painted by by Slimtex Textprint Lanka •• A donation of required items including: wheel chairs, sound system and •• 50 seedlings were planted in the Thulhiriya School by Matrix meals was made to Olandawaththa Elders Home by Thurulie •• Motivational sessions and outbound training were organized for selected •• Blood Donation Campaign was organized by Unichela Biyagama Ordinary Level school students by Vidiyal •• A donation of king coconuts was made to the Maharagama Cancer •• A donation of certificates was made towards the Muslim Ladies Study Hospital by Noyon Lanka Circle, Warakapola by MAS Fabric Park •• Linea Aqua has provided assistance to a sibling of an employee who is an •• A donation of sanitary facilities to Dharmasiri Senanayaka Maha Vidyalaya Asperger syndrome patient was made by MAS Fabric Park •• A blood donation program was organized by Textprint Lanka at the plant •• A wall was built inside a classroom for the safety of the students of premises Indonamulla Primary School •• 300 spectacles were donated by Linea Aqua to its employee’s parents in •• Bodyline distributed 250 box files to Sagarapalnsooriya M.V Kalupahana Hanwella and Naiwala K.V Handupelpola K.V., Maputugala and Meewanapalana K.V •• Janitorial services for the Indonamulla Elder’s Home was provided by •• A fence was built for the Ovitigama Bodhiraja Maha Vidyalaya by Stretchline Linea Aqua •• The Express Learning Program for Schools in Mawathagama was organized •• A donation was made for “Abimani Social Development Fund”, Thulhiriya by Casualline and was conducted by Dr. Priyanga De Zoysa with the to purchase 200 milk packets by MAS Fabric Park participation of nearly 700 Students and teachers from Grade 10, 11 and 12 •• MAS Fabric Park sponsored St. Joseph Balika College Kegalle for its IT Day activities Communication on Progress 2015 80 Communication on Progress 2015 81 •• A donation was made to Sri Dewagiri Rajamaha temple for their prize giving ceremony by MAS Fabric Park •• Bodyline donated basic amenities including rexing sheets, bed sheets, •• Iron Grills were installed by Linea Aqua in the classrooms of Tittapattara K.V, pillow cases, towels, toys, floor carpets, water bottles and lunch boxes to for the safety of the students the ‘Sukhitha Children’s Home’ in Galpatha •• A donation was made to Thulhiriya Primary school for the purchase of a •• MDS donated library books to Kandawala Vidyalaya at Rathmalana Duplo machine by MAS Fabric Park •• A donation of Bathroom facilities was made to Siriniwasa Maha Vidyalaya, •• A special Leadership Development Program was organized by MDS for Dorawaka by MAS Fabric Park senior school prefects in Rathmalana and Panadura •• A mathematics seminar was organized for O/L students in rural areas by •• An awareness program was orgnaized by Unichela Panadura for pregnant Thurulie in Warakapola mothers at the Alubomulla clinic •• Linea Aqua provided 25 O/L students with Free English tuition classes •• A 5s awareness program was conducted in selected schools by the MOS •• Legal Aid Program was organized by Unichela Panadura to create team at Unichela Panadura awareness and provide information on assistance / facilities •• MAS Fabric Park contributed towards Prefect Day of Tholangamuwa Central •• A donation of English Activity Books for GCE O/Ls was made to the zonal College education office in Wattegama by Linea Clothing / Linea Intimates •• Musical instruments were donated to the Thambugala Primary School by •• A seminar was organized for O/L students by Vidiyal Trischel Fabrics •• An outbound training was organized by Silueta at the Bomiriya Central •• A donation of school books were made to grade 5 students in Algama College college by Thurulie •• A donation was made to the Divisional Secretariat Warakapola for XLI •• Bodyline organized a series of Grade 5 Scholarship programs for the National Sport Meet by MAS Fabric Park students in the area •• Two water tanks were constructed to provide clean water to the students •• A Tree Planting Project with School Nature Club Team was organized by of Bollathawa Primary School in Kosgama by Linea Aqua Silueta at Bomiriya Central College •• Book Donation for Ilukhena Gunananda MV by Slimtex •• Express Learning Program conducted by Dr.Priyanga De Silva, was •• A special grade 5 seminar was held for the children of Stretchline organized by Thurulie employees •• School shoes were distributed to 300 children at Giridara and Titapathara •• A workshop for year 5 scholarship students was organized by Unichela Primary school by Linea Aqua Panadura •• Navodaya Special Children’s Foundation which houses 44 children with •• Books and stationery items were donated to Dammarathana KV by Slimline autism; and Asperger syndrome were provided school facilities and •• Music Instruments were donated by Linea Clothing / Linea Intimates teachers by Linea Aqua •• A donation of school stationery was made to the team members’ Children •• Matrix furnished the English unit of the Thulhirya National school by Vidiyal •• Books and stationery items were donated to Dammarathana KV by Slimline •• Express Learning Program was organized by Linea Clothing/Intimates •• School books and stationery were donated by Unichela Biyagama to and conducted by Dr. Priyanga De Zoysa. primary students in the area •• A scholarship program was organized by Unichela Koggala to help and •• Linea Aqua celebrated Children’s Day at Leisure World with a group of uplift the employee’s children to complete their education up to A/L Exams underprivileged children •• A donation was made by MAS Fabric Park to” Sivisada Rathree” musical •• Sanitary facilities of the Thulhiriya Nursery were upgraded by Thurulie show which organized by Unichela Panadura as part of the project of •• The construction of a flag base, summer hut and paintings were completed donating school books to Unichela team member’s children by Matrix for the Kohombadeniya Primary School •• A donation of school material and stationary was made to the students and •• A special Children’s Day program was organized at MIMT by Trischel teachers of Poppitiya Kanishta Vidyalaya – Ududumbara by Stretchline Fabrics for the children of its employees •• A donation of stage curtains was made to the Ganegama Primary School •• Matrix renovated the classroom, water system and sanitary facilities of was made by Thurulie Kohombadeniya Primary School •• A donation of 300 Bricks to Mainnoluwa Maha Vidyalaya, Warakapola was •• Tuition classes and dry rations were provided by Linea Aqua to the Lama made by MAS Fabric Park Gramaya Child Development Centre •• Career Guidance program was organized by Silueta at the Bomiriya central •• Mental Health Awareness program was organized by Silueta at the Bomiriya College Central College •• Sisu Waruna Scholarship program was organized by Slimline •• Leadership Development Program was conducted by Nalaka •• A donation was made by Unichela to Sri Nagananda Buddhist SchoolHewamadduma for senior prefects was organized by Thurulie prize giving, teachers & students of the school and in the area. •• Textprint Lanka sponsored the prize giving for the Hunuwala Dahampasala •• A donation for certification was made to the divisional education section in Warakapola by MAS Fabric Park Communication on Progress 2015 82 Communication on Progress 2015 83 BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE •• Plants were handed over to farmers and villagers to uplift their livelihoods •• A donation of meals and equipment was made to the Ambepussa Army by Stretchline in Pradeepagama camp for their pirith ceremony by MAS Fabric Park •• A herbal garden project was carried out by Noyon Lanka at the •• 50 seedlings were planted in the Kohombadeniya Primary School by Matrix Heyiantuduwa Raja Maha Viraharaya •• 100 trees were distributed amongst Noyon Lanka team members •• A ‘Shramadana’ was organized by Matrix to colourwash and improve the •• A donation of necessary items was made to the Welikada female Prison by MAS Fabric Park temple MDS •• Believe in Smile 02 – Gifts and other essentials were distributed to •• Donation of a slide for a children’s park was made to the Samagi Society in orphanages around the Biyagama area by Silueta Balagolla by Linea Clothing / Intimates •• Earth Hour Awareness Campaign by Casualline The purpose was to •• Thurulie organised a program for children who passed their grade 05 provide awareness on Earth Hour initiative, Climate change, World Power scholarship exams from the Warakapola division in 2015 generation & adverse effects of Global warming to the local key figures in •• Believe in Smile 03 Support was extended by Silueta to underprivileged the area. children at Viharamahadevi children’s home in Siyabalape by creating a •• Bodyline Horana donated display boards to the Horana Traffic Police sound platform to strengthen and facilitate access for their education •• A donation od cement was made to the Madulla Temple by Slimtex •• Two tents were made utilizing scrap iron and was donated to the Malinda •• Renovation of Pannala MOH Hospital Office was completed by Slimline Committee members by Linea Aqua to be utilized for events in the area •• Water was distributed to drought victims by Silueta such as funerals/weddings etc. •• Distribution of Police road boards for local community police stations was made by Slimline in the Pannala area •• A donation to the School Traffic control Program was made by Unichela Panadura •• Renovation of children’s park at Gallpola School was completed by Slimtex •• A donation was made towards the Sri Lanka Welfare Organization of the visually impaired for their avurudhu program by Slimtex •• Shramadhana Program at Yakarawatta MV was organized by Slimtex •• A donation of street lamps were made to Ethnawala Subasadaka Samithiya by Thurulie •• A donation was made by Unichela Panadura to the ‘Sri Abhinavarama Viharaya’ annual procession in Panadura •• Utiity and sanitary facilities were upgraded for the team members in Kilinochchi by Vidiyal •• A waste collector barrel was donated by Textprint Lanka to the Mahahena temple •• A donation of 40 Table cloths was made to the AGA office in Alawwa by Thurulie •• Children’s Day Celebrations for children in Galle was organized by Unichela Panadura •• A donation of an organ was made to a selected church in Biyagama by Silueta •• Beach Cleaning Project was organized by Unichela in Ahangama •• Textprint Lanka donated 500 Gliricidia plants to employees and 50 plants to Dharmasiri Vidyalaya in Thulhiriya •• A donation of repaired chairs to the temple & welfare society was made by Thurulie •• MAS Fabric Park temple shrine room was repainted by Textprint Lanka •• Dry rations were donated to the people who are effected by food shortages in Ponnagar, Santhapuram and Murukandy by Vidiyal Communication on Progress 2015 84 Communication on Progress 2015 85
