INTERNATIONAL STANDARD SERIAL NUMBER 2016-10302-003 HOPE TOWARD TOMORROW KOREA RAIL NETWORK AUTHORITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 About This Report Contents Purpose of report CEO Message 04 This report details the results of Korea Rail Network Authority’s (hereinafter “KR”) sustainable management 2015 Sustainability Highlights 06 activities implemented to fulfill its economic, social, and environmental responsibilities. This report is intended to enable KR’s stakeholders to understand KR’s sustainable management activities. Ⅰ. Sustainability Approach KR Overview 10 Report overview Following its first sustainability report in 2008, KR has been publishing annual sustainability reports from Vision and strategy 12 2010 in order to transparently disclose and communicate the activities and results of its sustainable Corporate governance 14 management activities with shareholders. This year’s report aims to enhance stakeholder participation and communication by including interviews with representatives from key stakeholders group in an effort to Stakeholder participation 16 reflect the various opinions and expectations of different stakeholders. Materiality assessment 20 Reporting period This publication covers the period from January 1, 2015 through December 31, 2015. Information from prior ISSUE 1 Customer centric rail network 24 Ⅱ. Our Priority periods has been included when historical trend analysis was deemed necessary. This report also includes key activities and results from 2016. ISSUE 2 Safe, high-quality, eco-friendly railroad construction 30 ISSUE 3 Expanding foundation for new growth 36 Scope of report This report primarily covers the sustainable management activities of KR’s head and regional offices. This ISSUE 4 Ethical management 44 report also contains information on KR’s business partners’ sustainable management activities. Monetary ISSUE 5 Win-win growth 48 amounts in this report are denominated in Korean Won (KRW). ISSUE 6 Human resource management 52 Reporting standards ISSUE 7 Customer satisfaction 56 This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) G4 guideline’s Core ISSUE 8 Social contribution 58 Option. Detailed DMA (disclosure on management activities) is also provided for material issues. Verification Ⅲ. Sustainability Performance Economic performance 62 This report has been verified by an independent third party expert in order to provide assurance over its preparation process, fairness of data and contents, and overall credibility. The assurance statement can be Social performance 64 found in the appendix to this report. Environmental performance 66 Distribution and feedback This report is published in Korean and English. An electronic copy of this report is available on the KR Ⅳ. Appendix ISO 26000 Implementation Assessment 70 website. This report is also listed in the GRI and UN Global Compact. Stakeholders may provide feedback on this report via e-mail, post, fax, and KR website. Third Party’s Assurance Statement 72 GRI G4 Index 74 Implementation of UN Global Compact Principle 77 Recognitions and Affiliations 78 Homepage www.kr.or.kr Address 242 Jungang-ro, Dong-gu, Daejeon Metropolitan City, 34618 Mail csr@kr.or.kr Phone 1588-7270 Fax 042-607-3629 Point of contact ‌Management Strategy Team, Performance Management Division, Planning and Finance Headquarters CEO Message 2015 Sustainability Highlights KR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 CEO Message Dear stakeholders, I would like to express my sincere gratitude for all of your continued support for KR. It is my great pleasure to present to you KR’s 8th sustainability report. As an agency specializing in railway construction and facility management, KR took initiatives to cultivate the railway industry and improve transportation convenience. KR pioneered Korea’s high-speed rail era in 2004, expanded Korea’s national railways, improved railway safety and accommodation, carried out railway asset development activities, and initiated overseas railway project. In addition, KR established mid/long-term roadmaps and annual implementation plans to fulfill its social responsibilities as a public company, including but not limited to government 3.0, equitable growth between large corporation and small/medium enterprises, correction of unjust practices, creation of youth employment opportunities, and social contribution activities. KR will expand korea’s high-speed rail network to connect the entire country within 2 hours. KR opened the Gyeongbu high-speed railway, direct KTX connection to Pohang, and Honam high-speed railway in April 2004, March 2015, and April 2015, respectively. KR will complete its planned projects including the 2016 Suseo-Pyongtaek high-speed railway project, 2017 Wonju-Gangneung high-speed railway project, expansion of high-speed and non-stop railway in the Seoul metropolitan area and upgrading current railways in time in order to connect the entire country within 2 hours and enable access to faster rail transport for everyone. KR will modernize korea’s railway facilities to protect people’s safety and provide a greater degree of transportation convenience. KR will install platform screen doors in 139 platforms in 12 metropolitan lines with high accident occurrences. KR will also expand safety facilities in railway crossing, and renovate old tunnels and bridges to prevent accidents. In addition, KR will install waiting rooms in platforms, improve accommodations in stations, and install sound proof walls, thereby exerting every effort to provide a better railway environment and transportation convenience. KR will improve its financial health through proactive asset development activities utilizing railway facilities. KR will generate revenues through a diverse array of asset development projects utilizing stations, platforms, idle land in the vicinity of tracks and non-operational routes. Such projects include, but are not limited to multi-modal transfer center at Ulsan KTX station, hotels in the vicinity of Seoul station, utilization of nonoperational routes near Haeundae, rail bikes, and solar PV parks. Through these projects, KR will not only be able to generate revenues to reduce its debts but create new job opportunities as well. KR will expand its overseas footprint by leveraging its superb railway technology and know-how. KR expanded its overseas footprint, previously limited to small scale service contracts such as audit and technical survey. In 2015, KR was awarded a KRW 42.1 billion contract for “business management of Lucknow metro in India”. KR plans to expand its overseas business by implementing large projects, such as “Malaysia-Singapore high-speed railway project”, through the strategic partnership with domestic and foreign companies based on Korea’s cutting-edge railway technology, such as LTE based Railway Wireless Communication System (LTE-R) developed for the first time in the world. KR will realize the organizational culture of anti-corruption and creativity, and fulfill the social responsibilities as a public company. KR will continue to reinforce its organizational competence through creative innovation activities, such as finding new ideas et al, will realize the ethical management more substantially, such as a zero tolerance policy against corruption. Also, KR will cooperate with its business partners through solution of the unjust practices and regulatory reform, and realize the social contribution activities utilizing KR’s competence, thereby growing alongside the local communities and protecting the KR, in cooperation with its stakeholders, socially disadvantaged in order to assume a leadership position in creating a sustainable society for everyone. will create a faster, safer, and more convenient rail network KR will continue to enhance competitiveness as a specialized railway agency and focus its organizational competence to achieve its mission of “creating happiness for the public by connecting the world with rail”. to pioneer the future of railway and ensure KR’s sustainable growth. We would like to ask for your continued interest and support. Thank you. CEO, Korea Rail Network Authority Yeong-il Kang 04 05 CEO Message 2015 Sustainability Highlights KR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 2015 Sustainability Highlights Expansion of KTX network by opening Outstanding anti-corruption agency with “Zero Late Payment” System for the first World’s first LTE based railway three additional routes installation of “anti-corruption DNA” time among the public companies in Korea convergence network technology With the opening of the Pohang KTX connection route In the anti-corruption assessment conducted by AntiKR established the KR “Zero Late Payment” System in LTE-R is a system that optimizes LTE, the 4th generation in March and the Honam high-speed rail in April of 2015, KR was able corruption and Civil Rights Commission in 2015, KR received the order to prevent late payments by original contractors by automating wireless communication technology, to the railroad platform, enabling to reduce travel times from Seoul to Honam and major hub cities in highest rating (2nd grade) among the affiliates of the Ministry of Land, payments to subcontractors and their employees. In 2015, KR high quality audio service and data and video services with speeds the Gyeongbuk east coast area by more than 1 hour. In August 2015, Infrastructure, and Transport. KR also received the highest possible implemented the system in three business areas and enhanced up to 100Mbps. Previous railway wireless communication system was KR opened the Daejeon and Daegu intercity routes in the Gyeongbu rating for the anti-corruption policy evaluation. Upon the appointment oversight on payments to secondary and tertiary subcontractors. As limited to low quality audio and short messages at speeds of 100kbps. high-speed rail, increasing drastically the railroad capacity of the of KR’s current CEO, KR overhauled its contract system to prevent a result, KR was able to eliminate late payments to subcontractors. In The alignment of wireless communication and signaling systems Gyeongbu high-speed railway. Through nationwide expansion of corrupt practices in the bidding process, dispensed of preference to 2016, this system will be implemented to all of KR’s businesses. The enables information to be transmitted between vehicles, control centers, the KTX network, KR is stimulating local economies and promoting regional and education affiliation in order to align public and private KR “Zero Late Payment” System was recognized for its excellence as maintenance and repair personnel, operators, and government agencies balanced growth of the country. interest, received consulting from the Anti-corruption and Civil Rights was selected as the standard payment model for the Ministry of Land, via high-speed wireless communication networks, thereby improving Commission, and provided tailored anti-corruption training throughout Infrastructure, and Transport. safety and convenience of railroad operations. In 2018, KR will apply the the company. Such efforts came to fruition as KR was named an world’s first LTE-R* communication network in the route between Wonju outstanding anti-corruption agency, a complete turnaround from and Gangneung in support of the 2018 Pyeong Chang Winter Olympic 2014 when KR was ranked last in terms of anti-corruption policies and Games. By 2025, KR seeks to expand the LTE-R network up to 5,000km. practices. * LTE-R: LTE based Railway wireless communication system ‘Lucknow Metro business Named ‘2015 Best Family Friendly ‘KR Debt watch ON’– turning today’s KTX Exhibition Hall in Malaysia management’ contract in India Management’ by Ministry of Gender debts into tomorrow’s debits In November 2015, KR opened the “KTX Exhibition Hall” KR was awarded a KRW42.1 billion metro construction Equality and Family KR installed an overhead ‘KR debt watch’ in its 1st floor in a large shopping mall located in downtown Kuala project management contract (22.9km) from Lucknow Metro Rail entrance in order to enhance its plans to mitigate excessive debt levels Lumpur in support for its efforts to win the contract for “MalaysiaIn 2015, KR was named “Best Family Friendly Management” by Corporation (LMRC). This project is carried out by the LMRC in order and to instill a sense of urgency among its employees. The debt watch Singapore high-speed rail project”. The exhibition hall features various the Ministry of Gender Equality and Family thanks to its various to improve public transportation infrastructure in the city of Lucknow, provides information such as financial liabilities and daily interest cutting-edge visual media including a large 3D screen for promotion family-friendly programs including cultural experience events with India. This is the first project in which KR formed an international expense with the aim of encouraging mitigating measures to be taken of Korea’s railroad technology and a 4-D KTX experience theater. In employees’ families, vitalization of the flexible work hour system consortium to award an overseas contract. KR will be responsible by employees to reduce the company’s debt and improve its balance addition, KR hired local guides to help visitors further understand including autonomous adjustment of the flexible commuting for railway systems including trains and vehicles as well as project sheet strength. Korea’s high-speed rail technology and to raise awareness. KR will time, family days on every Wednesday, expanded nursery services, management for quality, safety, testing, and trial runs. KR will continue continue to proactively carry out marketing activities with the Korean maternity leaves and parental leaves. KR will continue to effectively to form strategic partnerships with domestic and foreign agencies consortium in order to successfully conclude this contract. implement its work-family balance programs to create a happy to participate in large scale overseas projects, such as the ‘Malaysiaworkplace for all of its employees. Singapore high-speed rail project’. 06 07 SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH KR Overview Vision and strategy Corporate governance Stakeholder participation Materiality assessment SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH KR Overview Vision and strategy Corporate governance Stakeholder participation Materiality assessment KR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 KR Overview Major business KR’s business is comprised of railway construction business, facility and asset management, railway and roles technology development, and overseas business. In particular, KR is expanding its scope of business beyond that of railway construction to the development and operation of the areas in the vicinity of stations Structure of railway project and along the railroads. KR is also assuming a leadership position in the railroad industry by participating in overseas businesses, connecting Trans-Korean railway and establishing linkage with the Eurasian railway Company KR is a public company founded in January 2004 in order to enhance public transportation convenience Ministry of land, network. KR is ensuring the advancement of the railway project and contributing to the creative economic introduction and contribute to national economic growth by efficiently carrying out railroad facility construction, development. KR will continue to strive for transparent and responsible business initiatives as a public infrastructure, and management, and related businesses. In accordance with the national rail network plan, KR is striving to transport company trusted and admired by the Korean people. create a railway network that connects the entire country in 90 minutes and metropolitan areas within 30 Establishes railway minutes. KR has conducted various railway projects including the phase 1 opening of Gyeongbu high-speed related policies Railway Establish next-generation traffic network including high-speed rail, general railway in 2004, the recent opening of Honam high-speed railway, construction of major railway networks Korea Rail Railroad Key activities construction railways, long-distance railways, tilting and magnetic levitation trains, etc. and metropolitan railway networks in Korea and overseas businesses. KR will continue to carry out its Network Authority operators railway projects and lead the public transport revolution in the 21st century and provide a positive stimulus Business goals Connect entire country in 90 minutes, major metropolitan areas in 30 minutes Railway construction, Railway to the national economy. facility transportation and management sales activities Railway facilities Safety diagnosis and repairs, installation of screen doors, improved safety in Key activities management railroad crossing, enlargement of rails, improvement of obsolete facilities, including General information (as of June 30, 2016) installation of sound proof walls, installation of convenient platform facilities Organization Total budget KRW 11,231.8 billion Railroad map Business goals Modernization of railway facilities to enhance users’ safety and convenience Korea Rail Network Authority name Government Foundation date January 1, 2004 KRW 5,817.7 billion Seoul Yongsan contribution Railway asset Development of stations and areas in the vicinity of stations, creation of Type of Semi-autonomous government Gwangmyeong Suseo Key activities Credit rating Domestic AAA, Moody’s Aa2, S&P AADongtan management ecological parks and bicycle roads, management and rental of state organization agency Jijae properties, utilization of non-operational tracks Framework Act on the Development Number of Cheonan Basis for 1,413 Osong Efficient management of state properties, balance between profitability and of Railroad Industry, employees Business goals foundation Gongju Daejeon Gimcheongumi Shin pohang public utility Korea Rail Network Authority act Location of head 242 Jungang-ro, Dong-gu, CEO Yeong-il Kang office Daejeon Metropolitan City Iksan Dongdaegu Overseas railway Develop overseas business, overseas EPC (engineering-procurementKey activities Shingyeongju Ulsan project construction) and audit contracts, official development assistance, establish Jeongeup Organization public-private partnership network. KR is comprised of the head office (6 departments), one research institute, and five regional offices located Mu-an airport Gwangju-songjeong Busan Business goals Enhance competitiveness in global railway industry, increase profits information in Seoul, Wonju, Daejeon, Busan, and Suncheon in order to efficiently manage railway construction Mokpo business and facilities throughout Korea. KR is also successfully operating a subsidiary in China, where the Gyeongbu high-speed rail Metropolitan area high-speed rail Railway technology Development and implementation of next generation railway technology, Number of employees (unit: persons) railroad industry is experiencing rapid growth. KR is efficiently managing its organization under the three Honam high-speed rail Pohang connection line development Key activities domestic production of railway products Current employment Full employment principles of small giant, innovative organization creating future value, and an organization comprised of Development of next generation technology, advancement of railway Business goals competitive technical experts. New businesses in 2015 technology 2013 Category Project name Content of project 1,333 1,363 Organizational chart Construction of metropolitan area Daegu High-speed routes 2014 Auditor general railroad in response to development Chairman and CEO metropolitan of housing sites and business complex Project name Speed (km/h) Total length (km) Completion rate (%) area railroad in satellite cities near Daegu 1,330 1,363 Gyeongbu high-speed railway phase 1 300 281.6 In operation Office of Chungcheong Improved accessibility between Daejeon (Seoul~Daegu) 2015 Public Safety and administrative Audit and inspection metropolitan and adjacent cities through construction of Gyeongbu high-speed railway phase 2 relations quality metropolitan area railroad in Chungcheong area 300 24.2 In operation assistant New area railroad (Daegu~Busan) 1,352 1,363 Vice chairman business Yeoju-Wonju Transportation convenience through direct Gyeongbu high-speed Daejeon-Daegu intracity 300 40.7 opened (4) connection between Seoul metropolitan area Samnangjin-Masan 200 42.2 In operation double track Main workplace information and Gangwon area and uniform transportation Gyeongbu rail Masan-Jinju 200 53.3 In operation system through east-west railway connection connection Railway Railway systems Railway facilities Shingeyongju-Pohang 200 38.7 opened Capital area office 2 5 Gangwon regional office Planning and Administrative International Connection between Incheon and construction engineering management Honam high-speed railway finance dept. services dept. business dept. Walgot-Pangyo southwestern Seoul metropolitan area and 300 183.8 opened Head office and Chungcheong dept. dept. dept. (Osong-Gwangju Songjeong) 1 double track railway network between Seongnam and regional office Jeolla line (Iksan-Yeosu) 200 180.3 In operation • ‌Track facilities rail Bundang area with Gwangmyeong station of Yeongnam regional 3 and equipment Gyeongbu high-speed railway Metropolitan area high-speed railway 300 61.08 91.5 Honam regional office 4 office office 1 242 Jungang-ro, Dong-gu, Daejeon Metropolitan City 2 378, Cheongpa-ro, Yongsan-gu, Seoul Special City Preparation for 400km/h Seoul Metropolitan area 3 ‌46, 9beon-gil, Chungjang-daero, Jung-gu, Busan Metropolitan City KR research Yeongnam Honam Chungcheong Gangwon metropolitan high-speed railway 4 16, Yeokjeon-gil, Suncheon-si, Jeollanam-do institute regional office regional office regional office regional office 5 2650, Bokwon-ro, Wonju-si, Gangwon-do regional office construction office (TF) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 • ‌KRW 36.5 billion in overseas • ‌Opened double track rail • ‌Opened high-speed rail between • ‌Relocated railway in flooded • ‌‌Recognition for excellence in • ‌Opened Shingeongju and Commencement of the 300km/h high-speed era Achieve 350km/h contracts (audits for Nanxi/ between Iksan and Yeosu in Yongsan and Chuncheon in areas near Yeongju dam audit practice in China Pohang route in Donghae line Yunnan, Guizhou routes) Jeolla line Gyeongchun line • ‌Opened double track rail (Harbin-Qiqihar line) • ‌Opened Honam high-speed • ‌Opened Gyeongbu high-speed • ‌Opened double track rail • ‌Opened high-speed rail between between Jaecheon and • ‌Audited high-speed rail rail phase 1 (Osong, Gwangju 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 railway phase 2 between Jaecheon and Iksan and Yeosu in Jeolla line Ssangyong between Beijing and Songjeong) • Foundation of KR • First ‌ audit contract for • ‌Electrification of entire • ‌Outstanding rating in • ‌Opened double track railway • ‌Opened double track railway • ‌Opened double track rail Dodam in Jungang line • ‌Opened double track rail • ‌Opened double track rail Shenyang, China • ‌Opened Gyeongbu high-speed • ‌Opened Gyeongbu Chinese railway Gyeongbu line Chinese railway audit between Cheonan, Onyang between Seongsan and between Shinsangbong and between Yongmun and between Ori and Suwon rail phase 2 (intracity routes in high-speed railway (phase 1) • Opened ‌ double track railway • ‌Opened railway traffic • Test ‌ run of Trans-Korean spring, and Shinchang, and Munsan in Gyeongeui line Chuncheon in Gyeongchun line Seowonju in Jungang line Daejeon and Daegu) between Cheongnyang-ri control center railway connection Janghang line • ‌Opened double track • ‌Opened double track rail • KTX connection to Pohang and Deokso in Jungang line • ‌Opened double track railway • Underwater ‌ tunnel between • ‌Opened double track railway railway between Guksu and between Samnangjin and between Euijeongbu and Wangsimni and Seollung between Paldang and Guksu Yongmun in Jungang line Masan in Gyungjeon line Dongducheon in Gyeongwon line in Jungang line 10 • ‌KRW 10 billion in overseas 11 contracts SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH KR Overview Vision and strategy Corporate governance Stakeholder participation Materiality assessment KR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Vision and strategy KR core values KR strives to realize the vision and attain the management goals by internalizing its three core values of “sustainable management,” “mutual trust,” and “Professional mind” to ensure that these values are seamlessly integrated to KR’s corporate culture and system. In order to internalize its core values, KR evaluates its potential new hires on the receptiveness of core values and included a course on core values in training programs for newly promoted employees. In addition, KR detailed action items for executives, KR 2020 sustainable KR, drawing on its achievements and knowhow to date, reorganized its implementation strategies, like managers, and working level employees and is striving to internalize core values through 12 core value management strategy strategic goals and tasks, and established new mission and vision through 2020 to prepare for another action programs created at corporate culture workshop participated by all executives and employees. These phase of growth in the upcoming 20 years. In particular, in reflecting the environmental change taking programs include common-understanding concert and junior employee boards. KR will continue to work place in the global railway market growing focused on the future value and high-speed of the railway, towards becoming a public company rooted in its core values and contributes to People’s transportation which is the transport outstanding in eco-friendliness and energy efficiency, KR established its new vision convenience and national economic development. of “Realize Faster! Safer! And More Convenient Rail Network.” KR’s four strategic goals are “Construction of convenience-oriented rail network” “Improvement of the railway facility for public safety” “Maximizations 3 core values of revenues from asset management and overseas business” and “Establishment of a sustainable management system” In these goals, KR aimed for a balance between public utility and profitability by attaining a level of public utility fitting of the rail industry and cutting construction costs to increase profits We will fulfill our social responsibilities and strive for continued growth and Sustainable management for better management efficiency. KR’s 2020 sustainable management strategy was formulated not only advancement by its executives and employees, but also with stakeholder participation including public idea contests and consulting by external experts. KR seeks to create the best possible public service that all stakeholders will find satisfactory in order to positively contribute to national economic development. Mutual trust We will respect each other and strive for the common good KR 2020 sustainable management strategy system chart We will continue to develop our competencies to become the leading experts Professional mind in the railroad industry Mission Connecting the world through rail and creating happiness of the People Internalization of 3 core values Recruitment Training Promotion Action Corporate items culture Vision Realize Faster! Safer! And More Convenient Rail Network. Evaluation of Training of Completion of Execution of Core value receptiveness of corporate change core value training position specific internalization core values managers program action items program 4,980km of 80% of facility total railway improvement length rate Management Sustainable Performance Management Division of the Planning and Finance Department oversees KR’s sustainable management goals (2020) management activities and different divisions are responsible for carrying out diverse activities to fulfill their Business profits of Interest coverage ratio of economic, social, and environmental responsibilities. In addition, decision making authorities in different 0.05% accident rate KRW 1.4 trillion 1.05 implementation areas such as social contribution committee and future development consultation committee provide system additional support to KR’s sustainable management. Strategic Construction of Maximizations of revenues from Improvement of the railway Establishment of a sustainable Key Performance Indicators (KPI) direction convenience-oriented asset management and facility for public safety management system rail network overseas business Area Performance indicators Unit 2013 2014 2015 Total railroad length km 3,649 3,651 3,927 • ‌Construction user and • ‌Enhanced railway facility • ‌Diversification of asset • ‌Normalize financial structure Electrification ratio % 38.84 68.96 70.81 operator friendly railway safety development business • ‌Implement government 3.0 Economic Debt to asset ratio % 111.3 111.1 110.9 • Upgrade safety, quality, and • ‌Upgrade utilization system of • ‌Utilization and profitability of and enhance information KRW 100 eco-friendliness management railway facility state owned assets protection Asset and overseas revenues 1,039 1,106 1,253 Strategic tasks million system • ‌Improve efficiency in repair • ‌Strategic overseas business • ‌Communication, win-win, and (15) Environmental management index Points 212.0 226.6 250.0 • ‌Efficiency in construction and maintenance • ‌Improve organization and social responsibility investment GHG reduction ratio % 24.4 27.5 25.8 human resource productivity • ‌Enhance core competence Environmental • ‌Company-wide Clean KR Renewable energy facility installation % 24.96 30.60 34.71 efforts ratio National customer satisfaction Points 94.10 94.25 94.80 evaluation Implementation 13 including improving private 9 including renovation of 16 including development of 16 including tighter debt Social National anti-corruption evaluation Points 8.36 7.60 8.57 tasks (54) investment efficiency old facilities new overseas markets management Employee satisfaction Points 78.50 80.65 81.90 Accident rates in construction sites % 0.102 0.087 0.083 12 13 SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH KR Overview Vision and strategy Corporate governance Stakeholder participation Materiality assessment KR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Corporate governance Increased participation KR is utilizing the knowledge and insights of its non-executive directors, comprised of experts, in its of non-executive management activities to ensure equitable decision making on major business issues. In addition, KR provided independent and equipment space such as BOD rooms, BOD-only meeting room, thereby directors minimizing management risks in advance. Furthermore, KR reinforced the management consulting activities, such as director recommendation committee and budget review committee participated by BOD KR’s BOD, as the final decision making authority in KR’s main business activities, is in place to strengthen Overview of BOD activities non-executive directors, for the strategic management consulting activities. In order to further increase (Board of Directors) transparency in management, support timely decision making, and improve managerial efficiency. To non-executive director participation, KR encouraged non-executive directors to comment at least assure checks and balances and independence, as of June 2016, the BOD is comprised of six executive Number of meetings composition twice on matters brought forth by the chairman. Such efforts resulted in an increase in non-executive directors and seven non-executive directors. The non-executive directors who comprise the majority of the 2013 2014 2015 director participation compared to the previous year. In 2015, non-executive directors provided 21 cases board are all experts in their respective fields. In addition, non-executive director meetings, subcommittees, 13 14 15 of management consulting, and 111 management proposals, of which 83 were reflected in the KR’s and expert committees were added in order to enhance the BOD’s review function, thereby establishing an management activities. equitable decision making process and efficiently leading KR’s sustainable management. Number of resolutions and reports (Unit: items) number of resolutions number of reports 2015 committee overview BOD members 33 37 35 27 Committee Key activities Lead by Executive directors Non-executive directors 28 22 Director recommendation Comprise and operate transparent director Human resources Name Current position Name Career highlights committee recommendation committee division Yeong-il Kang Chairman Seong-min Lee Chairman, Jungnang Council Korea International Peace Research 2013 2014 2015 Financial risk Financial strategy Yeong-chan Oh Evaluate financial risks to ensure financial stability Yeong-woo Kim Vice chairman Institute secretary general management committee division In-seo Park Head of Planning and Finance department Eung-sun Lim Professor, Ansan University Prior review ratio Enhance expertise and fairness of internal audit, Audit and consulting Auditor and Public relations head, National Dokdo review appropriateness of mid/long-term audit strategy and Tae-gu Kim 2013 2014 2015 committee inspection Soo-hyeong Lee Head of Railway Construction department protection alliance follow-up measures of internal audit Head of Railway Systems Engineering Sang-bong Kim Professor of economics, Hansung University 100% 100% 100% Budget review Management consulting for major budget related tasks Planning and Sang-tae Kim Technology and safety director, Korea committee including formulation, closing, execution budget division department Il-do Kim Elevator Security Agency Head of Railway Facilities Management Modifications to resolutions Development of railway assets, review appropriateness of overseas Facilities planning Gye-eung Kim Chief expert member, National Assembly Facility subcommittee department Gyeong-bok Guk construction projects and establishment of overseas branches division special committee on budgets and accounts 2013 2014 2015 15 4 4 Management planning subcommittee Review mid-term strategic goals, business plan, and proposed budget changes Planning and budget division Selection process KR’s director recommendation committee implements an independent and transparent director selection Review progress and quality management for Honam for directors process. The committee selects evaluation criteria and reviews the applications and interviews persons Participation and remarks by Construction high-speed rail, Shingyeongju-Pohang and Wonju-Gangneung Construction subcommittee planning division who applied for a position through an open application process. Afterwards, the committee recommends non-executive directors (Unit: %) railway construction potential candidates to the appointment authority and the appointment authority selects the most participation rate by non-executive directors Accounting auditor Assuring the check and balance of the authority Financial strategy Appointment authority for KR board members qualified candidate. To enhance the transparency and objectivity of director selection, the representation of remarks of non-executive directors appointment committee management and the transparent objectivity division Position Authority delegated to 96.7 98 non-executive directors in the director recommendation committee has been increased from 3 to 7 persons. 89.7 Chairman of the boards President of Korea A company-wide acceptance procedure* takes place when a civilian committee member is recommended 67.9 73.1 74.1 Expert committee’s proposals and management performance Auditor general President of Korea as a candidate. Committee Major proposals Content Management performance Executive directors Chairman of the board * ‌company-wide acceptance procedure: Two candidates are selected by a company-wide vote from two persons selected from a civilian candidate pool of 27 persons recommended by representative meetings and two persons recommended by the labor 2013 2014 2015 Non-executive Minister of land, infrastructure, Develop ground for directors and transport union. The committee selects the final candidate. Financial risk short-tem asset backed Diversify short-term Developed stable management bonds issuance, including Overview of reflection of non-executive borrowing methods funding platform committee revision of general Vitalization of the The BOD is the final decision making authority responsible for reviewing and passing resolutions regarding directors’ management proposals provision of budget KR’s major policies. Monthly meetings are held to discuss and share KR’s management activities, thereby BOD operation Management consulting Management proposals Convert existing highProposals reflected enhancing BOD’s actual decision making role. Mid/long-term Diversify policy for mid/ interest debts, and Saved financial cost by In order to ensure proactive participation of BOD, regular meetings participated by the government agency 105 111 financial management long-term financial postpone bond issuance strategic bond issuance 99 83 advisory committee strategy for non-interest bearing (KRW 19 billion) chief are held and real-time mobile communication and notification services are provided. In addition, 73 79 liabilities the board’s role is enhanced by diversifying communication channels including mandatory non-executive 21 21 18 Exclude unnecessary Saved management fee director meetings seven days prior to the BOD meeting to discuss and share opinions about proposals. Budget incentive budgeting, and eliminate Reorganize design (KRW 15.2 billion) and standard for saving cost screening committee annual and repetitive working expenses 2013 2014 2015 and reinvesting BOD activities (5 steps) waste elements (KRW 726.1 billion) Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 Step 5 Evaluation and KR, in accordance with the “Public Company Operation Act,” concludes performance contracts with its remuneration executive directors and provides performance pay according to evaluation results. Executive director evaluation is comprised of government management assessment index (40%), evaluation results for the Proposal Prior review by (division/ subcommittee Chairman of the Prior review by Chairman of the board Board of director said director’s department (40%) and CEO’s leadership evaluation (20%). CEO’s evaluation is based entirely board non-executive (confirmation of meeting department) (executive and nonon the government management assessment. Each constituent’s salary and paygrade is determined by (CEO review) members proposals) executive directors) evaluation results and salaries of CEO, auditor general, and executive directors and disclosed to the public through management disclosure. 14 15 SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH KR Overview Vision and strategy Corporate governance Stakeholder participation Materiality assessment KR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Stakeholder participation Examples of stakeholder communication Definition of KR’s KR defines its stakeholders as value influencers (national assembly, government, media), cooperative value Case 1 [Communication with the general public] Relocation of Gamgok station in stakeholders creators (business partners and local community), value producers (employees and labor union), and Icheon–Choongju line value purchases (railroad operators and the general public) according to their role in KR’s value chain. KR is Gamgok station, per basic design results (December, 2009), was originally to be located in Janghowonutilizing various communication channels to ensure effective communication and mutual partnership as a eup, Icheon-si, Gyeonggi-do. However, as the station’s location was moved approximately 110m companion in creating the future of railway industry. to Gamgok-myeon, Eumseong-gun, Chungcheongbuk-do, conflicts arose between residents of Janghowon-eup and Gamgok-myeon. The relocation of the station located on the boundaries of the two regions Stakeholder communication channel and points of contact led to regional conflicts, resulting in construction delays of about one year and causing problems in meeting the entire construction deadline. In response, KR hosted three-party conversations with Icheon-si, and Eumseong-gun Value influencers Cooperative value creators Value producers Value purchasers (business planning) (design and construction) (business management) (facility management) Jungbu Naeryuk (Icheon-Chungju) railway groundbreaking to reconcile each other’s differences and create a mutually beneficial plan. Through these conversations, KR was able ceremony to resolve the conflict by locating Gamgok station in Wangjang-ri, Gamgok-myeon, Eumseong-gun and installing National assembly, Business partners, Employees Labor union Railroad operators, connecting passage ways in the direction of Notab-ri to improve accessibility for residents of Janghowon-eup. government, media local community general public Stakeholder [Communication with local community] Korea’s first fashion entrepreneurship Before environmental After environmental Case 2 Required values Public convenience, Mutual cooperation, Leading change Increased esteem Enhance competitiveness maintenance maintenance support community new deal in cooperation with Busan city regional development fair play and safety The idle land adjacent to the underpass in the vicinity of Busanjin market was a parcel of land with Partnership, such as Establishment of creative Solidifying a relationship Increase brand value Responsible growth very little use. Civil complaints continued as the area, which was left idle for decades, became a site Communication communication, trust, socially and autonomous corporate of trust through through conflict through establishment strategy of cooperative network responsible management, culture through conversation communication and resolution and business for illegal waste disposal and crime-ridden. In order to resolve these complaints, KR cooperated with Win-win growth with partners and communication cooperation promotion Busan City to apply for the construction of a temporary building. After obtaining approval, KR and Busan city created • ‌Policy discussion, • ‌Regulation reform • ‌Junior board Communication • ‌Periodic labor • ‌Voice of customer/ an access road, conducted environmental maintenance activities and urban regeneration projects to transform public hearings proposal center * ‌Messenger between employees management management • ‌Land, infrastructure • On-site meetings in their 20~30s and executives representative meetings disclosure system an area of 316.87m2 into a venue for communication and entrepreneurship support. This is Korea’s first case of the and transport • ‌Anti-unjust • ‌KR dove • Labor ‌ management • SNS/blogs Utilizing the idle land construction of an entrepreneurship/ community center utilizing idle land next to railway. The previously idle land committee, railway subcontracting center * Anonymous proposals conference • ‌Railway policy changes/ now is a hub for information sharing for fabric and fashion workers, providing support for young entrepreneurs, and industry committee • ‌Conflict resolution • Common ‌ understanding concert • Labor ‌ management working level railway • ‌Future development conference * ‌Venue for information sharing meeting safety meetings developing new product designs. KR will expand its cooperation with local communities to create more hubs in the Major communication consultancy • Resident meeting through internal/external experts, • Lunch meeting, Hof day • ‌Suseo high-speed rail future. • Press conference • ‌Social contribution including culture, knowledge et al • Grievance committee conference channels • ‌Anti-corruption meeting • ‌Reading relay • Labor-management ‌ * ‌Reading bucket list challenge [Communication with business partners] Updates to enable “one-click” Ombudsman meeting between management and win-win conversation Case 3 • ‌Test run of newly delivery documentation system employees opened lines • Management ‌ hot-line counseling The KR delivery documentation system is a system that enables its major customers to receive service * ‌CEO and executive director counseling (on-demand) and goods delivery documentation from business partners. The previous delivery documentation Planning and Budget Planning and Budget Division, Transportation Division, system was capable of producing documentation only during working hours after confirmation by Performance General Administration Point(s) of Division, Performance Construction Division, General Facility Division, Planning a KR employee. In addition, the previous system was slow in producing documentation and applications had to be contact Management Division and Labor Division Management Division, PR Administration and Labor Division and Budget Division, PR submitted for each request. Such inconveniences resulted in many instances of VOC that asked for the improvement of the documentation system. In response, in October 2015, KR developed a system that enabled automatic issuance of documentation with the click of a button. Now customers can receive documentation through various media Communication and KR is identifying stakeholder needs by utilizing various communication channels tailored to the characteristics including PC, tablets, and smartphones. Furthermore, KR added functions to collect and analyze information such information sharing to of its key stakeholders including the government, customers, business partners, and employees. Stakeholders’ Establishment of delivery documentation system as customer satisfaction and types of documentation requested in order to quickly respond to customer needs and needs are proactively incorporated in KR’s management activities and feedback is provided to the promote stakeholder stakeholders, creating a virtuous cycle of communication and information sharing. KR will strive to create a provide tailored services. participation relationship of mutual cooperation and trust by proactively adapting to the changing needs of its stakeholders. [Communication with employees] KR junior board, a channel for internal Case 4 communication Stakeholder needs The KR junior board is a communication channel with the management and is comprised of junior employees from various positions and functions. The junior board is engaged in various activities Key needs Incorporation in management policy to initiate change from the bottom-up, including creating a common understanding, improving General public Utilization of idle land near railways Provided space for youth entrepreneurship community near Busan railway corporate culture and productivity. The junior board is rooted in the belief that the “members of the junior board Government Expansion of KTX network Transitioned previous railway into semi-high speed rail (200 ~ 250 km/h) should go beyond simply proposing ideas and sufficiently review the issue and discuss with relevant points of Business partners Improved construction safety Established 24 hour railroad monitoring system (central control center) contact whether their ideas are actionable.” As a result of such proactivity, much was achieved to the credit of the KR Communication with employees junior board, including but not limited to revision of KR related regulations, preparation of job manuals, installation of Railroad operators Creation of safe operating environment Early installation of screen doors (6 years ahead of schedule) KR Sports Park, creation of in-house messenger, KR dove, KR love-sharing HOPE, in-house broadcasting, and healthy Employees Cost reduction Improved tunnel lining design standards → cost savings of KRW 75 billion stairs. KR will continue to develop various methods of communication to listen to the voice of its employees and create an environment conducive to mutual trust. 16 17 SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH KR Overview Vision and strategy Corporate governance Stakeholder participation Materiality assessment KR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Stakeholder interview “ Overall economy (technology provider) What is KR’s role in the advancement e) ploye I believe KR should establish an ation (em cre Value economic, social, and environmental of the economy, society, environment, leadership position through proactive response to changing conditions. and the railway industry? ” I think KR, as a public company, Especially, as a company specialized in should contribute to the economic railway construction and facility management, KR development by engaging in large needs to thoroughly respond to auto-pilot and next-generation energy by national projects such as railway forming the technological supplementation and cooperation relationship construction, solve the environmental with other means of transportation and establishing sustainable positioning problem by constructing railway which strategy. In order to enhance competitiveness in overseas business, KR is the eco-friendly green transportation, should accumulate railway facility operation and repair and maintenance and network with local communities through continuous communication technologies, and take initiatives to produce railway parts domestically and exchange, thereby enhancing both economic value and social value. through development of parts industry and align with international Furthermore, I believe KR should be reborn as a company specialized in standards. Finally, I believe KR should establish a lean organizational Win -win railway construction with world leading railway technology by reinforcing structure to proactively respond and maintain its competitiveness in a fast coop eratio its competitiveness as the professional railway construction and facility changing external environment. n (busi ness partner) management institute through domestic and overseas railway construction and connection of Trans-Korean railway and by leading the development of Doctor Jin-ki Eom, I believe KR should take various initiatives for joint development by expanding cooperation with business the railway industry. Korea Railroad Research Institute partners and win-win growth program to respond to customers’ expectations and requirements. In particular, a business proposal platform should be created to enable new businesses with small and Hyeon-suk Jeong, Division Head, medium enterprises (“SMEs”) in order to provide many companies with opportunities to cooperate with KR KR. I believe the resulting overseas business in cooperation with SMEs and business growth through new businesses will contribute to KR's financial health and competitiveness along with invigoration of local economy. Heon-il Park, Director KP Electric Environmental management (national assembly, the governm ent, med ia) munity) Social responsibility (local com While KR is doing an excellent job in compliance with the government’s policy and various environmental rules and regulations, there are more to be asked for in terms of R&D and new business development that will enable KR to become a leading eco-friendly company. I believe proper human resource development I think KR is one of the public companies that actively participate in fulfilling its social responsibilities. However, keeping and joint R&D investments by the government, industrial, and academic sector for in line with the increased public awareness in social responsibility, KR should become a leading CSR company that goes creating the future foods will enable KR to become a public company that fulfills its social beyond focusing on profits and cooperate to solve social problems. In addition, it is very important for KR to implement the responsibilities. social contribution strategically and enhance communication with local communities for fulfilling sharing, thereby enabling both the public company and the local communities to advance equitably. Seong-uk Eo, Professor, Yeong-shin Ham, Regional Head, Woosong Unversity Daejeon Region, Child Fund Korea 18 19 SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH KR Overview Vision and strategy Corporate governance Stakeholder participation Materiality assessment KR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Materiality assessment Materiality KR selected 21 key issues which scored above average 4.00 in KR’s materiality analysis. In 2016, KR’s assessment results employees and stakeholders were most interested in compliance with social regulations, anti-corruption, customer safety and health, customer information protection and security management. KR conducted the following materiality assessment to determine the contents of the 2016 Materiality assessment matrix Impact Trend sustainability report and identify sustainable management issues to be followed-up for one year. External stakeholders’ influence 1 Compliance with social regulations 1 2 Anti-corruption 2 Materiality 3 3 Customer safety and health KR conducted materiality assessments to understand the various expectations and interests of its internal 4 ‌Customer information protection and security management 4 assessment and external stakeholders and identify issues for sustainable management. KR applied the materiality 6 5 GHG, waste, and waste water emission 5 assessment criteria set forth in GRI G4 guidelines and prioritized sustainability issues by making reference 6 Compliance with environmental regulations 7 to the methodology in ISO 26000 and IIRC. Such guidelines and methodologies were used in establishing 7 Indirect economic impact 8 mid/long-term sustainable management strategy and forming the contents of the report to ensure that the 8 ‌Ratio of re-employment and continued employment after 9 maternity leave 10 topics of stakeholder interest are duly reflected. 11 9 Increased demand for product and service safety 20 10 Increased demand for fair trade 12 Process for determining materiality and reporting scope 11 Increased demand for transparent and ethical management 14 13 15 12 ‌Compliance with domestic and international regulations 16 Sustainability context regarding product and service warranty Identifying KR conducted internal and external environment analysis for 17 13 Environmental pollution prevention issues • T&I analysis approximately three months from April 11, 2016 through June 17, 2016 18 14 Improved government management evaluation • CSR trend analysis to understand sustainable management issues. KR conducted employee 15 Increased demand for customer information security 19 • Benchmarking survey, analyzed reports of comparable domestic and international 16 Occupational health and safety 21 companies, analyzed media articles, interviewed stakeholders, and 1 • Media analysis 17 Anti-discrimination • ‌ISO 26000 implementation diagnosed ISO 26000 implementation. Relevance assessments were 18 ‌Increased importance of win-win growth with business STEP diagnosis based on the results of such analysis. partners 19 Increased demand for fair competition and win-win growth 20 Employment 21 Employee training and competency development Internal significance Materiality Based on the results of relevance assessment, KR conducted an on-line Prioritization • Relevance assessment stakeholder survey to prioritize the 34 issues identified as relevant to • Significance assessment KR. A total of 672 people responded. A materiality assessment matrix was prepared for the issues based on internal significance and external Structure of report stakeholders’ influence. Reporting boundary Key issue Report content GRI G4 aspects Internal External Stakeholder response overview (Unit: number of responses) 13 Environmental pollution prevention Issue 1. Customer centric rail network Category Frequency 1.5 Internal Employees 189 3 Customer safety and health Customer health and safety 9 Increased demand for product and service safety Issue 2. Safe, high-quality, eco-friendly railway 28.1 1.2 Subtotal 189 Occupational health and safety 16 Occupational health and safety External Government 8 0.4 8.5 Customer 57 7 Indirect economic impacts Issue 3. Foundation for new growth Indirect economic impacts Business partners 389 2 Anti-corruption (Unit: %) Issue 4. Ethical management Anti-corruption Local residents 3 11 Increased demand for transparent and ethical management Universities, research 13 10 Increased demand for fair trade Issue 5. Win-win growth Anti-competitive behavior institutes, associations 1.9 0.4 57.9 Media 3 8 Compatibility of work and home (Ratio of re-employment and Issue 6. Human resource management Employment Others 10 continued employment after maternity leave by gender) 2 Employees Government Customer Business Partners Subtotal 483 4 Customer information protection and security management Local residents Universities·research institutes·associations Grand total 672 15 Increased demand for customer information security Customer privacy STEP Media Others 12 Compliance with domestic and international regulations Issue 7. Customer satisfaction Product and service labeling regarding product and service warranty 14 Improved government management evaluation Issue 8. Social contribution Completeness (social responsibility) Validation KR conducted an internal review to validate the key sustainable management issues identified as a result of materiality assessment. 3 • ‌Confirm appropriateness of Compliance (social) 1 Compliance with social regulations scope, boundary, and period Stakeholder feedback relating to sustainability reports are reflected in Compliance (environmental) 5 GHG, waste, and waste water emission Sustainability performance STEP covered this year’s report. 6 Compliance with environmental regulations Emissions Effluents and waste 20 21 OUR PRIORITY ISSUE 1 Customer centric rail network ISSUE 2 Safe, high-quality, eco-friendly railroad construction ISSUE 3 E ‌ xpanding foundation for new growth ISSUE 4 Ethical ‌ management ISSUE 5 ‌Win-win growth ISSUE 6 Human ‌ resource management ISSUE 7 Customer ‌ satisfaction ISSUE 8 Social ‌ contribution OUR PRIORITY ISSUE 01 ISSUE 02 ISSUE 03 ISSUE 04 ISSUE 05 ISSUE 06 ISSUE 07 ISSUE 08 KR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ISSUE 01 Publicity activities to attract investments in railroad KR analyzed the effects of railroad including opening of Honam high speed rail on local economy, culture, and tourism and conducted publicity activities through social media and major media. In addition, KR held policy discussions in connection with the national assembly and the academia to establish a support base Customer centric rail network for increased investments in railroad. Building railroads best suited for customers Connecting Trans-Korean railway KR is systematically preparing for the reunification era by establishing roadmaps for integrated rail network for the Korean peninsula. KR commenced work on a 9.3km route between Baekmagoji and Woljeongni Background and impact Railroad is becoming an increasingly important mode of transportation as it is capable of preventing various to reconnect railway between North and South Korea. KR is also taking the initiative to connect Transenvironmental issues such as climate change and energy crisis as well as minimizing associated social costs. Korean railway by recommending restoration of Geumgangsan line and Donghae line to the government. In Railroad will continue to be one of the most important modes of transportation in the future. KR seeks to addition to KR raising KRW 3.6 billion reunification fund from public donation, KR is also forming a common put customers first as it carries out plans to expand its current rail network of 3,927km to 4,980km by 2020. understanding for Trans-Korean rail project by hosting policy seminars. | Activities 2 | Commencement and timely opening of new railroad project Key initiatives | Strategy | ‌Establishment of sustainable management strategy system in the rail industry environment Commencement of work for new rail projects KR takes initiatives to create a rail industry environment that is conducive not only to KR’s growth, but the KR is commencing work on new rail projects in the western, central, and southern regions of the country growth of its business partners and railroad operators. In particular, KR enhanced its facility management to expand railroad coverage. In order to improve accessibility to Seoul, KR began work on connecting activities and implemented strategies to improve railroad speed and safety in response to the expansion of Danggogae and Jinjeob line. In addition, KR commenced work on Gyeongwon line restoration projects in KR’s facility management authority to include all rail types (previously limited to high speed rail). KR is taking order to prepare for reunification and promote development of the northern region of Gangwon province. initiatives to construct railways that will improve the public’s transportation convenience. KR also improved transportation convenience and promoted development in the central inland area through Dodam~Yeongcheon, Yeongcheon~Shingyeongju, Icheon~Mungyeong business. In addition, KR | Activities 1 | Identifying new rail project opportunities resumed the double track railway work in the western corridor and the Boseong~Imseongni line, previously suspended due to budget issues, to expand railroad coverage in isolated areas and promote balanced Improved railway evaluation system growth. Ground breaking ceremony for Gyeongwon line restoration Flowchart of identifying new rail business Process for identifying new rail business opportunities include prior planning, preliminary feasibility study, business opportunities and establishing master plans. KR improved its railway investment evaluation system through various Number of new railway project commencement efforts including external consulting in order to ensure that more potential business opportunities pass the Projects (unit: number of projects) Length (unit: km) Prior planning preliminary feasibility stage. KR conducted studies to improve its investment evaluation system (July 2015 7 311.5 ~July 2016) and improved the evaluation system by implementing changes. Some changes were reflected 6 immediately while others were included in the feasibility study instructions in phases. The application of 238.6 Preliminary feasibility study new construction methods in economic analyses resulted in cost reductions of 7~10%. A modification to the (economic, policy analysis) calculation methodology also resulted in a 20% reduction of operating expenses. 2 In addition, economic feasibility was further improved by quantifying the benefits of reduced GHG and 32.4 atmospheric pollutant emissions through electrification. In 2015, totally five out of seven cases were Master plan selected as the target project of the preliminary feasibility study. 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Business cases passing preliminary feasibility study and expected impacts Business case Activities and expected impact Timely completion and operation of high speed rail projects • ‌Connection of metropolitan high speed rail (Jijae station) and KR established comprehensive plans to ensure timely completion and opening of high speed rail projects. In • ‌Direct KTX connection from Suwon (budget/length) KRW 293.2 billion/ 4.7km Gyeongbu railway (Seojeongni station) 2015, KR opened Honam high speed rail, Pohang KTX, and Gyeongbu high speed rail in Daejeon and Daegu • Expansion of high speed rail to southwest metropolitan area brought the country one step closer to being connected in less than 6 hours. • Connection ‌ of Gyeongbu high speed railway with The opening of the Honam high speed rail (April 2015) reduced travel time between Seoul and Gwangju • Direct KTX connection from Incheon Suwon-Incheon line (Eocheon station) -(budget/length) KRW 353.1 billion/ 3.5km Opening ceremony for Honam high speed rail Songjeong by 66 minutes compared to previous railway transport and 117 minutes compared to bus, Number of business cases passing • Expansion of high speed rail to west metropolitan area preliminary feasibility study enabling travelers to travel from Seoul to Honam area in less than two hours. Honam high speed rail also (unit: cases) • ‌Relieve intercity traffic congestion through introducing 200km/h 5 • ‌Euijeongbu-Geumjeong intercity express railway intercity express railway enabled KTX service in the South coast region. Pohang KTX, by enabling early high speed service from (budget/length) KRW 3.996 trillion/ 45.8km 4 • Expansion of high speed rail to northeast metropolitan area Shingyeongju to Pohang within the Ulsan~Pohang route in the Donghae Nambu line, reduced travel time • ‌Extend Indukwon-Suwon double track railway to Osan from Seoul to Pohang by 83 minutes. In addition, Pohang KTX improved transportation convenience • Dongtan-Segyo double track railway (Segyo new town) through direct connection between Gyeongbu high speed rail and Pohang KTX which eliminated the need 2 -(budget/length) KRW 629.1 billion/ 8.6km • ‌Relieve transportation inconvenience and traffic problems in the for customers having to connect to different routes. capital area by expanding intercity rail network The installation of 40.7km high speed route in urban areas in Daejeon and Daegu marked the opening of all • Extend ‌ Sinbundang line (Gangnam-Gwanggyo-Homaeshil) to • ‌Homaeshil-Bongdam double track railway Bongdam high speed routes in the Gyeongbu high speed rail and eliminated bottlenecks. In addition, the opening of (budget/length) KRW 545.2 billion/ 7.0km • ‌Meet demands for intercity transportation in southern the high speed route provided additional transportation capacity and provided a base for installing intercity 2013 2014 2015 metropolitan area and relieve traffic congestion railways. Opening ceremony for Pohang KTX 24 25 OUR PRIORITY ISSUE 01 ISSUE 02 ISSUE 03 ISSUE 04 ISSUE 05 ISSUE 06 ISSUE 07 ISSUE 08 KR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | Activities 3 | High speed routes to enhance railway competitiveness | Activities 5 | Improved ‌ transportation services through establishment Semi-high speed rail in five major artery routes of connections Semi-high speed rails operate at maximum speeds between 200~250km/h and is capable of reducing travel Legend KR completed four direct connection projects including the Pohang KTX in 2015 in order to enable customers to reach their destination via high speed rail without having to connect to conventional rail. Direct Original traffic line time between Seoul and Busan (442km) by approximately one hour compared to conventional rail which Changed traffic line KTX connection projects in order to improve accessibility to Incheon and Suwon also passed preliminary E/S Escalator operate at maximum speed of 150km/h. In addition, semi-high speed rails are low-cost high-efficiency M/W Moving walk railways which can be constructed at 77% of the cost of high speed rails. KR is introducing semi-high speed feasibility studies. Line 1 Gate rail in five major artery routes through tailored high-speed plans in order to reduce regional discrepancies in services provided and to meet demands for expansion of high-speed rail. Line 4 Gate Direct connection from Seoul to Pohang by connecting Gyeongbu Pohang KTX (2015) The expansion of semi-high speed rail will reduce the transportation time between major cities in Korea to high speed rail and Pohang KTX Reducing the moving distance by 400m / 1~2 hours by expansion of the coverage area. reducing the travel time by 7 minutes Direct connection from major cities to Incheon International Airport by Susek direct connection (2014) New connecting passage between Seoul Station and utilizing Gyeongbu and Honam high speed rail Details for semi-high speed rail Airport Express Direct connection from Seoul to Masan and Jinju by connecting Samnangjin~Jinju (2012) Gyeongbu high speed rail and Gyeongjeon line Category Business Direct connection from Seoul to Jeonju, Suncheon, and Yeosu by Iksan~Yeosu (2012) Pohang KTX 38.4km (opened in 2015), Gyeongchun line 81.3km, connecting Honam high speed rail with Jeolla line Completed Jeolla line 90.2km (opened in 2012) In addition, KR installed new accommodations including connecting passage between Seoul station and Pyeongchang Olympics 277.5km, Cheongnyangni-Bujeon in central line 427.6km, Airport Express and connecting center at Osan station to enable easy connection for railroad customers. KR In progress (5 major artery Daegok-Iksan in west coast line 233.1km, minimized the distance between rail stations and other public transports (less than 180m or 3 minutes) and routes) Bujeon-Gwangju in Gyeongjeon line 251.2km, placed connections to other methods of transportation such as bus, taxi, and self-owned vehicles (in that Suseo-Gimcheon in central inland line 221.3km order). KR is striving to provide one-stop transportation service by establishing connection system centered around rail stations for the convenience of railroad passengers. Establishment of intercity and express rail network | Activities 6 | Increased ‌ volume and improved competitiveness of Metropolitan GTX route KR is taking initiatives to construct intercity express railway in metropolitan areas (GTX) in order to relieve freight rail transport traffic congestions and improve accessibility to Seoul. Scheduled speed* of such routes are increased from In preparation of the Eurasian era, China and Russia are restructuring their railway operations and Uijeongbu Unjeong 35km/h to 105km/h by constructing straight routes through underground tunnels. The opening of GTX KINTEX would reduce commuting time from Gyeonggido to Seoul to 30 minutes. expanding investments in facility updates. However, freight rail transportation is decreasing in Korea and Daegok Changdong Construction work between Samsung and Dongtan is in progress (May 2015) and master plan for route inefficiencies in transportation logistics are worsening year over year. In order to promote railway logistics, KR actively participated in the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, and Yeonsinnae Kwangwoon University between Kintex and Samsung has been established (December 2015). As of 2H 2015, preliminary feasibility Cheongnyangni study for route between Euijeongbu and Geumjeong is in progress. Business plans are being reestablished Transport’s “Railway Logistics Facility Investment Planning”. KR also received feedback from freight rail Seoul Station Yongsan for route between Songdo and Cheongnyangni. Intercity railway construction for Daegu (Gumi~Gyeongsan transporters, consignors, and experts to establish mid/long-term railway logistics plan and to establish Bupyeong Dangarae Sindorim Yeouido Samseong 71.85km) and Daejeon (Shintanjin~Gyeryong 35.2km) economic regions will take place utilizing excess efficient operating system tailored to customers. Currently, KR is engaged in four projects that connect Yangjae Suseo railway capacity after the opening of urban high speed rail in Gyeongbu line. Initiatives are being taken for major industrial complexes and ports including Poseung-Pyeongtaek industrial rail. KR also included four additional cargo routes in the KRW 2.2 trillion “Phase 3 National Rail Network Plan” in order to establish its Incheon City Hall Gwacheon intercity railway between Busan and Ulsan (scheduled to open in 2018) and Bujeon and Masan (scheduled to open in 2020) to provide service between Busan, Ulsan, and Changwon. These intercity routes are role in the previously overlooked logistics area. KR is seeking to promote further growth by utilizing railway Route Connections Length (km) expected to promote development in their respective economic regions. logistics as a new growth driver. Kintex – Samsung 36.4 * Scheduled speed: average speed taking stops into account A Samsung – Dongtan 37.9 Business Expected effects | Activities 4 | High efficiency railway through electrification Subtotal 74.3 Poseung-Pyeongtaek route B Songdo – Cheongnyangni 48.7 Phase 1 (13.7km) opened in 2015. C Euijeongbu Geumjeong 45.8 Electrification will take place for new and existing railways in order to enable electric locomotive 1 -‌‌Timely logistics transport following relocation of Yongsan Poseung-Pyeongtaek route transportation. Electrification ratio in 2015 was 70.81%, which ranks about 10th in the world. Electrification Garrison to Pyeongtaek KRW 695.2 billion, 30.3km enabled the use of electricity as opposed to diesel as a power source, reducing operating costs and preventing environmental pollution from GHG and exhaust gas emissions. KR will continue the Gunjang industrial complex route 28.6km electrification of railways to achieve 82% electrification ratio (3rd in the world) by 2025. 2 Connection to Janghang line, project period 2005~2019 Pohang Yongilman route Competitive positioning in railway logistics in western corridor KRW 162.6 billion, 9.3km Effects of electrification Ulsan new port route 9.3km Business name Opened Gunjang industrial 3 Connection to eastern corridor, project period 2010~2020 on Increased railway usage in industrial complex in Ulsan CO2 reduction Cost reduction complex route Ulsan new port KRW 546.3 billion, route Honam high speed rail 183.8km April 2 3.49ton CO2 → 1.95ton CO2/trip 795kKRW → 295kKRW/trip 28.6km KRW 174.5 billion, Pohang Yeongil Bay route 9.3km 9.3km Connection to Pohang~Samcheok, project period 2010~2020 Pohang KTX 38.4km March 31 0.73ton CO2 → 0.41ton CO2/trip 167kKRW → 62kKRW/trip 4 ‌Efficient logistics transport by connection with Yeongilman Gyeongbu high speed rail 40.7km August 1 0.77ton CO2 → 0.43ton CO2/trip 176kKRW → 65kKRW/trip Port development 26 27 OUR PRIORITY ISSUE 01 ISSUE 02 ISSUE 03 ISSUE 04 ISSUE 05 ISSUE 06 ISSUE 07 ISSUE 08 KR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | Activities 7 | Improved returns on investment through economic design and construction KR replaced Germany’s concrete track cast-in-place construction method with domestically developed precast concrete track and applied it in the Jinju-Gwangyang and Pohang-Yongdeok projects, realizing a 4% Cost reduction in engineering phase Screw spike reduction in construction costs and 22% reduction in construction time. In addition, in case of rail fastening, KR conducts value engineering (VE) and screening to review the economic feasibility and on-site Clamping spring which was previously manufactured by two companies in the U.K. and Germany, KR procured original Rail pad applicability of engineered contents. KR prevented engineering changes through such practices and was Guide plate technologies and developed KR-type rail fastening. Subsequently, KR lifted its patent rights to the rail Base plate able to reduce KRW 106.7 billion and KRW 122.4 billion of business costs through value engineering and Tower-type pad Fixing pad fastening to diversify suppliers and encourage open competition. Roughly 340,000 KR-type rail fastenings screening, respectively. KR is utilizing in-house and national value engineering competition to improve Under plate will be installed in the Wonju-Gangneung project and it is expected to result in KRW 15.1 billion reduction construction site quality and reduce costs. In particular, KR’s “Wonju-Gangneung railway construction VE” Fixing device <Disassembled view> <Assembled view> in imports. High speed turnouts and point machines, which resulted in numerous cases of malfunctioning team won the Minister of Land, Infrastructure, and Transport award in the 2015 national VE competition. in phase 2 of Gyeongbu high speed rail were also localized and 40 high speed turnouts and point machines This marks the fifth straight year in which KR was recognized for value engineering excellence. In addition, KR style rail fastening system were installed in 2015. 54 high speed turnouts and point machines were installed in the metropolitan high KR utilizes in-house and Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, and Transport’s system to register and share VE speed rail (2015) and 56 were installed between Wonju and Gangneung (2016), resulting in KRW 75.6 billion screening results with engineers and construction companies. KR also publishes case studies and guide reduction in imports. Minister award at the 2015 national VE competition books to provide continuous feedback and minimize duplications. Development of high value added future technologies Cost reduction in construction phase KR commercialized LTE based Railway wireless communication system (LTE-R*) and Korea Radio Train Sample construction VE cost cutting KR took various initiatives to cut project costs by implementing systematic cost cutting processes and Control System (KRTCS), which incorporates LTE technology, and secured world-leading technological identifying cost effective construction methods and materials tailored to individual sites. In order to Reduced cost by KRW 6.1billion by competency in signal and communication. Previous communication technologies, which used three replacing earthwork with bridges increase motivation for cost cutting activities, KR awards exemplary cases of cost cutting performances and different methods (ETEC, ASTRO, and TETRA) were inconvenient as crew members had to carry three radios. (Icheon – Choongju site 1 Jangpyeongni route) publishes case studies to successful cost cutting efforts and encourages application of such measures in all In addition, new signal frequencies could not be set-up with the previous communication technologies. construction sites. In 2015, KR reduced project costs by KRW 315.1 billion through 618 cost cutting initiatives LTE-R is a system that optimizes 4th generation wireless communication technology (LTE) to railway Before change : including value engineering and construction method change including but not limited to replacing environment. With LTE-R, all railway wireless communication can be integrated into a single LTE-R platform earthwork (1,405m) + bridge (295m) earthwork zones with bridges, changing bridge construction methods, and using new materials. Reduction of and large data can be transmitted even while traveling at 350km/h, making railway operations more Earthwork zone KRW 315.1 billion corresponds to 104% of KR’s target reduction of KRW 302.1 billion. efficient. In addition, LTE-R can be connected with the national public safety LTE, enabling immediate and effective response to minimize damage in case of disasters and accidents. KR completed the standardization | Activities 8 | Enhanced ‌ railway construction technology competitiveness of LTE-R (December 2015) and quality testing (February 2016) and finalized plans to commercialize LTE-R at through improved expertise and confidence speeds up to 250km/h. KR plans to set-up LTE-R system in all 5,000km of railways in Korea by 2025. After change : Increasing efficiency and standardization of railroad construction criteria * LTE-R : LTE based Railway wireless communication system earthwork (255m) + bridge (1,455m) KR established and updated 105 items in the railroad construction criteria, reflecting various stakeholder LTE-R Development Plan feedbacks identified through on-site VOC and expert workshop. Timely establishment and update of various Phase 4 Bridge zone Phase 3 (April 2017~December 2017) railroad construction criteria resulted in improved safety, cost cutting, and improved on-site application. Phase 2 (June 2016~March 2017) Finalize standard Phase 1 (August 2015~May 2016) specifications Area Key updates Expected effects Install and test system (December 2014~July 2015) Planned road Civil engineering, track 7 including placement of safety manager Improved safety Design and manufacture • ‌Field testing at speeds Less banking between prototypes • ‌Field testing at different up to 350km/h Seongnam and Construction equipment 22 including premium to relieve crowding Improved customer satisfaction Define requirements • Commercialize at speeds Janghowon Railway electric 32 including engineering/design clarification Conflict resolution Road • Set up standards speeds up to 250km/h Signal and communication 44 including design criteria revision Improved customer convenience Stream KR expanded standards for railway articles from 38 items in 2014 to 134 items in 2014, thereby enhancing In addition, KR utilized LTE-R to create the Korea Radio Train Control System (KRTCS). KR localized radio Narrower site Narrower site quality of railway articles and preventing problems resulting from using specific items or non-standard train control system which had previously utilized four different methods (ETCS, CBTC, ATC, and ATS) items. KR also established guidelines for station and platform design and standardized design drawings. through the development of KRTCS which is compatible with the European radio train control system. The • ‌Site narrowed by 91m, reduction in land purchase KR also standardized quantities and unit cost of a total of 11,253 construction works (including 5,523 in consolidation of control system is expected to result in cost savings. In addition, KR is now able to operate price architecture and 3,241 in railway electric strategy) in order to ensure consistency in calculating construction mobile blocking* that moves the block section depending on the speeds and locations of trains compared • ‌680,000m2 less banking, reduction in earth and sand transportation expense costs and prevent overdesign. KR also enhanced the expertise of KR technical committee by including to fixed blocking, which enables more flexibility in railway operations. • Resolved ‌ civil complaints resulting from 169 internal and external experts from 11 different fields. KR also designated 166 new codes for specific disconnection between villages construction works of roadbed, construction et al in booklets and handbooks to facilitate usage by relevant * Blocking : enabling operation of one train in a designated section persons. Localization of core railway technology and reinforcement of on-site application Evaluation and KR opened high speed rails including the Honam high speed rail and Pohang KTX on time and reduced travel time between regions and contributed to balanced development among different regions. KR is also KR localized and commercialized core railway technology which had been dependent on foreign countries, future directions taking initiatives to build railway networks tailored to customers’ needs including but not limited to the thereby enhancing competitiveness and reducing foreign currency outflow. KR completed the localization GTX which is expected to relieve traffic congestions in the metropolitan area. KR is efficiently constructing of 350km/h electric tramway system, which it previously depended on French technology for 300km/h railroads through economic design and construction methods well suited for specific sites. Recently, the electric tramway system. In phase 1 of the Gyeongbu high speed rail construction, KR was 100% dependent “Phase 3 National Rail Network Construction Plan,” which lays out master plan for railway construction and on foreign technology. In phase 2 of the Gyeongbu high speed rail construction, local technology accounted expansion for the next decade, was finalized. KR will continue to strive to construct faster, safer, and more for 69% of the construction work. In the Honam and metropolitan area construction, KR was able to use convenient railways tailored to our customers based on the rail network construction plan. 100% local technology, reducing imports by KRW 58.7 billion. 28 29 OUR PRIORITY ISSUE 01 ISSUE 02 ISSUE 03 ISSUE 04 ISSUE 05 ISSUE 06 ISSUE 07 ISSUE 08 KR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ISSUE 02 Establishment and operation of emergency disaster response system KR established and operates emergency response system to provide prompt and appropriate response within the “golden time” in case of a disaster. KR operates a disaster situation room throughout the year and established coordination systems with related agencies through the operation of disaster response Safe, high quality, eco-friendly railroad construction headquarters. In 2015, KR conducted 431 emergency response training, up from 191 in 2014, in order to ensure timely situation awareness and appropriate response during times of disaster. KR also conducted building trusted railways various activities to detect risk factors in advance in high-risk construction work or areas with steep slopes in order to prevent accidents. KR conducted risk analysis and established and implemented risk mitigation activities in 605 sites. KR also subdivided high-risk areas according to degree of risk and conducted biweekly and bi-monthly inspections. In addition, KR increased the number of sites with CCTVs from 354 in 2014 Background and impact Public anxieties have been on the rise due to recent safety accidents and environmental damages and noise Disaster response training to 391 in 2015 in order to monitor work process on a real time basis and made 277 safety improvements. during railroad construction are causing social conflicts. KR established a comprehensive management Furthermore, KR developed and utilized the mobile “KR disaster notification” application which provides system to minimize issues caused during railway construction and is taking various initiatives to resolve SMS service and real-time two-way communication enabling persons on-site to report cases of accidents conflicts. real-time to related persons (Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, and Transport, KR, supervisory office, and construction companies) and share safety related information. Such measures enabled effective response to Key initiatives | Strategy | On-site disaster and safety management system emergency situations. KR established on-site disaster and safety management system in order to respond to accidents taking place on different sites. KR is implementing tailored accident prevention activities. In addition, KR enhanced Enhanced on-site safety management including tracks in operation its quality management system in order to ensure high quality railway construction. KR is also reflecting Safety centered management and enhanced KR established innovative safety management plans for tracks in operation, which could result in a large feedbacks from a diverse array of stakeholders including environmental advocacy groups in order to on-site activities scale accident (August 2015). Track safety management task forces, reporting directly to the heads of construct eco-friendly railway with minimal environmental footprint. regional offices were newly established and “KR safety instructors”, KR’s in-house safety experts, were Establish safety Management policies formed and operated year-round. In addition, a situation team was deployed to the Guro control center to | Activities 1 | Innovative safety management system policy goals set up by CEO Safety establish a 24 hour monitoring system. This team was responsible for responding to incidents. Furthermore, (January 2015) conference KR applied stricter criteria compared to the provisions in the railway safety act for railway protection areas Establishment and operation of railway safety management framework for all construction projects. KR also subdivided operation delays, previously 1 hour for all vehicle types, into In February 2015, KR established the railway safety management framework, comprised of railway safety three (20 minute for KTX, 40 minutes for regular trains, and 1 hour for cargo and other trains) to enhance management system, vehicle operation system, and maintenance system. The framework is currently Management 2013 → 42 times on-site inspection 2014 → 342 times accountability. KR’s management visited and inspected high-risk sites (352 times in 2015) and set the tone operational. The railway safety management system is a system that manages railway safety policies, at the top regarding construction safety. Efforts to expand the culture of safety, which included awarding (throughout year) 2015 → 352 times goals, and the roles and responsibilities regarding railway safety. Vehicle operation system manages the exemplary cases of safety and quality management, resulted in a 25% reduction of construction site organization, personnel, and operation methods of trains. The maintenance system manages the repair and accidents (20 cases in 2014, 15 in 2015). maintenance of railway vehicles, tracks, and signals. KR is systematically implementing preventive safety Awards to Identified 23 exemplary management activities through a system that clearly defines roles and responsibilities and providing a fast exemplary cases (November 2015) cases, 8 CEO awards | Activities 2 | Tailored prevention activities and safe public transportation method by continuously improving railroad operation safety. Enhanced prevention activities for serious accidents Number of sites inspected and KR railway safety management framework KR analyzed the season of occurrence and types of accidents for all incidents in the most recent decade safety improvements made (unit : cases) Number of sites inspected number of safety improvements in order to develop appropriate preventive measures for construction sites. The analysis indicated that 1,845 new employees accounted for 50% of the incidents, 5 main accidents accounted for 92% of the total 1,717 1,773 incidents, and 59% of the incidents were caused by personal negligence. KR proceeded to develop various 1,684 responses. First, KR inspected the entirety of construction sites managed by two high-risk contractors that 1,467 had accidents resulting in death. Weak points were identified and improvements were made based on Railway safety management system Vehicle operation system Maintenance system 1,202 diagnosis and consulting by external expert (Korea Occupational Safety and Health Agency). In addition, KR conducted prior inspections on 1,845 sites in different seasons and identified and removed 1,773 safety risks in advance. Drones were used in 3-D inspections for hazardous work areas to ensure efficient inspection and Maintenance Safety policy and Risk Operation management 2013 2014 2015 safety of inspectors. Due to these efforts, KR recorded a 0.083% accident rate at construction sites, down 0.004% from the previous year. In addition, death rate* also decreased in 2015. goals management management (vehicle, facility, electric) • ‌railway safety • risk management • personnel • personnel Yearly construction site accident rate and * Death rate : Death rate in this case is defined as the total number of deaths multiplied by 10,000 and then divided by the total workforce death rate management • facility • facility • documentation • equipment • equipment Accident rate (%) Death rate(% 00) Enhanced accident prevention for subsidiary construction work • operational procedures • maintenance ‌ KR enhanced safety management for subsidiary contruction work* in order to prevent accidents in 2.41 • emergency ‌ response management program subsidiary work processes which account for 74.7% of total accidents. Previously, subsidiary contruction Emergency response Promotion of safety plans etc. • operational ‌ procedures etc. work were conducted without separate construction planning documents. KR revised this process and • ‌compliance with • training and education 1.53 requirements • safety information 1.30 made prior approval by inspectors before commencement of work mandatory. Furthermore, KR mandated • accident ‌ investigation • safety culture the designation of at least one safety manager at each site in order to raise awareness and interest of original and reporting 0.102 0.087 0.083 contractors and inspectors. KR also conducted year-round monitoring of all work processes by having • internal inspection • emergency ‌ response construction companies report work plans for the next day to KR’s regional offices. 2013 2014 2015 * subsidiary construction work : subsidiary work other than main construction work 30 31 OUR PRIORITY ISSUE 01 ISSUE 02 ISSUE 03 ISSUE 04 ISSUE 05 ISSUE 06 ISSUE 07 ISSUE 08 KR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | Activities 3 | Enhancement of on-site safety training | Activities 5 | Improved railway facility operation safety Tailored safety management for new and foreign employees Safety upgrades for old facilities KR actively implemented accident prevention activities to fundamentally reduce accidents resulting from KR is engaged in continuous facility improvement projects to improve the safety of old railroad facilities. KR employee’s mistakes. Considering that new employees accounted for 50% of the accidents, KR had new improved the electric facilities in phase 1 of Gyeongbu high speed rail which has been in operation 10 years employees and foreign employees who are more susceptible to accidents wear yellow safety caps. KR after the passage of its service life. KR also conducted safety upgrades for old facilities in conventional rail. also introduced the “Best Mix” system, which pairs new and foreign employees with more experienced Props and fluid dampers that mitigate shocks and vibrations were installed for bridges that do not meet the employees. In addition, KR provided safety education and work instructions to foreign employees using high speed rail seismic criteria. Such installations improved the seismic capacity of these bridges from 5.5 to their native language, thereby enabling foreign employees to better understand safety instructions. 6.0 in the Richter scale. In addition, KR established monitoring system that automatically sends earthquake alerts in case of earthquakes, enabling immediate response in case of earthquakes. Safety and quality managers to prevent accidents in small construction sites KR took initiatives to improve the overall safety of railroads in a total of 188 facilities (28 bridges, 64 retaining KR designated 52 safety and quality managers for its business partners and enabled these managers to walls, 32 drainage facilities, and 64 land slide prevention) including but not limited to bridge improvements Foreign employee safety education freely conduct safety inspections in order to prevent accidents in small construction sites. In addition, KR to secure appropriate flood elevation and addition of landslide prevention facilities. Such initiatives are raised employee awareness on safety and the effectiveness of safety training and education by providing expected to ensure safe operation of railways in all conditions. safety training and education to employees of KR’s subcontractors given that these persons are more directly involved in safety accidents. Major railway improvement projects Safety education and training tailored to site specific tasks Improvements to disaster Passage box Improvements to Improvements to Improvements to fire Improvements to prevention system expansion electric facilities environmental facilities safety facilities platform security facilities KR improved accident response capabilities of employees as well as employee satisfaction on training programs by providing tailored safety training that reflects the frequency of accidents at specific sites. Before bridge Before passage box Before trolley wire Before installation of Before elevator facility Before installation of improvements expansion improvements soundproofing walls improvements platform screen doors Railway safety education Safety education and training Disaster management 2trainees Disaster action items 13trainees 40,898trainees Railroad worker 122trainees Safety experience 37,539trainees Special safety 3,165trainees Operation management 9trainees Subcontractor management 48trainees After elevator facility After bridge improvements After passage box After trolley wire After installation of After installation of improvements (installed concrete bridge) expansion improvements soundproofing walls platform screen doors Safety inspection day poster (installed escalators) In addition, KR published and distributed various manuals and case books including safety management manual and “close call*” case books in order to improve training efficiency and understanding of related persons. 2-year zero operational incidents in completed facilities due to systematic quality management * close call: cases where accidents could have occurred due to on-site defects and/or employee mistakes (accidents did not occur in reality) KR ensured safe vehicle operation through comprehensive quality tests at each phase of the project. KR was able to ensure railroad facility performance and quality through a series of process ranging from comprehensive test drive planning, prior inspection, facility verification, operational test drive, to opening. | Activities 4 | Enhanced quality management system In particular, KR made improvements to 46 prior inspection items in the comprehensive test drive that were Enhanced quality assurance system through improved work process either unnecessary or duplicative, including but not limited to vehicle noise and bridge verification test. Facility failures Through ISO-based internal and external screening, KR equitably and objectively confirmed and managed Through this improvement, KR was able to save KRW 60 million for each project. (completed facilities) (unit : number of incidents) improvement activities. KR is continuously implementing improvement activities by identifying potential Furthermore, KR revised the testing process to mandate prior inspection and comprehensive test drive for a operational improvements and action plans through quality management system (QMS) operation 4 period of approximately one year and resolved the issue of potential oversight due to short-term test driving. evaluation by expert external agency (Korea Standards Association). KR established cooperation system with related agencies in which operating agency (KORAIL) immediately In 2015, KR identified 560 core achievements that differentiated KR from other agencies and received level 8 notifies KR in case of facility failures. KR is discussing with related agencies to develop action plans to rating in the 2015 QMS evaluation results, up two levels from the previous year. This QMS rating far exceeds continuously reduce operational failures. KR established a timely response system by operating high speed the majority of public companies rated at level 5~5+ and is comparable to leading global companies. rail opening emergency response team for high speed rail projects. KR continuously conducts inspections Furthermore, KR received the presidential award for “optimization of concrete lining thickness in railway to ensure passenger safety. In addition, KR took initiatives including mid-year general inspections and tunnels” at the 2015 national quality group competition. KR applied the contents of this presentation in nine 0 0 corrective measures for 11 projects that commenced operations in 2013 through 2015. Such efforts resulted Quality management system evaluation Level 8 projects including the Dodam-Yeongchun route and realized cost savings of KRW 75 billion. 2013 2014 2015 in zero facility failures for two consecutive years. 32 33 OUR PRIORITY ISSUE 01 ISSUE 02 ISSUE 03 ISSUE 04 ISSUE 05 ISSUE 06 ISSUE 07 ISSUE 08 KR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | Activities 6 | Railway construction considering customers and environment | Activities 7 | Eco-friendly Eco-rail construction Expansion of safety and convenience facilities with real-life implications KR minimized construction waste and increased recycling with goals of constructing environmentally KR established plans and working designs to install platform screen doors at 100% of the entrances at all friendly Eco-rail. Through material management system, KR recycled 15,168 materials including PC sinker 139 stations by 2017 in order to prevent accidents resulting from lack of platform screen doors and to enable stock and transferred 16,227 materials to KORAIL, and utilized 1,662,000 tons of construction waste as people to use railway platforms safely. Initial plan was to fund platform screen door installations by 100% compaction material for temporary roads or reinforced concrete pipes, back fill material for structures and government funding and to complete installation by 2023. This plan was since modified to KR’s advance retaining walls, and cover soil, thereby minimizing construction waste. payment (to be funded by bond issuance) and reimbursement by the government. As a result, this project is In addition, KR expanded its renewables initiatives to existing rail facilities in operation and installed solar now scheduled to be completed 6 years ahead of its original schedule. In 2015, KR installed platform screen panels on roofs of vehicle depot and platform roofs in Gwangju-songjeong station and Pohang station. doors in 14 locations including Wondang station to relieve public anxieties about the recently common These solar panels are capable of generating 1,797MW of energy per annum. Furthermore, KR allocated platform safety accidents. GHG emission targets for each regional office and encouraged compliance with indoor temperature KR is also striving to enhance convenience and accessibility of disabled, elderly, and pregnant women by guidelines and improving LED lighting facilities. Such efforts resulted in 1,494.5 tons of CO2 emissions, which continuously expanding accommodations including elevators and escalators (9 locations), connecting exceeded the original goal of 1,158.8 ton reduction by 5.8%. Through this reduction of CO2, KR was able to passages (11 locations), and platform roofs (14 locations). In addition, KR worked in concert with the meet the government policy initiative goal of 20% GHG reduction compared to average emissions from 2007 Korea Railroad Research Institute to develop technologies to reduce noise near railroads and to reduce through 2009. KR also conducted general inspections (March ~ May 2015) on its construction sites to inspect inconveniences caused by railway noises to residents living near railroads. KR and Korea Railroad Research the sites producing fugitive dust. KR inspected 158 sites and took corrective measures for all 105 items, Institute jointly developed sound proofing walls that can be installed near railways, and low-noise steel thereby improving all of the 105 indications. Through these initiatives, KR scored 287.3 points in the 2015 bridges. Sound proofing walls have been installed in 26 locations in the Gyeongbu high speed rail including “environmental management index” comprised of recycling rates of construction waste and GHG emission the section from Sasang to Busanjin. Sound proofing walls are currently being installed in 15 additional reduction and other environment related items, exceeding its goal of 250 points by 13.5% locations. KR will continue to install sound proofing walls to minimize complaints regarding railroad noises. Detailed environmental management results Platform screen door installation and accidents Category Unit 2014 results 2015 results Y/Y change Platform screen Safety Non-performance of environmental impact Number of dollar installation (unit : number of locations) accidents (unit : incidents) 6 1 -5 evaluation agreements incidents 14 24 Corrections made on internally/ externally % 100 100 0 identified action items 8 12 Environmental education hours Hrs/pax 1.89 1.55 -0.34 External recognition of environmental achievements Points 84.3 83.8 -0.5 Ratio of sinker stock used % 20.1 11.9 -8.2 2014 2015 2014 2015 Ratio of eco-friendly goods purchase % 98.9 94.5 -4.4 Railway facility related accidents (unit : incidents) Renewable energy ratio % 30.6 34.71 4.11 34 32 Supply of LED light % 53.1 62.8 9.7 24 Recycling ratio of construction waste % 98.1 98.6 0.5 Sound proofing wall installation ratio % 100 173 73 GHG emission reduction % 27.5 25.8 -1.7 2013 2014 2015 Minimization of environmental footprint through cooperation with environmental advocacy groups Evaluation and KR established on-site disaster and safety system and conducted tailored accident prevention activities in order to prevent accidents from occurring on site. KR also improved its quality management in order In order to minimize environmental damage while ensuring timely completion of projects, KR established future directions to construct high quality railways. KR has no records of non-compliance with environmental laws and inspection groups for projects where environmental civil complaints were expected and proactively regulations and reflects the opinions of various stakeholders including environmental advocacy groups in responded to potential environmental complaints through joint site inspection with environmental an effort to construct eco-friendly rail with minimal environmental footprint. advocacy groups. KR participated in joint ecology survey group and created alternative habitats for cranes In the future, KR will implement mortality reduction goal management system for each regional office in in order to overcome the damages to crane habitat caused by the North-South rail construction project order to further reduce construction related deaths. KR will also expand its accident prevention activities (Baekmagoji~Woljeong station). In addition, KR formed and participated in Baekdudaegan environmental by paying more attention to high-risk construction work and small scale construction works in order to advisory group in conjunction with Green Korea United and Baekdudaegan preservation committee to preclude safety related accidents. Furthermore, KR will minimize its environmental foot print and construct minimize potential damages to Baekdudaegan preservation area by the Daegwallyeong tunnel construction high quality, eco-friendly railways through improving its integrated management system. Joint group meeting for researching the ecology of the Sobaeksan Mountain passages from Dodam to Yeongcheon and preserve ecology. 34 35 OUR PRIORITY ISSUE 01 ISSUE 02 ISSUE 03 ISSUE 04 ISSUE 05 ISSUE 06 ISSUE 07 ISSUE 08 KR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ISSUE 03 | Activities 2 | Effective sales operations through selection and focus Maximizing competitiveness by generating synergy through public private partnership Recently, overseas railroad markets have been transformed into a large scale complex project initiated Expanding foundation for new growth through public private partnership (PPP). KR, staying current with these changes in market dynamics, is focusing its sales efforts on large PPP projects. KR’s ability to leverage government support as a public leading tomorrow’s change company along with technological excellence and large workforces of the private companies in Korea Overseas business worked to create a synergy which enabled KR to be competitive in the international railroad arena. As a result, in 2015, KR was able to consecutively win large contracts including the construction supervision contract for Akhaura~Laksam double track project in Bangladesh and general consultancy service for Background and impact With large scale railroad projects being carried out in various corners of the world including Asia, Middle Lucknow metro rail project in India. East, and South America, the competitions between global railroad companies are intensifying. KR will actively make inroads to overseas markets in order to generate new revenue streams and fulfill its role as Tailored strategies to key countries a public company by supporting private sectors’ entry into foreign markets while leading the growth of KR is establishing and implementing tailored sales activities to different strategic markets in order Korea’s railroad industry. enhance its sales effectiveness. When entering new countries, KR established a local office in the target market, selected by considering various factors including market growth potential, and formed Key initiatives | Strategy | Maximize overseas profits strategic partnerships with global companies already established in the said market in order to ensure Since its first overseas operations in 2005, KR’s overseas business has experienced continued growth. competitiveness. As a result of conducting sales activities as a part of a multinational consortium with a Recently, KR entered the railroad markets in various countries including India and Nepal. Leveraging the well-established European company in the Indian market, KR was able to win a KRW 42.1 billion project experience and know-how accumulated to this point, KR is transforming its business paradigm to focus management contract in 2015. In countries where KR already had experience, KR attempted to improve on its core competency. KR is seeking to enhance its mid/long-term project pipelines in order to change its its operational efficiency by fully utilizing its existing human network and confidence. In particular, KR was Presentation of “outstanding foreign supervisor selection” for position in the global market from a second mover to a key player. China’s high speed rail recognized for its know-how and superior executive capacity it had accumulated in its 10 years of business in China. KR was recognized as the best foreign supervisor among the six supervisory companies in China and was recognized for its performance. KR was able to leverage the market’s confidence to its advantage | Activities 1 | Active ‌ involvement in government policy projects and win three additional contracts in China. (Malaysia – Singapore high speed rail) KR is actively engaged in sales activities for the Malaysia-Singapore high speed rail project(324km), Enhancing bundling sales activities connecting Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia’s capital, with Singapore. Various countries, including China, Japan, and Country Existing projects Bundled projects France, are competing intensely for the Malaysia-Singapore high speed rail project, with contract amount of $12 billion. KR, as an expert railroad public company, formed a 25 company consortium including public 13 projects including Beijing-Shenyang 3 projects including Beijing section of China companies, financial institutions, private construction companies, and engineering firms and is proactively high speed rail Beijing-Shenyang line responding to the bidding process. In addition, KR was able to leverage the Korean government’s support Consultancy services for modernization of Bangladesh Akhaura-Laksam project supervision the existing railway signaling system and open a KTX exhibition hall in Malaysia. Through this exhibition hall, KR is raising awareness about KR Feasibility study for short distance Bidding consulting for short distance Malaysia KTX exhibition hall and Korean railroad industry. In addition, KR deployed KR sales persons to the Korean Embassy in Malaysia Paraguay passenger train passenger train contractor selection in order to continuously contact the local business partner. KR also formed a $2 billion government overseas Consultancy service for the establishment of Consultancy service for the establishment of investment fund (KOIF) to procure necessary project financing. Malaysia MRT system & telecommunication MRT system & telecommunication upgrade Overseas business Nepal Bangladesh Mongolia China overview 2011 Feasibility study of mass rapid transit(underground and 2013 Consultancy services for modernization of the existing 2013 Railway capacity building program for Mongolia railway official 2005 Construction supervision on the Suining-Chongquing line elevated railway) system in Kathmandu Valley railway signaling system 2015 Railway capacity building program for Mongolia railway official 2006 Construction supervision on the Wuhan-Guangzhou line Detail survey and design of electrified railway line PhaseⅠ 2016 Supervision of double track rail project in Akhaura~Laksam 2008 Engineering consultancy on the Harbin-Dalien line 2012 Detail survey and design of electrified railway line India 2010 7 contracts including Xi`an-Baoji, Tianjin-Qinhuangdao line Overseas railway project status – PhaseⅡ-1 in Nepal Vietnam Construction supervision contract for Yunnan section of 2012 Working design consultancy for (as of June 2016) Detail survey and design of electrified railway line Changsha-Kunming line 2012 Engineering consultancy and training service for Vietnam India’s high speed rail – PhaseⅡ-2 in Nepal 2012 Construction supervision on the Zhengzhou-Xuzhou line 2015 Feasibility study for improvements to 16 countries railway modernization projects 2014 Railway capacity building program for Nepal railway official 2014 Construction supervision on the Beijing-Shenyang line Delhi~Mumbai line 2015 Railway capacity building program for Nepal railway official 2015 Construction supervision contract for section 5 of Laos~Vietnam PM contract for Lucknow Metro 2016 F/S for New Delhi station modernization Beijing-Shenyang line USA 2015 F/S PM contract for Laos~Vietnam rail connection Construction supervision contract for Anhui~Zhejiang line 51 projects Construction supervision on the Zhengzhou-Wanzhou 2013 Consultancy service for high speed rail (Chongquing) project in California, USA 181.3 billion Sudan Philippines 2014 Railway capacity building program for Sudan 2014 Consulting services for the LRT line 2 east (Masinag) KRW railway official extension project Malaysia~Singapore Paraguay Indonesia 2015 Malaysia-Singapore high speed rail 2011 PMC for the feasibility study on the construction of railroad 2011 PMC for master plan of the JABOTABEK railway feasibility study in Paraguay circular line improvement 2014 Feasibility study for construction of intercity railroad in 2012 Railway capacity building program for Indonesia Cameroon Cambodia Malaysia Paraguay railway official 2015 Bidding consultancy to select main contractor for light rail transit 2009 Cameroon railway master plan consulting 2011 PMC for the master plan of railway network development 2012 Consultancy services for the establishment of MRT 2014 Railway capacity building program for Indonesia in Paraguay 2011 Feasibility study for Cameroon railway construction 2012 Railway capacity building program for Cambodia railway system & telecommunication railway official official 2015 Consultancy services for the establishment of MRT 2015 Feasibility study on the 2nd phase of HSR system & telecommunication upgrade 36 2016 Indonesia CRT 37 OUR PRIORITY ISSUE 01 ISSUE 02 ISSUE 03 ISSUE 04 ISSUE 05 ISSUE 06 ISSUE 07 ISSUE 08 KR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | Activities 3 | Strengthening mid/long-term sales base Establishment of sales basis through publicly funded business activities KR is utilizing ODA (official development assistance) funds to carry out preliminary business activities for Restructuring for strategic overseas business establishing infrastructure in developing countries. For regions with business opportunities within a short In order for a more strategic approach to overseas business, KR upgraded the status of the existing timeframe, KR utilizes overseas market development funds from the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, and international business division to a department. In addition, KR newly established the International Transport to conduct feasibility study. KR submits business proposals based on the results of such feasibility Planning Division in order to set up business plans and foundation for sales activities, thereby enhancing the studies to support prompt commencement of business. For regions without business opportunities in strategic planning function regarding international business. Furthermore, KR established project specific the foreseeable future but good potential for growth, KR utilizes KOICA funds to conduct tailored training T/F, local offices, and managed human resources accordingly in order to effectively carry out its major programs such as invitation training and local railroad academy in cooperation with KOTRA. KR establishes activities including the Malaysia-Singapore high speed rail construction project. mutual trust countries with business opportunities to secure potential customers and a sales platform. KR’s overseas business engagement structure Nepal invitation training Tailored training program Sales T/F, local office, Category Type of business Countries Funding local personnel, etc. Invitation railroad personnel from • ‌Collect information on local Invitation training Mongolia, Nepal KOICA ODA funds developing countries to Korea Information about Information markets potential sales region about • Establish human network Deployment of Korean instructors to Railroad academy India, Vietnam KOTRA CSR funds potential • ‌Enhance market confidence developing countries sales region by successful business performance International Planning International Business Identification of business opportunities through feasibility study Division Division • ‌Mid/long-term business • ‌Business development in key Country Business opportunities planning sales areas India Improvements to existing railroads including Delhi, Mumbai • Designate ‌ target markets and • ‌Sales activities including key projects bidding, contracts, etc. Indonesia Airport railroad, LRT and phase 2 high speed rail construction for Bandung City • Establish ‌ sales base by exchange Directions and • ‌Operations and management Vietnam Hochimin metro and semi-high speed rail project activities sales basis of deployed personnel • Budget and accounting (marketing and sales) Laos-Vietnam PM project for railway link between Laos and Vietnam Risk recognition and management system KR established and is operating a risk management system capable of timely recognition and response Enhance sales capacity through training international business experts to risks inherent in large overseas projects. Internal review meetings are hosted by the CEO to evaluate KR recognizes that procuring expert human resources with executive capabilities is of utmost importance information provided by persons deployed to local markets and sales sites. This information is further in ensuring continued international business expansion. As such, KR is conducting programs to develop assessed and verified by KR’s Future Development Consulting Committee, comprised of external in-house international business experts. KR is enhancing the competency of those employees engaged in consultants. As an example, during a monthly meeting, a decline in profitability for China based supervision international business by providing phased training programs covering overview of international business, projects was identified. The International Business Evaluation Committee, which decides whether to in-depth courses on specialized fields, language skills, and technological knowledge. participate in the Zhengzhou-Manzhou line supervision project, reflected the findings of the monthly meeting and decided against participating. This enabled KR to prevent a potential decline in profitability. Tailored training program Politics/ Economy/ Rules and Market Socio-cultural Policy Funding regulations conditions Introductory course Basic course Advance course Central government Lack of Overview of international Overview of PM and Abnormal Unfair taxation, On-site training regulation, Financial crisis, infrastructure, business investment business business customs, Delays in Sample risk Discrimination Changes in Maturity of Cultural administrative against foreign material costs construction differences work enterprises business • ‌Biannual, open to persons • ‌Biannual, open to applicants Advance Analyze Appropriate Enhance Establish facility • Biannual, open to all proposing new business in different fields awareness of investment costs, response to contract related procurement ‌ • External on-line courses • Language and group training • External ‌ on-line courses and Response regulation, Change different customs, duties, plans, encouraged in weak areas group training Participate in local purchasing Advance review Cooperation with Clarify technology consortium terms of productivity local government proposal International Business CEO hosted Future Development Evaluation and KR made notable accomplishments including the Lucknow metro rail project, worth KRW 42.1 billion, utilizing a systematic sales base. KR will continue to improve its probability of successful sales activities future directions review meeting KR response Evaluation Committee Consulting Committee (semi-annual) policy through strategies tailored to individual strategic businesses. In addition, KR will continue to ensure the system (as needed) immediate (monthly) key response to current decision making verification from profitability of its international business by improving technological and risk management competency. issues externalperspective 38 39 OUR PRIORITY ISSUE 01 ISSUE 02 ISSUE 03 ISSUE 04 ISSUE 05 ISSUE 06 ISSUE 07 ISSUE 08 KR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Property and asset | Activities 2 | Revenue and social utility generation through usage of idle land development Promotion of regional economic growth by creating theme parks KR is promoting regional economic growth by creating theme parks on idle land that integrate railroad and cultural facilities. KR developed the Gangchon rail park utilizing the rail bike facility and completed the Background and impact KR’s role is expanding not only as a construction project manager, but also as a railroad facility and property construction of a railroad theme park called “high one choo choo park” with accommodations utilizing manager. KR prepared various methods of revenue generation utilizing state owned properties including its previous experience in operating rail parks. Southern east coast blue line(Mipo~(formerly)Songjeung), railroad facilities and land in order to secure future growth engine. which will be developed utilizing abandoned railroad in the southern portions of the east coast line, will connect five tourist sites including Dalmaji pass. This theme park, upon completion, is expected to increase Key initiatives | Strategy | Development of railroad assets tourist traffic, generate revenues, and increase employment. KR views stated owned property not only as assets to be managed, but rather as new growth engines Scheduled site for the Southeast coast Blue Lline Theme Park Theme park development direction capable of generating revenues when developed and utilized accordingly. Thus, KR is engaged in ranging from Mipo to formerly Songjeong Station development of idle land, utilization of railroad assets, and developing station spheres to increase the value ` Rail bike Railroad theme park Railroad‧Cultural theme park ` of state owned property and generate revenues. Gangchon rail park High one Choo Choo park Southern east coast blue line rail bike, convenience facilities rail bike, accommodations rail bike + cultural facilities | Activities 1 | Improve utility of state owned properties scenic views of Bukhan river ‌scenic views of rocky mountains program for each tourist site in Gangwondo Diversification of railroad facility investment and utilization to increase returns on state owned properties Increase in land KR is making additional facility investments in existing railroad facilities to generate value added. After the Expected 1.05 million tourists, KRW 612.1 million of economic activities, 6,476 new jobs value and profits (unit : KRW 100 million) investment, KR rents these facilities to generate additional revenue. In addition, KR is moving away from the benefits KR to realize revenues of KRW 56.9 billion through theme parks Increase in land value Increase in profits perception that railroad facilities are only to be used and rented as railroad related facilities such as parking 1,267 1,268 lots. KR is diversifying the usage of such facilities to include cultural and recreational facilities in order to Creating revenue through extension of photovoltaic business range generate new revenue streams. Instead of focusing on land usage when developing idle land, KR has expanded the scope of development to include installation of solar modules on roofs of vehicle depots and platforms. Currently, KR installed 879 1,797MW of solar PV facilities on buildings such as Gwangju vehicle depot and Pohang station as well as idle Category Key content Operating profit Generation of high value Facility investment in empty land near Osong station and rental as land. Such PV facilities are generating revenues from usage of state owned properties. In the future, KR will 63 65 KRW 300 million 44 added through facility parking space make an additional 6.02 million m2 of land and railroad buildings available to the private sector. In addition, investments Stores and advertisements in connection passage at Suseo KTX station KRW 635 million KR will change its design standard to consider solar PV installation in the construction phase in order to Utilization of abandoned tunnels as gallery and wine cellar KRW 59 million increase private investment in railroad solar facilities. Utilization of abandoned line as mineral transportation line KRW 36 million 2013 2014 2015 Diversification of Rail bike business in cooperation with Jeonju Hanok village utilizing railroad facility abandoned site KRW 300 million | Activities 3 | ‌Improve profitability and public utility of station sphere development projects usage Installing photovoltaic system on the depot roof of Gwangju Recreational facility utilizing South Daejeon connection line scheduled for demolition after opening of Daejeon urban high speed line KRW 150 million base Diversification and improvements in station sphere development Camping facilities utilizing Jangho station land KRW 50 million KR is including privately owned land in this scope in order to overcome the issue of insufficient development Total KRW 1,530 million scale and to maximize profits. By designing and carrying forward businesses in connection with city planning, KR not only creates profit but also plays a leading role for the development of the regional economy. In addition, KR will identify small hidden sites like the upper level of the Seoul Station connection Enhance financial health through efficient state owned property management passage, the parking lot site separated from Gwangmyeong Station et al and implement the development KR is improving the utility of state owned property by attracting new customers and users to previously idle project, thereby contributing to creation of its own profit greatly (KRW 63 billion). land. In addition, KR rationalized the land price of railroad sites, which were valued at much less than other sites, through continued discussions with local governments. Such valuation of railroad sites enabled KR to recognize additional profits. KR encouraged the usage and re-usage of inventory material to cut material Increased public utility through Happy Housing project purchasing costs. Sleepers that were difficult to sell in the market were donated to local governments for KR is taking initiatives to provide “happy housing” on railroad and idle land in order to contribute to the public usage or recycled to reduce disposition costs. In addition, KR was able to reduce construction debt by achievement of the government goal of providing stable housing supply to people. By engaging in happy promptly resolving differences with stakeholders through continued discussion with internal and external housing projects throughout the country, KR was able to provide 1,012 units of housing (for 4,048 people) experts and sell vehicles on the Honam high speed rail in early stage. at reasonable prices this year. In addition, KR included 2,810 units (11,240 people) of happy housing in its Suseo station sphere development project, thereby meeting the social demand for increasing public utility Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, and Transport Happy Housing brochure of large scale development projects carried out by public enterprises. Category Key content Operating profit Identifying idle land in Usage rights to 3 sites on Gyeongeui line KRW 582 million Evaluation and urban areas with rental New customers for parking space near Sanbon station KRW 116 million KR diversified the usage of railroad facilities to increase the value of state owned properties and used idle value Usage rights to 1 site beneath overpass in Gyeongwon line KRW 55 million land not only to generate revenues and but create social utility. KR will prepare a reasonable railway usage Discontinuation of free Usage rights for Yeosu Expo exhibition hall and parking facilities near KRW 62 million future directions fee calculation system and establish standards for facility usage contracts in order to improve revenue land usage Naju station Collection of mobile generation utilizing state owned assets. In addition, KR will continue to engage in asset development Usage fees when installing Wi-fi and LTE devices on existing 2G and communication facility KRW 1,337 million projects that achieve a balance between profitability and public utility by reflecting local community’s PCS facilities usage fees opinions when developing idle land and station spheres. Total KRW 2,152 million 40 41 OUR PRIORITY ISSUE 01 ISSUE 02 ISSUE 03 ISSUE 04 ISSUE 05 ISSUE 06 ISSUE 07 ISSUE 08 KR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Improve financial | Activities 2 | Enhance debt reduction execution system health KR reorganized the organization to enhance the execution system for implementing and checking the debt reduction plan. KR expanded its debt mitigation group from four to six teams with each team working to cut costs and generate revenues in different areas. KR also clearly assigned roles and responsibilities according Background and impact KR is taking initiatives such as managing debt reduction progress in order to fulfill government policy goals to the PDCA process to improve performance. In addition, all of the KR’s employees have a productive of reducing public company debt and improve financial health. KR is striving to minimize risks and secure Debt watch awareness of crisis and are striving for the self-effort endeavor all the more by exerting every effort including, stable funding by obtaining highest credit ratings both domestically and overseas and understand market but not limited to, installation of KR debt watch*, self-effort idea, and slogan contest, in order to make KR trends and investment demands. become the exemplary public company by inbreathe the awareness of debt risk into all the employees and forming a common understanding. Furthermore, monthly CEO meetings are held to monitor and | Strategy | KR’s strategies to improve financial structure share debt reduction progress and to develop responses to lagging areas. Each index is assigned to specific Key initiatives persons and periodically monitored in order to instill a greater sense of responsibility. KR established systematic financial planning, proactive risk response, creative asset utilization, and rational budgeting as its strategies to fulfill government initiatives to improve the financial health of public * ‌KR debt watch: KR installed the “KR debt watch” in the 1st floor entrance in its Daejeon head office under the slogan of “Today’s debts, tomorrow’s debits.” companies. Currently, KR is implementing the above strategies. In 2016, KR is taking high level of companywide measures to mitigate its debt levels by reducing the limit for debt increase from KRW 817.9 billion to All-out self-effort group for debit mitigation PDCA process KRW 362.6 billion and reorganizing its high speed rail business. KR’s liabilities result from issuance of bonds and insufficient collection of rail usage fees from KORAIL. In Head of self-effort debt mitigation group (CEO) addition, KR’s liabilities are increasing as more than 50% of the funds for its business, including the Honam External consultant and metropolitan area high speed rail, are procured from issuance of bonds in accordance with high speed rail master plan. Through excruciating innovation and self-effort for debt reduction, KR will strive to implement comprehensive measures to provide economically viable railroad facilities and establish a sound Monitoring team Business cost reduction team “PLAN” “DO” “CHECK” “ACTION” basis for efficient railroad industry. (Financial Strategy (High Speed Railways Division) Division) Planning Execution Monitoring Performance evaluation Improve financial health through systematic financial Railroad usage fee Road usage· • ‌Establish debt • ‌Execution of detailed • ‌Monitor, manage, and • ‌Reflect performances Goals increase team asset development team management and rational budgeting reduction strategy and action plans analyze performance and internal evaluation (Facilities Planning (Asset Development detailed action plan • ‌Report issues and (monthly) results for each task Division) Division) • ‌Goal setting and identify improvements • ‌Develop responses for • Share ‌ and distribute assignment of roles and lagging areas performance International business Vehicle disposition· responsibilities expansion team usage fee team (International Business (Asset and Land General management Execution teams Internal and external Performance evaluation Division) Acquisition Division) team (5 teams) consultancy groups and feedback team Implementation Systematic Proactive Creative asset Rational financial planning risk response utilization budgeting strategies | Activities 3 | KR’s efforts to prevent conflicts KR is actively engaging in stakeholders in order to prevent issues and problems arising from its debt Financial planning Enhanced risk Rational budgeting aligned with business management and Maximize profits from and performance reduction efforts. In addition, KR publishes conflict resolution booklets to share know-how and holds asset utilization strategy financial health evaluation biennial conflict management committee to identify sources of conflicts and periodically monitor conflicts in order to establish expand its support base to resolve conflicts. Furthermore, KR improved its risk Real-time risk monitoring response process by setting up IT-based financial risk management system capable of real-time financial | Activities 1 | Strategic utilization of assets risk monitoring and analysis. KR established a risk management system unique to KR in order to overcome financial risks resulting from KR’s simple financial structure and its susceptibility to changes in government policy initiatives. In On-line channel Off-line channel Satisfaction survey Performance index Liability to asset ratio (%) Financial liabilities (KRW trillion) addition, KR, as a special purpose company without capital, holds intangible assets such as high speed rail • ‌VOC system to receive feedback • ‌Conflict resolution team and facility management rights* and tangible assets such as Honam KTX vehicles as means of repaying debt. • ‌Continued monitoring by Interest coverage ratio (times) • ‌Hot-line with KORAIL regulation reform review satisfaction survey (employees, KR continuously worked with the government to revise terms of railroad usage fees which originally felt conference policy customers, business 111.3 111.1 110.9 short of KR’s interest expenses. In 2015, KR partially increased railroad usage fees (31 → 34% of operating • On-site ‌ business partner partners) mentoring • ‌Linking survey results with profits) and generated interest income by investing in high-yield financial instruments. In addition, KR is evaluation and awards 17.3 18.0 19.0 making efforts to minimize costs by reducing investment expenditures through design and construction Conversation with stakeholders VE and adjusting repair and maintenance expenses paid to KORAIL to reasonable levels. Furthermore, KR will continue to take initiatives to improve its profitability through the utilization of state owned assets and 0.70 0.84 0.80 proactive international business. In 2015, KR formed an asset disposition discussion group with related Evaluation and KR will proactively respond to domestic and overseas credit rating in order to obtain and maintain the highagencies and was able to sell assets including Honam KTX vehicles ahead of schedule and procure KRW est credit rating possible. KR will also develop plans to procure funds to finance its construction activities. 370.8 billion of funds for debt repayment. future directions In addition, KR will utilize external expert consulting to the fullest possible extent in its efforts to improve its financial health. 2013 2014 2015 * ‌High speed rail facility management rights: collection of railroad usage fee in amounts equivalent to bonds issued (debt) for high speed rail construction 42 43 OUR PRIORITY ISSUE 01 ISSUE 02 ISSUE 03 ISSUE 04 ISSUE 05 ISSUE 06 ISSUE 07 ISSUE 08 KR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ISSUE 04 | Activities 2 | Normalization of unfair systems and customs Implementing comprehensive plans to recover confidence in railway KR prepared “comprehensive plans to recover confidence in railway” which includes 33 action items in Ethical management four different areas including reforming unjust practices in contract systems and preventing personnel corruption. Through implementation of this plan, KR was able to establish itself as an exemplary antiEthical management is at the core of KR’s corporate value corruption agency in 2015. In addition, KR made improvements regarding systemic corruption such as unfair practices in goods delivery and personnel corruption such as unfair personnel practices and internalization of anti-corruption. KR was able to eliminate risk factors to ethical management by implementing quarterly monitoring. Background and impact Corporate ethics issues not only have adverse impacts on a company’s survival, but also on the industry and the country in general. As a company responsible for the People’s transportation convenience and safety, Four areas of comprehensive plans to recover confidence in railway corporate ethics takes top priority at KR and will continue to do so. Area 1 Area 3 Key initiatives | Strategy | Establishment ‌ of ethical management system to create Reforming unjust Expansion of ethical·anti-corruption a culture of anti-corruption practices in contract Area 2 culture, enhanced Area 4 system (3 tasks) anti-corruption KR is eliminating potential corruption by establishing ethical management system and continuously Prevention of obligations (7 tasks) Elimination of improving its anti-corruption system. KR is providing anti-corruption guidelines by updating and revising personnel corruption systemic inconsistencies its employee handbook and internalizing a culture of anti-corruption through various activities including including preferential causing corrupt practices training, education, and UCC contests. In addition KR is systematically managing its ethical management treatment of former in goods delivery officials (3 tasks) (20 tasks) practices through periodic monitoring. | Activities 1 | ‌Foundation for transparent management and a culture of anti-corruption Improvement of anti-corruption system through cooperation with Anti-Corruption and Reorganization and operation of anti-corruption organization KR reorganized its anti-corruption organization and screening system by newly establishing the “Corruption Civil Rights Commission Prevention and Future Development TF.” This TF is comprised of anti-corruption, anti-unfair practice, KR sought to identify and correct areas susceptible to corruption from a third party point of view. To achieve business reform, and labor management relation team and enhances the platform for ethical management. this aim, KR cooperated with the anti-corruption and civil rights commission (ACRC) and obtained objectivity KR also improved the expertise and credibility of its ethical management through verification by the future in its anti-corruption system reform. KR reflected the results of ACRC’s anti-corruption consulting (August development consulting group comprised of external experts in different fields. Furthermore, KR operated 2015) and identified 16 action items in 4 different areas. In order to eliminate the systematic familiarity the anti-corruption ombudsman system to receive feedback on unfair regulations, procedures, and business threat in the railroad industry, KR expanded the scope of persons subject to limited reemployment practices. KR reflected such feedback to ensure transparency in its business operations. opportunities after retirement from executives to level 2 employees. In addition, KR hired external personnel for a number of key positions in order to bring about personnel reform and prevent familiarity threat. KR also enhanced the transparency of compliance management by introducing the compliance officer system Corruption prevention and future development TF to internally control and monitor regulations and procedures in advance and throughout the conduct of business activities. Furthermore, KR outsourced procurement activities susceptible to corruption to the Future development consulting group TF head Public Procurement Service to enhance fairness and reformed the monopolistic supplier system in specific and development items to encourage wider participation from railroad material suppliers. In addition, Compliance officer Deputy TF head by advance disclosure of tentative standards for newly developed items, KR was able to standardize and ensure quality of railroad materials. Anti-unfair practice Corruption prevention Business reform Labor management 16 tasks to improve anti-corruption system team team team relation team 1. Limit re-employment of level 2 or higher employees 4. Introduction ‌ of restrictions against companies violating 2. Stricter ‌ regulations against personally contacting employees regulations regarding re-employment Elimination of systemic Introduction of compliance officer system familiarity threat in subject to re-employment 5. Detailed ‌ standards for composition and operation of technical 3. Improved ‌ management of personal information of retired consulting and design consulting committees The compliance officer system places internal control and monitoring system to ensure compliance with railroad industry 6. Reporting ‌ standards for technical and design consulting employees hired by business partners policies and internal regulations by KR and its employees when conducting business. An independent committee members contacting retired employees compliance officer monitors compliance with regulations prior to and throughout business activities. 7. ‌Enhanced expertise and independence of divisions in ‌ 9. Expand scope of railway material standardization While the introduction of the compliance officer system was not a legal requirement for KR, KR established Improvements in bidding, charge of bidding and purchasing contracts 10. Internal ‌ verification tool to prevent tampering with test results regulations and introduced the compliance officer to set a foundation for anti-corruption culture and ethical procurement, and quality 8. Encourage ‌ competition by relaxing excessive restrictions and 11. Penalties ‌ for suppliers causing quality and safety issues management tasks management as a public company. In December 2015, KR formed a compliance officer team comprised standards of nine internal compliance officers and two external compliance officers who were professor of law Reforming monopolistic market ‌ 12. Encourage supplier participation for monopolized railway 13. Prior ‌ disclosure of tentative standards for newly developed and lawyer. The compliance officer system will be implemented in KR’s head office in 2016. In 2017, the structure for specific development items materials materials compliance officer system will be updated to reflect the lessons learned in 2016 and will be expanded to KR’s regional offices. KR will set the foundation for anti-corruption and transparent management by fully 14. Hire external experts 16. Introduction ‌ of compliance officer system Internal innovation Compliance officer system utilizing the compliance officer system. 15. Zero ‌ tolerance policy for corruption 44 45 OUR PRIORITY ISSUE 01 ISSUE 02 ISSUE 03 ISSUE 04 ISSUE 05 ISSUE 06 ISSUE 07 ISSUE 08 KR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Comprehensive evaluation and bidding system to ensure fair contract practices | Activities 5 | Prevention ‌ of corruption issues through stronger Comprehensive evaluation and biding system is a system that awards contracts not to the lowest bidders internal controls but by comprehensively evaluating construction capability, fair pricing, trustworthiness of contract, and KR formulated various measures to prevent corruption issues. KR expanded the homepage disclosure social responsibility of contractor. In July 2015, KR utilized the comprehensive evaluation and bidding requirements for business expenses from high level executives to individual teams. KR also revised system for 3 construction sites including Dodam~section 7 of the Yeongcheon construction site. KR has regulations regarding unfair corporate card usage to enable corrective measures afterwards, thereby expanded the application of this system to all projects with contracts amount excess of KRW 30 billion ensuring transparency in the usage of corporate cards. KR also established reporting systems for work starting from June 2016. Through the implementation of the comprehensive evaluation and bidding related external lectures and conferences to ensure systematic management and updated its code of system, KR was able to prevent chicken games, quality degradation, and collusion, which were common conduct to enforce stricter penalties against violations of regulations. KR subdivided railroad construction issues in lowest price bidding. In addition, the implementation of this system enabled KR to improve its sites into sectors and conducted audits on a regular basis. KR also shared different types of audit results construction quality. in different areas including railroad project and property management with regional offices and shared introduced consulting and auditing system focused on prevention. In addition, the majority of KR’s | Activities 3 | Reform employee code of conduct to prevent corruption disciplinary committee is now comprised of external experts in order to ensure appropriateness of KR initiated sweeping reforms to its employee code of conduct to prevent corruption. KR reflected disciplinary measures and prevent leniency. suggestions to its code of conduct made by its customer and banned receiving mobile coupons and discount coupons to prevent receipt of gifts via smart phones. Furthermore, KR banned the notification of ACRC anti-corruption assessment family events through 3rd parties to establish a sound family event culture. In addition, KR reflected ACRC’s consulting results and disclosed the re-employment status and contacts of retired employees in related 2013 2014 2015 (unit: points) fields. KR updated special conditions for anti-corruption contracts and established re-employment status 8.75 management system and mandated the submission of employment status of KR’s retired employees (above 8.62 8.58 8.57 8.47 8.36 general manager). As of June 2016, 28 persons were registered on KR’s system. KR also mandated reporting 8.28 7.72 7.6 of unjust solicitation and notification of investigation authorities. Furthermore, KR’s division heads (or above) are forbidden from receiving contract and inspection duties for organizations they worked for three years prior to their employment at KR. KR also imposed stricter restrictions on personal contacts in order to enhance fairness in contracting practices. KR enforced stricter anti-corruption standards and obligations for employees by reforming its employee code of conduct in order to create a culture of anti-corruption. KR is continuing to take initiatives including notification using bulletin boards and anti-corruption officers in each division to prevent root causes of corruption. External Internal Overall | Activities 4 | Company-wide internalization of anti-corruption culture Anti-corruption implementation assessment KR established comprehensive anti-corruption plans and conducted tailored training for employees in order to internalize a company-wide culture of anti-corruption. To set the tone at the top, KR conducted anti2013 2014 2015 2 3 1 corruption training and official crime prevention training for its executives. Off-line training for all employees was carried out at regional offices by company instructors. KR also created two on-line anti-corruption Level Level Level courses to be completed by all employees in the course of one year. KR also had its ethics management personnel participate in ACRC’s anti-corruption policy training and held second-half workshop for its inhouse anti-corruption managers (45 people) to enhance the expertise of related persons. In addition, KR designated Tuesdays as “Anti-corruption day” and broadcasted the “anti-corruption song” and shared anti-corruption contents (UCC and examples) on the company bulletin in order to continue to internalize the culture of anti-corruption. At the year-end, KR held the KR performance awards in which KR shared exemplary cases of anti-corruption and ethical management, UCCs, and awarded incentives (additional points in MBO) to outstanding anti-corruption managers and their team leaders. Anti-corruption keepers’ workshop On·Off-line anti-corruption training program Evaluation and KR was able to establish itself as an outstanding anti-corruption agency through its CEO’s strong drive for ethical practices and the accompanying company-wide efforts. KR received level 2 rating in overall Key contents Implementation performance future directions anti-corruption for the first time, up three levels from the previous year. KR received level 1 rating in the • ‌Executive training on official crime prevention • ‌executives head office and Executives (corporate secrets, embezzlement, etc.) (March 11) Choongcheong regional office (118) anti-corruption implementation assessment, up two levels from the previous year, and ranked highest • Anti-corruption training for executives felt with 5 senses (October 13) • CEO and executive officers (53) among the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, and Transport’s SOCs. However, direct and indirect instances • ‌Anti-corruption manager workshop (biennial) • ‌anti-corruption managers in of corruption occurred in some regional offices, resulting in a lower internal anti-corruption score than Experts (April 3, October 26) their respective teams • ACRC anti-corruption policy training (April 24) • ethical management personnel (2) the previous year. KR is analyzing its anti-corruption process and taking initiatives to improve its system. • ‌Regional office anti-corruption training supervised by the • employees in regional offices In the future, KR will provide tailored anti-corruption training for all its employees to address weak points Common standing auditor (January 22~February 6) •‌employees in applicable departments and establish a cooperative system with its business partners to prevent corruption. Furthermore, KR will courses • On-site anti-corruption training for all employees (June 15~June 23) • ‌All employees in 1st and 2nd half of encourage voluntary anti-corruption culture and internalize ethical management to become a trusted • On-line anti-corruption courses (2 courses per year) the year (2,633) Monitoring • Collected VOC for anti-corruption training through anti-corruption manager workshop (45) (October 26) public company that leads the anti-corruption culture. Anti-corruption UCC 46 47 OUR PRIORITY ISSUE 01 ISSUE 02 ISSUE 03 ISSUE 04 ISSUE 05 ISSUE 06 ISSUE 07 ISSUE 08 KR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ISSUE 05 | Activities 1 | Creation ‌ of cooperative construction environment by correcting unfair practices Prevention of late payment through KR “Zero Late Payment” System Win-win growth Late payment, a common occurrence in construction business, is an issue that can easily lead to a series of financial problems among subcontractors and material and equipment suppliers. In order to prevent such late payments, KR established a new KR “Zero Late Payment” System. Previously, KR paid the entire growing alongside our stakeholders contract amount to the original contractor, making it difficult to control payments between contractors. Through the KR “Zero Late Payment” System, which is linked with bank however, KR is able to distinguish and make direct payments to subcontractors, material and equipment suppliers, and construction workers, Background and impact Recently, discussions about fair trade and win-win growth have been making headlines in various fields thereby eliminating the possibility of late payment. In 2015, KR tested the system in three railway projects in our society. KR, as a public company responsible for executing and managing large scale railway and achieved zero late payments. KR’s zero late payment was subsequently recognized for its effectiveness construction projects, is taking a leadership position in establishing cooperative partnerships that and selected as the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, and Transport’s standard payment management model. can benefit all parties involved in construction projects, be it large corporations or small and medium enterprises. Zero Late Payment Key initiatives | Strategy | Expanding ‌ the environment for transparent and fair Invoice Invoice Invoice competition and foundation for cooperative partnership KR established three win-win growth strategies comprised of “construction of growth ladder,” “establishment Payment of infrastructure and expansion of win-win culture,” and “implementation of sound fair trade practices,” as Original contractor Subcontractor Construction worker, KR well as mid/long-term roadmap for implementation of these strategies. Keeping in line with the CEO’s drive material, equipment Payment instruction supplier for win-win growth, which was made clear from the start of his tenure, KR created an environment conducive Payment to transparent and fair competition and expanded the foundation for win-win growth. Specifically, KR cooperated with and provided support to its business partners including but not limited to assignment of Zero Late Payment System win-win growth managers, elimination of unfair customs, reforming regulations, expanding opportunities Payment Payment for small and medium enterprise participation, and jointly entering international markets. In addition, KR is confirmation transparently implementing such measures by reflecting suggestions for corrective measures. Bank Win-win growth strategic system KR Original contractor Subcontractor Worker Mission Horizontal and cooperative partnership in the railway industry ecosphere Payment Receipt Receipt Receipt Vision Supporting creative economic development through KR’s win-win growth KR “Zero Late Payment” System Core value Autonomous win-win growth and cooperative construction ecosphere Providing business opportunities for SMEs by reforming contract systems KR Future Development TF KR implemented various reforms to its systems in order to provide more opportunities for SMEs to 3 key CEO participate in railway construction projects. KR assigned more credit when local suppliers were participating strategies Implementation of sound Growth ladder Infrastructure and culture External in intercity railway construction and local construction projects and penalized business proposals that did fair trade practices Head of TF consultants not include SMEs. As a result, SMEs were able to participate in all of KR’s projects in 2015. In addition, KR ensured that large corporations and SMEs shared equal position in contracts in order to create a horizontal • ‌Eliminate unfair practices Deputy head of • Enhance ‌ autonomous cooperative relationship and prevent unfair trade practices resulting from hierarchical structures. • Tailored SME support and reform regulations TF win-win growth activities 6 themes • ‌Joint domestic and • ‌Stricter management and • ‌Promote expansion of international market entry control of unfair win-win growth culture Unfair Labor Establishment of private-public partnership by eliminating unfair customs subcontracting practices External Organizational Custom Management KR is operating the “KR Future Development TF” which identifies improvements to be made and Policy Performance Resolution Cooperation implements improvement measures to fulfill the social demand for reforming public companies. In 2014, Team Team 2011~2013 2014~2017 2018~2020 Team Team Introductory phase Settlement phase Stabilization and expansion KR established the “Unfair Custom Resolution Team” within the future development TF in response to identification of numerous unfair trade practices in railway construction sites during a subcontractor Investigation Mid/ • Expand railway investment • Tailored SME support • ‌Continued performance Public sector : Private and corrective inspection. KR cooperated with the private sector, including CAK (Construction Association of Korea), in long-term • ‌Recovery of construction • ‌Joint domestic and generation KR sector measures order to dispense of unfair customs that were still in place in construction sites. As a result, KR was able roadmap business, job creation international market entry • ‌Expansion of autonomous win-win growth culture • Planning • CAK to eliminate 18 unfair customs, one of which was shifting responsibilities to subcontractors. KR was also • Contracting • KOSCA • Construction • KMCCA able to make improvements to 13 unnecessary regulations which resulted in the minimization of design Creation of win-win growth Re-initiation of win-win growth Upgraded win-win growth infrastructure program (overcoming slowdown) (sustainable system) • Facility • KENCA deliverables. 48 49 OUR PRIORITY ISSUE 01 ISSUE 02 ISSUE 03 ISSUE 04 ISSUE 05 ISSUE 06 ISSUE 07 ISSUE 08 KR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | Activities 2 | C ‌ reation of growth ladders to support SME market | Activities 3 | E ‌ xpansion of win-win growth culture through expansion communication with internal and external customers Increased SME product acquisition through purchase-backed development projects On-site trouble shooting through communication with business partners KR and SMEs are jointly implementing purchase-backed development projects which localizes production KR is engaged in activities such as “on-site trouble shooting” to communicate with business partners of railroad materials and gives priority in purchasing. SMEs participating in the joint development projects and proactively resolve conflicts and problems. KR hosts annual “One-mind conference” in which KR’s can advance their technological competency while securing demand for their materials at the same time. construction and technology departments and business partners in design and construction participate. During the construction of Honam high speed rail which opened in April 2015, KR gave priority to SME’s In this conference, KR receives feedback from its business partners and seeks to establish horizontal products that were developed through the purchase-backed development projects. KR plans to give priority cooperative relationship between all parties. In addition, KR hosts subcontractor conferences to receive to three additional items that were successfully localized in 2015 in future construction projects. input on on-site issues such as late payment and inequities resulting from hierarchical contractual relationships in order to discuss and resolve such issues. Successful localization through purchase-backed development projects in 2015 Enhancing cooperative relationship through feedback loop Establish common understanding Business partner satisfaction One-mind through discussion with design· (unit : points) conference construction business partners (6 times) 88.5 89.8 Correct unfair practices through discussion On-site 1.3 and conference with construction meetings associations and companies (7 times) High speed section insulator Thermit welding material for tracks Load break switch Disclose information on website to Local community receive opinion and respond Welding material necessary for participation to complaints 2014 2015 Equipment used on railroad tracks Thermit welding during track Circuit breaker that opens and in front of or between substation production (welding technique closes electric circuit at substations that is suitable for high speeds utilizing heat released in chemical (parallel electricity sectioning post) (230km/h+) reaction upon heating aluminum Autonomous implementation of win-win growth ideas and metal oxide) KR is taking initiatives to identify and implement various win-win growth tasks. In 2015, KR provided various training programs including project management to 712 SME employees. In addition, KR contributed to the cost saving activities of its business partners by allowing SMEs to use KR’s high-end testing devices including Promotion channels for SME products spectrometers. Furthermore, KR hosts periodic technology seminars to enable SMEs to improve product KR provides support in promoting high quality SME products to different business departments in KR and quality or cut costs. various construction industry customers. KR opened the on-line consultation platform which enables SMEs KR also utilizes public-private technology development fund formed in conjunction with Small and Medium to promote and sell their products year-round. In addition, KR hosts conferences to promote SME products Business Administration and Foundation for Large, medium, and small business cooperation in order to twice a year. support SMEs’ railway technology development. In the two conferences held in 2015, 34 SMEs participated to exhibit their products and introduce their technologies. Furthermore, KR assigned target SME purchase ratio and is encouraging giving priority to SME products when making purchasing decisions. Evaluation and In 2015, KR received “satisfactory” rating for its win-win growth assessment in recognition of its proactive win-win growth initiatives. KR will continue to correct unfair practices and customs and establish a Category Contents Product sales future directions horizontal relationship between large, medium, and small enterprises as well as employees in order to • ‌reviewed purchasing priority for materials for AL fitting create a sound construction industry. Building equipment (6 companies) 3 • reviewed purchasing priority for tiles and water proof materials • ‌reviewed purchasing priority for materials for distribution panel Railway electric (4 companies) 2 Media coverage of KR’s win-win growth activities and panel board General news KR opens the way of safety and win-win with the Private sector sales Daejeon construction industry.‌ (unit : KRW 100 million) Electronics and telecommunication • reviewed ‌ purchasing priority for train destination indicator 1 Supporting win-win development by safety management, (3 companies) materials “Path of win-win growth with business partners” prevention of delayed payment to subcontractors, and abolition of unfair practices 106 KR invited approximately 100 business partners to the “conference for quality and safety [Daejeon Today – Daejeon] Korea Rail Network Authority (“KR”) (CEO: Yeong-il Kang) had a conference for improvement of safety quality and win-win cooperation with about improvement and win-win cooperation” in search of ways to achieve sustainable growth. 100 business partners including railway constructors, supervisors, designers et al in the Creation of SME sales platform through joint international market entry council chamber of the head office at 3:00 p.m. on 26 this month. In that conference, all the 62 Constructive discussions took place to normalize unfair practices between purchases, original participants reviewed the safety result of railway construction of 2015 and resolved win-win cooperation for sharing of government’s safety policy, eradication of unfair practice among 170% KR is supporting international sales by SMEs by forming consortiums with SMEs when entering international and subcontractors and cooperation to achieve win-win growth. KR introduced the KR “Zero KR, contractors and subcontractors, and development of the railway industry in 2016. railroad projects. In 2015, KR successfully concluded four new international contracts in cooperation with In this event in which 150 persons from business partners and KR’s employees participated, Late Payment” System and pledged to create a construction industry environment without any all the participants shared the performance of the excellent safety management that despite SMEs. SMEs participating in these projects recognized KRW 10.6 billion in international revenues. KR will drastically increased full-time workers due to increased business expenses scale of KRW 8 instances of late payment. trillion, safety accidents and number of fatalities decreased by 40% and 67% respectively compared with the previous year, and discussed the future direction. continuously contribute to the expansion of SMEs’ international sales platform by enabling SMEs to gain Daejeon Today (November 26, 2015) 2014 2015 international experience and raise customers’ awareness. 50 51 OUR PRIORITY ISSUE 01 ISSUE 02 ISSUE 03 ISSUE 04 ISSUE 05 ISSUE 06 ISSUE 07 ISSUE 08 KR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ISSUE 06 | Activities 1 | O‌ rganizational structuring based on core functions and performance Redesigning organization in line with changes in strategic direction Human resource management KR expanded its facility, asset management, and international business organization in order to enhance its competency in facility management and new businesses. At the same time, KR aligned construction project management organizations to the changes in work types in major projects to provide timely People are KR’s greatest asset support. KR also established a new technology team to enhance its core competency in the railroad project. Furthermore, KR is forming temporary organizations such as the property management system T/F responsible for preparing station facility usage contract and facility usage T/F responsible for selecting new Background and impact The need to review KR’s human resource management system surfaced as KR’s role and focus was operators of station facilities through competitive bidding, in order to respond to ad hoc issues. changing from railroad construction to facility management. At the same time, increasing social demand for better quality of life initiated discussions about work-life balance. In response to such changes in business Rational performance management system approved by employees environment and social demands, KR is resetting its organizational operations and striving to cultivate the KR established a performance management system to achieve corporate goals and strategies and is right people. In addition, KR is providing various systemic support including flexible working hours to create creating a culture of meritocracy by reflecting evaluation results in remuneration and other human resource a better work place. considerations. KR conducted employee interviews to reflect appropriate tasks in the evaluation index and adjusted evaluation groups considering similarities in organizational functions to enhance the rationality Key initiatives | Strategy | KR human resource management strategy and executive ability of evaluations. KR held briefings and on-line surveys to receive feedback and VOC regarding the evaluation system and established evaluation committees comprised of internal and external KR reset its organizational and human resource management direction in response to changes in business experts. Through such measures, KR was able to enhance the rationality of the evaluation system and environment that demanded a larger role in railroad facility management and improved safety. KR relocated employee satisfaction at the same time. its human resources, previously focused primarily on construction business, to facility management, asset development and international business to ensure the company’s sustainability. In addition, KR newly established a facility improvement organization in response to increased demand for improvement projects | Activities 2 | Tailored  training programs to enhance organizational as railway construction projects near completion and existing railway facilities become obsolete. KR is competence aligning its human resource training, policies, and compensation schemes to such organization and human KR analyzed its management strategy, training requirements and core competencies in order to establish resource management in order to improve the organization’s productivity. human resource development strategies that cultivate creative leaderships among managers and working level knowledge among employees. KR is offering training programs focusing on four major areas of competency (common, leadership, function specific, and global) that are tailored to position and function Direction of human resource management in order to enhance organizational competency. In addition, KR expanded professional training programs linked with professional training agencies such as Enhance KR’s function as a railroad facility manager Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, and Transport human resource development center and human resource Adjustment of development center for public procurement service (total of 29 organizations, 194 courses, 536 employees) functions Reassign personnel Facility improvement, of high-speed rail enhanced repair and Profit generation through to provide training programs, thereby enhancing working level knowledge of different departments. public-private partnership to general rail maintenance Furthermore, KR is assigning employees who complete overseas technical training (master’s degree) to related divisions or departments to align personal development with organizational growth. Competency Key courses Core Railway Facility Asset Overseas • On·off-line anti-corruption training (six times a year, for all employees) Common task construction management management business • KR core value training (twice a year, for all employees) Strategy Strategic Construct customer Modernize facility to Maximize profits on asset management and direction centric railway ensure public safety international business • Management leadership training (234 employees) • ‌Women leadership (2 general managers)·middle management Leadership (24 senior managers and deputy general managers) competency training • New employee and self-leadership training (44 interns) Efficient railway Expand facility Cultivate profit generating businesses construction management • ‌Internal and external courses for different positions Function specific (272 courses, 10,648 employees) Organization· Human resource Annual Expansion of on-site Efficient human management reorganization and inspection and Increased staffing resource direction personnel assignment management personnel to accommodate management to • Language courses (instructors, group conversation, language clubs, etc.) considering to enhance facility increase in assets focus on profitable Global • ‌Tailored training for specific businesses including international contract, construction management and development international business execution, etc. work type improvement capacity business 52 53 OUR PRIORITY ISSUE 01 ISSUE 02 ISSUE 03 ISSUE 04 ISSUE 05 ISSUE 06 ISSUE 07 ISSUE 08 KR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | Activities 3 | Socially ‌ equitable human resource management to Expanding work-family balance through family friendly management strengthen social responsibility KR became a certified family friendly organization in 2015 due to its various efforts to create a culture of work and family balance. In addition to part-time options for child rearing and pregnant women, KR extended the Open hiring practices and expansion of socially equitable employment opportunities maternal leave for men from 1 year to 3 years. Currently 10 men are on maternity leave. Furthermore, KR KR, keeping in line with the government initiative of holistic recruitment practices, introduced a competency opened additional KR nursery homes and employed 30 additional caretakers to reduce employees’ burden based recruiting system based on the national competency standards (NCS). 176 persons, equivalent of child rearing. Wednesdays are family days at KR, where the “Family Song” is broadcasted and employees to 13% of the recruiting class in 2015, were hired through this system. This is the largest NCS based are encouraged to refrain from overtime. In addition, KR provides various programs including family employment in KR’s history. From an external standpoint, such hiring practices contributed to lower youth invitation days and paid family vacation for outstanding employees. employment while from an internal standpoint, such hiring practices balanced generational gaps in human resources. In addition, KR set employment quota for socially disadvantaged groups including women, high Support for personal development and recreational activities to promote work-life balance school graduates, and local community residents. Furthermore, KR diversified hiring methods to include Family invitation ceremony for corporate culture experience KR is striving to achieve employee work-life balance by providing various educational programs including hiring graduates from specialized high schools through “Scout” and hiring women who experienced career home coffee courses, yoga classes during lunch, and telephone English courses. KR also created the interruptions at call centers in order to expand socially equitable employment opportunities. retirement preparation course to enable employees to systematically prepare for life after retirement. In Women Local hires High school graduates order to promote employee health, KR has group exercise time at 3PM. In addition, KR created the “KR 19 healthy stairs” by decorating the stairwell in its buildings with runway photos with mirrors and other pictures 17 16 to promote walking. In addition, KR is implementing the reading bucket list challenge in which employees 11 11 35 10 exchange books as gifts to encourage reading and personal development. KR also provides electronic 20 20 library and scholarly article services to promote reading among its employees. KR also made it easier for employees to form clubs to encourage recreational activities among employees. In addition, KR encourages Target ratio Employment Actual employment Target ratio Employment Actual employment Target ratio Employment Actual employment KR employees at the Three Rivers Marathon its employees to take leaves and operates 26 resorts to enhance employee welfare. (%) target (persons) (persons) (%) target (persons) (persons) (%) target (persons) (persons) * interruptions ‌Hiring womenforwho experienced career * “Scout”, a TV program | Activities 5 | Human rights management flexing at call centers Continued promotion of human rights Korea Rail Network Authority Abolishment of glass ceilings for women and high-school graduates Human Rights Declaration KR is striving to fulfill its social responsibilities in the four areas of human rights, labor, environment, and KR is going beyond hiring more women. In order to promote gender equality, KR is actively training and anti-corruption in accordance with the 10 principles set forth in the UN Global Compact which includes promoting women to managerial positions. KR is increasing the ratio of women in management by We declare, as stated below, that we will follow the Global Human Rights implementation guideline for human rights and calls for corporate social responsibilities. Combining the Declaration and respect our own as well as other people’s rights, and with providing various advantages including expanding the scope of management training for women from the participation of our employees’ as well as our stakeholders, we will work to protect and advance human rights and champion human rights CEO’s management philosophy that prioritizes mutually beneficial management and the human rights deputy general manager to senior manager, reducing time to promotion by 5% compared to men, and across our industry. management guidelines set forth by the National Human Rights Commission of Korea, KR is implementing making more women eligible for promotion and assigning women to key positions. In addition, KR is ‌ ‌ First, We support and respect the international standards and regulations human’s rights management that respects the inalienable rights of not only KR’s employees, but the ‌to support the values of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. assigning high school graduates to key positions in order to meet society’s demand for a culture that Second, We do not discriminate between stakeholders on the basis of race, employees of KR’s business partners, customers, and the local residents. religion, disability, gender, birthplace, and political views. does not discriminate on the basis of education. At KR, high school graduates are promoted to the same Third, We guarantee the right of association and collective bargaining for the position as college graduates after four years of work experience and receive the same treatment as college Declaration of human rights and establishment of human rights management implementation rotection of our employee human rights. Fourth, We do not permit any forms of forced labor and child labor. graduates in terms of future promotion opportunities and remuneration. Fifth, Sixth, We create safe and sanitary work environment and guarantee industrial safety. We support and cooperate with partner companies to enable all guideline partners to implement human rights management. KR’s human rights declaration, issued in July 2015, contains human rights of various stakeholders that KR Management personnel Seventh, We respect and protect human rights of the local community in areas where we conduct our business operations. ought to protect as a public company engaged in the railroad project, including but not limited to antiTotal management Women in Ratio of women in Eighth, We strive to protect the environment for healthy happy lives for our nation and future generations. discrimination, expansion of human rights management for business partners, and protection of local personnel (unit: persons) management (unit: persons) management (unit : %) residents’ human rights. In order to ensure effective implementation of the human rights declaration, Ninth, We commit ourselves to not endanger the safety of public and to protect the confidentiality of the personal information collected in the course of our 761 775 777 KR established human rights office and human rights committee and set up human rights management operations. 26 22 implementation guidelines which specified the implementation of human rights effect evaluation To fulfill these promises, we declare our commitment to guaranteeing universal freedom and rights and human integrity for all our stakeholders, including our employees, and that we will 17 3.3 to prevent violation of human rights. KR is taking initiatives to continuously promote human right work together to ensure sustainable development. 2.8 Korea Rail Network Authority 2.2 By all employees management through annual human rights training and monitoring of business partners’ human rights Human rights declaration compliance. 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 | Activities 4 | ‌Creating a corporate culture conducive to employee happiness Various flexible hour arrangements to improve employees’ quality of life Evaluation and KR implemented various flexible working hour arrangements including flexible hours and part-time options KR will continue to operate its organization focusing on core competencies in order to proactively respond for pregnant or child rearing employees. In 2015, 154 employees took advantage of the flexible hours and to the changing railway industry environment. KR plans to assign the right people to right post by linking 8 employees utilized the part-time option, totally making 162 persons, to achieve balance between work future directions human resource systems with tailored training for different functions and positions. KR will continue to and life. KR developed seven functions for which flexible working hour arrangements are well suited for and give consideration to unemployed youth, disabled persons, and women in its hiring and human resource provides identical employee benefits, promotion opportunities, evaluations and training opportunities to management process. KR will also create social value by providing various supports to enable employees employees assigned to these functions. In addition, KR is seeking to expand the flexible hour arrangements to achieve work-life balance. Finally, KR will communicate with its constituents to create a rational and by providing priority in training, assignment to desired posts, and giving additional credit in team sustainable system that its employees find to be satisfactory. evaluation. 54 55 OUR PRIORITY ISSUE 01 ISSUE 02 ISSUE 03 ISSUE 04 ISSUE 05 ISSUE 06 ISSUE 07 ISSUE 08 KR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ISSUE 07 Tailored training directions and | Activities 1 | Government 3.0 platform-based civil complaint service KR improved its various and often complex civil complaint administration system into a proactive, onemethodologies stop, and tailored system as an effort to implement the government 3.0 initiative. KR updated its system so Customer satisfaction that these tasks could be processed with a click of a button. In addition, KR conducted publicity activities for its new system at some 400 construction sites throughout Korea and through major media. Complaints Training directions Methodologies Goal registered on “e-People” are forwarded to the Customer Service Center for additional analysis and response KR will become a company that is trusted by its customers Training to provide and for monitoring of final results. solutions for Mentoring Sense of problems duty | Activities 2 | Tailored training programs Background and impact Customers are playing an increasingly important role in a company’s performance. Therefore, it is Task sharing and problem solving through COP KR is taking initiatives to systematically respond to feedbacks and complaints registered on VOC by various imperative to have a long-term initiative for increasing customer value. KR has two way communication communication Passion channels with its internal and external customers and is building upon the four principles of government 3.0 stakeholders and improve customer satisfaction. KR provided tailored training programs such as mentoring, Hands-on training On-site, group, (openness, sharing, communication, and cooperation) in order to establish relationships with its customers group and external training, expert speaker lectures, and CS Master training to enhance customer service applicable to real and external and build trust. life situations training competency of its employees and ensure that KR’s employees at different points of contact with customers Sharing success can provide appropriate response to customers’ needs and wants. In addition, KR offered hands-on training Expert programs to enable its employees to relate to the customers rather than focus on formalities to prevent Key initiatives | Strategy | Improving customer satisfaction stories and increasing lectures motivation Emotional VOCs from occurring in the first place. KR re-established its customer satisfaction management system and “KR customer satisfaction strategy” Emotional healing recovery Emotional and recovering Overall customer satisfaction by analyzing drivers in customer satisfaction change, diagnosing internal competency, and analyzing passion about work training | Activities 3 | ‌Protection of customer information through information security system survey result (unit : point) customers in order to reflect its stakeholders’ needs in management policies. In addition, KR upgraded its Executive Recently, cyber-attacks against public companies and resulting information leakage are becoming 94.2 VOC system*, improved internal competency, and provided training courses to enhance organizational Educating CS CS Master capability 90.0 experts increasingly common. As such, there is a need for implementing information protection management productivity and customer satisfaction in order to implement top-tier customer satisfaction services among 86.6 system. In response, KR designated and is implementing three strategic directions of working environment public companies. As a result, KR was able to improve public transportation convenience while maintaining conducive to information protection, cyber threat management activities, and prevention of information good relationship with its stakeholders. In recognition of such efforts, KR received the A rating in the Publicleakage. Furthermore, KR established an information security organization in order to ensure prompt Service CustomerSatisfaction Index 2.0** for two consecutive years. KR customer semi-autonomous Safety/evaluation response to external and internal environmental changes. KR staffed this organization with three information satisfaction government group (24) * ‌VOC system: VOC (Voice of Customer) is a customer management system that integrates customer opinion and feedback from various security personnel and one privacy protection personnel. KR is also refraining from collection personal customers to maximize efficiency of products, services, and marketing activities. agencies (83) identification numbers, unless mandated by law. As a result of these efforts, KR was named an “outstanding ** ‌Public-Service Customer Satisfaction Index 2.0 (PCSI 2.0): PCSI is a model to measure customer satisfaction comprised of satisfaction index, quality index, and performance index. organization” in the privacy protection diagnosis and private information impact assessment by the Ministry of Interior in July 2015. In addition, KR recorded zero security incidents for four consecutive years. Employee satisfaction for tailored training KR CS strategic system programs Corporate Connecting the world through rail and creating happiness Total trainees (persons) Satisfaction score (points) | Activities 4 | Formation ‌ of customer trust through conflict prevention and management system mission 89 90 Corporate vision Realizing Faster, Safer, and more Convenient Rail Network KR established three conflict prevention and management strategies comprised of system reform, revising 40,898 37,355 implementation procedures, and improving conflict prevention competencies. As a result, KR was able to CS vision Customer satisfaction and trust through sincere communication transition from its previous custom of “business first, conflict resolution next” to a new paradigm of conflict prevention. KR established conflict prevention and management system led by the internal “conflict Quantitative: No. 1 in customer satisfaction CS goals Qualitative: Earning public trust among semi-autonomous government coordination committee”, responsible for identifying and managing sources of conflicts, and the “conflict agencies management review committee”, comprised of 7 members including 4 civilian members, which is responsible for reviewing conflicts. In 2015, KR was able to resolve five of the six conflict situations. KR awarded Establish mutual trust Establish customer value CS strategic Improve CS implementation 2014 2015 outstanding cases of conflict resolutions and published case books to spread the culture of conflict resolution. through communication management system to direction for win-win growth with customers create future value Conflict coordination committee Conflict management review committee • ‌Improve response to social • ‌Enhance win-win growth • ‌Revise CS evaluation and media and other smart management with remuneration system Selection and Preparation of Host conflict Select conflict Host conflict Prepare consulting CS strategy medium business partners • ‌Prepare ways to improve monitoring of conflict coordination prevention items management Review and opinion and Reflect agreements action items • ‌Enhance on-site VOC • Improve ‌ CS organizations’ public image conflict prevention management committee (final decision by committee (internal consulting implementation in business plan collection and activities executive capabilities • ‌Prepare basis for CVM activities cards meetings review committee) or upon request) plan • ‌Upgrade customer centric • Realize ‌ tailored services services Overall customer satisfaction survey result Evaluation and KR established a conflict management system in order to improve customer satisfaction and upgraded its VOC management system to create a company-wide customer satisfaction management system and future directions to lead customer-centric management practices. KR will continue to prepare various strategic measures A rating in customer Overall customer Business partner customer Public sentiment including VOC system improvements, systematic analysis and sharing of customer opinion, and improving satisfaction for satisfaction score of satisfaction score of 89.9 score of 54.9 internal competency to ensure continued customer satisfaction. 2 consecutive years 94.2 (up 1.3 from previous year) (up 9.6 from previous year) 56 57 OUR PRIORITY ISSUE 01 ISSUE 02 ISSUE 03 ISSUE 04 ISSUE 05 ISSUE 06 ISSUE 07 ISSUE 08 KR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ISSUE 08 | Activities 1 | Creative value Instead of demolishing the existing railway after the opening of the Daejeon urban KTX line in the Gyeongbu high speed rail, KR initiated the “Okcheon KTX railway theme park (tentative name)” business. KR decided Social contribution to create a tourist attraction from a railway track that was scheduled for demolition. KR began work after reaching an agreement with the local community and created a business that is expected to attract 170,000 tourists per year, generate KRW 1.6 billion in value added, and create 20 new KR will fulfill its social responsibility by sharing jobs.In addition, KR conducted invitation training for foreign railway personnel in order to transfer its technologies to developing countries. To ensure extensive knowledge sharing, KR established its first short-term railway school in Egypt in 2014. Background and impact KR is enhancing its connections with local communities by participating in non-profit social involvement activities Okcheon KTX railway theme park (tentative naming) KR proceeded to establish short-term training programs in Egypt (March 2015), India (May 2015), and including environmental campaigns, volunteer activities, and donation activities for rural areas and marginalized Vietnam and Laos (September 2015) to conduct expert training programs. people. KR will fulfill its social responsibilities as a public company in order to grow with the people. | Activities 2 | Social responsibility | Strategy | KR social contribution strategy KR is creating social contribution funds through various donations including voluntary employee donation, KR is spreading and developing the value of sharing through public service activities utilizing railroad sharing fund, and matching grants*. KR also participated in domestic and overseas donation and disaster Key initiatives infrastructure that contributes to local economic development, and serve local residents and disadvantages relief activities including contribution to Nepalese citizens after earthquakes. In addition, KR also delivered persons. In 2015, KR established and branded its three social contribution strategies (C.S.R.), comprised donations to encourage military and police personnel serving in isolated areas. of “Creative Value,” “Social Responsibility,” and “Regional Indigenous.” In addition, KR prepared six action KR carried out railway safety campaigns by distributing souvenirs and pamphlets to construction sites and items including creating public accommodations utilizing railway facilities, expanding the culture of local residents that encouraged safe railroad crossing and refraining from unauthorized work in order to environmental friendliness and safety, and KR youth hope project as means of implementing its social enhance safety. contribution activities. Through its social contribution activities, KR is sharing with the local communities providing support to disadvantaged persons. Bazaar for love * Matching grant: System in which the company matches the donation made by employees. | Activities 3 | Regional indigenous KR social contribution strategy KR continued to carry out various locale specific volunteer activities including one company – one village Social contribution Implementation of corporate social responsibility(CSR) activities utilizing activities, scholarship programs, child sponsorship, as well as kimchi and briquette donations. In 2015, KR strategy goals core railway engineering competence made full use of its personnel and competencies by providing housing and electric repairs. Creative value Social responsibility Regional indigenous In addition, KR initiated new activities including uniform donation and support for multi-cultural families. Social contribution Social contribution activities Social contribution Furthermore, KR provided both physical and mental support for multi-cultural families, financially needy, 3 key strategies activities creating shared enhancing public safety and activities tailored to target regions disabled and elderly persons as well as well as single mothers through sharing events including friendly values (CSV) convenience conversation and a party of Korean Thanksgiving-day. •‌‌Creation of accommodations • Public ‌ service activities • ‌Tailored contribution utilizing railway facilities including disaster relief programs 6 action items • ‌Global contribution of railway • Expansion ‌ of environment • KR youth hope projects technologies friendly and safety culture KR social contribution implementation system KR volunteers Social contribution committee Head (CEO) Head (vice chairman) Social contribution consultative group Assistant administrator Expert consultant (external) Executive office (head of general committee (General Administration administration and (professors, Business partners and Labor division) Electric repairs Briquette donation Donation ceremony on Lunar New Year labor division) consultants, etc) Local governments Deputy head (Director of Administration Deputy head (Director of Administration Services Headquarter) Services Headquarter) Local communities Head office Regional Family Members KR volunteer headquarter groups (9) KR volunteers (6) KR volunteers (from each headquarter, department, divisions, full-time union official) Evaluation and KR is planning railway technology transfer programs including overseas internships and exchange future directions programs as a part of its creative value activities. In addition, KR will continue to expand public • KR volunteers: Carries out actual social contribution activities (head office, regional headquarter, and family volunteers) accommodations by creating parks, developing station spheres, and constructing railway theme parks. • Social contribution committee: social contribution planning, monitoring, and business review Furthermore, KR will establish an expert consulting committee to identify the needs of local communities • ‌Social contribution consultative group: Participates in KR’s social contribution activities, and KR participates in social contribution activities hosted by the social contribution consultative group. and raise employee awareness and implement various public service activities to earn people’s trust. 58 59 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Summary of the Economic Performance Summary of the Social Performance Summary of the Environmental Performance SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Summary of the Economic Performance Summary of the Social Performance Summary of the Environmental Performance KR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Sustainability Performance Distribution of the economic value Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 Turnover, Economic performance Creation of the KRW 100 Summary statement of financial position economic value Governmental contribution, million 101,538 103,639 116,103 Bond issuance et al Assets (unit: KRW 100 million) Category 2013 2014 2015 Business partners Receipt of the Governmental KRW 100 (order of the investment 70,972 79,424 55,700 contribution (unit: KRW100 million) Current assets 7,365 5,786 9,794 million project) Non-current assets 156,169 165,028 170,936 Financial expenses KRW 100 33,804 23,848 24,867 (principal and interest, etc.) million Total assets 163,534 170,814 180,730 46,834 Distribution of Employees KRW 100 the economic 998 1,139 1,202 (personnel expenses) million Liabilities value (unit: KRW 100 million) 2013 Category 2013 2014 2015 KRW1 Taxes and dues 513 76 4,050 Current liabilities 25,602 26,283 33,031 million Non-current liabilities 156,381 163,509 167,351 50,322 Operation expense of the KRW1 institution 24,860 25,956 33,656 Total liabilities 181,983 189,792 200,382 million (operating cost et al) 2014 Capital (unit: KRW 100 million) Category 2013 2014 2015 Indirect economic impacts (job creation) 61,411 Deficit (18,438) (18,728) (19,458) Stimulation of the railroad project (unit: persons) Private partnership (unit: persons) Other components of equity (12) (251) (193) 74,444 62,143 2,715 Total capital (18,450) (18,980) (19,651) 2,516 2015 18,003 891 Condensed income statement (unit: KRW 100 million) Category 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Turnover 8,105 10,704 12,461 Cost of goods sold 4,877 7,023 7,841 Outsourcing (unit: persons) Vulnerable social group (unit: persons) Gross profit on sale 3,228 3,681 4,620 640 600 603 879 Operating profit 3,228 3,681 4,620 561 543 Non-operating income 515 441 467 Non-operating expenses 4,701 4,412 5,817 Current net loss (958) (290) (730) 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 62 63 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Summary of the Economic Performance Summary of the Social Performance Summary of the Environmental Performance KR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Sustainability Performance Labor union overview (as of 2/4 quarter 2016) Industrial safety Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 Name of the labor union Accident rate % 0.102 0.087 0.083 the Labor Union of Korea Average of the construction industry % 0.46 0.45 0.51 Social performance Employment overview Rail Network Authority number of Rail-related accident 16 20 16 items Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 Total number of employees Regular worker persons 1,333 1,330 1,352 Date of establishment (fixed number) (unit: persons) Employment Contract worker persons 21 19 19 Support to Small and Medium Enterprises (“SMEs”) 25 May 2005 specific 1,363 1,363 1,363 Non-regular worker persons 27 23 23 Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 20~29 years old persons 29 56 68 Purchase rate of SMEs’ product % 26.77 29.12 31.25 number of 30~39 years old persons 218 224 200 Number of employees subject to join Number of support to joint R&D 10 6 2 items Employee Number of enterprises participating number of 1,418persons distribution 40~49 years old persons 696 687 595 13 7 2 by age in the joint R&D enterprises 2013 2014 2015 50~59 years old persons 380 354 454 Over 60 years old persons 8 2 12 Union numbers Education time and investment persons Women executives 144(10.8) 159(12.0) 176(13.0) (%) Regular worker Non-regular Contract Personnel overview by Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 worker worker series of class Minority Women deputy head of persons 1,086persons 6persons 13persons (unit: persons) Education time per person hour 132 120 119 17(1.3) 22(1.7) 26(1.9) overview department or higher (%) Office work Civil engineering Education investment per person KRW 1000 919 880 1,090 422 persons Assurance rate of top talent % 36.67 35.60 36.32 410 417 421 415 Disabled person 46(3.4) 44(3.3) 46(3.4) 395 (%) Total persons 21 48 54 Full-time workers of the labor union Welfare and occupational safety 5persons Disabled person persons 0 Women persons 10 18 17 Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 High school graduates persons 4 8 10 Employee satisfaction level point 78.5 81.6 81.9 2013 2014 2015 New recruits Upper organization Reinstatement rate after maternity leave % 95.69 100 100 Characterization high school persons 5 number of Safety and security accident 1 0 0 Natural sciences and Korean Confederation of Trade items Construction Electricity persons 11 19 19 engineering Union, Korean Public Service 225 219 205 and Transport Workers’ Union Local talent persons 9 21 11 78 78 Customer satisfaction index 77 Regular retirement persons 11 6 6 (Unit: point) Change jobs Voluntary resignation persons 29 27 19 Category 2013 2014 2015 Satisfaction index of handling civil affairs 74.9 Average continuous service year year 18.9 18.5 19.2 Satisfaction level on E-People 46.6 52.8 Satisfaction index of the business partners 94.9 93.1 89.7 2013 2014 2015 Public-service customer satisfaction index (PCSI) 94.1 94.2 94.2 Trade with and goods purchase Recruitment of non-regular work Telecommunication Machine from the business partners (unit: KRW 100 million) 99 96 (unit: persons) Others 84 99 635 52 48 49 52 468 470 Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 41 8 Comprehensive integrity of the Anti-Corruption point 8.4 7.6 8.6 Young interns 3 4 and Civil Rights Commission Specialized contract job Community service hours per employee hour 5.8 6.3 5.6 number of Violation of laws and regulations 0 0 0 items 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Accident rate at the construction site % 0.102 0.087 0.083 64 65 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Summary of the Economic Performance Summary of the Social Performance Summary of the Environmental Performance KR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Sustainability Performance Railroad construction site (business partners) Raw material use – Water use (unit: ton) steel reinforcement (unit: ton) Category 2013 2014 2015 1,045,654 Environmental Railroad construction site (business partners) 880,432 969,976 Recycled water 28,135 37,524 29,745 performance Energy consumption Total 2,507,456 5,155,088 17,549,221 Building (unit: TJ) Vehicle (unit: TJ) KR (Head office and regional 2013 2014 2015 483.7 headquarters) 478.6 385.0 Energy consumption Waste discharge (unit: tC02eq) (unit: TJ) Greenhouse gas emission 190.7 Category 2013 2014 2015 Building Vehicle 161.8 160.9 Building 82.48 (unit: tCO2eq) 73.51 71.92 Direct Indirect Generated 1,402,839.00 986,354.00 891,858.80 24,031.30 Construction 8.14 8.84 23,354.82 17,379.34 7.87 waste 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2,345.27 Recycled 1,390,682.00 967,835.00 770,602.30 1,900.90 1,921.18 2013 2014 2015 Greenhouse gas emission – Generated 464,812.70 261,775.60 241,437.00 Raw material use building, vehicle Industrial Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 waste Building (unit: tCO2eq) Recycled 276,992.80 232,914.70 208,612.00 Direct Indirect New material ton 33,431 22,373 10,880 24,031 Vehicle – direct (unit: tC02eq) 3,224 Rail Generated 5,646.50 12,697.50 7,232.70 3,115 26,803.48 1,921 Designated 680 588 Recycle ton 1,329 354 3,952 waste 13,257.74 13,103.05 Recycled 876.00 2,840.30 804.90 2013 2014 2015 New material number 176,635 221,371 126,945 Vehicle (unit: tCO2eq) 2013 2014 2015 13,103 PC sleeper Water pollutants discharge 608 561 Recycle number 23,046 21,936 14,916 Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 Air pollutants emission Annual waste water discharge ton 7,176,449 10,944,822 3,131,760 Annual dust emission (unit: kg) 2013 2014 2015 New material number 4,404 5,023 947 number of 2,942 Waste water discharge facility 92 156 118 Wooden facilities Designated waste discharge (unit: ton) sleeper 2,526 Quantity of recycling Total quantity of discharge Recycle number 4,283 4,349 252 153 27.00 28.00 17.00 14.00 Major environmental indicators 11.00 8.00 General ton 3,452,853 2,804,024 2,048,830 2013 2014 2015 Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 Aggregate 2013 2014 2015 Environmental management index point 212.6 226.6 283.7 Air pollutants emission facility (unit: number of facility) Rotate ton 331,811 62,849 99,868 Water use – water supply (unit: ton) 22 Greenhouse gas reduction rate % 24.8 27.5 25.8 53,297 16 47,043 46,986 Wood m2 3,031,012 2,067,901 2,122,829 Violations of environmental laws and number of 6 4 0 0 regulations items Cast Substitute m2 1,951,122 2,026,688 1,481,515 2013 2014 2015 Construction waste recycling rate % 99.1 98.1 98.6 2013 2014 2015 66 67 APPENDIX ISO 26000 Implementation Assessment Third Party’s Verification Opinion GRI G4 Index Implementation of UN Global Compact Principle Recognitions and Affiliations APPENDIX ISO 26000 Implementation Assessment Third Party’s Assurance Statement GRI G4 Index Implementation of UN Global Compact Principle Recognitions and Affiliations KR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ISO 26000 Implementation Assessment To Management group and stakeholder of Korea Railway Network Authority Assessment standard Ⅰ. Assessment of the social responsibility process: 326/360 III. Improvement recommendations by subject on the characteristic of large ordering agency, and improve the internal reporting Korea Standards Association (“KSA”) has developed the assessment checklist of KR has strived to implement the corporate social responsibility faithfully in 4 Improvement recommendations according to the detailed assessment result by system. the implementation level for the social responsibility based on ISO 26000, which is sectors of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption under the 10 subject are as follows. principles of UN Global Compact. Overall social responsibility recognition level ⑥ Consumer issues the international standard of the social responsibility. ISO 26000 checklist includes and stakeholders’ communication is excellent, but establishment of strategy and ① Organizational governance KR systemized the on/off-line communication channel for sharing opinions with the process for the implementation of the social responsibilities and the result implementation system needs to be improved. KR operates its organization with optimal experts for improving the transparency all of the stakeholders. KR collected the opinions of the People by operating the assessment for 7 core subjects (organizational governance, human rights, labor It is recommended that KR practically integrate the management strategy system of the governance and continued management efficiency through expeditious VOC system for listening to customers’ opinions. As a result, KR achieved the practices, fair operating practices, consumer issues, and community involvement and process with sustainability and corporate social responsibility, and establish policy decision, and checks problems and issues related to ‘corporate social A grade in the customers satisfaction level supervised by the Government for and development). KSA has assessed the corporate social responsibility level of the sustainable performance management system including all the seven core responsibility’ and implements decision-makings based on the sustainable two consecutive years. It is recommended that KR continuously establish the KR in accordance with ISO 26000 checklist. subjects of ISO 26000. management, one of the core values. It is recommended that KR operate the safety management facilities for customers using railroad and station buildings sustainability management committee which can support BOD’s decisionincluding, but not limited to, the socially disadvantaged, such as children, the Assessment scope makings. disabled, and senior citizens. KR is also recommended to enhance the public KSA has implemented assessment for KR’s overall internal/external activities, mid/ awareness, such as the public campaign for the railroad safety. Result of process assessment (achievement level: 100%) long-term strategy, corporate social responsibility activities, and implementation ② Human rights process of the sustainable management strategy. The assessment result was ⑦ Community involvement and development Recognition of the corporate social By newly setting up the Human Rights Committee, KR stipulated the policy of evaluated in accordance with review of the internal documents on the relevant KR contributed to the functional development of the community by preparing responsibility respect for human rights, equal employment, and anti-discrimination in its policy and activities, performance data and calculation system. for the nature ecology center, bike lane, rail bike, and auto-camping site utilizing 100.0 92.0 Stakeholder identification and personnel policy and code of ethics, and grasps grievance related to human rights Improvement engagement through the grievance settlement system. It is recommended that KR establish the railroad site. KR also performs activities of annually supporting scholarship, Assessment method 88.0 80.0 96.7 60.0 the actual inspection standard for investigating the actual condition related to the study room and culture experience to the children of the railroad site through ‘KR KSA performed the following activities for collecting and assessing the relevant human rights abuse including, but not limited to, violence, sexual harassment, Boys Hope Project’. However, there are quite a lot of one-time voluntary services, 93.3 40.0 bases on the basis of the objective assessment standard centered on each Verification Core subjects and issues industrial safety, compliance with the Labor Standard Law, delayed payment and the windows for procuring the finances for the social contribution are limited. 86.7 department related to issuance of the sustainability report. 20.0 of wage, and maternity protection. KR is also recommended to actively support It is recommended that KR strive to expand finances for the social contribution education and monitoring for the business partners to implement the policy of and operate the purpose-oriented programs for solving the macroscopic social 95.0 83.3 • ‌Review of KR’s internal data related to the sustainable management activities respect for human rights. problems beyond the level of sporadic voluntary services. Communication Setting priorities, establishing and results 90.0 implementation strategy, and • ‌Implementing interview with persons in charge of each issue of KR’s sustainable Implementation planning ③ Labor practices Assessment conclusion management KR implements the tailored education for improving employees’ working As a result of assessment of the ISO 26000 response level, KR acquired 930 out conditions and organizational capability. It is recommended that KR create the of 1,000 and was identified to correspond to the SR IV grade. KR is at a stage of Assessment results II. Assessment of 7 core subjects: 604/640 social value through diverse support for the balance of employees’ work and life, expanding the corporate social responsibility activities to an organization-wide As a result of assessment, KR acquired 930 out of 1,000 and was identified to By and large, KR is outstanding in implementation level for expectation of seven and operate the sustainable system for satisfying the internal members through stage, and is excellent in the implementation level of organizational governance, correspond to the IV grade of ISO 26000 social responsibility implementation. core subjects of ISO 26000. Especially, the implementation level of organizational active communication with its members. fair trading practice, and labor practice. KR is recommended to integrate the This grade means that the members’ recognition level for the social responsibility governance, fair operating practice and labor practices was excellent. subject and principle of the social responsibility with its distinct business strategy ④ The environment in order to fulfil its public interest goal more stably as the enterprise specialized in implementation is high and the organization’s operating system, policy and practice are aligned. By actively striving to save energy, KR has outstandingly reduced GHG (greenhouse the railroad construction based on the standard of ISO 26000. gas) year by year and introduced renewable energy technology, including PV Assessment result of each core subject (achievement level: %) generation and geothermal power generation, through eco-friendly design 18 July 2016 of station building. However, it lacks the staffs dedicated to the environment Korea Standards Association Organizational governance Core subject Total point Assessment point compared to its scale of organization. It is recommended that KR enhance the 100.0 Chairman Su-hyeon Baek dedicated division and staffs according to the scale of organization and business, Process Community involvement 100.0 and strive to protect biodiversity and natural habitats in response to constructions 360 326 and development 80.0 Human rights 93.8 60.0 94.8 of station buildings and railroad. Performance 40.0 ⑤ Fair trading practices 640 604 91.7 20.0 98.4 Consumer issue Labor practices KR is very high in the systematic operation level of fair trading practices including, Korea Standards Association (“KSA”) is a special corporate body founded in 1962 under Korea Industrial Standardization Act. KSA is a knowledge service institute providing and expanding the but not limited to, introduction of mandatory completion of the anti-corruption industrial standardization, quality management, sustainable management, KS&ISO certification Total education by public office life cycle, and in the transparency level related contracts et al to enterprises. Especially, KSA acts as Korean secretary of ISO 26000, GRI-designated training 1,000 930 90.0 institute, AA1000 verification agency, operating institute of Korean Sustainability Index (KSI), UN with its business partners. However, it is necessary for KR to identify and manage CDM operating organization, and verification agency of GHS target management scheme, thereby 97.4 Fair operating practices The environment in priority the business field and sector vulnerable to anti-corruption depending contributing to the sustainable development of Korea. 70 71 APPENDIX ISO 26000 Implementation Assessment Third Party’s Assurance Statement GRI G4 Index Implementation of UN Global Compact Principle Recognitions and Affiliations KR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Third Party’s Assurance Statement To the Readers of Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2016 Foreword Inclusivity Korea Management Association Registration Inc. (hereinafter “KMAR”) has been requested by Korea Rail Network Authority (hereinafter “KR”) to verify the contents Inclusivity is the participation of stakeholders in developing and achieving an accountable and strategic response to sustainability. of its Sustainability Report 2016 (hereinafter “the Report”). KR is responsible for the collection and presentation of information included in the Report. KMAR’s responsibility is to carry out assurance engagement on specific data and information in the assurance scope specified below. ‌KR is developing and maintaining stakeholder communication channels in various forms and levels in order to make a commitment to be responsible for the stakeholders. The assurance team could not find any critical stakeholder KR left out during this procedure. Scope and standard Materiality KR describes its efforts and achievements of the corporate social responsibility activities in the Report. KMAR performed a Type 2, moderate level of assurance using Materiality is determining the relevance and significance of an issue to an organization and its stakeholders. A material issue is an issue that will influence the AA1000AS (2008) as an assurance standard. KMAR’s assurance team (hereinafter “the assurance team”) evaluated the adherence to Principles of the inclusivity, decisions, actions, and performance of an organization or its stakeholders. materiality and responsiveness, and the reliability of the selected GRI G4 indices as below, where professional judgment of the team was exercised as materiality criteria. ‌KR is determining the materiality of issues found out through stakeholder communication channels through its own materiality evaluation process, and the assurance team could not find any critical issues left out in this process. • G4 Reporting Principles • General Standard Disclosures Responsiveness • Specific Standard Disclosures Responsiveness is an organization’s response to stakeholder issues that affect its sustainability performance and is realized through decisions, actions, and • Generic DMA of each of following material Indicators of Aspects performance, as well as communication with stakeholders. Indirect Economic Impacts: EC7, EC8 Anti-corruption: SO3, SO4 ‌The assurance team could not find any evidence that KR’s counter measures to critical stakeholder issues were inappropriately recorded in the Report. Emissions: EN15, EN19 Anti-competitive Behavior: SO7 Effluents and Waste: EN23 Compliance: SO8 We could not find any evidence the Report was not prepared in accordance with the ‘Core Option’ of GRI G4. Compliance: EN29 Customer Health and Safety: PR1 Employment: LA1, LA3 Product and Service Labeling: PR5 Recommendation for improvement Occupational Health and Safety: LA6, LA7 Customer Privacy: PR8 We hope the Report is actively used as a communication tool with stakeholders and recommend the following for improvements. • Expand ‌ and refine the report contents: KR reports sustainability issues in accordance with the ‘Core Option’ of GRI guidance. We recommend that the report This Report excludes a data and information of joint corporate, contractor etc. which is outside of the organization, i.e. KR, among report boundaries. contents related with the materiality aspects should be expanded in the future to fully report various issues that have influence on KR’s sustainability. In addition, the report contents need to be more quantitative instead being rough explanation. • ‌Build sustainability information management system: As a basis for sustainability risk management, data collection and managementactivities increase Our approach usability and value of the data. We recommend that KR set up information management system including data collection and management process, and the In order to verify the contents of the Report within an agreed scope of assurance in accordance with the assurance standard, the team has carried out an assurance organization in charge, and that link the system with the internal management evaluation system. engagement as follows: • Reviewed the overall report Our independence • Reviewed the materiality assessment process and methodology With the exception of providing third party assurance services, KMAR is not involved in any other Korea Rail Network Authority’s business operations that are aimed at making profit in order to avoid any conflicts of interest and to maintain independence. • Reviewed the sustainability management strategies and targets • Reviewed the stakeholder engagement activities • Interviewed people in charge of preparing the Report August, 5th, 2016 Our conclusion CEO Ki Ho Park Based on the results we have obtained from material reviews and interviews, we had several discussions with KR on the revision of the Report. We reviewed the Report’s final version in order to confirm that our recommendations for improvement and our revisions have been reflected. When reviewing the results of the assurance, the assurance team could not find any inappropriate contents in the Report to the compliance with the principles specified below. Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the data included in the verification scope are not appropriately presented. 72 73 APPENDIX ISO 26000 Implementation Assessment Third Party’s Assurance Statement GRI G4 Index Implementation of UN Global Compact Principle Recognitions and Affiliations KR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI G4 Index General Standard Disclousure GRI Description Page Externally assured GRI Description Page Externally assured Strategy and Analysis G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 2 ● G4-1 CEO’s Message 5 ● G4-32 GRI content index 2 ● Organizational Profile G4-33 Policy and current practices with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 72-73 ● G4-3 Name of the organization 10-11 ● Governance G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services 10-11 ● G4-34 Governance structure of the organization 14 ● G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters 10-11 ● Ethics and Integrity Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has G4-56 Description of the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 55 ● G4-6 10-11 ● significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 10-11 ● G4-8 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries) 10-11 ● G4-9 Scale of reporting organization 10-11 ● G4-10 Employment information, by type of employment, type of contract and by region 64 ● G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 65 ● Specific Sandard Disclousures G4-12 Key characteristics of the supply chain relating to key activities, products and services of the reporting organization 10-11 ● G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, and ownership 10-11 ● GRI Description Page Externally assured G4-14 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 15 ● Economic List of externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to G4-15 77 ● Generic DMA 36-43 which the organization subscribes or which it endorses Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations Indirect G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 40-41 ● G4-16 78 ● to which the organization is affiliated Economic Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries Impacts G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 40-41 ● Operational structure of the reporting organization including key business departments, operating companies, Environmental G4-17 62 ● affiliate companies, and joint venture companies Generic DMA 30-35 G4-18 Process for defining report content 20-21 ● G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 66-67 ● G4-19 All material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content 20-21 ● Emissions G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 66-67 ● G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization 20-21 ● Generic DMA 30-35 G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organization 20-21 ● Effluents and Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 67 ● G4-22 20-21 ● Waste and the reasons for such restatements Generic DMA 30-35 G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries 2 ● Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for Stakeholder Engagement Compliance G4-EN29 67 ● non-compliance with environmental laws and reguations G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 16 ● Social G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 16 ● Labor Practice and Decent Work Organization's approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder Generic DMA 52-55 G4-26 16 ● group Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded G4-LA1 54 ● G4-27 16 ● Employment age group, gender, region to those key topics and concerns G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 65 ● Report Profile Generic DMA 30-35 G4-28 Reporting period for information provided 2 ● Occupational Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 2 G4-LA6 31 ● ● Health and and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender G4-30 Reporting cycle 2 ● Safety G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk or diseases related to their occupation 32 ● 74 75 APPENDIX ISO 26000 Implementation Assessment Third Party’s Assurance Statement GRI G4 Index Implementation of UN Global Compact Principle Recognitions and Affiliations KR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI G4 Index Implementation of UN Global Compact Principle GRI Description Page Externally assured Society Generic DMA 44-47 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and G4-SO3 45 ● Anti-corruption the significant risks identified G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 46 ● Generic DMA 48-51 Anti-competitive Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly G4-SO7 49 ● Behavior practices and their outcomes Generic DMA 24-29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for Compliance G4-SO8 65 ● non-compliance with laws and regulation Product Responsibility Generic DMA 30-35 Customer Health Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are G4-PR1 30, 34 ● and Safety assessed for improvement Generic DMA 56-57 Product and Service G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 56 ● labeling Generic DMA 56-57 KR joined the UN Global Compact, an international agreement on Customer G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and 57 ● corporate social responsibility, and abides by the ten principles in the Privacy losses of customer data four major sectors of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. Classification Principles 1. ‌Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Human rights human rights. 2. ‌Ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 3. ‌Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Labor 4. ‌The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor 5. ‌The effective abolition of child labor; and 6. ‌The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 7. ‌Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Environment 8. ‌Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9. ‌Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 76 77 APPENDIX ISO 26000 Implementation Assessment Third Party’s Assurance Statement GRI G4 Index Implementation of UN Global Compact Principle Recognitions and Affiliations KR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Recognitions and Affiliations 2015 Awards and Recognitions Achievement Sponsor Significance • ‌Recognized for CoP quality working group activities and outstanding case of management National Quality Convention Presidential Award (3 awards) performance creation (November 2015) National Quality Convention • ‌Awarded to the employee who led proactively to practice of the quality management with National Quality Master (1 person) convinced workmanship (November 2015) • ‌Contributed to national and social development through improvement of knowledge Korea Knowledge Awards Excellence Award management (October 2015) Certification of Family-Friendly Excellent Institution • Strived to foster culture of work and family balance (December 2015) 2015 Public Information Disclosure Assessment • ‌Government 3.0 progress result and endeavor to satisfy the People’s right to know The Best Institute Award (December 2015) 5th consecutive Minister of Land, Infrastructure and • Quality improvement and cost saving of construction work through VE (November 2015) Transport’s Award in National VE Competition Contest of the Year’s Engineering Structure Korean Society of • ‌Stability, artistry and eco-friendliness for Mangyeonggang River Bridge, Jangji Over-bridge, Awarded gold, silver and bronze (2) prize respectively Civil Engineers Geumgang River Bridge, and Jeongeup Over-bridge of Honam high-speed railway (March 2015) • ‌Economic, eco-friendly, and social result of management for sustainable development 5th consecutive Korea Sustainability Report Award (September 2015) • ‌Superiority in component, design, and convincibility for the sustainability report League of American (November 2015) 2015 Spotlight Awards Awarded 3 awards including Communication Grand prize in the sustainability report grand prize in the Sustainability Report Professionals Gold prize in the Most Creative sector 12th of the Top 100 Worldwide • ‌Performance in quality management system, resources management, win-win growth and Obtained Grade 8 (the highest) in the QMS level assessment expansion of fair trade culture (December 2015) Korea Innovation Award • ‌Improved convenience of the People’s life and contributed to the industrial development of Awarded grand prize of Management Innovation Korea through innovative management (June 2015) Quality Working Group Competition • Shared and expanded the outstanding case of quality working group activities (October 2015) Awarded gold prize(1) and silver prize (1) Korea Idea Management Conference Award • ‌Created performance in improvement of quality and productivity, cost saving, process Top Excellence Award (2) improvement (December 2015) • ‌Access convenience of web page for the information underprivileged, such as the disabled, and Web accessibility of KR website and Railroad Industry the elderly and infirm Information Center「National Quality Certification」 Website (October 2015), Railroad Industry Information Center (December 2015) Affiliations UIC The Korea Railway International Association for Korea Suggestion System Korea Association of (International Union of Railways) Association Construction Association Management Projects Korea Industrial Technology Korea Association for Railway Traffic Institute of Korea Korean Society of Civil Engineers Architectural Institute of Korea Promotion Association Korea Institute of Electrical Korea Association for Korea Association for Korea Association of Environmental Korea Society of Engineers Disaster Prevention Tunnel Underground Planning & Landscape Architecture Public Enterprise Business Ethics and Sustainability UN Global Compact Korea Korean Association for Audit Korea Fire Safety Association Korea Employer’s Federation management for Top performance Korea Construction Engineering Korea Railway Construction Korea Industrial Technology Korea Network on The Korean Society for Company Association in China Association Promotion Association Anti-Corruption & Transparency Quality Management 78 79 This report was printed on the eco-friendly paper certified by FSC. 242, Jungang-ro, Dong-gu, Daejeon Metropolitan City Tel. 1588-7270 / Fax. 042-607-3629 http://www.kr.or.kr
