Moser Baer India Limited [Communication on Progress 2015] Communication on Progress 2014 υ Moser Baer India Limited Communication on Progress 2014 φ Moser Baer India Limited Communication on Progress 2014 S. No Pages in Annual report 201415 http://moserbaer.com/wpGlobal compact Summary of action taken & Impact achieved content/uploads/2015/07/annualprinciples report141.pdf 1. Businesses should Moser Baer is committed to invest in its human resource be it Page 12 support and respect the providing an enabling environment and protecting their rights. protection of Their rights are recognized within the company as the common internationally standard of achievement. We acknowledge the fact that the proclaimed common understanding and compliance to these rights and human rights freedoms are of the greatest importance hence particular attention is given to embedded them in our philosophy and daily operations. 2. Make sure that they As an SA 8000 certified company, We make sure that all our policies Page 13 are not complicit in and practices are complying with the fundamental human rights. human rights abuses This includes equal chance to everyone to participate, protection from all forms of abuses as well as the freedom of thought through various forums. We also encourage to all are stakeholders to respect and comply with these core principles. 3. Businesses should We continued to encourage Associates Involvement in decision Page 12 uphold the freedom of making process through various committees’ like the Cafeteria association and the Committee, Transport Committee, and Sports Committee etc. At effective recognition of the same time, Employee Communication Forums like Open Houses, the Communication Meetings, Town-Halls, HR Help Desk and Grievance right to collective Resolution System provide all possible opportunities for employees bargaining to express and exchange views on the various issues that impact them. 4. Elimination of all We work in full compliance with the labour laws and regulations in Communication on Progress 2014 χ Moser Baer India Limited forms of forced and the area that we operate in. The principles of non-­compulsory labour discrimination, no forced labour, no child labour (under 18 years old) are highly respected by us. We also expect and encourage our business partners, suppliers and contractors to respect the same principles. 5. Effective abolition of Moser Baer is a SA 8000 certified company and various audits and Page 13-14 child labour reviews are carried by the internal auditors as well as the external agencies to verify that the systems are free of unfairness and prejudice. The Company has neither encountered nor encouraged Child Labour. Regular audits are conducted as part of SA8000 and documented. 6. Elimination of We will make sure that each employee does not suffer from any Page 12 (Human Resource) discrimination in respect kind of discrimination, feels integrated and happy within the of employment and company. occupation We believe in providing equal employment opportunity to all, irrespective of race, colour, creed, religion, national origin, sex and sexual orientation, disability, age, and marital status as our policy mandate. Regional diversity in hiring the employees also depicts nondiscrimination in the recruitment. 7. Businesses should We recognise the importance of protecting environment and are Page 17 support a precautionary committed to environmental issues. For us, addressing approach to environmental concerns and stakeholders needs simultaneously is environmental challenges the key towards sustainable development. Environment, health and safety (EHS) are an integral part of Moser Baer and focus on building a robust culture of EHS by involving employees at all verticals. It has achieved various milestones in terms of conserving environment. 8. Undertake initiatives to Management programme related to improving energy efficiency, Page 4-9 & 17 promote greater water conversation and Bio gas from kitchen forms integral part of environmental EHS department. Moser Baer’s Integrated Management system Communication on Progress 2014 ψ Moser Baer India Limited responsibility (Comprising of ISO 9001:2008, OHSAS 18001;2007 & ISO 14001:2004) ,certified by leading and well reputed certification bodies show the commitment towards EHS in line with other important function i.e. Quality. A robust EHS audit, both internal and external, is carried out at all our locations periodically to ensure continual improvement in our environment, health and safety standards. 9. Encourage the We are committed to sustainably reduce our environmental impact Page 4-5 development and and continually improving our environmental performance as an diffusion integral and fundamental part of our business strategy and of environmentally operating methods. We have continuously been working and friendly technologies committed to develop the environment friendly products such as LED and renewable resources. We are aiming to align with the international standards (such as ISO 14001:2004) for environmental management systems. Our aim is to be an environmentally responsible organization. We also make conscious efforts towards raising awareness on environment friendly practices amongst our associates and other stakeholders. 10. Businesses should Moser Baer has designed the processes that ensures and curb all work against all forms of forms of corruption. We have a dedicated organisational policy on corruption, including anti-corruption that are being communicated and reinforce the extortion and bribery same on regular basis. It is also a part of our induction process wherein the new associates are being oriented during initial days with the company. Communication on Progress 2014 ω Moser Baer India Limited
