Technical competence Social sensitivity Environmental responsibility Sustainability Report 2015-16 “We are Mindtree: An evolving organization that nurtures a technically competent, socially sensitive and environmentally responsible mindset in our people. Mindtree Kalinga exempliﬁes the spirit.” Content Welcome to possible Executive message ---------------------------------------------------------06 Highlights of sustainability performance: 2015-16 -------------------08 Way forward: 2016-17 -------------------------------------------------------10 Sustainability at Mindtree Overview of the report ------------------------------------------------------14 Mindtree sustainability framework & CSR framework ---------------16 Managing what matters • Materiality and stakeholder inclusiveness -----------------------17 • Risk management -----------------------------------------------------21 Governance and advocacy ------------------------------------------------23 Mindtree Kalinga –The learning organization View on Mindtree Kalinga and sustainability -----------------------------30 Folding the future in --------------------------------------------------------32 Learning: “always beta” and socially sensitive -------------------------33 The layout of the campus --------------------------------------------------34 Cutting-edge infrastructure for learning --------------------------------35 Infusing art -------------------------------------------------------------------36 Preserving Mother Nature -------------------------------------------------37 Multiple bottom lines of sustainability Thriving workplace ----------------------------------------------------------42 • View on workplace sustainability --------------------------------------44 • Developing talent ---------------------------------------------------------47 • Attracting talent -----------------------------------------------------------49 • Diverse and inclusive -----------------------------------------------------50 • Retaining talent -----------------------------------------------------------51 • Being transparent ---------------------------------------------------------52 • Engaging our people -----------------------------------------------------52 Serving the society ----------------------------------------------------------60 • View on serving the society ---------------------------------------------62 • CSR in 2015-16 -----------------------------------------------------------65 • Our CSR charter -----------------------------------------------------------65 • The Mindtree Foundation ------------------------------------------------66 • A few highlights of our work Education ----------------------------------------------------------------68 Beneﬁting the diﬀerently-abled -------------------------------------69 Creating sustainable livelihoods -------------------------------------71 Protecting the environment -----------------------------------------------72 • View on environmental sustainability ---------------------------------74 • Strengthening our responsibility: 2015-16 --------------------------76 • Energy, water, emissions & waste management --------------------77 • Sustainable procurement -----------------------------------------------83 Adding economic value ----------------------------------------------------86 • View on economic value -------------------------------------------------88 • Inclusive growth ----------------------------------------------------------89 • Financial performance ---------------------------------------------------89 • Strengths and strategy ---------------------------------------------------92 Annexures Global presence -------------------------------------------------------------94 Assurance statement ------------------------------------------------------97 Data techniques and assumptions --------------------------------------100 UNGC and NVG application -----------------------------------------------102 GRI Content Index ---------------------------------------------------------107 Glossary ----------------------------------------------------------------------116 About the writer ------------------------------------------------------------118 Welcome to possible Welcome to possible Founded by visionary leaders in 1999, Mindtree Ltd., headquartered at Bangalore, has grown over the last 16 years Our mission: We engineer to be a successful information technology company of repute. meaningful technology It stands at a turnover of USD 715.2 million, supported by its solutions to help 16,623 people spread across locations in India, North America, Europe and Asia Paciﬁc regions. businesses and societies ﬂourish. We set out to make digital ‘real’ for our clients, constantly striving to create transformative value. Our strengths lie in agile software, mobility and cloud computing, driven by real people, real expertise and real solutions. Our strategic focus on key areas digital solutions and managed services, in select industries, continues to bring us success year after year. We are well poised to further leverage the emerging opportunities in the global IT sector, which is becoming a positive prospect for India. In fact, Mindtree is on the threshold of unleashing greater potential than ever before. In the future, success will increasingly yield to organizations with inclusive vision, which has been innate to Mindtree. Responsible business has been inherent in Mindtree’s vision and mission. Our inclusive path of growth is evident in our 4 corporate social responsibility (CSR) endeavors and Mindtree also publishes a Business Responsibility environmental initiatives. A United Nations Global Report (BRR) as a part of its annual report, as per the Compact (UNGC) signatory and an endorser of recommendations of the Securities Exchange Board international principles on responsible business, of India (SEBI). Mindtree charters its responsibility agenda through its sustainability framework, its CSR charter and several The sustainability report of 2015-16 is the fourth in a supportive policies and systems. series of reports by Mindtree. It is in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4-Core criteria, and Committed to regular reporting to Carbon Disclosure is externally assured by KPMG. The report illustrates Project (CDP) and sustainability reporting, Mindtree how we drive a set of issues material to our maps its sustainability performance to the principles sustainability and evolve as a sustainable of UNGC and The National Voluntary Guidelines organization, creating a holistic, responsible mindset (NVGs) of the Government of India. among our people. 5 Executive message Mindtree is a learning organization that is evolving in sustainability. While sustainability is about smart business sense, nurturing individual responsibility and harnessing team and community potential for sustainable impact have been crucial paths for us. By leveraging our core competencies to create platforms that address sustainability in society, we create sustainable value and evolve as an organization. We are making satisfactory progress in achieving our short-term goals for sustainability, and our medium term goals are increasingly moving into a short-term range. Our plans for Subroto Bagchi renewable energy in the future have scaled up. In fact, we will Non-Executive Director reduce our dependence on fossil fuels sooner than we expected, with a solar project at Bangalore that should be functional next year. Our economic performance has been consistently strong, and our outlook for the future is highly positive. We have always been intent on inclusive growth and will continue on a path that creates opportunity for both internal and external stakeholders. Deepening our agenda for gender diversity is an important part of our future plans. The groundwork we did last year resulted in the launch of exclusive programs for the Krishnakumar Natarajan development of women leaders. Executive Chairman The Mindtree Foundation continues to make transformations in the areas of education, disability and livelihood through a select set of projects speciﬁcally chosen for deep impact and synchronization with our vision. A recent meeting of our CSR Committee and our esteemed non-governmental organization (NGO) partners helped us strengthen ties with these co-creators of social change. 6 Mindtree is committed to sustainability reporting that drive our future success. Our stakeholders will hear aligns with GRI-G4, and includes the principles of from us regularly on our performance and on the NVGs (Non Voluntary Guidelines of the Government progress we make in addressing issues that are of India). As a signatory of the UNGC, we are critical to sustainability. committed to the vision and principles of UNGC and map to these principles when reporting our This report describes Mindtree Kalinga, our Learning sustainability performance. Center at Bhubaneswar, Odisha. Here we create the “engineers of tomorrow” and nurture a holistic An exclusive consultation exercise we carried out mindset that integrates technical competence, with our stakeholders in 2014 and 2015 helped social sensitivities and environmental responsibility. us formally arrive at a set of material issues for sustainability. Mindtree is committed to addressing In other words, we aim at a mindset with triple these issues, which range across economic, social bottom lines. and environmental categories. We are sure that the attention we pay to social and environmental material Welcome to possible. issues will inﬂuence our economic performance and After a year-long succession planning process, FY 2016-17 sees Subroto Bagchi stepping down as Executive Chairman, with Krishnakumar Natarajan taking over the mantle. Subroto Bagchi will continue to guide Mindtree in a non-executive capacity, at the Board. Rostow Ravanan is the new CEO & Managing Director, chartering paths of future growth for Mindtree. 7 Highlights of sustainability performance: 2015-16 • Our per-capita water consumption decreased from Thriving 1.03 KL/employee/month to 0.91 workplace KL/employee/month. • Our per-capita GHG emissions reduced from • Our talent pool increased by 17% and grew to 3.29 tons CO2e/employee/annum to 2.44 16,623 this year. CO2e/employee/annum. • Women accounted for 28% of our talent pool. • We increased our wet waste processing capacity • We launched Exuberance, an exclusive women to 90%. leadership development journey, to strengthen the • I Got Garbage (IGG) is our digital platform to movement of our women leaders from middle to enhance waste picker livelihood and landﬁll senior levels. reduction through micro-businesses. It enabled • We brought voluntary attrition down to 16% from 10.2 million kgs of waste recycling worth the earlier 18.29%. 40,000 trees. • We now have 49 people with disabilities adding • IGG launched another program, Donate Dry Waste value to our work – up from 44 last year. (DDW) a volunteer app-based program that • We further enhanced the virtual components of our enabled dry waste collection in eight areas of learning programs. Bangalore, onboarding 57 volunteers, 15 waste • We adopted the concept of micro-learnings and pickers, 2,100 waste generators, recycling 99,860 introduced ShotClass apps, bringing bite-sized kg of dry waste in the year 2015-16. learning into our learning portfolio. • Towards the end of the year 2015-16, we launched • We trained and produced over 1,400 “engineers of I Got Crops, a cloud-based platform for sustainable tomorrow” at Mindtree Kalinga, our new Learning agriculture and agri-related microbusinesses across and Development Center at Bhubaneswar. ﬁve states, targeting to beneﬁt 120,000 farmers in the ﬁrst year, with threefold increase in their income. Protecting the environment Serving the under-served • We crossed our internal targets for improving eﬃciencies in emissions, water, energy and waste • We consolidated our eﬀorts in education and management. disability at taluk levels. • Our per-capita energy consumption reduced from • We focused on end-to-end support for disability 189.22 kWh/employee/month to 167.6 and education. kW/employee/month. 8 • Our CSR Foundation touched 21,769 beneﬁciaries • USD 25 million clients grew to six; USD 10 million during the year. clients grew to 15; USD 5 million clients grew to 31; • We streamlined our data measurement and USD one million clients grew to 80. monitoring system for CSR project management and • Our Customer Experience Survey (CES) continued to impact measurement. show highly robust scores on all key dimensions. • We are working through NGOs to create taluk-level impacts in Kanakapura, Koratagere and Vijayapura in Karnataka, Pune in Maharashtra, Hyderabad in Being Telangana and Tiruvallur in Tamil Nadu. recognized • During the year, 7,236 volunteers served various causes. • Mindtree has been ranked amongst the 100 • IGG enrolled 9,300 waste pickers via 38 city “Fastest Growing Companies” by Business world. engagements as recycling managers with digniﬁed • We won Best Corporate Governance award in the livelihood who earned a collective annual revenue technology sector for Asia from the Ethical of over INR 12 crores. Boardroom Corporation. • We also launched I Got Skills, an educational • Mindtree named a Top 10 Outsourcing Provider in platform aiming at beneﬁting 70,000 rural primary the Americas and EMEA regions by Information school students across Rajasthan, Gujarat and Delhi, Services Group (ISG). with multiple education enhancement interventions, • Mindtree was among the top ten selected for the and also enabling 92,000 labor training through prestigious BEST award by Association for Talent 600 skill training centers. Development (ATD) in 2015. • Mindtree was selected for the leadership zone in Zinnov’s Global Product Engineering Service Creating Provider Ratings. economic value • Relational Solutions, a Mindtree company, named a 2016 Readers’ Choice in Demand Data Analytics by • Our revenues grew to USD 715.2 million, Consumer Goods Technology Magazine. representing an industry-leading growth of 22.5%. • Krishnakumar Natarajan, our new Chairman • Revenue at INR 46,896 million indicates a growth from FY 2016-17, has been named as the EY of 31.7%. Entrepreneur of the Year 2015 under the • Net proﬁts grew by 4.7% to USD 92 million. Services category. • 348 active clients contributed to our stellar • Our CIO was given the Digital Transformation Czar performance. award in the Digital Transformation category at the • One third of our revenues accrued from digital CIO 100 Awards organized by IDG. services. • Mindtree named as the “Most Popular Organization” • One more of our clients crossed USD 50 million in in the space of Talent Acquisition by the TA revenue, increasing the number of clients with more Leadership League Awards. than USD 50 million revenue to two. 9 Way forward: 2016-17 Aim at 32% women Create more women leaders Encourage bite-sized talent by 2017. through our new, women learning modes. leadership program. Scale up our panchayat level Launch a renewable power Further balance our qualitative work and continue to expand project at Bangalore and and quantitative measurements our CSR eﬀorts to taluk level. reduce dependence of the impacts of our on fossil fuels. CSR endeavors. Continue to improve on environmental resource eﬃciencies: • Reduce per-capita emissions by 3% in the next year • Reduce per-capita energy consumption by 5% • Reduce per-capita water consumption by 4% • Increase waste recycled by 2%. 10 Sustainability Sustainability at Mindtree – Overview of the report As a part of the reporting process, we conducted an exclusive stakeholder consultation exercise and arrived at a set of material issues across three bottom lines. Validated by Mindtree, the material issues guided our performance during 2015-16. This report shares our progress on these issues. The report deﬁnes and captures content, within the aspect boundaries deﬁned, using detailed steps recommended by GRI. The assurance statement by KPMG who veriﬁed the information, appears in the annexure of this report which is self-declared as GRI-G4-Core. The key proﬁle parameters such as scope, data assumptions, Chitra Byregowda measures, reporting period and reporting cycle, remain the Head of Sustainability and Diversity same as in previous reports, while the report has evolved to GRI-G4 expectations in terms of focus on the metrics on material issues. We are happy to present No changes in structure, ownership or expansion have taken our fourth annual place that could have a bearing on the purpose and scope of sustainability report. The this report. There are no restatements of information from report for ﬁscal year (FY) previous reports. In the interest of brevity and to avoid repetition, this report may omit details of some constant 2015-16 is in accordance features or regular initiatives that were covered in previous with GRI G4-Core criteria, reports. and maps to the principles of UNGC and the NVG of the Government of India. 14 We continue to report our data on economic sustainability report 2014-15, we shared with our performance across our global operations. And we stakeholders, how Mindtree harnesses the power of report our social and environmental performance teams and communities to bring about sustainable data across India, because the majority of our people, impacts. our CSR eﬀorts and our environmental initiatives are based in India. In the 2015-16 report, we look at the organizational vision and commitment involved in embedding This report oﬀers an opportunity to share with our sustainability into Mindtree Minds, as illustrated at stakeholders, the story of Mindtree Kalinga, our Mindtree Kalinga. Learning and Development Center at Bhubaneswar, Odisha. Mindtree Kalinga illustrates Mindtree’s vision Please share your views and feedback with me. of sustainability, which involves creating and developing a holistic mindset in our people right from Welcome to possible. the time of their entry into our organization. Our sustainability report for 2013-14 expressed our conviction in nurturing responsibility at the individual level and shared stories of individuals who epitomized individual responsibility. In our 15 Mindtree sustainability framework Workplace sustainability • Diverse workforce • Inclusive workspace • Labour regulation • Employee engagement Governance and advocacy Mindtree • Policies sustainability • Code of conduct • Transparency framework • Risk management • Reporting and disclosure • Financial compliance Ecological sustainability • Carbon footprint reduction • Resource conservation • Environmental legislation compliance • Green infrastructure Mindtree CSR framework Beneﬁt the diﬀerently-abled Direct CSR Promote education CSR through Mindtree Foundation Create sustainable livelihood opportunities Supporting through Individual Social Responsibility Voluntary engagement 16 Materiality and stakeholder inclusiveness our social and environmental performance across our Indian locations. Our material issues were considered Mindtree engages in the for their internal and external impacts. determination of its material issues by involving its internal The exercise carried out as per GRI recommendations, surveyed a representative sample of prioritized and external stakeholders. stakeholder segments, asking them to prioritize and rate a comprehensive range of issues and related Together, our people, customers, investors, partners aspects, on a ten-point scale. The aggregated scores and suppliers, current and future generations, averaged across the segments resulted in a set of community and NGOs, academia and regulators form material issues, which were further classiﬁed as low, a fullset of Mindtree stakeholders. Our engagement medium and high across social, environmental and platforms for segments of stakeholders bring their economic categories in the materiality matrix. This voices into our policy-making and our initiatives. We analysis was further validated internally by Mindtree. are an organization that has always held feedback as a critical component for guiding and shaping our Each material issue was assigned to a function-owner, policies and practices. and goals were set for performance. Our overall sustainability performance in 2015-16 included For FY 2015-16, we launched a formal exercise with actions on the goals and targets set at this stage. an external agency to conduct a stakeholder Report content was deﬁned as per GRI consultation process with our key stakeholder recommendations after the compilation of segments, identiﬁed and prioritized methodically, to performance across the material issues, and ensured understand their concerns, issues and priorities. The all the key principles of GRI-based sustainability exercise involved the same scope and boundaries reporting were followed. that our reporting follows: We continue to report our economic performance across global locations and Social Economic Environmental • Talent acquisition & retention • Business growth • Green IT & renewables • Transparency of policies & disclosures • Digital inclusion High • Responsible supply chain • Service stewardship & client value • Community investment projects • People engagement • Customer privacy & data security • Environmental stewardship & climate change Medium • Talent development • Employee volunteering framework • Diversity & inclusion • Environmental compliance Low Low: Low concern; Medium: Moderate concern; High: High level of concern 17 Our key goals for the material issues Talent acquisition & retention Community investment projects Green IT & renewables • Improve employee • Sustain current programs • Strengthen data reporting engagement • Extend programs to taluk through analytics • Reduce attrition levels • Initiate plans for solar power • Rehire former Mindtree Minds • Increase monitoring and • Further steps towards achieving a • Strengthen acquisition capacity-building for better greater clean energy proportion strategies for diversity goals impact assessment in a three-year timeframe Transparency Responsible supply chain Environmental stewardship & • Simplify and improve • Identify and include climate change communication minority/women-founded • Improvement over 2014-15 in • Involve Mindtree Minds in enterprises in the supply chain per-capita energy consumption policy-making • Encourage local suppliers • Improvement in per-capita water • Hold vendor summit for greater consumption alignment • Improvement in waste recycling People engagement Business growth Volunteering framework • More fun at work and greater • Aim for higher than industry • Link our employee volunteers work/life balance growth rate with our sustainability endeavors • Make Mindtree a great place • Sustain profitability • Incentivize sustainability to work lifestyles Talent development Service stewardship & client value Environmental compliance & • Extend all our programs • Better account mining from management outside India existing top customers and • Sustain compliance at the current • Influence business outcomes through new customers high levels through communication • Delivery enabled strong growth trainings • Maintain high levels of customer • Enhance virtual modes privacy and data security Diversity & inclusion Digital inclusion • Enhance along several axes: • Be recognized as experts in our gender, nationality, culture, chosen domains disability • Be in the forefront of digital transformation and newer technology areas 18 Stakeholder inclusiveness The detailed listing of our key stakeholders – internal Because of these engagement platforms, we have and external – and our keenness on getting their been able to make conﬁdent strides in our views on board have historically led us to design and sustainability journey, the success of which we duly oﬀer several engagement platforms for them. share with our stakeholders. Ranging from periodic to ongoing, from occasional to We owe many of our green ideas, innovative regular, from weekly to annual, these platforms initiatives, resource conservation eﬀorts and connect us with our stakeholders in diﬀerent ways, motivational workplace mechanisms to the processes enriching us with stakeholder feedback, suggestions, and outcomes of the crucial conversations held in concerns and ideas for improving our performance. these platforms. Stakeholder Ongoing engagement Periodic engagement Employees PeopleHub – The intranet makes accessible to MiVoice Employee satisfaction survey content rich Mindtree Minds, comprehensive (annual) intranet portal organization-wide information: all policies, practices, programs, people systems and applications. Genie An online resolution & interaction PACE – • Performance appraisal platform for any queries. Performance discussions (Annual) Management • Right to Feedback (anytime) System Senior New changes within the • All Minds • A platform to interact with the management organization are addressed at Meet senior management, ask interactions open house sessions by senior • Open session questions and voice opinions and webcast management. (quarterly) • CEO interaction with middle management and above (biannual) Blogs and Konnect Mindtree’s social discussion platform groups MindSpace CEO wall direct communication from CEO MindSpeak A platform for promoting equity at the workplace, where Mindtree Minds can raise a dialogue on issues relating to career progression and promotion, favoritism / discrimination at the workplace, performance management. All dialogues are attended by the concerned People Function representative, involving the respective stakeholders, and brought to closure to ensure satisfaction and redress. 19 Stakeholder Ongoing engagement Periodic engagement Employees Whistleblower The intranet makes accessible to Mindtree Minds, comprehensive organization-wide information : all policies, practices, programs, people systems and applications. Open door Encourages accessibility, policy openness and transparency in communication. One can reach out to anyone, including the Chairman of the Company, to address concerns at any point in time. Skip level To help sort out concerns that one meetings might not be comfortable discussing with the immediate manager. Customers Project feedback through surveys Customer satisfaction survey – CXO and Sr. level contacts (annual) Customer visits Project Feedback Survey – Operational and Mid-level contacts (quarterly) Skip level meetings Steering committee meetings for larger customers (quarterly) Communities & Interaction with communities and NGOs through NGOs Mindtree Foundation such as social and volunteer programs Partners & suppliers Operational reviews, vendor meets • Supplier satisfaction survey Supplier proﬁle questionnaire • Supplier / Vendor evaluation (annual) Investors & Dedicated email id for investors, Stakeholder Annual report shareholders Relationship Committee Annual General Meeting Newsletters on Mindtree website Quarterly shareholder reports / updates Investor / Analyst meets Regulators & Workshops Participation in NASSCOM, CII events and other public policy Panel discussions regulatory bodies makers Steering committees 20 Risk management Our approach to risk management is supported by best-in-class Enterprise Risk Management framework and backed by a risk-aware culture across the organization. Our risk framework is based on standards such as CNBC-TV18 India Risk Management Awards. The COSO, ISO31000:2009 and IRM Risk Management awards recognize organizations that understand risk Standard which enable us to structure our systems and consistently practice it with high integrity. and mechanisms of risk management eﬀectively. Several sustainability risks are tracked under the risk Mindtree has been recognized as the “Firm of the segments within our framework such as strategic, Year” in the Information Technology sector of the operational, ﬁnancial and compliance. Key business goals as set by Executive Management and the Board of Directors Key Business Goals Strategic Risks Monitoring & Reporting Risk Identiﬁcation Operational Risks Monitoring and reporting of Determining uncertainties which risks and treatment plans could potentially impact achievement Compliance Risks of business objectives Financial Risks Risk Treatment Risk Assessment Migrate, Transfer, Tolerate, Evaluating risks identiﬁed and Terminate or Exploit identiﬁed risks possible impact on Mindtree The risk management committee at Mindtree, chaired Mindtree’s risk management policy. A detailed update by the CEO with the CFO and Chief Risk Oﬃcer (CRO) of the signiﬁcant risks across the organization is as permanent invitees to meetings, provides the discussed along with risks that have emerged during oversight and direction. Risks have designated risk the course of the year. owners who are responsible for risk treatment as per 21 In 2015-16, we added initiatives such as: The cross-functional team addressed the emergency • Risk index for new geographies based on security / head-on. The Administration and Facilities function safety, ease of doing business, corruption perception, kept the oﬃce operational and at the same time political / economic / ﬁnancial system stability. relocated Mindtree Minds based on client need and • Implementation of process to provide security guides safety. Our Finance Team, People Function and People for Mindtree Minds on international travel. Shared Services Function brought in timely support. • Along with the above, we enhanced other existing initiatives such as the quarterly Account Risk Index, Our Central Information System team ensured that contract risk management, risk awareness, client desktops / laptops were arranged swiftly, and also acceptance procedures and credit risk analysis. tackled the issues in networks and equipment. Space • We engaged an external partner to review and further Management team accommodated the relocated enhance the Mindtree Business Continuity Plan, and teams into the workplace. The Delivery teams were incorporate industry best practice. involved in tracking the people and communicating relevant updates to our clients. Disaster management: The ﬂood at Chennai in 2015 was an unprecedented event and put our business Our risk management function kept in constant touch continuity to test. The situation was managed well, with stakeholders and support functions for emergency driven by our eﬀective business continuity assessment and redressal feedback. management, there by ensuring minimal disruption for our clients. We ensured safety of our people and extended support to Mindtree Minds and support staﬀ. 22 Governance and advocacy human right protection, anti-corruption and compliance. Our governance structure – The Board of Honesty, integrity, fairness and Directors and its various committees, including the transparency are central to our CSR Committee – provide the much-needed direction shared vision. Our corporate and inspiration on matters of ethics, social contribution and sustainability. governance systems and mechanisms reﬂect our ideology Principles that guide us: and values. • Act in the spirit of law and not just the letter of law. • Do what is right and not what is convenient. Governance and advocacy form one of the three • Provide complete transparency on our operations. pillars of our sustainability framework. Our ideology • Follow openness in our communication with all looks at ethics and values as a strong foundation and stakeholders. an absolute imperative for organizational success. Integrity policy of Mindtree mandates the Mindtree is a UNGC signatory organization. We organization to conduct all of its business activities endorse Organization for Economic Cooperation and with honesty, integrity and the highest possible Development (OECD) Principles of Corporate ethical standards while vigorously enforcing its Governance. Our environmental responsibilities are business practice of not engaging in bribery or based on the precautionary principle. We support the corruption, anywhere it operates throughout protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. the world. We are members of industry associations such as the All our employees are educated on the expectations Confederation of Indian Industries (CII) and the on integrity. Our zero-tolerance approach to breach National Association of Software and Services of the policy keeps adherence levels high. Companies (NASSCOM), the Associated Chambers of Commerce of India (ASSOCHAM) and Bangalore Anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy of Mindtree Chambers of Industry and Commerce (BCIC). Our deals with prevention, deterrence and detection of leaders engage in many public policy platforms and fraud, bribery and all other corrupt and unethical contribute to policy dialogues that include ethics, business practices, including extortion. We undertake values-led leadership and sustainable development. extensive trainings and assessments for risks pertaining to this area in order to avoid and prevent We have strengthened the governance and advocacy issues. No incidents were reported in FY 2015-16. We pillar of our sustainability framework with a range of do not make any contributions to any political party. policies and codes of conduct in integrity, transparency, 23 Whistleblower policy of Mindtree covers issues such Prevention of Sexual Harassment (POSH) policy of as related party transactions, siphoning of funds, Mindtree is in line with the requirements of the non-compliance with the law of the land, concealing Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace legal mandatory disclosures, breach of ﬁduciary (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013. responsibilities, ﬁnancial irregularities, sexual Frequent communication and an e-learning module harassment, misuse of intellectual property, breach keep the awareness levels high on the subject. The of integrity and any suspicious activity or event that Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) comprising men indicates a potential threat to the security of and women, chaired by a senior Lady Mindtree Mind, Mindtree’s assets and people. investigates the cases reported and oﬀers its recommendation to the apex body. All the 12 cases Our communication platforms and trainings on our reported in FY 2015-16 (ten in India and two in our policies cover all our people including our security global locations) were addressed and resolved. personnel, and our audit of all units and critical functions keeps the risks of deviation at bay. There were no incidents of discrimination reported. 35 number of employee/human rights grievances Our approach to human rights protection is were received and 34 resolved. embedded in our vision and reﬂects in our inclusive philosophy and humane culture. Our sensitization In 2015-16, Mindtree encountered no cases of breach programs on human rights cover our employees and of law or compliance regarding environment, include our contractual workers. Our grievance marketing, marketing communications, mechanisms open their doors to human rights anti-competitive behavior, unfair business practices, violation issues as well. Our supply chain product/service-related regulation, human rights management systems place a set of checks and protection, or any other legal or regulation-related balances on risks of human rights violations across areas. No penalties or sanctions were faced or our rapidly growing supply chain. The supplier code incurred. No customer privacy or security breaches of conduct ensures compliance on ethics, child labor, were reported. forced labor norms and so on. Our Board of Directors comprises an array of leaders We respect the right to freedom of association and with diverse backgrounds and expertise, each collective bargaining. We have no trade unions in bringing a unique strength to the echelons of our our organization. governance. Well balanced between directors and independent directors, executive and non-executive Our worker representation in various health and capacities, the board is also gender-inclusive with safety related committees is at 2.25%, and they two women directors. actively participate in the discussions and decisions. 24 The board shapes and deﬁnes our values, strategies N. S. Parthasarathy, Executive Director, President and and mission, guiding the journey on social, COO, leads this domain and nurtures its endeavors, environmental and economic bottom lines of the including sustainability reporting. He is also a organization. member of the board’s CSR Committee, thus ensuring a synergy between sustainability and CSR. Our CSR Committee of the Board, supported by a steering committee for CSR, leads matters of social The open door policy for communication and our contributions. Its chairman and members decide on various platforms of engagement provide points of the frequency and agenda of meetings. access to the higher levels of our organization, enabling any issues of stakeholder grievances and The board assesses the performance of business conﬂicts of interest, if any, to be captured. responsibility at a frequency of the board’s choosing. Sustainability and diversity at Mindtree are clubbed together under the People Function, and receive guidance and oversight at the CXO level. 25 Board of Directors Composition of the board Designation Subroto Bagchi, 59 Non-Executive Director Krishnakumar Natarajan, 59 Executive Chairman Rostow Ravanan, 45 CEO and Managing Director N.S. Parthasarathy, 55 Executive Director, President and Chief Operating Oﬃcer Dr. Albert Hieronimus, 69 Vice Chairman and Independent Director Apurva Purohit, 49 Independent Director Manisha Girotra, 46 Independent Director Prof. Pankaj Chandra, 57 Independent Director Ramesh Ramanathan, 52 Independent Director V.G. Siddhartha, 56 Non-Executive Director Board committees Administrative Committee Nomination & Remuneration Committee Krishnakumar Natarajan....Chairman Apurva Purohit.......................Chairman Subroto Bagchi.......................Member Dr. Albert Hieronimus.........Member N.S. Parthasarathy.................Member Subroto Bagchi.......................Member Rostow Ravanan....................Member Prof. Pankaj Chandra...........Member Audit Committee Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Ramesh Ramanathan..........Chairman Subroto Bagchi.......................Chairman Dr. Albert Hieronimus.........Member N.S. Parthasarathy................. Member V.G. Siddhartha.......................Member Prof. Pankaj Chandra...........Member Apurva Purohit.......................Member Rostow Ravanan....................Member Stakeholders Relationship Committee Risk Management Committee Dr. Albert Hieronimus.........Chairman Krishnakumar Natarajan....Chairman Rostow Ravanan....................Member Rostow Ravanan....................Member N.S. Parthasarathy.................Member 26 Mindtree Kalinga The learning organization View on Mindtree Kalinga and sustainability In its true sense, sustainability is neither about retroﬁtting nor about following standards or norms and getting certiﬁcations. It is about a vision for the long term and an integrated thinking across the business right from the beginning. Our vision for Mindtree Kalinga was based on this kind of integrated thinking. The purpose of the artiﬁcial lake we constructed on the campus was to make the location self-suﬃcient in water for at least ten months of the year. Currently, we are working for better sealing against water percolation in the lake so that water is available all the time. We are conﬁdent we can attain this goal by next year. In Panduranga Pai addition, we have also created rain water recharging facility General Manager, Infrastructure to improve the ground water table. The passive cooling systems in the 250 rooms of transit Sustainability is about accommodation block on the Mindtree Kalinga campus consume as little as 15% of the energy consumed by integrated thinking right conventional air conditioning. We plan to meet our daytime from the beginning. energy consumption over the next three years with solar. Another example of our integrated thinking is the production of soil cement blocks at site, which we have nick-named 'Magic Brick'. Excess soil at site has been used for making bricks. Using specially procured automatic machine that produces uniform quality bricks stronger than locally available concrete block, we produced over one million bricks and constructed the walls for our building measuring 272,000 sq.ft. We fondly call this plant, our 'Brick Temple'. We believe, ours is the largest institutional building in the world built with soil cement blocks. 30 While we expect to qualify for Leadership in Energy of integrated thinking for sustainability. Regardless of and Environmental Design (LEED) Platinum which organizations our Campus Minds choose to certiﬁcation soon, our innovations at Mindtree Kalinga work with in the future, they take the change-making go beyond the dictates of any such standards. It is our solutions from Mindtree Kalinga with them to inspire ability to translate systems thinking into innovative future sustainability initiatives in their particular design and execution that inspires these innovations. spheres of activity. For Mindtree, that multiplier eﬀect For us, this represents the spirit of sustainability. represents the ultimate impact of our endeavor. We built Mindtree Kalinga to train “engineers of Welcome to possible. tomorrow”. Infrastructure has a great role to play in next-generation learning. At Mindtree Kalinga, we use classrooms equipped with video conferencing to extend learning across the globe. More importantly, by providing the “engineers of tomorrow” with a state-of-the-art environment built for sustainability, Mindtree Kalinga creates champions 31 Folding the future in Mindtree has created a state-of-the-art global learning center at Bhubaneswar, Odisha, based on a futuristic vision of creating 'engineers of tomorrow', with sustainability embedded into the endeavor. Mindtree Kalinga was born out of our larger vision of process of creating these engineers is an integrated nurturing our young entrants, with tomorrow’s one, based on learning modes of the future, ably challenges in mind. Vision 2020 for Mindtree was the supported by state-of-the-art digital infrastructure. key driver for the vision behind Mindtree Kalinga as we sketched it out at the drawing board. The ideology of Mindtree places the ultimate ownership for social responsibility at the level of the Operational since March 2015, Mindtree Kalinga individual, from entry level to the top. As an has nurtured and produced more than 1,400 young organization, we take up the responsibility of Mindtree Minds by the end of FY 2015-16. We inﬂuencing the mindset of our people, creating a built Mindtree Kalinga to create complete software continual learning environment for them to soak in, professionals out of campus-fresh entrants and gift oﬀering support systems, and setting an example them to Mindtree, to the industry and to the society. through role models. Mindtree Kalinga illustrates this approach and aims to produce professionals who will The products of this endeavor are engineers, trigger and inspire sustainable changes in all the complete with not only advanced engineering skills spheres of their lives, creating multiple impacts. but also with a business and a social mindset. The 32 Learning: “always beta” and socially sensitive The ‘how’ of learning is as important as the ‘what’ of The learning outcomes are arrayed through the prism learning. No teachers and no permanent faculty can of not one but three lenses: creating an engineering be seen at Mindtree Kalinga, since this endeavor is mindset, a business mindset and a social mindset. not about teaching but about enabling young minds Sustainability is always a part of the challenges that to learn. We expect our Campus Minds to learn by Campus Minds need to address. As a result, during their ‘doing’ rather than by ‘knowing’. induction our Campus Minds have produced innovative apps for improving our waste management and energy management. We are already using a few of these apps at the organizational level and scaling others. Curiosity about how things work, courage to make mistakes and responsibility for actions are the core values that pivot around all things involved in learning – content, curriculum, pedagogy and infrastructure. Responsibility and human sensitivities are ingrained at the individual level, ﬁrst by setting an example at The status is set at ‘always beta’, implying constant senior levels to inspire emulation, and second, by room for improvisation. To keep our products and encouraging the young people to participate in processes in this status requires tremendous courage several good deeds. and conviction. We want our young minds to learn this attitude right from here and carry it into their future. Good deeds are a part of the learning calendar at Mindtree Kalinga. With 16 initiatives to choose from, Technical leads on sabbaticals and senior leaders our young people commit to volunteering in various expose the young minds to case studies and real-life activities: supporting the housekeeping staﬀ with projects, challenging them to learn and create real daily chores such as cooking and cleaning, painting outcomes. For instance, during java and .NET learning the walls, clearing litter oﬀ the premises, connecting programs, they work on real applications such as with poor school children and fulﬁlling some of their cafeteria management system and building needs and wishes through donations, participating in management system. blood donation campaigns and more. 33 The layout of the campus The layout we have designed for our Mindtree Kalinga campus reﬂects how we contextualize learning and growth in the larger journey of the lives and evolution of our young people. The sprawling campus spreads over 20 acres within planned for. These arteries and the collaboration the Chandaka Special Economic Zone (SEZ) park in spaces dotted around them keep life and innovation Bhubaneswar. The main pathway, which runs East to throbbing at Mindtree Kalinga. West from the rising sun behind the mountains to the setting sun in the forests, is referred to as The The best of Nalanda and Harvard inspire us. We call Path of Life. We see the software blocks, the piazza the break-out areas in the learning center Nalanda . and the park that interlock with them as parts of The stay areas are modeled on Harvard’s G8 formats, the Social Circle . where groups of eight stay in four bedrooms and share a common study area with 24/7 connectivity Courtyards in the areas where people stay are and infrastructure for self-learning, peer-to-peer stitched together by Streets of Friendship , creating learning and collaboration. Each block is provisioned what we call a “convivial society”. They often morph for hosting people with disabilities. into Streets of Ideas , exactly as we hoped and 34 Cutting-edge infrastructure for learning Digital invasion of the learning space is inevitable in Digital technology enabled by IT infrastructure is an the future. The digital infrastructure of our learning all-pervasive presence at Mindtree Kalinga – not only center has been planned and designed with this in the training rooms but in all other spaces such as realization. It is executed with the simple and yet cafeteria, amphitheater, town hall sessions and powerful objective of enhancing the overall learning several other zones. experience to build curiosity, courage and responsibility in Kalinga Mindtree Minds. The solutions implemented in the Social Center (residential campus) with a ﬂatscreen HD display, High speed internet connection over Wi-Fi and Video collaboration enable G8’s (group of eight Campus Minds) to connect to any expert of Mindtree across globe when in need. The digital infrastructure has capability to support G8 teams to be part of the live projects across the globe. The power of digital technology to integrate itself into diﬀerent aspects of life and learning has been explored to the hilt here, and is evolving further. The digital infrastructure at Kalinga actively enables the cohesive integration of the technological, physical, intellectual and emotional facets of the learning experience, designed to create ‘Engineers for Tomorrow’. The digital infrastructure of Mindtree Kalinga is considered the ﬁrst of its kind in the APAC region. More than 40% of classrooms are ﬁtted with high deﬁnition video-conferencing facilities with ceiling-suspended microphones to allow an expert from anywhere in the world to educate the Mindtree Minds. People can seamlessly interact across rooms and across locations in real time. To make the experience “real”, mobile ceiling microphones pick up voice from people sitting in ﬂexible furniture that can be arranged to suit the need. 35 Infusing art We call our software center, our “Temple of Work”. We are reverential towards our work, and our young Mindtree Minds quickly absorb this attitude. Elements of the structure are inspired by the architecture of the traditional temples of Odisha. The three palm trees in the center of the building, which were the only trees available at site when it was handed over to us, are named after the local deities of the region, driving home the notion that Nature is sacred. The main entrance welcomes the visitor with an enormous design of the sun-mural art on the ground, made of multi-colored, broken pieces of tile. A group of poor, leprosy-cured artisans in the region toiled in the hot sun to put the pieces together. As a mark of respect to the artisans, our people started walking around that part of the ground rather than stepping over it. The campus records and displays the names of individual workers who are behind the work as a tribute to their artistry. 36 Preserving Mother Nature Mindtree Kalinga is built with a deep respect for the planet, integrating sustainability values and practices right from the design stage. Built to be water-neutral, the location employs Our reverence for Life and Nature is evident is the several mechanisms such as rainwater harvesting way we name things here: The training rooms are systems and rain pits for recharging the ground water named after the local trees – Amla, Bahada, Chandan, tables. Our integrated water management system at Dimri. And the three palm trees preserved at the Mindtree Kalinga also includes state-of-the-art water center of the location are named after the local trinity treatment plants and a sewage treatment plant. of deities – Lord Jagannath, Balabhadra and Subhadra. Treated eﬄuents are being recycled to meet the These are Mindtree’s ways of acknowledging the water requirements of our gardens. interconnectedness between work, nature and a higher purpose. The building is going to be LEED Platinum rated. The location is a zero-wet waste zone. The entire back-end infrastructure is optimized for energy eﬃciency. The tree cover provides natural protection from the sweltering heat of the region. The passive cooling method employed provides comfort cooling in the transit accommodation blocks. Solar power heats up the water. The bio-rich gardens full of the local fauna and ﬂora are pesticide-free. The entire campus is a no-smoking zone. 37 The eternal pond Determined to be self-suﬃcient in water in this dry and hot, water-scarce area, we decided to construct an artiﬁcial lake to store natural water for using in the dry months. We dug up the earth, coated the bed for anti-percolation, and created capacity for a water inventory for our total requirement across ten months of the year. Built to quench our needs without depending on external resources, our “eternal pond”, which is undergoing a few improvisations now, will be a success story in the coming year. Magic bricks The story of software makers learning brick-making is a motivational one for us, for it reminds us and proves to us how the journeys of growth, learning and deep caring for Nature can be simultaneous ones. We encourage our new entrants fresh or lateral, our customers new and old, and our dear guests to make a visit to the brick factory, which we call the “Brick Temple”, and witness the integration at work. Excavation of the earth for the construction of the lake and the leveling of the slopes of the campus resulted in huge mounds of mud. Because our values don’t permit us to waste the precious earth, we decided to make bricks out of it and use them in the construction of our walls. We learned brick-making, got machinery to the location, made highly strong and stabilized bricks right on the site and used all of them in our buildings. One million bricks made on-site, now stand as strong and natural walls covering 2,72,000 square feet of area. 38 Multiple bottom lines of sustainability Thriving workplace Serving the society Protecting the environment Adding economic value Thriving workplace View on workplace sustainability The spirit of learning is crucial to a sustainable organization. To be creators of relevant value in this knowledge-driven industry, our people need continual learning. That’s why our organization constantly looks for new ways to create a learning environment”. At Mindtree, we are creating a workplace where learning takes place dynamically, regardless of location or time. Our serious journey into virtual modes of learning is now moving to bite-sized learning on our mobile ShotClasses platform. The new portal we are developing for learning, combined with our state-of-the-art digital infrastructure at the Learning Center at N.S. Parthasarathy Mindtree Kalinga, forms a robust architecture capable of Executive Director, President and COO touching Mindtree Minds across distance and time. We want to push the overall gender ratio at our workplace up Constantly evolving from the current level and improve it across the lifecycle of a through learning woman’s career. We are now pursuing level-speciﬁc targets to improve gender diversity, especially at mid-levels, along with interconnected measures in career planning, coaching, mentoring and leadership development for women. This year, we launched an exclusive program to help women reach senior leadership positions. We are committed to sustainability reporting based on the global framework of GRI-G4 and the national framework of NVG. The material issues we identiﬁed for workplace sustainability – retention, transparency, people engagement, talent acquisition, talent development and diversity – are success drivers for our workplace. We address these drivers at all levels – policy, strategy, systems, monitoring and communication. We assign each material issue to a functional 44 head, set goals and targets for each issue, and provide for creating better mechanisms for real-time data adequate latitude for process innovation. monitoring, periodic collation and analytics for intervention cues. To strengthen our reporting capability, we are improving reporting processes. We see opportunity Welcome to possible. 45 Workplace sustainability Mindtree strives to create an environment around its people to help them grow a technically competent, socially sensitive and environmentally responsible mindset. Mindtree refers to its Human Relations function as In our workplace, a constantly evolving set of people “People Function”, and its people as “Mindtree Minds”. increasingly involve themselves in social and green Our work culture is carefully cultivated to reﬂect our projects, bringing in green ideas and volunteering. core values: Collaborative Spirit, Unrelenting Our organization is a nurturing organization that Dedication and Expert Thinking. enables and grooms the responsibility streak both at individual and team levels. The workplace is one of the key pillars of our sustainability framework. It is supported by our FY 2015-16 has been a year of focusing on the policies of non-discrimination and equal opportunity material issues for our workplace and progressing on of employment. Our Environmental Health and Safety the performance of each issue. (EHS) Policy and OHSAS1800: 2007 (Occupational Health and Safety Advisory Services) certiﬁcation Our learning programs have evolved along with the across locations help keep the workplace safe and learning needs of the organization. New initiatives healthy. A host of people engagement platforms have been launched and existing programs channel the views and voices of our people across restructured to make them more relevant to our diﬀerent levels. Our diversity charter EDGES minds. (Ethnicity, Disability, Gender and Sexual Orientation) drives our inclusion endeavors. 46 Developing talent Our programs are a blend of classroom and virtual sessions allowing for accessibility across locations Technology, management, while maintaining personal touch points. The blend of teaming and relationships, virtual to classroom programs has increased to 60% innovation and a need for this year, up from 40% last year. balance are the ﬁve learning Our heavy investments in in-house curated content disciplines governing our and video conferencing infrastructure which connects learning mandate. our people from across locations around the globe keep our learning in a dynamic, real time mode. Dynamic learning Going beyond ‘knowing’ and focusing on learning by On the verge of a massive learning program to upskill ‘doing’ and ‘applying’, ours is an ever-evolving mode our people in an eﬀective manner, we are introducing of learning. Our learning and organizational app-based ShotClasses. The self-paced, virtual and development initiatives cater to all levels of the bite-sized learning mode helps learners learn anytime, organization from campus hires to leadership. anywhere, in compact slots of time of their choice. The connecting technologies will further enable Freshers are being groomed into our work and culture peer-to-peer collaborations and expert guidance. in our new learning center at Bhubaneswar. While technology forms a large part of our training initiatives, The New Lead Program for mid-managers has an equal emphasis is given on communication, progressed on the motto of “concepts to context”, management, business and leadership skills to ensure where learning partners bring in curriculum and the holistic development of all our minds. Mindtree leaders conduct case study-based sharings. We also map the learning goals on our performance Leadership development forms a crucial part of our management system, not for rating performance but talent development endeavor and spreads across as an indicator of training eﬀectiveness. In FY 2015-16, levels. we stabilized and reﬁned our Hi-Fi manager program. 47 Our knowledge communities are an active element in We have designed our Leadership Homing Program to disseminating knowledge, not only with internal subject institutionalize sustaining engagements with leaders matter experts but often reaching out and involving (new leaders and existing leaders). Our leaders go our partners and clients. Osmosis, the traditional through regular annual performance feedback, knowledge fest at Mindtree, has shifted from being an 360-degree assessments, leadership assessments, annual event to multiple, focused events through the talent reviews, customer experience feedback and year. The intent is to celebrate the atmosphere of people experience survey feedback. learning and sharing throughout the year. Mindtree is placed among the Learn to lead top ten BEST Award Winners in Mindtree Leadership Model is the foundation of our leadership journey. Based on a set of agility factors, 2015 by the Association for competence factors and the imperative of Talent Development for its self-awareness, the model strives to create a common most innovative talent leadership signature. development initiative. Our leadership development programs are designed The program recognizes to be an experiential, progressive and immersive organizations that demonstrate journey that prepares people well in advance for the enterprise-wide success transitioning phases of leaders. Our leader-hiring and on-boarding endeavors insist on the cultural through employee learning integration of new leaders. and talent development. 48 Attracting talent Our talent acquisition strategies are not only designed for attracting the right talent for the organization but also to meet our speciﬁc thrusts on diversity. Attracting talent plays a signiﬁcant role in workplace bringing back our female talent. Twenty-six percent of sustainability. Our All India Talent Partner Summit in our rejoinees are women. We also conducted a December 2015 went a long way in forging our by-invite talent acquisition event to get women on partnerships and connecting our partners with our break into the Mindtree world. vision, agenda and leadership. Our talent acquisition strategies play a crucial role in ensuring diversity and The payout under our employee referral program inclusion in a way that enriches organizational gives an additional 50% referral bonus to referrers of performance. successful women joinees. We also announced increased vendor fees for women talent acquisition. FY 2015-16 saw us focusing on a major drive for We are targeting 32% women talent by 2017 and rehiring former Mindtree Minds through 'alumni 35% by 2018. Level-speciﬁc targets will ensure the reconnect program'. It resulted in the homecoming of increase is reﬂected across levels. 70 former Mindtree Minds. Our speciﬁc initiative for rehiring former Lady Minds has been successful in 49 Diverse and inclusive Being inclusive since inception, we stay committed to our diversity vision. Gender diversity, especially at mid-rungs, is of high signiﬁcance to us. We have an exclusive charter, EDGES, to drive our disabilities have been a part of our organization diversity and inclusion programs. People with since inception. Our Charter: EDGES Ethnicity / People with Sexual Nationality Disabilities Gender Orientation Gender Women form 28% of our talent pool. We conducted a developing women talent upwards, with exclusive benchmarking study on gender diversity last year and leadership programs, with mentoring and coaching used the ﬁndings to help us shape speciﬁc components built in. We aim at growing the interventions and programs. percentage of women in senior leadership from the current 6% to 10%. One part of the challenge is to give a push from talent acquisition and another is to strengthen the growth of As a part of the plan, we launched Exuberance, a women across their work lifecycle. We address both leadership journey for women, towards the end of aspects to improve our diversity performance. the year. This exclusive program for women leaders Special emphasis is placed on the mid-rungs for covers our India and US locations. 50 People with disabilities Mindtree included people with disabilities in its fold capabilities and contributions, and oﬀers physical, right from the time of its inception. Last year, we took technical and social infrastructure conducive to in three more people with disabilities, taking the their growth. total to 49. In 2015-16, we initiated discussions with talent Mindtree has a policy of reasonable accommodation, partners to deﬁne the necessary process for formal which helps to better align people with disabilities tie-ups with agencies that train people with with organizational needs and roles. Mindtree has a disabilities and to plan relevant role-matching culture of valuing people with disabilities for their recruitments with them. Retaining talent Mindtree’s approach to retention looks at its linkages with reducing attrition, people participation, people engagement, communication, rewards and recognition. Our focused approach for diﬀerent segments has been eﬀective in reducing attrition. Ensuring retention is a key focus for us. Keeping realigning people with projects, plugging early exits, attrition levels at reasonable levels is crucial for our the right rewards and 12 speciﬁc engagement success, and we have in place, a host of initiatives to initiatives for people-connect. In fact, over 70 strengthen retention and address the risks of attrition. ex-Mindtree Minds rejoined us this year. The focused approach we followed for diﬀerent segments we identiﬁed, brought down our voluntary attrition from slightly over 18% in 2014-15 to around 16% in 2015-16. Our retention-focused mechanisms, such as comprehensive reviews to identify critical issues and corrections and involving people from all levels in our People Advisory Council, have been eﬀective, along with our Retention Council’s inﬂuence and action. Actions that have helped achieve retention include 51 Being transparent To build a higher participation, we expanded the People Advisory Council. Instead of comprising only Transparency at Mindtree senior Mindtree Minds, this council now consists of includes constant improvement representatives from the campus batches as well. This in communication and bringing is a forum where a cross-section of Mindtree Minds come together to discuss, debate and review policies in more of people participation. which impact all Mindtree Minds. Communication is a tool that enables transparency. We also introduced topic-speciﬁc workshops and We addressed the need to improve communication in group meetings. Examples of such workshops include multiple ways during the year across the areas of sessions for representatives from the delivery compensation, policies and rewards. We brought in a leadership to participate in the process of career higher focus on ensuring workshops or group grade-mapping for compensation benchmarking and meetings where speciﬁc issues were addressed. This read-out sessions for sales and delivery leadership brings in higher level of transparency into the design teams to explain variable computations and so on. of policies and their implementation. These sessions have received positive feedback. Engaging our people Our engagement approach focuses on interlinked systems of performance management, comprehensive reviews, 360-degree feedback, engagement platforms, hard and soft targets across levels, and action insisting on targets. Performance management process is a crucial topic increasingly empowering our managers with better of conversation in the industry today. Our Pillars control of reviews, compensation planning and program picks up high performers and places them on budgeting. a fast track for learning and growth. We have been 52 We have also started on an exercise to review the Our analysis further identiﬁed and determined a few performance management process. This is being done steps for increased eﬀectiveness, which will be rolled by partnering with an external consultancy. Intensive out next year. focus group discussions have been conducted with a cross-section of Mindtree Minds to take in their views Voice of our People (I Belong): In our endeavor to and incorporate the feedback into the design of the sustain Mindtree as a great place to work, we keenly new process. heard our people's voices through MiVoice, our engagement platform, and shaped our learning into Our rewards and recognition program “Spot on” four speciﬁc initiatives under an umbrella platform continues to be our program for promoting a culture we call “I Belong”. of appreciation, and drives performance as a culture. FY 2015-16 gave a more human touch to the rewards Each initiative involves a set of cross-functional and recognition program, since we felt a digital volunteers with diverse perspectives to provide connect was insuﬃcient for the purpose. We also innovative solutions. enhanced visibility components of the program. Career Care for Fellow Bottom-up Visibility and learning Mindtree Minds communication and recognition aims to transform the will explore and deﬁne will ensure the will reﬁne and evolve career and learning items that spell “care”, organization lends an the existing initiatives framework in Mindtree and take these into ear to each Mindtree to a new level ensuring and make it policy and action. Work Mind through at least that we recognize world-class, global, of this nature seeks one channel of access excellence and eﬀort digitally-enabled and views from diverse and thus enable every and improve the Gen-Y friendly. This segments, touches voice to be heard. employee experience will result in an upon unusual aspects, of reward, recognition increase in learning, and deals with several and visibility. growth, engagement intangible and subtle and satisfaction facets of 'care'. amongst Mindtree Minds. 53 A set of standard beneﬁts is oﬀered to all our During the year, 511 people across Mindtree locations full-time employees, with minor variations across in India participated in work life seminars, 1,522 geographies: term and medical insurance, accident people beneﬁted from counseling sessions and 848 insurance, disability support facility, parental leave, people took up assessments while the mailers and retirement provision, wellness program, counseling, the resources on the portal reached out to all special needs leave, reduced working hours and Mindtree Minds across locations. sabbatical. Additionally, in the last two years, our people have All our locations are OHSAS certiﬁed. Our Healthy been trying to develop healthy habits and lifestyles, Mind Healthy Body program, supported by our health thanks to the health portal, www.zoojoo.be. The portal program, addresses our people’s health and platform has been highly eﬀective in motivating our well-being at various levels. An ISO 9001: 2008 people to take on challenges, inspire each other. certiﬁed external partner supports our endeavor by Our people took 80,500 challenges, engaging in bringing in structured, module-based counseling, 70,000 social interactions during the year; we see the workshops, mailer campaigns, mobile app, online number of challenges taken up and the number of library, self-assessments and more. peer-to-peer interactions growing on a monthly basis. Our talent pool Categorization 2015-16 2014-15 2013-14 Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Associates (T4-C4) 9,113 4,162 13,275 8,105 3,561 11,666 5,789 2,836 8,625 Middle Management (C5-C7) 2,415 368 2,783 2,014 286 2,300 3,493 748 4,241 Senior Management (C8-C9) 138 10 148 127 9 136 37 1 38 Top Management (C10-C12) 15 2 17 16 1 17 21 1 22 Subsidiary Employees 52 22 74 Permanent 11,733 4,564 16,297 10,262 3,857 14,119 9,340 3,586 12,926 Contract 869 345 1,214 869 317 1,186 726 223 949 Total no. of Employees in FTEs 11,733 4,564 16,297 10,262 3,857 14,119 9,340 3,586 12,926 Full Time Employees (Headcount) 11,733 4,564 16,297 10,262 3,857 14,119 9,340 3,586 12,926 Part Time Employees (Headcount) 869 345 1,214 869 317 1,186 0 0 0 India 9,437 4,161 13,598 8,571 3,629 12,200 7,866 3,400 11,266 UK 226 50 276 174 33 207 168 25 193 US 1,637 296 1,933 1,185 157 1,342 955 126 1,081 Others 433 57 490 332 38 370 351 35 386 <30 5,570 3,018 8,588 5,128 2,640 7,768 4,889 2,552 7,441 30-50 6,024 1,509 7,533 5,051 1,206 6,257 4,380 1,022 5,402 >50 139 37 176 83 11 94 71 12 83 54 New hires: 5,784 people joined us in 2015-16 Total Number of New Employee Hires by Category, Region, Age and Gender Categorization 2015-16 2014-15 2013-14 Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Associates (T4-C4) 3,482 1,613 5,095 3,009 1,170 4,179 1,880 739 2,619 Middle Management (C5-C7) 498 81 579 345 39 384 560 106 666 Senior Management (C8-C9) 19 2 21 24 3 27 10 0 10 Top Management (C10-C12) 1 1 2 1 0 1 2 0 2 Subsidiary Employees 59 28 87 India 3,546 1,580 5,126 3,092 1,159 4,251 2,265 791 3,056 UK 19 2 21 11 0 11 8 3 11 US 428 126 554 226 44 270 139 44 183 Others 66 17 83 50 9 59 40 7 47 <30 2,509 1,322 3,831 2,143 949 3,092 1,638 681 2,319 30-50 1,472 374 1,846 1,200 259 1,459 792 157 949 >50 78 29 107 36 4 40 22 7 29 Total 4,059 1,725 5,784 3,379 1,212 4,591 2,452 845 3,297 Attrition among new hires and overall attrition Total Number of New Employee Hires leaving the organization by Category, Region, Age and Gender Categorization 2015-16 2014-15 2013-14 Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Associates (T4-C4) 291 106 397 170 45 215 233 124 357 Middle Management (C5-C7) 38 8 46 129 28 157 38 9 47 Senior Management (C8-C9) 1 1 14 2 16 0 0 0 Top Management (C10-C12) 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Subsidiary Employees 7 6 13 India 287 108 395 272 67 339 250 124 374 UK 1 1 2 0 2 0 1 1 US 47 12 59 34 6 40 20 8 28 Others 2 2 5 2 7 1 0 1 <30 189 77 266 186 54 240 201 115 316 30-50 142 39 181 121 20 141 68 16 84 >50 6 4 10 6 1 7 2 2 4 Total 337 120 457 313 75 388 271 133 404 55 Total Employee Attrition by Category, Region, Age and Gender Categorization 2015-16 2014-15 2013-14 Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Associates (T4-C4) 2,205 957 3,162 2,072 877 2,949 1,213 597 1,810 Middle Management (C5-C7) 348 54 402 368 63 431 440 103 543 Senior Management (C8-C9) 22 2 24 26 0 26 9 1 10 Top Management (C10-C12) 4 4 7 0 7 3 0 3 Subsidiary Employees 7 6 13 India 2,249 976 3,225 2,189 878 3,067 6,134 671 6,805 UK 16 1 17 19 5 24 10 3 13 US 267 39 306 221 51 272 130 27 157 Others 54 3 57 44 6 50 27 0 27 <30 1,385 654 2,039 1,267 592 1,859 929 479 1,408 30-50 1,170 359 1,529 1,179 343 1,522 709 218 927 >50 31 6 37 27 5 32 27 4 31 Total 2,586 1,019 3,605 2,473 940 3,413 1,665 701 2,366 Majority of senior Satisfactory ratios on entry level: local minimum wages management hired locally 2015-16 India (INR) UK (GBP) US (USD) 2015-16 Region (Per day) Local Total % of Male Female Male Female Male Female Hires Number Locals India 8 8 100% Entry level wage 800.0 800.0 122.7 122.7 240.0 240.0 UK & Europe 3 4 75% US 11 11 100% Local minimum wage 429 429 119.6 119.6 213.1 213.1 Others 0 0 Ratio 1.86 1.86 1.03 1.03 1.13 1.13 Total 22 23 96% Excellent return-to-work rates after maternity/paternity leave; Good retention rate after 12 months. 2015-16 No. of employees entitled No. of No. of No. of Return to Retention Rate to parental leave employees employees who employees who work rate that took returned to returned to parental leave work after work after leave ended leave ended and were still employed after 12 months Maternity All full-time 358 356 322 99% 90% Leave women employees Paternity Mindtree Minds who 882 881 803 100% 91% Leave become fathers with a childbirth or in cases where his wife undergoes pre-mature termination of pregnancy, are entitled for the paternity leave 56 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration by category and gender As on 31 Mar 2016: Ratio of Basic Salary and Remuneration of Women to Men India (in INR) UK (in GBP) US (in USD) Others (In USD) Employee Category Male Female Ratio Male Female Ratio Male Female Ratio Male Female Ratio Basic Salary Associates 150219.98 133497.28 0.89 38822.98 37131.81 0.96 61004.87 62274.82 1.02 48134.41 40150.86 0.83 Middle Management 477433.45 414928.07 0.87 56862.31 55956.50 0.98 87272.99 90166.39 1.03 73761.26 59991.65 0.81 Senior Management 1165426.96 1115718.00 0.96 106227.50 106227.50 1.00 154817.60 175723.75 1.14 152935.44 152935.44 1.00 Top Management 2026198.00 2080512.00 1.03 230000.00 230000.00 1.00 252255.80 252255.80 1.00 Remuneration Associates 672952.97 585818.39 0.87 41787.79 39916.77 0.96 69715.99 70856.76 1.02 51466.36 42996.68 0.84 Middle Management 1938252.72 1689892.03 0.87 62846.27 61286.83 0.98 104747.49 106030.88 1.01 81710.49 65990.84 0.81 Senior Management 4686219.77 4462859.83 0.95 137848.50 137848.50 1.00 209640.14 231130.50 1.10 209504.93 209504.93 1.00 Top Management 9806497.25 10402561.00 1.06 330000.00 330000.00 1.00 401646.80 401646.80 1.00 Our average training hours per head moved up from 37 hours last year to near 71 hours in 2015-16 2015-16 Training Data Category/Level/ Total No. of Employees per Category No. of Hours of Training per Category Average hours of training per year per employee Grade of Employees# Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Associates 9,113 4,162 13,275.00 747,037.00 445,961.00 1,192,998.00 81.97 107.15 89.87 Middle Management 2,415 368 2,783.00 36,476.00 6,303.00 42,779.00 15.10 17.13 15.37 Senior Management 138 10 148.00 83.00 59.00 142.00 0.60 5.90 0.96 Top Management 15 2 17.00 Subcontractors 869 345 1,214.00 484.00 203.00 687.00 0.56 0.59 0.57 Total 12,550 4,887 17,437 784,080 452,526 1,236,606 62.48 92.60 70.92 57 * The data does not include top management training & development since our leadership journeys do not ﬁt into hourly measurements. 92% of our eligible employees received talent review in the year. Talent Review Data for the year 2015-16 Male Female Total Total Number of Employees 205 34 239 Total Number of Eligible Employees 175 8 183 Total Number of Employees Participating 161 8 169 in Review Discussions (ongoing) Percentage 92.0% 100.0% 92.3% Incidence and rate of injury during 2015-16 Parameter Overall By Gender By Region Other Male Female MTW MTE UK location Total no. of injury incidents including: * Injuries sustained at the workplace * Injuries sustained during travel, 1689 993 696 1322 367 commuting etc. * Occupational disease incidents like ergonomic injuries, both major and minor like RSI, Stress, etc. No. of days lost due to injuries* 180 107 73 103 77 Total No. of person hours worked 30712176 22191840 8520336 26768016 2587464 468072 924264 Total no. of employees 12926 9340 3586 11266 1089 197 389 Incident rate per 100 employees = No. of incidents X 100 / 10.22744855 10.63169165 19.40881205 11.73442216 33.70064 Total no. of employees Frequency rate = No. of incidents X 100000 / 5.499447516 4.474617697 8.168691939 4.938729863 14.18377 Total person hours worked Severity rate = Total no. of lost days / 0.0772254 0.11 0.104885057 0.077912254 0.209809 Total no. of incidents 58 Serving the society View on serving the society Mindtree’s vision has always included social responsibility. It is important to make societies ﬂourish, and CSR makes that possible. The intent of CSR at Mindtree is non strategic delinked from business strategy or self-beneﬁts. The Mindtree Foundation has been serving a set of carefully chosen causes in deep and impactful ways with the help of a valuable network of NGO partners. Having made considerable strides in the area of education, we have strengthened our endeavors in skill development and started consolidating our support for people with disabilities. Abraham Moses We believe developing skills among rural Indian youth is General Manager crucial to strengthening Government of India's agenda for Head of Mindtree Foundation 'skilling India'. Our way of contributing to this grand vision for nation building is two-pronged: to take skill development right to the heart of rural India to the level of villages, and bring in Consolidating our CSR journey people with disabilities into the fold of skilled population. at the local (taluk) level While urban areas catch much attention of skill development initiatives, there is a gap in rural areas which needs to be addressed. Our project Yuva Jyoti brings skill development training facilities right to the center of a village in Karnataka and creates sustainable livelihood opportunities for the poor, rural youth. We believe that skilling young people with disabilities brings untapped potential into nation-building. Being committed to an inclusive vision, we have embraced this endeavor which is full of challenges. Gram Tarang, our program in Odisha, trains young, tribal people with disabilities, empowering them with a capacity for sustainable livelihoods. In our commitment to mainstreaming people with disabilities, we focus our eﬀorts at the taluk level. In the past two years, 62 we extended our capabilities and oﬀered end-to-end Foundation continues to leverage the power of support for people with disability in one taluk in volunteering to create social impacts in several ways. Karnataka. The long-term direction for CSR at Mindtree is set The Mindtree Foundation's approach of deep at the board level, and we are initiating a formal involvement at the ﬁeld level of projects is board-level engagement with our NGO partners. complemented by further strengthening of our process and impact monitoring systems. Welcome to possible. Mindtree continues to encourage social responsibility initiatives at the individual level. The Mindtree 63 Serving the society Serving the society has been an integral part of Mindtree’s vision from our inception. The organization was conceived as a Mindtree’s CSR manifests itself in three distinct ways: knowledge-enabled, global software solutions through its direct social projects, through the enterprise with social sensitivities. We pursued the Mindtree Foundation and through individual social purpose of “creating societies that ﬂourish as a part initiatives nurtured by the organization. (Our last two of our vision. Hence, CSR has been a natural expression sustainability reports went into detail on these modes.) of this DNA. Our CSR vision is inclusive in nature and committed to the socio-economic issues of Our CSR policy, a board-level committee on CSR, a disabilities, poverty, lack of livelihood and education. CSR Steering Committee, an exclusive charter on CSR and the dynamic team of the Mindtree Foundation Mindtree approaches CSR with an ideology de-linked come together to manifest our CSR vision through from ﬁnancial fortunes, strategy or regulation. various initiatives that the CSR charter deﬁnes. Historically, our contributions have been ahead of regulation. We constantly seek to support CSR ideas Mindtree’s CSR primarily focuses on programs that: and projects in ways that resonate with our vision • Beneﬁt the diﬀerently-abled; and values. • Promote education; and • Create sustainable livelihood opportunities. Refer to: http://www.mindtree.com/corporate-socialresponsibility-policy for details about our CSR policy. 64 CSR in 2015-16 In 2015-16, Mindtree saw its total CSR spend of lady Mindtree Minds and friends and relatives of INR 93,737,300 well-spent on projects in sync with Mindtree Minds register for Pinkathon, India’s biggest its vision. women’s run. The Mindtree Foundation ran a set of 14 CSR projects Floods at Chennai in the year gone by spurred the across ﬁve states in India, covering the focus areas of Mindtree Foundation and the organization as a whole the CSR charter. into immediate action, because ensuring safety, relocation, hospitality and ﬁnancial aid for the While I Got Garbage continued to create enhanced aﬀected Mindtree Minds needed to take place with socio-environmental impacts through its no loss of time. INR 60 lakhs and a loan of INR 18 technology-based platform, a host of individual crores supported the initiative. volunteers came together in diﬀerent ways to take up numerous socio-environmental initiatives. In 2015-16, we took our CSR steps beyond our Indian operations by partnering with our customer, Home Apart from volunteer activities led by Mindtree Depot, to sponsor an American veteran event. We also Foundation such as blood donation, stem cell contributed to a children’s charity organization in the donations, gifting and so on which are now regular UK, which cares for children with disabilities. features of volunteering, FY 2015-16 saw over 1,300 Our CSR Charter To provide relief of To promote education To provide relief poverty by way of to underprivileged of distress caused assistance to food, shelter children with a special emphasis by calamities of nature. and clothing. on people with disability. To own, establish, or provide or fund for (directly or indirectly) medical care and medical care facilities, research centers, diagnostic centers, blood bank service centers, immunization centers, health centers, rehabilitation centers, clinics, polyclinics, laboratories and to apply or provide all types of medical or healthcare services or to provide aid to poor patients, and to or provide or fund for (directly or indirectly) the discovery and investigation of new medical management of diseases, prevention of illness, aﬄictions and research in the said ﬁeld and to acquire any or all rights, licenses or other protective devices relating to above, and to manufacture, market or grant license to manufacture or market the product discovered, developed or improved. 65 The Mindtree Foundation The Foundation continued to focus on four deﬁned areas in 2015-16: Beneﬁting the Creating sustainable Promoting Volunteering through diﬀerently-abled livelihoods education Mindtree Minds With 14 CSR projects across its four focal areas, the Seven thousand two hundred and thirty-six volunteers Mindtree Foundation spreads its action across the from Mindtree supported the Mindtree Foundation in states of Karnataka, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, various social causes, taking the total number of Odisha and Tamil Nadu with a wide network of beneﬁciaries to 35,013. Each volunteer program NGO partners. showed a marked rise in the number of our volunteers and beneﬁted more beneﬁciaries than last year. Six projects in education, four in livelihoods and four for people with disabilities are deployed through a Women form nearly one half of our beneﬁciaries, and network of our NGO partners across the ﬁve states. 3% of our beneﬁciaries are people with disabilities. The Mindtree Foundation spent INR 26,271,304 on Education and support for people with disabilities CSR projects in 2015-16, beneﬁting 21,769 formed the largest projects of impact for the beneﬁciaries. Mindtree Foundation in 2015-16. Mindtree Foundation Mindtree Foundation spend overall fund Spent on CSR projects 39,121,305 INR 44,544,439 26,271,304 Fund unspent Mindtree Foundation Avg. cost per beneﬁciary 5,423,134 Budget Planned for 2015-16 17,373 Number of NGOs: 13 CSR beneﬁciaries: 21,769 Volunteers engaged: 7,236 Total beneﬁciaries: 35,013 66 2015-16 was the year when 2015-16 was a signiﬁcant year we not only kept our focus for the Mindtree Foundation in intact on our core areas but terms of internal capacity also extended our scope building for project monitoring. taluk-wide in education and support for disability. Our work has been characterized by our deep Both education and support involvement at the ﬁeld level for disabilities had taluk-wide and working along with our expansion and application in NGO partners on the grassroots. their intent: Kanakapura, Measuring the results of our Koratagere and Vijayapura in deep eﬀorts is very crucial. Karnataka, Pune in Maharashtra, Hyderabad in We have taken further steps in Telangana and Thiruvallur in improving our approaches and Tamil Nadu were chosen for methods, and at measuring and taluk-wide expansion of our monitoring the progress and projects. outcomes of our projects. As a result, our reporting mechanisms are getting sharper, which helps us roadmap further action more eﬃciently. 67 A few highlights of our work Education The range of our project models for education Identiﬁcation of Provide Essentials Selection Baseline Criteria Rural Govt. Schools (Study Materials, Assessment and Children Teachers) Conduct Mid-Line Reviews and take Corrective Measures Measure the Progress Educational Conduct End-Line in the capabilities of Interventions (Special Assessments children Coaching, Counseling) Sikshana Foundation Fifteen thousand two hundred forty-one children from 161 rural schools throughout the Kanakapura taluk are supported for education from ﬁrst to tenth standard, including those subsequently supported for medical education. • Our partners Sikshana Foundation accomplish this task. • Support with writing material, spot prizes and counseling sessions keeps the children motivated. Para-teachers and train-the-teacher programs further enhance the capacity. Agastya Foundation EdZilla Three thousand eight hundred ninety four children The program at Kanakapura aims at enhancing the from 43 government schools in Pune were exposed to quality of education at Government primary schools 36,000 hours of science education through the • Children from 5th, 6th and 7th standard from 13 Agastya Foundation. schools are given access to software-based • The vision of the Lab on Bike project is to stimulate learning, with English and Maths curricula placed on creative thinking and curiosity for solution-seeking android tablets. among school children and teachers. • The program has beneﬁted 463 children so far and continues to expand. 68 Udaan • The program has the huge challenge of keeping Under Udaan, our joint endeavor with Narayana parents motivated and committed throughout the Hrudayalaya, 36 children from 34 government long journey of a medical education. schools in Kanakapura Taluk are supported towards a • Counseling and mentoring for the parents are a part medical education beginning at the high school level. of the project. • The program includes special coaching classes • The Mindtree Foundation is glad to observe gradual strengthening maths, science and English improvement in the students’ studies, attitude and proﬁciencies, medical check-ups and visits to behavior, and hopes they will turn into competent Narayana Hrudayalaya for motivation. medical professionals in the future. Mindtree Innovation and Learning Center Two hundred eighty-six engineers from a rural college in Nallanur, Tamil Nadu, trained with Radix Learning to bridge the gap with IT-industry-ready skills, through the Mindtree Innovation Center. Beneﬁt the diﬀerently-abled The range of our project models for the diﬀerently-abled Early Identiﬁcation Disability Early Interventions Regular Interventions (New-Born Babies) Assessments (Counseling, Handling) (Physiotherapies) Children with Mobility / Assistive Home-based Disabilities Devices Interventions Corrective Surgeries Create Sustainable Awareness, Training, Livelihood Access to Schools 69 Sanchalana Bal Roshni Two hundred and one rural children with disabilities Sixty underprivileged children were given educational from the entire Vijayapura Taluk are assessed for fees, and nine children received assistive devices and disabilities and supported with mobility aids, therapies through Karnataka State Council for Child corrective surgeries and physiotherapy through the Welfare (KSCCW) in Bangalore. Association for People with Disability (APD). • One hundred and thirty-nine of the children had Gram Tarang locomotor disabilities and 13 had multiple The Mindtree Foundation aims at training 1,000 disabilities. There were 45 with cerebral palsy and unemployed rural youth with disabilities to render 4 with other disabilities. them employable in Odisha. • Mobility aids were provided for 91 children, and • Gram Tarang focuses on rural, tribal youth with 78 received various therapies. disabilities, for training in sustainable livelihoods. • We are assessing more children and in the process • The youth gets trained in areas such as carpentry, of providing for interventions. quick-service restaurants, sewing machine • All the 201 children are attending school regularly. operations, communication and life skills. • Two rural government schools are chosen for • The program has made a beginning with 99 young enhancing accessibility features for the children. people this year and plans to extend its reach in the future. CBR-DID (Disability Inclusion and • The project is a challenging one since it aims to Development Project) Community transform the lives of people with multiple Based Rehabilitation program challenges at the same time: rural context, tribal SPASTN (the Spastics Society of Tamil Nadu) helped background, unemployment and disability. 486 rural children with disability from Tiruvallur Taluk through early interventions, home-based interventions, Literacy enhancement through SSK rehabilitation and non-formal education. Children with learning diﬃculties in the age group • The community-based rehabilitation center intends 6-15 years from 12 governmental schools in to improve physical well-being of children with Kanakapura, Karnataka, are beneﬁted through disabilities through early detection, early this program. intervention and post-corrective therapies. • They are supported with maths education, • The project in 2015-16 included screening of socio-emotional skills, language development 519 newborns and identifying babies at high programs and activity-based learning. risk for disabilities. • A set of 12 trained resource teachers bring in the • The 18 awareness programs saw 1,342 people needed education interventions. attending the sessions. • Remedial teaching beneﬁted 270 underprivileged • Four hundred and forty-one special educators children in the last year with them. received training on handling people with disabilities. 70 Creating sustainable livelihoods The range of our project models for sustainable livelihood Conduct Skills Training Provide Essentials Enrollment of (Coaching, Counseling. Conduct End-Line (Study Materials, Trainees Theories, Practicals, Assessments Raw Materials) Field Visits) Selection Criteria Yuva Jyoti Bal Sevika Four hundred rural school-drop-outs are trained in Twenty-nine women are enrolled in the Bal Sevika vocational skills to enhance employability in Training Institute run by the Karnataka State Council Koratagere taluk in Tumkur district of Karnataka for Child Welfare (KSCCW). This empowerment through the BEEM Rural Development Organization program trains women to be tutors for pre-school (BRDO). rural children. • The project, named Yuva Jyoti, trains them in • The projects aim to bring positive social and tailoring, computer education, data entry, electrical economic impacts into the lives of underprivileged wiring, motor rewinding, carpentry and plumbing. young women. • English language and life skills form a part of the • Training includes 100 hours of theory and practical curriculum. sessions, and preschool visits. Urban Micro Business Center Learn and Earn Centers, AMBA in Odisha One hundred and twenty one intellectually Twelve poor urban women receive skills, challenged youngsters over 16 years of age are being infrastructure to run Meals on Wheels food service trained at Hyderabad to gain conﬁdence and centers and beauty salons, and training to deliver error-free operation in their data-entry work. products and services. • Learn and Earn Centers at AMBA focus on vocational • The program is designed to bring positive social skills and quality of life for intellectually challenged and economic impacts into the lives of poor urban youngsters. youth and adult women. • Adaptive training builds operational capacities of • The program also includes training for youth in the intellectually challenged and aligns them for local market surveys relevant to low-income the professional requirements of data entry. micro-enterprises. • Collaborative associations with organizations bring in the back-end data entry work assignments for the trained youngsters. 71 Protecting the environment View on environmental sustainability Our eﬀorts go beyond environmental compliance management to embrace eﬃciencies across resources. Resource eﬃciency is a material issue for us. In FY 2015-16, we decreased our per-capita consumption of water and energy beyond our internal targets. We also set out to reduce our emissions and increase our waste management performance. We are maturing our environmental responsibility with a vision that calls for further greening of our operations, and we believe leveraging technology with robust data analytics such as energy monitoring, management systems and service management innovations will enable improved carbon Padmanabhan Kannan General Manager footprint performance. We believe, our success will depend Administration and Facilities on building awareness on environmental responsibility among all our stakeholders, and we will continue to invest on training sessions devoted to resource eﬃciencies and We have an ambitious vision data analytics, along with smart and eﬃcient equipment for renewable energy. operations and processes. Using clean energy to reduce dependencies on fossil fuels is a key environmental goal for us. We run our Bangalore location, which represents over one half of our total power usage across India, on wheeled green power. We also have an ambitious vision for renewable energy adoption, and are currently in talks with third parties to carry our vision forward. Starting in FY 2016-17, our Whiteﬁeld campus (MTE) would be meeting over 70% of its energy demand through renewable solar energy. We are also exploring possibilities of adopting renewable energy at our other locations. Collaboration with our people is a key driver and a priority for us to be successful in managing our environmental sustainability goals; we believe, only when every Mindtree 74 Mind is mindful of the larger intent of sustainability community initiative, and encourage them to turn into initiatives, we can achieve the holistic intent behind green commuters by providing a common bus system environmental sustainability. We are happy to see the at two locations, a corporate carpooling app, reserved young Campus Minds at our Learning Center in parking for eco-friendly vehicles and car poolers, and Mindtree Kalinga campus contributing innovative other such green incentives. applications for resource conservation and developing technologies for eﬃcient resource Encouraging a sustainable lifestyle is part of our task, consumption, monitoring and analytics platforms. because sustainability is a journey that involves organizational and individual commitment. We Our people have been volunteers for environmental continue to align our people with our sustainability and social causes for a long time. We solicit ideas and goals and invite them to undertake the goals in invite our Mindtree Minds to be part of larger various innovative ways. organizational sustainability initiatives through Green Welcome to possible. 75 Strengthening our responsibility: 2015-16 FY 2015-16 saw us improving our performance on all key areas: energy performance, water management and waste management. We achieved per-capita reductions across key measures despite the expanded scale of our operations and rise in our employee base. Performance at a glance 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2015-16 Achievement Category Performance Performance Performance Target against targets GHG Emissions 3.39 tons CO2e/ 3.29 tons CO2e/ 2.44 tons CO2/ 3.19 tons CO2e/ Exceeded by employee/annum employee/annum employee/annum employee/annum 23.51% Energy 200.04 (kWh/ 189.22 (kWh/ 167.6 (kWh/ 183.54 (kWh/ Exceeded by employee/month) employee/month) employee/month) employee/month) 11.43% Water 1.28 KL/ 1.03 KL/ 0.91 KL/ 1 KL/ Exceeded by employee/month employee/month employee/month employee/month 9% Waste 89.68% 80.62% 89.66% 83.04% Exceeded by (recycled) (recycled) (recycled) (recycled) 7.97% 76 Energy, water, emissions & waste management Energy: We crossed our internal targets of eﬃciency Energy consumption decreased Our energy performance has been consistently progressive with consistent dips in per-capita base of marginally overall and decreased energy consumption despite an increasing scale of by 11.43% on per-capita basis. operations and increasing base of employees. Energy Performance (Scope 2 Emissions) Energy Footprint (kWh) 26223168.21 25716515.45 1796700.96 (7%) 25716515.45 (93%) 147909.82 1796700.96 Electricity Purchased 2015-16 Electricity purchased DG Units DG Units 2015-16 2014-15 (kWh) 2015-16 (kWh) Our data analytics and monitoring systems, which ASHRE standards – without aﬀecting the comfort of bring in real-time data to our energy managers, have the workplace. resulted in better awareness and control of energy use and conservation. Training calendars we follow A host of other eﬀorts have contributed to our for orienting our managers and the best practices we increasing performance on the energy front, such as share across locations have gone a long way toward optimizing lighting and UPS systems, scheduling achieving consistent eﬃciencies. equipment operations, using sewage treatment plant (STP) water for ﬂushing and a wheeling energy Our initiatives for the air conditioner units involving mechanism. chiller conversions have been completed, thus completing the eﬃciency potential of the idea we Our Green IT initiatives also include apps developed envisaged in recent years. in house for motoring waste management, energy conservation and so on. We have seen a series of Our overall improved discipline in maintenance cycles innovations in this space by our people, including contributed to our energy eﬃciencies. We have also fresh entrants from our Development & Learning realized improved eﬃciencies by increasing the Center Mindtree Kalinga at Bhubaneswar. Some of indoor temperature by a mere one degree – per our innovations are already running as pilots. We are 77 working with a few external partners to take some of initiatives. We have taken up the implementation of them forward and looking forward to wrapping up workspace policy, smart buildings, and the upgrading current work-in-progress. of heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC). Apart from our initiatives in LEED buildings, we have For next year, we have planned a solar wind power been working on BEE certiﬁcations for our locations. project with over 3MW capacity for a Bangalore In 2015-16, we contributed to our energy location. This project will positively shift our clean performance proﬁle with various energy-saving energy performance in the near future. Water performance Despite our increasing employee base, we managed to further decrease our per-capita consumption of water. Our total water consumption decreased by 0.44%, and our per-capita consumption by 11.21% Water Consumption (KL) Water Performance (KL) 122484.82 4049.6 (2.7%) 818.5 (0.5%) 133502.98 11337 (7.6%) 2592.63 3634.32 133502.98 (89.2%) 21653 11337 4049.6 818.5 Ground water Municipal Private Packaged extraction corporation suppliers water Water Consumption 2014-15 Ground water extraction Municipal corporation Water Consumption 2015-16 Private suppliers Packaged water Water recycling and reuse We recycled 22.31% of our Total fresh water (Kl) 153227.41 fresh water consumption and our water discharge is nil. Recycled water (Kl) 34198.89 78 • Our dependence on fresh ground water and on the extraction of ground water by 1,200 KL per external sources has been constantly decreasing month. Our dependence on a supplier is reduced over the years, thanks to increased eﬃciencies in by 13% along with a cost reduction of Rs. 48,000 consumption, treatment, recycling and reuse. per month. • Our regeneration processes for softeners have • Other measures that proved eﬀective for our water proved eﬃcient in decreasing water requirements. performance included replacing all damaged • We’ve worked constantly over recent years to underground pipelines to avoid water wastage, promote internal awareness for water conservation, installing metering to ensure correct measurement an eﬀort that has borne fruit in terms of a of actual consumption, and waterprooﬁng the water continuous dip in our water consumption. storage tank to avoid water seepage. • STP water is used through a reverse osmosis (RO) plant for our chiller cooling tower, thereby reducing Emissions While a host of measures for curtailing our emissions people learn to adopt to a new mode of commuting continue as in previous years, FY 2015-16 saw a and realize its potential. continued focus on bringing down our total carbon footprint, including the footprint for employee We also encourage our people to buy and use commutes. eco-friendly vehicles: We provide charging points for electric vehicles, reserved parking for carpool While the Common Bus System for the entire tech vehicles and free parking space for green commuters. park at Global Village, Bangalore, has been serving the cause, Mindtree Minds now have access to a Our total emissions reduced by carpooling option: They now have an app for organizing their carpool schedules. We hope this tool 16.33% over previous year: our will be instrumental in bringing down the employee per-capita dipped by 25.22%. carbon footprint in a signiﬁcant way in the future, as Emission Footprint (in tons CO2e) Emission Performance 1489.16 (4%) 23925.39 22282.71 15018.96 9571.23 (29%) 9571.23 1202.63 1489.16 22282.71 (67%) Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Emissions (tons CO2e) 2014-15 Emissions (tons CO2e) 2015-16 79 Scope 1 Emissions Scope 3 Emissions 13745.69 10943.02 1356.38 8352.60 652.95 479.67 3873.13 61.91 49.72 74.95 149.66 102.09 53.15 82.33 8.10 8.10 Fuel usage / Fuel usage Fugitive Owned Employee Business Waste Freight Energy Generated (LPG) emissions vehicles commute travel (Diesel) (HFC, PFC) 2014-15 (tons CO2e) 2015-16 (tons CO2e) 2014-15 (tons CO2e) 2015-16 (tons CO2e) Business Travel 70656476 31015574 1229464 1582681 277589 63859 390133 325219 234244 349457 661336 771583 Air-long Haul Air-short Haul Air-domestic Client cabs Road Rail 2014-15 (Km) 2015-16 (Km) Ozone depleting substances Air emissions 1.25 1.24 290.25 1.16 1.16 173.9 0.40 0.32 15.96 9.56 2014-15 (in kgs) 2015-16 (in kgs) Air emissions Air emissions Air emissions NOx (tons) SOx (tons) SPM (tons) R22 (refrigerant) CFC equivalent 2014-15 2015-16 80 Waste management Mindtree’s techno-social platform I Got garbage (IGG) In 2015-16, we expanded our eﬀorts by introducing has demonstrated how eﬀectively wet waste can be an additional organic waste converter in Bangalore to converted through a natural process, without using treat food waste. We also achieved 90% wet waste electricity. IGG continues to address the issue of conversion across Indian locations. urban waste outside our premises while transforming the lives of waste pickers. We think that a more eﬀective solution in the future lies in focusing on generating less waste rather than increasing capacity for processing waste. Going Our total waste generation as forward, we would like our initiatives to focus more well as per-capita waste on the behavioral aspects of waste generation. generation came down by 3.20% Our waste output does not aﬀect any habitats or and 13.68% respectively. water bodies. We do not ship any hazardous waste anywhere, but rather dispose of it responsibly. Our operations do not cause or generate any spills. Waste Footprint (Kg) Waste Disposal 674.77 (0.3%) 0.13% 10558.565 (4.2%) 10.20% 70511.38 (28%) 49233.786 (19.5%) 89.66% 96402.495 (38%) 24978.24 (10%) Electronic Hazardous Inorganic Organic Packaging Other Recycle Incineration Landﬁll Waste Management Performance 123852.5 96402.495 79785.8 70511.38 49233.786 25888.53 24978.24 9205.47 10558.565 17546.49 4435.9 674.77 Electronic Hazardous Inorganic Organic Packaging Other Total Quantity (KG) 2014-15 Total Quantity (KG) 2015-16 81 Total expenditure on environmental initiatives: Preserving Mother Earth INR 33,991,288 We made one million bricks out of There have been no ﬁnes or non-monetary sanctions the mud excavated at our Mindtree for any environmental non-compliance in 2015-16 Kalinga site at Bhubaneswar, and and we did not receive any grievances regarding any constructed walls covering environmental impacts of our operations. 272,000 sq.ft of area. Goals: 2016-17 • Have our own water treatment plant • Kick-start the renewable power project for our east campus in Bangalore • Strengthen our data analytics further • Replicate or scale up successful pilots from our in-house innovation apps for environmental resource eﬃciency • Continue to align our people with our sustainability goals 82 Sustainable procurement Mindtree’s approach to supply chain management moves it beyond the level of the tactical to the realm of the strategic. Responsible supply chain is identiﬁed by Mindtree and its stakeholders as a material issue. We treat the procurement domain as a critical Innovation: We seek supply partners who can provide component of business strategy, the key to which lies insights and innovations around the solutions they in improved proﬁtability through increased suggest or implement. eﬃciencies. Mindtree’s supplier management strategy is designed to deliver signiﬁcant reductions in the Risk management: Procurement at Mindtree working capital and organizational risks, including constantly identiﬁes potential external risks through a social and environmental risks. Procurement periodic exercise and ﬁnds ways to mitigate them integrates social and environmental considerations across the supply chain. Social risks (such as labor, across its purchases and selection of supply partners. human rights, ethics) typically fall into this area, and our codes and screeners ﬁlter out these risks. The strategy rests on the following tenets for Continuous improvement: Mindtree deploys its eﬃciency: supply chain management to act as a critical catalyst Leverage: Procurement typically applies leverage for identifying and managing improvement based on historical usage trends coupled with a good opportunities across external resource and value prediction for future growth. providers. Communication: We believe that a clear Procurement at Mindtree views its supply chain communication strategy is paramount to creating management as a strategic tool anchored on the value through our external resource providers – above tenets and to bring across a value proposition original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), service inherent to its role. providers or product and component suppliers. Our supplier feedback model, which sensitizes our supply Our supply chain partners to business viability challenges, Our supply chain comprises a large network of 10,065 opportunities and threats, is a case in point. supply partners across geographies, who bring in products, business support services and utility Eﬃciency: We engage with our supply partners to management services. Twenty eight suppliers belong support our strategies, and contribute to to diversity-based, including 19 women-owned organizational process and operational eﬃciencies. organizations. 83 Our emphasis on local sourcing ensures that 77% of • Onboarding of client-speciﬁc supply partners for our suppliers are based in India, contributing to talent acquisition reduced the number of 57.30% of our spend. US has 14.3% of our suppliers registrations and the number of partners, leading to contributing to 34.3% of our spend. higher volumes per partner and higher eﬃciencies. • We are in the process of using global input to Mindtree’s Supplier Code of Conduct insists a strict develop a rate card mapped to skill sets as a and uncompromising “no-no” on child labor, forced guideline for talent acquisition. or compulsory labor. It also takes strict cognizance • We are actively considering a vendor management against any human rights violations across the Supply system that will better equip us to manage our Chain. Mindtree undertakes Supplier screening and supplier database. evaluations on a random sample basis to check for • We are also in the process of reviewing a tool to the possibility of speciﬁc social risks. We have not track the vendor management system. noticed any negative impacts of labor or human • Procurement function at Mindtree supported the rights practices or any speciﬁc labor violations in facilities function in identifying a battery our supply chain. management system that will accrue a ﬁve-fold savings in the forthcoming years. Year 2015-16 • Candidate onboarding procedures of Mindtree are The year saw procurement at Mindtree take further now completely paperless. strides in eﬃciency. • Sustainability often involves thinking about small • We rationalized our supplier database of 1,200 steps and making them responsible: we are in a service partners by reducing it to 850, and continuous process of making our work eventually consolidating the number of partners to environment more healthy and eco-friendly by 100. Thus, we ensured one-eighth of our supplier taking a series of steps such as ergonomical partners supported 90% of our requirements in seating, carpeting, herbal options for sanitation, use this space. of indoor plants for better air quality and more. • Eighty-seven of our supplier partners participated in a vendor summit for talent acquisition conducted in December 2015, and 90% of them reported a satisfaction score between four and ﬁve out of ﬁve. This endeavor helped us address the gap in supplier delivery through direct dialogue. • Mindtree’s procurement function stepped into normalizing the margins paid per candidates hired, generating inputs for policy-making. 84 Adding economic value View on economic value Sustainability is an essential investment for the long term viability and success of an organization. For an organization in a knowledge-driven industry, investment into learning is an investment for sustainability. Our investment in our Learning Center, Mindtree Kalinga, is a testimony to our commitment to this perspective. Our performance on business and sustainability, travel in parallel as reﬂected in our annual report and sustainability reports. The futuristic goal of integrated reporting needs integrating business strategy and sustainability rather closely. Economic material issues identiﬁed by Mindtreebusiness growth, service stewardship & client value and digital Jagannathan Chakravarthi inclusion, are drivers of our economic success. Economic Chief Financial Oﬃcer success which creates value for the organization in the market is in fact derived from our eﬀorts in sustainability, a strong learning culture and deeply anchored corporate governance. Integrating sustainability and In our experience, these key pillars together create a positive business strategy is key to diﬀerentiator for us in the market. long term value creation. Our economic performance has been growing from strength to strength. Indian IT sector is pitched for high growth in a global scenario, and Mindtree is poised to leverage its key strengths to reach new pinnacles of success. Continued focus on sustainability, learning and maintaining stringent governance standards are imperatives for sustaining the pace of the phenomenal growth ahead of us. For Mindtree, CSR and Sustainability are two sides of same coin. It is a way of giving back to the society – a way of sharing our success. Our ﬁnancial commitments to CSR continue, picking up projects that a naturally sync with our CSR objectives and approach. Our leaders are involved as ever, in our CSR endeavors, setting personal examples for our people. As a responsible corporate citizen, creating sustainable value for our stakeholders will continue to be our goal in the coming years. Welcome to possible. 88 Adding economic value Our approach to the material issues is to continue to pursue inclusive paths of growth, surpass ourselves in enhanced client value creation, and leverage the potential of the digital to not only create a thriving business for us but also to solve a few pressing, sustainable development issues in the society and the environment. Inclusive growth Financial performance Mindtree’s vision for growth is inclusive in nature and In USD terms: embeds within it, the purpose of economic value-add. • Revenue at USD 715.2 million indicates an Our investments in our people and our stakeholders industry-leading growth of 22.5%. are an expression of our intent to share the value we • Organic revenue (excluding acquisitions of the have created with their support. Our emphasis on current year) growth is at 15.4%. gender diversity and the opening of our door to • Net proﬁt at USD 92 million has seen a growth people with disabilities are part of ensuring that of 4.7%. value is shared with those who may not have been mainstreamed so far. Our CSR eﬀorts are another way In Rupee terms: of taking our purpose beyond our organizational • Revenue at INR 46,896 million indicates a stellar boundaries and distributing our economic value with growth of 31.7%. the poor and the marginalized. Sharing our wealth has • Net proﬁt at INR 6,033 million has seen a growth proved an enriching journey for us. of 12.5%. • Market capitalization has increased to INR 109,606 Mindtree spent a total of INR 93,737,300 in 2015-16 million a six fold increase in ﬁve years. on CSR across direct and ongoing projects, projects through the Mindtree Foundation and activity-based, Clientele: volunteer-led programs. We have made considerable • 348 active clients as of March 31, 2016. progress over the last year in measuring and monitoring • USD 25 million clients grew to six in number ; the outcomes and impacts of our projects. We are USD 10 million clients grew to 15; USD 5 million committed to investing in projects that are in total clients grew to 31; USD one million clients resonance with our values, vision and CSR objectives. grew to 80. • The number of clients with over USD 50 million in revenue increased from one to two. 89 Financial performance Particulars FY 2015-16 FY 2014-15 Growth % INR in % of INR in % of million revenue million revenue Income from operations 46,896 100.0% 35,619 100.0% 31.7% Expenses: Employee beneﬁts expense 28,026 59.8% 20,710 58.1% 35.3% Other expenses 10,566 22.5% 7,817 21.9% 35.2% Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) 8,304 17.7% 7,092 19.9% 17.1% Other income (net) 412 0.9% 656 1.8% -37.2% Foreign exchange gain 393 0.8% 179 0.5% 119.6% Finance costs 3 0.0% 1 0.0% 200.0% Depreciation and amortization expense 1,332 2.8% 1,018 2.9% 30.8% Proﬁt before tax 7,774 16.6% 6,908 19.4% 12.5% Tax expense 1,741 3.7% 1,545 4.3% 12.7% Proﬁt for the year (PAT) 6,033 12.9% 5,363 15.1% 12.5% Economic value added (INR in crores) Direct Economic Value Generated (A) 2015-16 2014-15 2013-14 Revenue (through core business segments) 4,689.60 3,561.90 3,031.60 Other income (through other sources) 80.50 83.50 49.59 TOTAL 4,770.10 3,645.40 3,081.18 Economic Value Distributed (B) Operating cost 1,071.04 794.31 654.33 Personnel expenses (wages+beneﬁts) 2,784.10 2,057.20 1,767.24 Interest charges 0.30 0.08 0.45 Taxes and royalties (given to various govt. wherever business units are located) 174.10 154.52 127.47 Taxes expenses Taxes and royalties (given to various govt. wherever business units are located) 32.45 29.15 17.99 Dividend tax paid Dividends (payments to capital providers) 176.14 142.40 104.15 Donations (political parties/politicians) Community development/CSR investments paid to Mindtree Foundation 3.60 1.25 TOTAL 4,242.19 3,178.91 2,671.63 Economic value added (A-B) 527.19 466.49 409.55 90 Our contribution to employee beneﬁts (INR in crores) Contribution to beneﬁt plan (in crore) 2015-16 2014-15 2013-14 Contribution to provident and other funds 162.3 163.65 140.47 Staﬀ welfare expenses 18.5 17.5 14.80 TOTAL 180.80 181.15 155.27 Financial assistance from the Government (INR in crores) Financial assistance received 2015-16 2014-15 2013-14 IT exemption 326.25 256.57 208.40 Land provided at subsidised rate Incentives Custom, excise duties waived 149.52 14.67 26.49 Others TOTAL 475.77 271.24 234.88 Revenue distribution by geography Revenue distribution by industry 65% 62% 33% 31% 25% 25% 24% 25% 22% 20% 16% 15% 4% 9% 7% 6% 9% 3% US Europe India Rest of TMS BFSI RCM TH Others the world 2014-15 2015-16 2014-15 2015-16 Revenue distribution by service oﬀering 24% 24% 21% 20% 18% 18% 16% 13% 12% 10% 9% 6% 4% 3% 2% 1% Development Engineering Maintenance Consulting Package IP led revenue Independent Infrastructure implementation testing management 2014-15 2015-16 91 • Developing “sense-and-respond” systems to make Revenue distribution by mix enterprises adaptive with data and insights. • Shaping new, innovative business models and 53% 54% 46% 47% partnerships. Further strengthening our position in the digital space, we made three strategic acquisitions: Onsite Oﬀshore • UK-based Blueﬁn Solutions, a market-leading 2014-15 2015-16 consultancy in SAP HANA. • US-based Relational Solutions, a specialized provider of supply chain optimization and trade Strengths and strategy promotions analytics for consumer goods and We have grown faster than the industry sector and retail execution. hope to continue to do so, on the foundation of our • US-based Magnet 360, a Salesforce Platinum key strengths and growing opportunities. consulting partner with strong expertise across the full suite of Salesforce solutions. Focusing on key areas digital solutions and managed services in a select set of industries has been a Our deep domain expertise in vertical industries such successful strategy for us and our emphasis on going as banking and ﬁnancial services, consumer packaged digital is getting stronger each year. goods, retail and enables us to build agile solutions for web, mobile, data warehousing and UI/UX Digital is proving to be a market-disruptive technology. scenarios, in a client-centric mode. The digital services market is expected to touch USD 225 billion by 2020. Indications point out that 90% Our expertise-led, culture-backed, always ready of all incremental spend on IT will be digital in the solutions collaborate with our customers to bring next ﬁve years. about signiﬁcant business results, consistently. Service stewardship and creating enhanced client Mindtree, with one third of its business accruing from value are key imperatives behind our learning and digital services, is well placed to gain from this delivery domains. growing opportunity. Our innovation centers the agile nerve center in We have positioned our Digital Business across four Gainesville, Florida, and Digital Pumpkin in Bangalore, broad themes: take our clients’ ideas to market faster, by co-creation • Creating digital customer experiences / touch and rapid prototyping, thus creating enhanced points that deliver outcomes. business value. • Digitizing the value chain across the front and back end. 92 Our customer experience surveys show consistently key parameters we measure as shown in the high levels of satisfaction across the years, on the four graph below. Customer experience survey ﬁndings 5.26 5.45 5.41 5.31 5.42 5.59 5.27 5.39 5.37 5.21 5.11 4.9 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Satisfaction Loyalty Advocacy VFM Mindtree Strategy Pillars Digital Transformation Delivery Transformation Sales Transformation People Focus • Partner of choice for our • Drive productivity focus • Proactive Sales training • Mindtree culture valued customers • Deepening customer and kits • Best places to work • Proactive oﬀering-led deals engagement • Enhancing brand reputation • Innovation and • Key partnership and • Increased usage of best in class Intrapreneurship alliances automation, DevOps and AI • Account based co-ordinated • Wide and deep technology sales & marketing SME pool • Sense and respond • A strong base of “Digitally enabled” Mindtree Minds Outlook With IT services growing at the same rate as overall The global scenario expects a gradual improvement exports (10.3%), and SMAC technologies driving the in growth (3.1% in 2015-16 to 3.2% expected in new demand, Indian IT services ﬁrms have a positive 2016-17, 3.5% in 2017). India which continues to opportunity. Digital is a growing opportunity, clearly, grow at 7.3% expects to see 7.5% growth in the and the IT ﬁrms with strengths in the domain are well next two years. placed for impressive growth. Our industry-leading growth of 22.5% validates our strengths and strategies. Although global IT-BPM spends were somewhat ﬂat in We have set the bar high for the coming years and 2015, global sourcing, at USD 164 billion in 2015, look at continuing our stellar performance, anchored grew at 8.5%, with India impressively securing 56% by our strong governance and leadership, leveraging of the market share. Indian IT-BPM expects to add our key strengths in the emerging opportunities, USD 11 billion in 2016 to its size, indicating a being engaged with our clients as ever and growth of 8.5%. maintaining our strategic focus on areas of the future. 93 Global presence AMERICA CALIFORNIA UAE Mindtree Ltd. Mindtree Ltd. NEW JERSEY 2001 Gateway Place, Suite 700 W 423, Block A, 5W Mindtree Ltd. San Jose, CA 95110, USA DAFZA 25 Independence Boulevard Ph: +1 408 986 1000 PO Box 293858 Suite 410 Fax: +1 408 986 0005 Dubai, UAE Warren, NJ 07059, USA Ph: +971 4260 2400 Ph: +1 908 604 8080 CANADA Fax: +971 4260 2401 Fax: +1 908 604 7887 Mindtree Ltd. Bay and Bloor Centre AUSTRALIA FLORIDA 1235 Bay Street, Suite 400 Mindtree Ltd. Mindtree Delivery Center Toronto, Ontario M5R 3K4 Level 7, 155 George Street 720 SW 2nd Avenue, South Tower Canada The Rocks, Sydney NSW 2000 Gainesville, FL 32601, USA Australia Ph: +1 352 702 4565 Ph: +61 (2) 9089 8970/71 Mindtree Ltd. Fax: +1 352 433 4080 1004-3601 Highway 7 East, Mindtree Ltd. Markham, ON L3R 0M3, Level 40, 140 William Street ILLINOIS Canada Melbourne, VIC 3000 Mindtree Ltd. 1901 N. Roselle Road, Suite 800 Schaumburg, IL 60195, USA ASIA PACIFIC MALAYSIA Ph: +1 847 592 7044 MindTree Consulting Limited Fax: +1 847 592 7043 JAPAN Level 16, 1 Sentral Jalan Ste Mindtree Ltd. 5, KL Sentral 50470 2-21-7-703 Kiba, Koto-ku KualaLumpur TEXAS Tokyo 135-0042, Japan Malaysia Mindtree Ltd. Ph: +81 3 5809 8444 320 Decker Drive #100 Fax: +81 3 5809 8445 EUROPE Irving, TX 75063, USA Ph: +1 972 422 9113 SINGAPORE UNITED KINGDOM Mindtree Ltd. Mindtree Ltd. ARIZONA 17 Changi Business Park Central 1, 3 Sheldon Square Mindtree Ltd. #05 03 Honeywell Building, W2 6PR, London 19820 N. 7th Avenue, Suite 135 Changi Business Park, United Kingdom Phoenix, AZ 85027-4736, USA Singapore 486073 Ph: +44 020 37633300 Ph: +1 480 499 3145 Singapore Ph: +1 602 535 2257 Ph: +65 6323 8135 GERMANY Toll free: +1 800 239 4110 Fax: +65 6323 1795 Mindtree Ltd. WASHINGTON Richmodstrasse 6 Mindtree Delivery Centre 50667, Cologne 5010 148th Avenue NE, Suite 200 Germany Redmond, WA 98052, USA Ph: +49 221 9204 2233 Ph: +1 425 867 3900 Fax: +49 221 9204 2200 Fax: +1 425 861 8151 94 BELGIUM IRELAND PUNE Mindtree Ltd. Mindtree Limited Mindtree Limited Pegasuslaan 5 3rd Floor, Kilmore House, Rajiv Gandhi Infotech and 1831, Diegem Park Lane, Spencer Dock, Biotech park, Belgium Dublin 1 Plot no.37 phase 1 MIDC Ph: +32 2709 2055 Ireland Hinjewadi Pune 411 057 Fax: +32 2709 2222 Ph: +353 1 614 6240 Maharashtra, India Ph: +91 20 3915 6000 SWEDEN INDIA Mindtree Ltd. HYDERABAD Svetsarvägen 15 2tr BENGALURU Mindtree Limited 17141, Solna Mindtree (MTW) Divyasree Orion SEZ, (Stockholm) Global village, RVCE post 12th Floor, Block #6, Sweden Mysore Road North Tower Ph: +46 8 5787 7020 Bengaluru 560 059 Survey #66/1, Raidurga, Fax +46 8 5787 7010 Karnataka, India Ranga Reddy District, Ph: +91 80 6706 4000 Gachibowli, FRANCE Hyderabad 500 032 Mindtree Ltd. Mindtree (MTE) Andhra Pradesh, India La Grande Arche EPIP Second Phase Ph: +91 40 672 30000 Paroi Nord KIADB industrial area 92044, Paris Hoody village, Whiteﬁeld BHUBANESWAR France Bengaluru 560 066 Mindtree Limited Ph: +33 (0)1 7329 4524 Karnataka, India Plot No-1 Fax: +33 (1) 7329 4500 Ph: +91 80 6747 0000 Chandaka Industrial Estat, Chandrasekharpur SWITZERLAND CHENNAI post oﬃce Mindtree Ltd. Mindtree Limited Khurda 751015 c/o Paramis AG 10th, 11th and 12th Floor, Bhubaneswar Christoph Merian-Ring 31 TRIL Infopark Ltd., Neville Block CH-4153 Reinach BL Ramanujan IT City SEZ Switzerland Taramani, Chennai 600 113 Ph: +41 5 2269 1400 Tamil Nadu, India Fax: +41 5 1269 1401 Ph: +91 44 66711100 NETHERLANDS Mindtree Limited Mindtree Ltd. 5th and 6th Floor Lange Dreef 11, Vianen TRIL Infopark Ltd. 4131 NJ, The Netherlands HARDY BLOCK Netherlands Ramanujan IT City SEZ Ph: +31 34 771 5021 Taramani, Chennai 600 113 Tamil Nadu, India Ph: +91 44 66711100 95 MINDTREE SUBSIDIARIES DISCOVERTURE SOLUTIONS, LLC BLUEFIN SOLUTIONS LIMITED MAGNET 360 16100 North 71st Street Building 4, Chiswick Park 5757 Wayzata Boulevard Suite 250 566 Chiswick High Road Minneapolis, MN 55416 Scottsdale, AZ 85254 London, W4 5YE USA United Kingdom MAGNET 360 Toll free: +1 (877) 841-0962 Ph: +44 (0)870 233 0404 320 W. Ohio St. Ph: +1 (480) 269-8100 6th Floor West BLUEFIN SOLUTIONS LIMITED Chicago, IL 60654 DISCOVERTURE SOLUTIONS Suite 9.07, Level 9 EUROPE LTD The Gardens North Tower, MAGNET 360 C/0. Mindtree Limited Mid Valley City 17 State Street, Second Floor 3 Sheldon Square Lingkaran Syed Putra, New York, NY 10004 W2 6PR, London Kuala Lumpur 59200 United Kingdom Malaysia MAGNET 360 Ph: +44 020 37633300 3250 Ocean Park Blvd Ph: +603 2289 2003 Los Angeles, CA 90405 MINDTREE SOFTWARE BLUEFIN SOLUTIONS LIMITED (SHANGHAI) CO., LTD Room 541, 26 Duxton Road Standard Chartered Tower 89490 No.201 Century Avenue, Singapore Pudong, Shanghai Ph: +653 1587 513 China Ph: +86-21-6182 6987 BLUEFIN SOLUTIONS LIMITED Fax: +86-21-61826777 200 S Wacker Drive Floor 31, Chicago, IL 60606 MINDTREE SOFTWARE USA (SHANGHAI) CO., LTD, BEIJING BRANCH RELATIONAL SOLUTIONS INC Room 303, 3/F, 24601 Center Ridge Rd, Tower B, B28, Westlake, OH 44145, Building 55, No. 10, United States Jiuxianqiao Road, Ph: +1 440-899-3296 Chaoyang District, Beijing, Post code: 100015 Ph: +86-10-59756345 96 Assurance statement 97 98 Data techniques & assumptions Company The company owns four vehicles. An assumed average of 30KM per day is used. Mindtree has arrived at the owned average distance commuted by assuming the average round distance of Mindtree facilities from the center of the vehicles city. Thus, by multiplying the average km per day by the assumed number of working days in year (250) we arrive at the total kilometres travelled. Emission factors are bifurcated into petrol and diesel based on the make of the vehicle. Fuel usage Weight of one full LPG gas cylinder is considered as 19.5kg. This figure has been utilized in the event that locations have provided the number of LPG gas cylinders being used as opposed to the kg. Refrigerant a) For HFC's the global warming potential of the refrigerant along with a conversion factor of 0.001 is converted into CO2e using standard conversion formulas. Employee a) For company leased vehicles, the fuel make of the vehicle is considered to determine petrol vs. diesel vehicles. Commute An average of the monthly petrol and diesel prices of all major Indian cities has been considered to compute the total litres consumed. Emissions are overstated by at least 20% as the fuel claim also includes personal travel on the part of employees. b) Assumed an average of 30 km per passenger per day for public transport. We have arrived at the average distance commuted by assuming the average round distance of Mindtree facilities from the center of the city. Thus, by multiplying the average passenger km per day by the assumed number of working days in a year (250) and the number of employees who use the service, the total kilometres travelled are computed. It is assumed that the emission factor for public transport to be that of bus (type unknown) as a majority of employees using public transport commute by bus services. c) Public transport: We have arrived at the number of employees who use public transport by inference, i.e. by subtracting the total of the number of employees who use cars, two wheelers and Mindtree operated buses from the total number of employees in the India operations. d) Mindtree uses parking lot figures to determine a factor of the employees using fourand twowheelers e) For fourand twowheelers, the emissions on account of employee commuting have been computed based on the assumption arrived from the company leased vehicles that 70% of fuel costs assumed are to be associated with petrol, 30% of fuel costs assumed to be associated with diesel. The kilometres are calculated by assuming an average of 30 KM per passenger per day – with a similar principle to that of public transport. Business a) GHG protocol provides different emission factors for domestic, short haul and long haul flights. A distance based Travel classification into these categories is more appropriate. Based on an assumption and a study of available literature, (International Mindtree has considered the following categorization to classify all flights as per the categorization below: & Domestic) Domestic, less than 463 km Short haul, between 464 and 1108 km Long haul, greater than 1108 km With this categorization, a majority of the flights (98%) are long haul with the balance under short haul (1%) and domestic (0.2%). Waste a) Weight of one UPS battery is considered as 11.70 kg. This figure has been utilized in the event that locations have provided the number of batteries being used as opposed to the kg b) Weight of 1 litre of used oil is considered as 0.88kgs. This figure has been utilized in the event that locations have provided the number of litres of used oil being disposed as opposed to the kg c) Weight of one CFL bulb is considered as 126g. This figure has been utilized in the event that locations have provided the number of CFL's being disposed as opposed to the kg 100 d) Weight of one tube light is considered as 250g. This figure has been utilized in the event that locations have provided the number of tube lights being disposed as opposed to the kg e) Weight of one DG filter is considered as 1.5Kg. This figure has been utilized in the event that locations have provided the number of DG filters being disposed as opposed to the kg f) The average weight of Municipal solid waste (wet/dry) generated is considered as 0.5 kg/person/month. 50% of this is considered as dry waste which is recycled. g) In the event that waste (Oil soaked cotton and DG filters) have been disposed but there is no record of the same, averages of the available data have been considered for those months g) Emissions associated with waste disposed have been considered as opposed to disposed + generated + stored. h) Since clarity on the disposal methodology is not available, more conservative emission factors are used Freight Emission factor for domestic is used for domestic air freight and emission factor for international is that of long haul Water a) For smaller locations where the builder maintains the total water consumed, figures are obtained by assuming one employee consumes 65 liters of water per day. 65 Litres is derived based on ratio of the total water consumed in locations with accurate measure by the total number of employees b) Drinking water is calculated in the form of number of cans. This is multiplied by 20 litres (capacity of the bubble top) to provide the total number of litres Air emissions a) Air emissions are not measured monthly, and hence are extrapolated for the months not measured 101 The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Guidelines The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Principles Statement Page Human rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human 24 rights; and Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 24 Labor Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the NA right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; 24, 84 Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labor; and 24, 84 Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 46 Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 23 Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 77-82 Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 77-82 Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 23 NVG Report Application NVG report application table Sub part Aspects Page A Part A of the report includes basic information and data about the operations of the business entity. Thus, the reading of the report becomes more contextual and comparable with other similarly placed businesses. It may be written in a free format incorporating at least the following: A-1 Basic information about the business Name 4 Nature of ownership 4 Details of the people in top management 26 102 Location of its operations national and 4, 94, 95 international Products and services offered 4, 91 Markets served 4, 94, 95 Economic and Financial Data Sales 4, 90 Net profit 90 Economic and Financial Data Tax paid 90 Total assets 90 Market capitalization 90 Number of employees 4, 54 A-2 Management's commitment statement to the ESG Guidelines 7 Priorities in terms of the principle and core elements 6, 7 Reporting period / cycle 14 Whether the report is based on this framework or any other framework 7, 14 Any significant risk that the business would like its stakeholders to know 21 Any goals and targets that were set by the top management for improving their performance 76 during the reporting period B Part B of the report incorporates the basic parameters on which the business may report their performance. Efforts have been made to keep the reporting simple keeping in view the fact that this framework is equally applicable to the small businesses as well. The report may be prepared in a free format with the basic performance indicators being included in the same. In case the business entity has chosen not to adopt or report on any of the principles, the same may be stated along with, if possible, the reasons for not doing so. B-1 Principle 1 – ethics, transparency and Governance structure of the business, including 26 accountability committees under the Board responsible for organizational oversight. In case no committee is constituted, then the details of the individual responsible for the oversight. Mandate and composition (including number of 25, 26 independent members and/or non-executive members) of such committee with the number of oversight review meetings held. 103 State whether the person/committee head 26 responsible for oversight review is independent from the executive authority or not. If yes, how. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to 14, 20, 25 provide recommendations or direction to the Board / Chief Executive. Processes in place for the Board / Chief Executive 25 to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. Internally developed statement on ethics, codes of 23, 24 conduct and details of the process followed to ensure that the same are followed. Frequency with which the Board / Chief Executive 25 assesses BR performance. Principle 2 – product lifecycle Statement on the use of recyclable raw materials. NA sustainability Statement on use of energy-efficient technologies, 77-82 designs and manufacturing / service-delivery processes. Statement on copyrights issues in case of products NA that involve use of traditional knowledge and geographical indicators. Statement on use of sustainable practices used in 83, 84 the value chain. Principle 3 – employees' well-being Total number of employees with percentage of 54 employees that are engaged through contractors Statement on non-discriminatory employment 46 policy of the business entity Percentage of employees who are women 50, 54 Number of persons with disabilities hired 51 Amount of the least monthly wage paid to any 56 skilled and unskilled employee Number of training and skill up-gradation 57 programmes organized during the reporting period for skilled and unskilled employees Number of incidents of delay in payment of wages Nil during the reporting period 104 Number of grievances submitted by the employees 23 Principle 4 – stakeholder engagement Statement on the process of identifying 19, 20 stakeholders and engaging with them Statement on significant issues on which formal dialogue has been undertaken with any of the 17 stakeholder groups Principle 5 – human rights Statement on the policy of the business entity on 23 observance of human rights in their operation Statement on complaints of human rights 23 violations filed during the reporting period Principle 6 – environment Percentage of materials used that are recycled NA input materials Total energy consumed by the business entity for its 77 operations Statement on use of energy saving processes and 77, 78 the total energy saved due to use of such processes Use of renewable energy as percentage of total 74 energy consumption Total water consumed and the percentage of water 78 that is recycled and reused Statement on quantum of emissions of greenhouse 79 gases and efforts made to reduce the same Statement on discharge of water and effluents 78 indicating the treatment done before discharge and the destination of disposal Details of efforts made for reconstruction of 38 bio-diversity Principle 7 – policy advocacy Statement on significant policy advocacy efforts 23 undertaken with details of the platforms used Principle 8 – inclusive growth Details of community investment and development 66 work undertaken indicating the financial resources deployed and the impact of this work with a longer term perspective Details of innovative practices, products and services 66-71 that particularly enhance access and allocation of resources to the poor and the marginalized groups of the society 105 Principle 9 – customer value Statement on whether the labelling of their NA products has adequate information regarding product-related customer health and safety, method of use and disposal, product and process standards observed Details of the customer complaints on safety, NA labelling and safe disposal of the products received during the reporting period C Part C of the report incorporates two important aspects on BR reporting. Part C-1 is a disclosure by the business entity on any negative consequences of its operations on the social, environmental and economic fronts. The objective is to encourage the business to report on this aspect in a transparent manner so that it can channelize its efforts to mitigate the same. Part C-2 is aimed at encouraging the business to continuously improve its performance in the area of BR. C-1 • Brief report on any material / significant negative consequences of the operations of the Nil. No impacts business entity • Brief on goals and targets in the area of Social 10 social, environmental and economic responsibilities that the business entity Environmental 10 has set for itself for the next reporting period Economical 10 106 GRI G4 Content Index General Standard Disclosures Strategy and analysis Gen Standard Disclosure Disclosure Item Location G4-1 Statement by the MD, CEO and the Chairman 6, 7 G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities. 21 Organizational profile G4-3 Name of the organization. 4 G4-4 Primary brands, products, services. 4 G4-5 Location of the headquarters. 95 G4-6 Number of countries of operation. 94, 95 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form. 4 G4-8 Markets served 4, 94, 95 G4-9 Scale of the organization. 4 G4-10 Employee profile. 54 G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective NA bargaining agreements. G4-12 Organization’s supply chain. 83 G4-13 Significant changes during the year. 14 G4-14 Precautionary approach principle. 23 G4-15 Externally developed charters, principles or other initiatives to which the organization 5, 7 subscribes. G4-16 Memberships of associations. 23 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 Entities included in the organization’s consolidates financial statements. 94, 95 and Annual Report G4-18 Defining the report content and aspect 14, 17 boundaries. G4-19 Material aspects. 109-115 (Index) 107 G4-20 Core Aspect boundary within the organization. 109-115 (Index) G4-21 Core Aspect boundary outside the organization. 109-115 (Index) G4-22 Effect of any restatement of information provided 14 in previous reports. G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods. 14 Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 19, 20 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders. 19 G4-26 Organization’s approach to stakeholder 19, 20 engagement. G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder 17, 18 engagement. Report profile G4-28 Reporting period. 14 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report. 14, 15 G4-30 Reporting cycle. 14 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the 15 report or its contents. G4-32 ‘In accordance’ option chosen. 14 G4-33 External assurance. 14, 98, 99 Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the organization. 26 G4-38 Report composition of the highest governance 26 body. G4-39 Report whether the chair of the highest governance 26 body is also an executive officer. Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms such as codes of conduct and codes 23 of ethics. G4-58 Report the internal and external mechanism for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful 23 behavior and matters related to organizational integrity. 108 Speciﬁc Standard Disclosures Material issue Material Aspect Specific Indicators Location / aspect (GRI) boundary standard remarks (I/O) disclosure Social category DMA 45 Talent Attraction I DMA & Retention 49, 51 Employment G4-10 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, 54 broken down by gender. LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover 55 by age group, gender and region. LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or 54 part-time employees, by significant locations of operation. LA3 Return to work and retention rates after 56 parental leave, by gender. Economic EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined 91 Performance benefit plan obligations. Human Rights HR12 Number of grievances about human Grievance rights impacts filed, addressed, and Mechanisms 24 resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Market EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by Presence gender compared to local minimum 56 wage at significant locations of operations. EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant 56 locations of operation. Transparency of I DMA 52 policies and disclosure (See G4-56, G4-58) General disclosure 23 Ethics and Integrity Labor Practices LA16 Number of grievances about labor Grievance practices filed, addressed, and resolved 24 Mechanisms through formal grievance mechanisms. 109 Material issue Material Aspect Specific Indicators Location / aspect (GRI) boundary standard remarks (I/O) disclosure General (See G4-34, 38, 39) disclosure 26 Governance Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and (under Society total number of non-monetary sanctions 24 (Nil) Performance) for noncompliance with laws and regulations. Marketing PR7 Total number of incidents of Communications non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, 24 (Nil) promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes. Anti-Competitive SO7 Total number of legal actions for Behavior anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, 24 (Nil) and monopoly practices and their outcomes. NonHR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination discrimination and corrective actions 24 taken. Anti-corruption SO4 Communication and training on 23, 24 anti-corruption policies and procedures. SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to 23 corruption and the significant risks identified. SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and 23 (Nil) actions taken. Responsible I&O DMA 83 Supply chain: Green Procurement EC9 (PR) Proportion of spending on local procurement Practices suppliers at significant locations of 84 operation. Vendor Child Labour HR5 (PR) Operations and suppliers identified as Engagement having significant risk for incidents of and Training child labor, and measures taken to 84 contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. Forced or HR6 (PR) Operations identified as having Compulsory significant risk for forced or compulsory labour labor and measures taken to contribute 84 to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. 110 Material issue Material Aspect Specific Indicators Location / aspect (GRI) boundary standard remarks (I/O) disclosure Labor LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding Management operational changes, including whether NA Relations these are specified in collective agreements. Grievance Human Rights HR12 Number of grievances about human tracking system Grievance rights impacts filed, addressed, and for impacts Mechanisms 24 resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. Grievance SO11 Number of grievances about impacts Mechanisms for on society filed, addressed, and Impacts on Nil resolved through formal grievance Society mechanisms. Labor Practices LA16 Number of grievances about labor Grievance practices filed, addressed, and resolved Nil Mechanisms through formal grievance mechanisms. Environmental EN34 Number of grievances about Grievance environmental impacts filed, addressed, Mechanisms 24 (Nil) and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. Community I&O DMA 62 investment projects Indirect EC7 Development and impact of Economic infra-structure investments and services Impacts provided primarily for public benefit 66-75 through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, 66-75 including the extent of impacts. Local SO1 Percentage of operations with All CSR programs Communities implemented local community of Mindtree Foundation involve engagement, impact assessments, and engagement & development program. assessments. Employee I DMA 53 Engagement Occupational LA5 Percentage of workforce represented in Health and formal joint management-worker health Safety and safety committees that help monitor 24 and advise on occupational safety program. LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of 58 work-related fatalities, by region and by gender. 111 Material issue Material Aspect Specific Indicators Location / aspect (GRI) boundary standard remarks (I/O) disclosure NonHR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination discrimination and corrective actions 24 taken. Talent I DMA 47 Development Training and LA9 Average hours of training per year per Education employee broken down by employee 57 category. LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees 47 and assist them in managing career endings. LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 58 development reviews, by gender. Investment HR2 (PR) Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are 24 relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Security HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained 24 Practices in the organization’s human rights (100% trained) policies or procedures. Diversity & I DMA 50 inclusion Diversity and LA12 Composition of governance bodies and Equal breakdown of employees per category Opportunity according to gender, age group, 26, 54 minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Equal LA13 Ratio of basic salary of men to women Remuneration by employee category by significant 57 for Women locations of operation. and Men Market EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by Presence gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of 56 operation. 112 Material issue Material Aspect Specific Indicators Location / aspect (GRI) boundary standard remarks (I/O) disclosure Economic DMA 88 Category Business Growth Economic I&O Direct economic value generated and 90 Performance distributed Financial assistance received from 91 government. Digital inclusion Indirect I&O EC7 Development and impact of Economic infra-structure investments and services Impacts provided primarily for public benefit 66-75 through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, 66-75 including the extent of impacts. Service Product and I&O PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer Stewardship & Service Labeling satisfaction. 93 Client Value Customer Privacy Customer I&O PR8 Total number of substantiated & Data Security privacy complaints regarding breaches of 24 (Nil) customer privacy and losses of customer data. Environment DMA 74 category Green IT & Overall I EN31 Total environmental expenditures and 82 Invest in investments by type. renewable sources Reduction of energy consumption. 77 Energy EN6 EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of 77 products and services. Emission EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) 79 emissions. Environmental Economic I EC2 Financial implications and other risks Stewardship & Performance and opportunities for the organization's 82 Climate Change: activities due to climate change. ~ Resource optimization & Energy EN3 Energy consumption within the tracking with use organization (Direct energy 77 of data analytics ~ Innovation in consumption by primary energy source). Carbon FootPrint reduction with EN5 Energy intensity | Report the energy use of 77 intensity ratio. Information and communication technology based EN6 Reduction of energy consumption. 77 solutions EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of 77 products and services. 113 Material issue Material Aspect Specific Indicators Location / aspect (GRI) boundary standard remarks (I/O) disclosure Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 78 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by 78 withdrawal of water. EN1 Percentage and total volume of water 78 recycled and reused. Emission EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 79 (Scope 1) EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) 79 emissions (Scope 2). EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas 79 emissions. EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 79 intensity. EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) 79 emissions. EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting 80 substances (ODS). EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air 80 emissions. Effluents and EN22 Total water discharge by destination 78 (Nil) Waste and quality. EN23 Total weight of waste by type and 81 disposal method. Biodiversity EN13 Habitats protected or restored 37, 38 Products and EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of Services environmental impacts of products and NA services. Transport EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the 79, 80 organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Overall EN31 Total environmental expenditures and 82 investments by type. 114 Material issue Material Aspect Specific Indicators Location / aspect (GRI) boundary standard remarks (I/O) disclosure All CSR programs Employee Local I&O SO1 Percentage of operations with of Mindtree volunteering Communities implemented local community Foundation involve framework for engagement, impact assessments, and engagement & sustainability development programs. assessments. initiatives SO2 Operations with significant actual or potential negative impacts on local Nil communities. Environmental Compliance I EN24 Total number and volume of significant Nil Compliance & (under GRI spills. Management categoryenvironmental) EN29 EN29: Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary 24 (Nil) sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. 115 Glossary of acronyms Acronym Expansion APAC Asia Pacific Region BEE Bureau of Energy Efficiency BFSI Banking, Financial Services & Insurance BOD Board of Directors BSE Bombay Stock Exchange BU Business Unit C&B Compensation and Benefits CDP Carbon Disclosure Project CFL Compact Flouroscent Lamp CFO Chief Financial Officer CII Confederation of Indian Industry CIO Chief Information Officer CO2e Carbon Dioxide Equivalent CSR Corporate Social Responsibility DG Diesel Generators EBITDA Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortization EDGES Ethnicity, Disability, Gender and Sexual Orientation EHS Environment, Health & Safety ELP Emerging Leaders Program ELW Entry Level Wages EMEA Europe, Middle East, Africa EMS Environmental Management System EPS Earnings Per Share ERM Enterprise Risk Management ESOP Employee Stock Ownership Plan FY Financial Year GHG Green House Gases GRI Global Reporting Initiative GJ Giga Joules HFC Hydro-Flouro-Carbon HMHB Healthy Mind Healthy Body 116 IGG I Got Garbage INR Indian National Rupee IP Intellectual Property ISO International Organization for Standardization IT Information Technology ITES Information Technology Enabled Services ITBPM Information Technology Business Process Management (as an industry) kWh Kilowatt Hour LEED Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design LMW Local Minimum Wages LPG Liquid Petroleum Gas NOx Oxides of Nitrogen National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental and NVG-SEE Economic Responsibilities of Business NGO Non Government Organization OHSAS Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series RCM Retail, Consumer & Manufacturing ROCE Return on Capital Employed ROW Rest of the World ROI Return on Investment RSI Repetitive Strain Injury RWH Rain Water Harvesting SMAC Social, Mobile, Analytics and Cloud SOx Oxides of Sulfur SPM Suspended Particulate Matter SEBI Securities Exchange Board of India STP Sewage Treatment Plant TH Travel & Hospitality TMS Technology, Media & Services UNESCO United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization UNGC United Nations Global Compact UNICEF United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund USD United States Dollar VFM Value For Money 117 About the writer This report is conceptualized and co-created by Bhairavi Business & Consultancy (BB&C), a boutique ﬁrm that specializes in sustainability roadmaps and sustainability communication. Sangeeta Mansur, Founder-Catalyst, BB&C, has been instrumental in evolving our sustainability communication (reporting) from GRI 3.1 to GRI-G4, widening and deepening our disclosures. Synthesizing the ﬂuid story of our organic, sustainability journey with the stringent frameworks of reporting, Sangeeta Sangeeta Mansur, PhD., has sketched our evolution, through progressive themes of Founder-Catalyst, narration for the last three years. Bhairavi Business & Consultancy www.bhairaviconsultancy.com 118 The hard copy of our Sustainability Report is printed on 100% recycled paper certified by the UK-based National Association of Paper Merchants (NAPM) and Germany-based Blue Angel. Feedback and communication We welcome any feedback and suggestions which will further strengthen our sustainability programs. Contact details: Chitra Byregowda | Head – Sustainability & Diversity | Chitra.Byregowda@mindtree.com Mindtree, Global Village | RVCE Post, Mysore Road | Bengaluru 560 059 | Karnataka, India. Telephone: +91-80-6706 4000 | Fax: +91-80-6706 4100 The report can be downloaded at http://www.mindtree.com/sustainability/mindtree-sustainability-report.pdf www.mindtree.com
