Sustainability Report Part of Stora Enso’s Annual Report 2015 Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 2 Governance Sustainability highlights 2015 People and Ethics Human rights Sourcing Safety Human rights Forestry ILO 90% 17.4 69% and Land Use Environment and Efficiency In April Stora Enso signed a unique publicof Stora Enso’s spending on goods, safety observations Implementation of our human rights private partnership agreement with the materials and services was covered by were made per employee action plans is well underway, with 69% Data and International Labour Organisation (ILO). the Supplier Code of Conduct. during the year, making it an of actions completed. Assurance all-time record at Stora Enso. Forestry Business ethics Global warming 90% -32% Our grievance channel in China, India, Russia, Laos, and Brazil was made available to our external stakeholders. of the lands we own or manage were Our CO2 emissions per saleable tonne of covered by forest certification schemes. pulp, paper, and board were 32% lower than the 2006 benchmark level. Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 3 Governance Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 People and Ethics Forestry and Land Use Environment and Efficiency Data and Assurance Governance People and Ethics Forestry and Land Use Environment and Efficiency 6 Strategy and governance 14 Human rights 43 Forests, plantations, and land use 51 Energy 8 Our sustainability targets 21 Community engagement 54 Combatting global warming 9 Stakeholder relations 30 Our workforce 59 Materials 11 Product stewardship 35 Business ethics 63 Water 38 Sourcing 66 Environmental incidents Data and Assurance 68 External recognition 69 Reporting scope 71 Data by unit 74 GRI Index 82 Assurance statement Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 4 Stora Enso's Annual Report 2015 consists of four reports: Progress Book, Financial Report, Sustainability Report and Governance Corporate Governance Report. All are available at storaenso.com/annualreport. People The Progress Book explains Stora Enso’s Progress Book Progress Book – part of Annual Report 2015 Part of Stora Enso’s Annual Report 2015 and Ethics strategy, how we create value, and how Forestry our work is progressing. The publication is and Land Use available in English, Finnish and Swedish. Stora Enso Environment and Efficiency Progress Book Data and Everything that’s made with fossilAssurance The Financial Report consists of Stora Financial Report – part of Annual Report 2015 Financial Report Part of Stora Enso’s Annual Report 2015 Enso in capital markets, a summary of our sustainability performance, and the based materials audited Report of the Board of Directors and financial statements. today can be made Financial Report The Sustainability Report covers Sustainability Report Part of Stora Enso’s Annual Report 2015 from a tree tomorrow. Stora Enso’s sustainability performance, following the Global Reporting Initiative G4 framework. Sustainability Report The Corporate Governance Report covers Corporate Governance Report Stora Enso’s corporate governance policy, Part of Stora Enso’s Annual Report 2015 practices, and actions in 2015. Corporate Governance Report Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 5 Governance Governance People and Ethics Forestry and Land Use Environment and Efficiency Data and Assurance 6 Strategy and governance 8 Our sustainability targets 9 Stakeholder relations 11 Product stewardship Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 6 Governance Strategy and governance Stora Enso’s Sustainability Policy describes our overall In 2015, three Lead Areas formed a framework of the committee in 2015 are described in our People approach to sustainability. It focuses on areas which we for our sustainability work: People and Ethics, Corporate Governance Report. and Ethics Forests and Land Use, and Environment and Our sustainability governance was reinforced have identified as priorities, and explains the integral role of Forestry Efficiency. during the year following organisational changes sustainability in our corporate strategy. and Land Use Targets and key performance indicators in 2014, when Sustainability became an Environment (KPIs) on sustainability are incorporated independent function with its own Executive Vice and Efficiency into group-level and division-level monthly President who reports directly to the CEO. This performance reporting and periodic business position was permanently filled in April 2015. reviews. Consolidated results on material Everyday sustainability topics are handled Data and sustainability indicators are reported annually by our Sustainability function together with Assurance in the Sustainability Report. Selected our Legal, Human Resources, and Sourcing sustainability targets and KPIs are also functions and our divisions, who are responsible reported quarterly in our Interim Reviews. for the operational management of sustainability Stora Enso’s Code of Conduct and other topics. Our sustainability work is steered by the policies, guidelines, and statements related to Stora Enso Sustainability Performance Network sustainability spell out our approach to topics (SPN), whose members come from the group that are material to us, while also guiding Sustainability team, divisions, and other key our employees in their everyday work. These functions. The SPN’s work involves issuing documents are available at recommendations to the CEO, the Group storaenso.com/sustainability. Leadership Team, and when appropriate to the Board of Directors via its Sustainability and Sustainability governance Ethics Committee. Sustainability is a key element of Stora Enso’s The implementation of Stora Enso’s corporate governance, promoted by the sustainability agenda is the responsibility of line Board of Directors, the CEO and the Group management supported by functional experts Leadership Team (GLT). The CEO carries at all levels. Each of our business divisions has the ultimate responsibility for the successful its own Head of Sustainability, who reports implementation of our Sustainability Strategy. directly to the Executive Vice President of the The Board of Directors’ Sustainability division. In addition, other key units such as and Ethics Committee, established in Wood Supply, Logistics, and Sourcing have 2013, oversees the implementation of our sustainability experts of their own to support Sustainability Strategy and Ethics and their management teams. Compliance Strategy. The committee met Since 2014 Stora Enso has focused on four times in 2015, and has also reviewed the developing internal controls and reporting disclosures in this report. The main focus areas procedures for environmental, social, and GOVERNANCE / STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 7 governance topics. During 2015 sustainability was further embedded into our group-wide annual Enterprise Governance Risk Management (ERM) assessment process, following a risk evaluation conducted in 2014. Related progress is monitored in the group’s quarterly business People performance reviews. and Ethics Forestry Sustainability governance of joint ventures and Land Use Our joint operations in Brazil (Veracel) and Uruguay Environment (Montes del Plata) have their own sustainability teams, and Efficiency and sustainability topics are regularly discussed by their boards. Our equity-accounted investment in Pakistan (Bulleh Shah Packaging) has a Sustainability Committee Data and formed by representatives of top management and Assurance its parent companies. In 2015 Stora Enso’s Board of Directors established additional steering for joint ventures, including those controlling forest assets in Finland and Sweden. Reviewing the sustainability strategy During 2015 we continued to evaluate our current sustainability strategy, and we plan to further develop our sustainability agenda during 2016. The goal is to make our short-term and long-term ambitions clearer in our sustainability work and communications, emphasising the economic, social, and environmental impacts of our operations throughout the value chain. Opportunities and challenges How we work About this report This Sustainability Report is structured to reflect our These sections examine the external factors and global These sections describe the processes, procedures, three Sustainability Lead Areas in 2015: People and trends currently affecting our sustainability agenda. and systems we apply to realise our strategies and Ethics, Forestry and Land Use, and Environment and Please note that our corporate risk management policies. Efficiency. Key sustainability topics under each Lead assessment appears in the parallel Progress Book and Area are addressed through a common four-level Financial Report. Progress framework: Our policies These sections report on our progress on related topics during 2015. These sections set out the relevant strategies and policies we use to address key opportunities and challenges. GOVERNANCE / STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 8 Our sustainability targets and key performance indicators (KPIs) Governance Key performance indicator (KPI) 2015 2014 Targets Progress Human rights Implementation of human rights action plans1 100% of action plans in 100% of human Action plans in place by the end of the second quarter of 2015 for Achieved place based on the rights assessments prioritised human rights assessment findings, and for all assessment assessments, and 69% of completed findings by the end of 2015. People the actions completed and Ethics Safety Total recordable incident (TRI) rate2 11.0 12.5 8.8 by the end of 2015 Not achieved Forestry Forest and People and Ethics and Land Use Lost-time accident (LTA) rate3 4.7 5.2 3.6 by the end of 2015 Not achieved Environment A new target will be introduced in the group’s Interim Review for Q1 In progress and Efficiency 2016. Sustainable Leadership Index4 79 76 80 by the end of 2018 In progress leadership Data and Business Code of Conduct Index4 79 75 Positive trend In progress ethics Assurance Land use Responsible % of supplier spend covered by our 90% 78% 90% of total supplier spend covered by SCoC by the end of 2016 Achieved sourcing Supplier Code of Conduct (SCoC)5 Efficiency of Increase (%) in the volumes of fibre produced +3% Baseline set 25% increase by the end of 2020 In progress land use per hectare in certified tree plantations owned and managed by the company6 Sustainable % of the lands owned and managed by the 90% 90%7 96% by the end of 2017 In progress forestry company covered by forest certification schemes Energy Reduction in electricity and heat consumption -5.7% -3.7% -15% from 2010 benchmark level by the end of 2020 In progress per saleable tonne of pulp, paper, and board (kWh/tonne) Global Reduction in CO2 emissions per saleable tonne -32% -29% -35% from 2006 benchmark level by the end of 2025 In progress Environment and warming of pulp, paper, and board (kg/tonne) Water Reduction in the volume of process water -2% -3% -6% from 2005 benchmark level by the end of 20158 Not achieved discharges per saleable tonne of pulp, paper, and board (m³/tonne) KPI and target will be reviewed in 2016 Efficiency Reduction in chemical oxygen demand (COD) -3% -5% -7% from 2007 benchmark level by the end of 20158 Not achieved per saleable tonne of pulp, paper, and board (kg/tonne) KPI and target will be reviewed in 2016 Materials Will be reviewed in 2016 n/a n/a To establish a group-wide measurement process and target on Not achieved material efficiency index during 2015. 1  tora Enso carried out group-wide human rights assessments during 2014. Action plans to address the findings were defined S 5 Excluding joint operations and wood supply units. The target scope for 2016 will also cover wood supply units. during the first half of 2015. 6 Measured as Mean Annual Increment (MAI, m3/ha/year) and calculated based on a rolling average increase (over two years) in 2 Number of incidents per one million hours worked. The target was revised during the first quarter of 2015. The previous TRI certified tree plantations, including 50%-owned joint operations Veracel and Montes del Plata. target was less than 5 by the end of 2015 . 7 Recalculated (-3%) due to changes in Veracel’s reporting practice and leased area definition. 3 Number of lost-time accidents per one million hours worked. The target was revised during the first quarter of 2015. The 8 T  he short-term targets for process water discharges were reviewed during the first quarter of 2015 and adapted to the existing previous LTA target was less than 1 by the end of 2015 . asset base, as some mills have been left with over-scaled wastewater treatment facilities due to the closures of paper 4 Measured in the annual employee survey. machines. The previous targets were to achieve reductions of 10%. GOVERNANCE / STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 9 Governance Stakeholders at the core of People and Ethics our sustainability approach Forestry Stakeholders have a considerable impact on Stora Enso’s stakeholder relations are guided by Organisation (ILO). The agreement has both a global and Land Use our business. Their engagement is crucial for our Code of Conduct, our Business Practice Policy, component and a component focusing on Pakistan. Environment our continued success. our other policies on Ethics and Compliance, and The global dimension aims to align our policy and and Efficiency our Stakeholder Guidelines. Our employees must practice with international labour standards, and to follow these policies and guidelines when dealing increase our knowledge of child labour and other with stakeholders. For details of these policies visit labour rights. The focus in Pakistan is on promoting Data and storaenso.com/sustainability. decent work and combatting child labour in the supply Assurance Our stakeholder engagement is based on both chain of our minority equity-accounted investment structured and flexible dialogues, as well as surveys Bulleh Shah Packaging. For more information see and studies on various topics, such as customer pages 18–19. and employee satisfaction. We also obtain important In 2015 we also joined the global non-profit information through formal grievance channels and from organisation BSR. BSR subsequently provided support trade unions. in relation to the closure of our unit in Chennai, India, Our products, services, and production processes and helped our operations in Guangxi, China, by are developed in collaboration with our customers and reviewing their social programmes, grievance channels, other stakeholders. Systematic collection of feedback implementation of human rights actions, and progress plays an essential role in this work. on sustainability management. BSR also assisted us by conducting a worldwide living wage study, developing Strengthening our sustainability a sustainability risk mapping tool, and supporting supply work through collaboration chain reviews. For more information see pages 33 In 2015 we continued our work with Save the Children, and 40. particularly focusing on the impacts of our operations In connection with the 2015 UN climate summit and supply chains on children’s rights. Save the (COP 21) Stora Enso participated in the Low Carbon Children trained more than 600 Stora Enso employees Technology Partnership initiative (LCTPi) of the World on children’s rights and business principles, including Business Council for Sustainable Development personnel from our joint ventures in Asia and Latin (WBCSD). Together with other WBCSD members we America. Our Group Leadership Team, divisional outlined an ambitious action plan to combat global management teams, and staff from key corporate warming by increasing global forest cover and the use functions including Sustainability, Responsible Sourcing, of forest products, and fast-tracking the development of and Communications also received related training. the bioeconomy. The LCTPi quantified the considerable In April Stora Enso signed a unique public-private emission mitigation potential of sustainably managed partnership agreement with the International Labour forests and the wider use of forest products. The work GOVERNANCE / STAKEHOLDER RELATIONS Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 10 of our Biomaterials division on lignin application was (ILO) to promote decent work and address child labour. showcased as a practical example. For more information on these actions see pages 18–19. Memberships in stakeholder Governance Ahead of COP 21, we joined the We Mean Business initiatives, industry associations and Coalition and The Prince of Wales’s Corporate Land occupation in Veracel, Brazil advocacy organisations in 2015 Leaders Group by signing a pledge to combat global During 2015 our stakeholders remained concerned People warming through a scientifically calculated CO2 by various topics regarding our 50/50 joint operation •• The UN Global Compact and Ethics reduction target. Stora Enso was the only Finnish Veracel in Brazil, including land ownership and land use •• The World Business Council for Sustainable Forestry company to commit to the target. conflicts, landless and indigenous people’s rights, local Development (WBCSD) and Land Use social challenges, and the environmental management •• The Forests Dialogue Environment of Veracel’s plantations. •• WWF’s New Generation Plantations Platform and Efficiency Our stakeholders Veracel continued to engage in active dialogue with (NGP) stakeholders, including the Government of the State •• WWF’s Global Forest & Trade Network We consider anyone interested in our work as of Bahia, the National Institute of Colonisation and (GFTN) Data and a stakeholder. Significant stakeholder groups for Agrarian Reform (INCRA), and the representatives of •• The Interlaken Group Assurance Stora Enso include: landless people’s social movements. Work continued •• Transparency International’s Steering on a Sustainable Settlement Initiative launched in 2012 Committee for the Business Principles for •• Consumers •• Local communities to provide farming land and technical and educational Countering Bribery •• Customers •• Media support to help hundreds of local families improve their •• The Confederation of European Paper •• Employees •• NGOs incomes. Industries (CEPI) •• Forest-owners •• Partners and During 2015 protests against Veracel in the cities of •• The Alliance for Beverage Cartons and the •• Governments suppliers Eunápolis and Porto Seguro were supported by certain Environment (ACE) •• Investors landless people’s movements. Such actions may have •• Euro-Graph arisen partly due to political and leadership issues •• European Organisation for Packaging and linked to the control of the fragmented regional landless the Environment (EUROPEN) Major stakeholder concerns people’s movement. For more information on land use in •• Pack2go Europe Veracel see pages 24–26 and 46. •• Procarton Child labour in Bulleh Shah Packaging’s •• The UN Global Compact Nordic Network supply chains •• The Environmental Committee of Child labour cases in the supply chains of Bulleh Shah the International Organisation for Packaging, Stora Enso’s equity-accounted investment Standardisation (ISO), through national in the Punjab province of Pakistan, continued to be a member committees concern to our stakeholders. During 2015 we carried •• Various national industry federations and trade on taking measures to combat child labour in the associations operations of Bulleh Shah Packaging’s direct suppliers. These measures included implementing a targeted human rights action alan, rigorous supply chain auditing and follow-up, support for educational initiatives, and partnering with the International Labour Organisation GOVERNANCE / STAKEHOLDER RELATIONS Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 11 Governance Product stewardship Ensuring product safety, continuously improving the Stora Enso’s product portfolio includes various with information on products’ hygiene People sustainability performance of our products, providing productboards for printing and packaging, several pulp and safety aspects through compliance and Ethics grades, wood-based products for construction, declarations. related environmental information, and promoting recycling Forestry energy pellets, and paper products made from We follow relevant legislation designed to schemes are key topics in our responsible product stewardship. and Land Use virgin fibre and recycled paper. Our safely protect public health and the environment, Environment recyclable and reusable products are based on including the European Union’s REACH, and Efficiency renewable materials. We actively promote and Biocidal Products, and Classification, Labelling, participate in many recycling schemes. and Packaging regulations, as well as trends Our final products are transported by sea, in food contact legislation and other new Data and road, and rail. Transportation by sea accounted demands relating to food safety. Our Consumer Assurance for 89% of all our product transportation by Board division has particularly focused on weight and distance in 2015 (86% in 2014), developments in Chinese hygiene standards while road and rail transportation constituted that define how food contact materials should 9% (11%) and 2% (3%) respectively. be produced and tested in China. When producing food contact materials we only use Ensuring product safety chemicals that have been specifically approved Our in-house product safety and quality control for that purpose, after duly checking their safety systems cover our processes from product and legal compliance. development and raw material sourcing to the Many of our Wood Products division’s delivery of the finished products. We also oblige products are CE-marked to guarantee they our suppliers to comply with our product safety comply with the related EU directives. requirements. All our divisions already have or are Safety is especially fundamental for currently establishing their own Product materials used for packaging food, toys or Safety Networks. Each mill works to ensure pharmaceuticals. All our units producing that their products meet relevant product sensitive packaging materials follow Good safety requirements. Our units’ ISO 22000, Manufacturing Practice, a set of widely FSSC 22000, and FDA product safety recognised guidelines also incorporated into EU regulations. All our Consumer Board mills and most of our Packaging Solutions mills are additionally certified according to recognised Safety is fundamental hygiene management standards. Food safety for materials used for compliance for essential raw materials is also checked with our suppliers prior to any packaging food. purchasing decision. We provide our customers GOVERNANCE / PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 12 certificates ensure that they apply a systematic approach to food safety issues. Governance Products’ sustainability performance Stora Enso’s experts compile product life cycle People inventories and assessments (LCIs and LCAs) on our and Ethics products. Forestry The environmental performance of all our paper and Land Use products is reported in line with the voluntary Paper Environment Profile and Paper by Nature initiatives. Our main and Efficiency Consumer Board products also meet the requirements of Paper Profile. Almost 90% of our Paper division’s own brands are Data and covered by one or more recognised ecolabels, including Assurance the EU Ecolabel, the Nordic Ecolabel, and the Blue Angel (Blauer Engel). Many of our Consumer Board division’s brands are also available with the EU Ecolabel. These ecolabels cover the whole life cycle of a product, including the raw materials and energy used in the manufacturing process, and the related environmental impacts. Many Stora Enso products are also covered by forest certification labels, showing that they have been produced using wood from controlled sources, and that the entire journey of the raw material from the forest to the store shelf has been verified by an external party. In 2015 our Wood Products division initiated audits at pellet mills in Estonia aiming to obtain Sustainable Biomass Partnership (SBP) certifications. Such certification will guarantee that the biomass used in the In 2015 our Consumer Board division has also been third-party audited according to the Sedex Members’ pellets comes from legal and sustainable sources. exploring opportunities to issue an environmental Ethical Trading Audit (SMETA) guidelines that set Wood Products division also continued to participate product declaration (EPD) for liquid packaging boards. standards on labour, health and safety, business ethics, in a project run by Aalto University in Finland to create and the environment, while also facilitating reporting and a standard data collection procedure for environmental Sharing information as a supplier auditing. This allows both us and our stakeholders focus product declarations, based on European and At the end of 2015 sixteen Stora Enso mills were more on making improvements. international standards. The project was completed registered in Sedex, the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange. during 2015. At the end of the year Environmental Sedex provides a platform to share information with Product Declarations became available to customers stakeholders on our compliance with the Ethical Trading using, for instance, our sawn wood and crossInitiative’s base code and other key sustainability topics laminated-timber (CLT) products. through the supply chain. Seven of these mills are also GOVERNANCE / PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 13 Governance People and Ethics People and Ethics Forestry and Land Use Environment and Efficiency Data and Assurance 14 Human rights 21 Community engagement 30 Our workforce 35 Business ethics 38 Sourcing Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 14 Governance Human rights Opportunities and challenges Our policies Respect for human rights is a top priority for Stora Enso across Operating in challenging A deep commitment our global operations. We strive to align our human rights work environments to human rights People and Ethics with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. When it comes to human rights, Stora Enso’s Stora Enso’s human rights commitment Forestry operations extend to challenging markets such covers our employees and on-site contractors, and Land Use as China, Pakistan, Laos, and Brazil. Many external suppliers of materials and services, our Environment of the human rights challenges we face are business partners, and communities near our and Efficiency deeply rooted in local society, and can only operations. Our overall sustainability agenda be effectively addressed through long-term is committed to the ten principles of the UN commitment and close cooperation with global Global Compact, including the principles on Data and and local stakeholders. human rights. Assurance The UN Guiding Principles emphasise that Relevant Stora Enso policies and statements companies have an ongoing responsibility to on human rights include: respect human rights, even where governments •• Code of Conduct, which expresses our and regulatory frameworks have gaps in respect for international human and labour adhering to human rights. They recommend rights. that companies implement human rights due •• Supplier Code of Conduct, which imposes diligence procedures that identify, assess, and strict contractual requirements on human address the human rights risks and impacts of rights on our suppliers. their operations, products, and services. •• Human Rights Statement, which expresses our respect for international and regional human rights instruments including: Human rights risks –– The UN International Bill of Human Rights are taken into account –– The core labour rights conventions of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) across our operations –– ILO Convention no. 169 on the Rights of from investment Indigenous Peoples, including the principle of Free, Prior and Informed Consent and decisions onwards. Participation –– The OECD’s Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises –– Children’s Rights and Business Principles developed by UNICEF, the UN Global Compact, and Save the Children. PEOPLE AND ETHICS / HUMAN RIGHTS Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 15 How we work Human rights assessments and action plans plantation in Laos was assessed by the non-profit Stora Enso conducted a comprehensive group-wide organisation BSR. Governance series of human rights assessments in 2014, covering By mid-2015, human rights action plans were defined Due diligence on human rights 93 operational entities in 22 countries, including all based on the findings and recommendations of the production, wood supply, and forestry operations, and human rights assessments conducted in 2014. The People Human rights risks are taken into account across our joint ventures in Brazil, Uruguay, and Pakistan. plans include group-wide actions relating to: and Ethics our operations from investment decisions onwards, The Human Rights Assessment report, consolidated •• Compliance monitoring of labour rights and the Forestry including mergers and acquisitions. Our investment by the Danish Institute for Human Rights (DIHR) was working conditions of third-party on-site staff and Land Use guidelines stipulate that environmental and social risks published in February 2015. As part of this process, Stora •• Promoting diversity and inclusion among Stora Enso’s Environment and impacts, including those related to human rights, Enso and DIHR developed a customised Human Rights workforce and Efficiency must be duly identified, assessed, and addressed prior Compliance Assessment tool covering 43 human rights •• Improving overtime practices and entry-level wages at to any investments in projects with business critical issues. some units risks. Business ethics risks and specific investments’ In countries where Stora Enso anticipated heightened •• Developing guidance and procedures for the Data and compliance with our Code of Conduct and Business human rights risks, assessments were carried out with protection of employee privacy Assurance Practice Policy are also assessed. external third-party support and site visits. In 13 units •• Ensuring opportunities for supporting and facilitating in China, Russia, Estonia, Latvia, and Poland on-site collective bargaining Environmental and social impact audits were conducted by Fair Working Conditions, •• Improving occupational health and safety practices at assessments (ESIAs) an independent non-profit organisation for labour some units Significant new investments can entail environmental rights and working conditions. In Guangxi, China, •• Strengthening grievance mechanisms and social impacts which may directly or indirectly DIHR conducted a comprehensive human rights risk •• Improving environmental and social impact cause substantial changes in local conditions, also assessment. In Pakistan an external human rights assessment procedures with regard to human rights. To map and mitigate consultant facilitated an on-site assessment. Our trial •• Enhancing policies and procedures for security these impacts, we conduct ESIAs for all new projects management that could cause significant adverse effects in local •• Continuing to implement our Supplier Code of communities. Such projects include all pulp, paper, Implementation of our Conduct board, or sawmills built on greenfield sites, industrialscale reforestation projects, and any large-scale human rights action plans •• Ensuring that all human rights impacts are considered and addressed through responsible supply chain expansions of existing facilities. is well underway, with management. One important element of any ESIA involves assessing the operational context from a human 69% of them completed Grievance and remediation mechanisms rights perspective and establishing dialogues with by the end of 2015. In accordance with the UN Guiding Principles on local residents, members of local organisations, Business and Human Rights and our own Human Rights expert researchers, and other stakeholders through Statement, Stora Enso is committed to remedy any interviews, meetings, workshops, and public hearings. situation where our activities have caused or contributed The results of ESIAs give us valuable information on to adverse human rights impacts. In circumstances how local communities will be affected by changes in where human rights violations are committed by third their socio-economic conditions and any impacts on parties with links to Stora Enso, we strive to use our cultural heritage, while also setting out implications for influence together with relevant stakeholders to ensure community health, safety, and security. that those impacts are remedied. PEOPLE AND ETHICS / HUMAN RIGHTS Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 16 A third-party-administered grievance channel is available to all our employees allowing them to report Governance instances where their rights may have been infringed, or where they have observed violations of Stora Enso’s Code of Conduct. For more information on the group’s People formal grievance mechanism, which is also open to and Ethics external stakeholders, see pages 36–37. Forestry We have established local grievance channels and Land Use for communities and other external stakeholders in Environment Guangxi, China, where they are encouraged to call an and Efficiency anonymous hotline number, write to us, visit us, or talk to our field personnel. Stora Enso’s staff are trained to distribute information about our operations in local Data and villages, and to duly process any grievances, even in Assurance cases where a village is not in any kind of business relationship with the company. Similar local grievance channels also exist for our project in Laos and our joint operations Veracel and Montes del Plata. Accountability through transparent reporting Progress on the implementation of our human rights action plans is publicised in our quarterly Interim Reviews, which also cover other human rights topics such as responsible sourcing. Progress Our achievements in human rights second quarter 2015 to address issues prioritised in the Progress on the implementation of preventive assessment findings. Action plans designed to address and remediation actions as of 31 Dec 2015 The UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights lower-priority findings were also defined by the end of the Actions encourage companies to prioritise actions designed second quarter, six months ahead of schedule. requiring Not on regular to address impacts that are severe or can become Implementation of our human rights action plans is Completed On track track review 1) irremediable if action is delayed. Stora Enso adopted well underway, with 69% of them completed by the end Implementation this approach when setting action plans based on the of 2015. Examples of country-specific actions that have progress, % of all actions 69% 14% 12% 5% group-wide Human Rights Assessment results. We met been of special interest to our stakeholders in 2015 are 1) Longer-term actions without a targeted end-date that require continuous review. our target to have actions planned by the end of the described on the following pages. PEOPLE AND ETHICS / HUMAN RIGHTS Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 17 Guangxi, China cooperation with the Centre for Child Rights and During 2015 the non-profit organisation BSR Stora Enso’s operations in Guangxi consist of tree Corporate Social Responsibility (CCR CSR) supported the implementation of a range of human Governance plantations and the construction site of a consumer •• Ensuring compliance with Stora Enso’s antirights actions in Guangxi. BSR also conducted a board mill in the municipality of Beihai. Stora Enso corruption and bribery policies and procedures in mill thorough review of each of the findings set out in owns 83% of the project, the International Finance construction and land contracting. DIHR’s human rights risk scoping. These findings have People Corporation has a 5% shareholding, and the remainder been incorporated into our human rights action plan and Ethics is owned by Guangxi Forestry Group Co Ltd and Beihai In addition, we have continued to implement our major for Guangxi. BSR also supported the implementation Forestry Forestry Investment and Development Company, two land contract correction programme in Guangxi (for of some actions, including the increased inclusion and Land Use state-owned organisations. Production at the mill is more details see pages 47–48). of women and minorities in community engagement Environment scheduled to start in mid-2016. The mill is expected During 2015 the mill construction project focused on processes, and assurance of Free, Prior, and Informed and Efficiency to employ some 270 people by the end of 2016, and safe working conditions (for more details see page 31) Consent for land contracting and contract management the total operations will generate about 1 000 jobs in and respect for the human rights of workers and local procedures. We also worked with the Netherlands Guangxi, mainly in forestry operations. Sustainability is communities. Centre for Indigenous Peoples on these issues. For Data and a prerequisite for the success of these investments. more information see pages 22–23. Assurance Key issues identified in the human rights assessment for Guangxi include: •• Improving security arrangements •• Enhancing log loading and transportation •• Ensuring responsible procurement procedures related to the mill construction •• Addressing human rights issues for migrant workers in contractors’ operations •• Ensuring decent living conditions for contractors’ employees in forestry camps and on the mill construction site •• Managing risks related to corruption and bribery. The 2015 action plan covers: •• Human rights training for security service providers •• The development of a Transportation Impact Management Plan •• Implementation of our Supplier Code of Conduct and Responsible Sourcing Programme •• Auditing and enforcing decent living standards in contractors’ camps •• Advancing children’s rights among migrant families working for Stora Enso’s forestry contractors in PEOPLE AND ETHICS / HUMAN RIGHTS Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 18 Pakistan Bulleh Shah Packaging’s direct suppliers of domestic During 2015 seventeen cases of child labour or Stora Enso has a 35% shareholding in Bulleh Shah fibre and agricultural by-products young workers employed in contravention of ILO Governance Packaging (Private) Limited in Pakistan, which we own 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 conventions were confirmed in the operations of BSP’s together with the Pakistani company Packages Limited. Number of direct active suppliers1 335 143 suppliers of wheat straw, corn stalk, spare parts and The joint venture was formed in 2013. Bulleh Shah is Annual audit coverage (%)2 45% 87% waste paper (13 during 2014). Eleven cases (12) were People Pakistan’s largest fibre-based packaging producer, and identified in BSP’s own audits and six cases (1) in and Ethics 1 As of 1 January 2015, the definition of active suppliers was changed to cover all the country’s only liquid packaging board producer. The suppliers Bulleh Shah Packaging had financial transactions with during 2014. the audits by SGS. Child labour is unacceptable for Forestry company’s offices and production facilities are located Together with the addition of new suppliers, this increased the number of Stora Enso and BSP. The hiring of children violates suppliers in the active supplier base in 2015. and Land Use in Lahore, Karachi, and Kasur in Punjab Province. suppliers’ contractual obligations under BSP’s 2 The share of direct suppliers of old corrugated cardboard (OCC) and agricultural Environment The action plan developed in 2015 for Bulleh Shah by-products that are audited during the calendar year. Excluding institutional OCC Supplier Sustainability Requirements. These suppliers and Efficiency Packaging (BSP) is based on key issues identified in the suppliers identified as low risk. were immediately instructed to take corrective action related human rights assessment: in accordance with BSP’s Child Labour Remediation •• Child labour in supply chains During 2015 BSP’s audit team conducted a total Policy. The policy requires suppliers to find a long-term Data and •• Human rights training for security service providers of 395 supplier audits (267 during 2014). Out of all the solution for the child and the family in the best interest Assurance •• Grievance mechanisms audits 293 (169) were audits of suppliers of recycled of the child, including facilitating access to school. •• Training regarding workplace harassment and paper products (old corrugated cardboard) and All of the suppliers involved in these cases were discrimination agricultural by-products, mainly consisting of wheat re-audited within two months, and as a result, one •• Implementation of BSP’s Supplier Sustainability straw and corn stalks (169), including 20 follow-up supplier contract was terminated. Requirements audits in 2015. The company also audits second tier •• Reviews of contractors’ wages and working sub-suppliers of agricultural by-products. Out of all Public-private partnership with ILO conditions. the audits of agricultural by-product suppliers 123 (44) In April 2015 Stora Enso signed a public-private were audits of sub-suppliers. partnership with the International Labour Organisation During 2015 we made progress on actions initiated to In addition to the audits conducted by BSP’s in-hou­se (ILO) to strengthen Stora Enso’s global policy, to address these needs and we are on track to complete audit team, the external assurance provider SGS realised promote decent work, and to combat child labour in the them during 2016. 30 further third-party audits during 2015 (21). supply chain of Bulleh Shah Packaging in Pakistan. The root causes of child labour and other human rights violations in Pakistan include widespread READ MORE poverty, the lack of formal employment opportunities, Decent work for all ineffective law enforcement, and a lack of awareness of human rights. Bulleh Shah Packaging does not “Employers have a unique role in assuring labour employ children it is own operations and does not rights in supply chains,” says Benjamin Smith from accept child labour in its suppliers’ operations. BSP the International Labour Organisation (ILO). has put processes in place to identify and mitigate Stora Enso has signed a unique partnership with the child labour in the operations of its direct suppliers. By ILO to find new ways to promote decent work globally the end of 2015 all of Bulleh Shah Packaging’s direct and to combat child labour in Pakistan. fibre and agricultural by-product suppliers and 99% of all direct suppliers in the country had signed BSP’s Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability Supplier Sustainability Requirements. PEOPLE AND ETHICS / HUMAN RIGHTS Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 19 Although Bulleh Shah Packaging rigorously Although the study did not determine that the families the findings of this study can support ILO’s formative audits its direct business partners and second-tier interviewed work in Bulleh Shah Packaging's supply research under the partnership. Governance biomass sub-suppliers, child labour continues to be a chains, Stora Enso considers it likely, as the study problem in the communities where BSP sources raw substantiates the findings of the 2014 human rights Veracel, Brazil materials. As this issue cannot be addressed solely assessments. According to the assessments, there is Veracel, our 50/50 joint operation with the Brazilian People through auditing, BSP has resolved to adopt a more potential that bonded labour exists in BSP's agricultural company Fibria, runs a state-of-the-art pulp mill and and Ethics comprehensive approach through the ILO partnership. supply chains. eucalyptus plantations in southern Bahia, Brazil. Forestry The ILO will support BSP’s efforts to systematically Stora Enso will seek to address these findings Veracel’s community engagement work focuses on land and Land Use address the issue of child labour through research through the Public-Private Partnership with the ILO; ownership and land use, and local social development. Environment into root causes, community-level awareness-raising one of the objectives of the partnership is to look into Veracel’s large-scale land ownership and the consequent and Efficiency measures, and capacity building among suppliers, the root causes of child labour in BSP’s supply chain. rises in land prices have been a major concern among families and young workers, aiming to combat child The ILO will carry out formative field research in 2016 some stakeholders. We strive to engage actively with labour and promote decent work. For more information that will further map and investigate the issue in order local stakeholders, to be an active member of local Data and about our responsible sourcing and community to design and implement mitigation interventions. communities, and to help to address these challenges. Assurance engagement work see pages 38–41 and 21–29 Stora Enso will consult with the ILO to determine how The human rights assessment findings for Veracel respectively. particularly recommended: In 2015 Stora Enso, Bulleh Shah Packaging and ILO launched the collaboration by agreeing to commission formative research using ILO methodology to examine READ labour practices in local supply chains within the MORE communities where BSP sources goods and services. Investing in children’s rights This research particularly aims to investigate the extent of child labour in the urban informal waste paper “Companies impact children’s lives in many ways,” recycling sector and in the rural communities that says Sanna Vesikansa, Advocacy and Policy supply agricultural by-products to the paper and board Adviser at Save the Children Finland. “It is vital that industry. In early 2016 the collaboration parties will they respect the rights of those who cannot fend for meet to agree on next actions. themselves.” Stora Enso has been working with Save In 2015, BSP also commissioned a study from the Children since July 2014 to make children’s rights independent consultants on child labour within the a more integrated part of our strategy and operations. agriculture sector around BSP’s biomass collection Save the Children has been a “critical friend”, giving centers in Pakistan. The key results of the study honest feedback on various Stora Enso policies and confirm that child labour is very prevalent in the areas making recommendations on how to improve them. around BSP’s biomass collection centers due to high poverty levels; parents’ illiteracy and lack of offRead the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability farm work skills; parents being indebted to landlords resulting in bonded labour for families; hereditary labour relationships; and lack of interventions that could prevent exploitation. PEOPLE AND ETHICS / HUMAN RIGHTS Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 20 •• Further monitoring of compliance with our Supplier of which 2 332 are planted with eucalyptus. Stora Enso International Finance Corporation (IFC), a member Code of Conduct Laos has approximately 140 employees. of the World Bank Group. This enables the IFC to Governance •• Human rights training for security personnel The main findings of the human rights assessment assist our operations in stakeholder identification •• Improvements in the monitoring of on-site contractors in Laos identified the need to: and land licensing processes, so as to improve land •• Measures to address landless movements’ claims and •• Formalise local hire contracts to prevent discrimination management and community consultation, and ensure People counterclaims related to land rights and the employment of underage workers that local communities’ Free, Prior and Informed and Ethics •• Steps to increase awareness of Veracel’s formal •• Create new internal and external grievance Consent is duly obtained where applicable. Forestry grievance mechanism in local communities. mechanisms We also responded to the assessment’s findings by and Land Use •• Improve land leasing procedures launching a new formal corporate grievance channel, Environment To address these findings, Veracel has commenced •• Enhance stakeholder engagement to ensure informed accessible to our own employees and to external and Efficiency implementation of a human rights action plan that community consultation and participation, including stakeholders, and by initiating the development of an involves restructuring and realising a programme to Free, Prior, and Informed Consent where applicable additional local grievance mechanism. We additionally monitor on-site contractors; initiating human rights •• Enhance safety practices worked with BSR to calculate living wage levels to Data and training for security staff; continuing to implement •• Ensure that workers receive a living wage. ensure that our workers in Laos receive adequate Assurance Veracel’s Code of Conduct for suppliers; improving salaries (for more details see page 33). Further actions grievance mechanisms; and continuing to implement a To address these findings Stora Enso Laos signed designed to address the human rights assessment Sustainable Settlements Initiative for land disputes. an advisory services agreement in 2015 with the findings will be completed in 2016. Veracel has been criticised in the past on issues related to landless people’s social movements and the rights of indigenous peoples. For more information on Veracel’s human rights work and engagement with indigenous communities see pages 24–26. Veracel maintains good relations with the 22 Pataxó and three Tupinambás communities located around its operations, and supports programmes designed to strengthen their cultural identity. Local indigenous communities are currently calling for the expansion of the Barra Velha Indian Reserve. The reserve’s extension would encompass hundreds of land properties, including 3 219 hectares of land acquired by Veracel before the indigenous peoples first made claim to the land. This case is currently being processed in the regional federal court, and Veracel is committed to fully comply with the court’s decision. Laos In Laos, Stora Enso is continuing to develop a trial plantation encompassing 3 900 hectares of plantations, PEOPLE AND ETHICS / HUMAN RIGHTS Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 21 Governance Community engagement Opportunities and challenges Our mills and forestry operations are often located near rural communities that form one Partnering with local communities of our most important stakeholder groups. We aim to increase Stora Enso’s competitiveness People while at the same time promoting economic, environmental, and social improvements in We are a major employer, tax-payer, and partner for and Ethics local entrepreneurs in many localities. To ensure that these communities and along our value chain. Forestry our production, raw material sourcing, and labour and Land Use supply are both sustainable and competitive, it is crucial Environment that the rural communities which we depend on thrive and Efficiency economically, socially, and environmentally. Our mills are heavily dependent on energy and raw materials, and they generate emissions that may impact Data and adjoining communities. Our tree plantations in China, Assurance Brazil, and Uruguay influence local land use, livelihoods, and ecosystems. Our socio-environmental impacts must be managed responsibly, in order to maximise their positive influence, maintain cooperative community relations, and ensure our long-term license to operate. In Finland and Sweden, where our presence is particularly significant, we operate as part of vital regional forest clusters. Procuring wood as raw material for our mills also creates value for everyone within these clusters, including forest-owners, wood supply intermediaries, local entrepreneurs, and logistics providers. In Continental Europe, where paper for recycling (PfR) is an important raw material for our mills, we strive to create value by working in partnership with PfR suppliers, the public sector, and non-governmental organisations who promote recycling. Restructuring and closing down operations creates problems not only for our employees, but often also for the affected communities as a whole. Responsible restructuring practices can support these communities through the related changes and create opportunities for new business initiatives. PEOPLE AND ETHICS / COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 22 Our policies How we work Progress Governance A comprehensive approach Managing social and Focus on communities in growth markets to community engagement environmental impacts People Stora Enso’s operations generate value for governments and Ethics Relevant policies that guide our community relations In response to the potential impacts that our activities and communities around the world through the taxes we Forestry include: may have on neighbouring communities, our operations pay. In 2015 Stora Enso paid more than EUR 1 billion to and Land Use •• Code of Conduct have implemented various precautionary management the public sector including EUR 792 million in collected Environment •• Social Responsibility Guidelines actions. These include: taxes. For more information about our tax policy, our tax and Efficiency •• Stakeholder Guidelines •• Environmental and social impact assessments (ESIAs) footprint, and the wider economic impact of taxes see •• Human Rights Statement conducted for all new projects that could cause our Progress Book. •• Tax Policy. significant adverse effects in local communities. Such During 2015 we engaged with the communities Data and projects include all greenfield pulp, paper, or board mills, around our operations through community events, public Assurance Our joint ventures have developed or are in the process large greenfield sawmills, industrial-scale reforestation hearings, round tables, and open house events at our of developing formal procedures for their community projects, and any large-scale expansions of existing units (for more details of our stakeholder engagement engagement work. facilities. For more information see page 15. work see pages 9–10). Our community investment work •• Due diligence assessments which are invariably realised has particularly focused on locations outside Europe as part of Stora Enso’s acquisition and investment where Stora Enso or our joint ventures have operations. processes. Conducted prior to any investment Below we report on progress in the locations that have decision, these assessments cover relevant factors most interested our stakeholders in 2015. related to environmental, social, and business practice issues. They play an important role in building our Guangxi, China understanding of local operating environments, while Engagement with local stakeholders is a key element of also helping us to build constructive relationships with our everyday field operations. Our field staff and social stakeholders such as governments, business partners, engagement officers speak regularly with members of local communities, and NGOs. Any subsequent communities in the vicinity of our plantations and mill investment decision must take due account of our ability site, to inform them about Stora Enso’s operations and to mitigate and manage any identified adverse impacts. to enable them to express their concerns and contribute •• Applying environmental management systems such as ideas. ISO 14001 for our production units We strive to ensure that our work promotes gender •• Sustainable forest management certification of our inclusivity, and that less vocal villagers are also own forestry operations and suppliers consulted. During 2015 we continued to work with the •• Investments in capacity building and local sourcing, Netherlands Centre for Indigenous Peoples in Guangxi local nature conservation, agroforestry programmes, to assess and improve the process of community and socio-economic development projects in local consultation, including Free, Prior, and Informed communities Consent where applicable. For more information about •• Restructuring processes planned in cooperation with our work on human rights and indigenous communities the authorities. see pages 14–20. PEOPLE AND ETHICS / COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 23 During 2015 we further enhanced our structured and Guangxi in numbers systematic community engagement work in Guangxi. Stora Enso’s operations in Guangxi consist of local tree plantations and Governance Work began on the creation of an ISO 26000 social Stora Enso and Kemira a consumer board mill currently under construction in the municipality of Beihai. Production at the mill is scheduled to start in mid-2016. responsibility management system, in cooperation with carried out pilot projects the non-profit organisation BSR. We aim to implement 2015 2014 People the new system in 2016. in Guangxi to address Direct employment and Ethics We have also continued to support local villages local water concerns. Stora Enso employees 1 176 1 122 Forestry around our plantations through our Community Total remuneration for Stora Enso employees (EUR 31.9 23.1 million) and Land Use Development Fund. In 2015 we improved the community Lost-time accident rate for Stora Enso employees¹ 2.0 1.7 Environment development funding application process by making it Contractor management in forestry operations and Efficiency more streamlined and transparent. Funding amounting Number of contractors 121 138 to EUR 132 000 (EUR 164 000 in 2014) was allocated Number of contractor employees2 2 499 1 562 to a total of 62 projects in 59 villages across Guangxi Stora Enso has also calculated a wider figure for Lost-time accident rate for contractor workers in 4.8 9.8 Data and (92 projects in 67 villages), including the development Impacted People, which includes people who have forestry operations3 Assurance of infrastructure, sanitation facilities, and support for lost part of their land but still possess more than 0.3 Contractor management in mill construction schools. mus of land. The total number of Impacted People is Number of contractors 22 26 For 2016 our target is to further develop pre7 670. Although Stora Enso is not directly involved in the Contractor employees4 5 801 490 investment screening mechanisms, including impact relocation process, we have maintained a continuous Lost-time accidents affecting contractor workers in 0 0 analysis, to better determine the impacts of our dialogue with the people most affected, and offered mill construction investments on local communities and on the company. them support through a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) Community engagement that aims to help them improve their livelihoods. Investment in social programmes (EUR million) 0.8 0.5 Resettlement Action Plan This plan has been implemented together with 1 Number of lost-time accidents per one million hours worked. 2 Working hours estimates converted to full-time equivalents. Forestry contractors’ As a result of local industrial development in the the local authorities and the Beihai Civil Volunteer employees worked an estimated 4 917 065 hours during 2015. 3 Number of accidents per one million hours worked based on the working hours Tieshangang Industrial Zone, approximately 6 000 Association. The RAP has three main focuses: estimate. people have been relocated from their previous •• Education of local children and young people, 4 Working hours estimates converted to full-time equivalents. Contractors’ employees worked an estimated 11 416 295 hours during 2015. homes to nearby locations, with new housing and including financial support for a nursery school and compensation offered by the authorities. Of these the education of schoolchildren and students aged people, 1 236 were displaced from Stora Enso’s mill 6–21 engagement. This project aimed to find new solutions construction site. Including people relocated from •• Helping people to improve their livelihoods by for responsible water management through stakeholder adjoining areas acquired by the authorities for roadproviding job training, hiring locally, and supporting surveys, community work, and related capacity building. building, this number rises to 1 530 people classified local business development The project brought together Kemira’s wide-ranging as Relocated People. In addition to supporting these •• Supporting the Relocated People with land tenure knowhow on water chemistry, Stora Enso’s expertise Relocated People, Stora Enso also supports and related documentation. on tree plantation management, and local communities’ monitors the wellbeing of people who have lost part of practical knowledge and experiences related to water their land and are left with less than 0.3 mus of land (a Responsible water stewardship issues in Guangxi. “mu” is a local unit of area equal to 0.02 hectares). This Stora Enso and the chemicals company Kemira ran Based on the project’s baseline study carried out in means we are helping a total of 2 332 people classed as a joint project in Guangxi in 2013–2015 to promote 2014, Stora Enso and Kemira launched pilot projects Affected People, including the Relocated People. responsible water management through community in local villages to address specific concerns such as PEOPLE AND ETHICS / COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 24 sewage treatment, drinking water supply, livelihood Work continued on a related Sustainable Settlement Veracel in numbers support, irrigation water supply, and community water Initiative launched in 2012 to provide farming land and Veracel, our 50/50 joint operation company with the Brazilian company Fibria, runs a state-of-the-art pulp mill and eucalyptus plantations in Governance plant management. Three villages in different locations technical and educational support to help hundreds southern Bahia, Brazil. Veracel owns 216 000 hectares of land, of which and geographical conditions, Nahupo, Shengping, and of local families improve their incomes. This initiative approximately half is dedicated to rainforest preservation, and leases 12 000 hectares of land. Baimei, were chosen as project sites. is facilitated by the Government of the State of Bahia 2015 2014 People Construction of water management solutions, through the Secretariat of Rural Development (SDR), and Ethics Employment including pipes and artificial wetlands, began in April and conducted in cooperation with landless people’s Veracel’s own employees 700 692 Forestry 2015. During the six-month construction phase, a total social movements and the INCRA. Contractors’ employees 2 244 2 212 and Land Use of 12.7 kilometres of water and sewage piping were Through this initiative the social movements have Remuneration, Veracel employees 14 15 Environment laid, three artificial wetlands were created, three water pledged to leave areas occupied since July 2011, while (EUR million) and Efficiency storage tanks were built, and Shengping’s water supply Veracel has agreed not to seek to repossess areas Tax payments (EUR million)¹ 22 27 facilities were remodelled. The pilot projects have occupied before that date. The initiative relates to a total Local sourcing (EUR million)² 143 142 benefited nearly 2 600 villagers. Altogether 43 local of 16 500 hectares of Veracel’s lands designated for the Agroforestry activities Data and people were employed by the projects, generating a settlements, including 14 000 hectares covered by the Partner farmers in the Forest Producer 93 87 Assurance total income of EUR 60 000. recent negotiations and 2 500 hectares covered by an Programme Training on the optimal use of the new facilities and earlier agreement with MST. In terms of the number of Partner farmers with certified tree plantations 79 83 equipment was provided during June–September. people assisted and its geographical scope this will be Honey producers on the company’s land 128 171 Additional training on the efficient use of village water the most significant land reform project realised in Brazil 1 Including federal, state, and municipal taxes and pension and social security payments. resources was also provided. The goal is to help the over the last 25 years. 2 Sourcing from suppliers in the state of Bahia. villagers initiate and maintain new, long-term sources of income. READ In addition to the pilot projects, Stora Enso organised MORE water testing and monitoring events in the region to raise A family farm affair awareness of factors affecting water quality. For more information see the project’s website. The Roça do Povo (“The People’s Farmlands”) project began in 2008 as an effort to boost the Veracel, Brazil growing and further processing of cassava, and to During 2015 Veracel continued to engage in dialogue increase the incomes of farming families living near with the Government of the State of Bahia, the National Veracel’s plantations. Today the project has grown Institute of Colonisation and Agrarian Reform (INCRA), considerably from its initial scale, and created jobs and the representatives of landless people’s social for about 500 people, making farming the most movements including: important source of income in the community. •• The Movement of Landless Workers (MST) •• The Federation of Agricultural Workers (Fetag) Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability •• The Movement for the Struggle for Land (MLT) •• The Peasant Resistance Movement (MRC) •• The Front of Free Workers (FTL) •• The Association Unidos Venceremos (Aprunve). PEOPLE AND ETHICS / COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 25 Compensation for the land transfers will be paid to by the Federation of Family Agriculture Workers of family farming by forming associations for small Veracel by INCRA in line with Brazilian legislation. During (FETRAF). Stora Enso also reports on this additional producers and indigenous communities. Governance the second quarter of 2015 the Agricultural College of occupied area in the sustainability section of the group’s Veracel also enables local beekeepers to keep their the University of São Paulo completed an assessment Interim Reviews. hives on the company’s land and supports local honey of the areas where the sustainable settlements would be production financially. In 2015, a total of 128 honey People established. This assessment also included studies of Supporting family farming producers, mostly working through local cooperatives, and Ethics regional markets for agricultural products, with the aim In 2012 Veracel launched a major initiative together benefitted from this support, producing a total of more Forestry of ensuring that in the future, farming livelihoods will be with the state government, known as the Pact for than 132 tonnes of honey and 0.2 tonnes of pollen. and Land Use economically, environmentally, and socially sustainable the Development of the Discovery Coast. Under this The Agrovida family farming programme was launched Environment for settlement residents. agreement the government has committed to reimburse in 2009 as a pilot project in the community of Ponto and Efficiency At the end of 2015, additional areas of Veracel’s land Veracel ICMS tax credits paid by the company between Central in the municipality of Santa Cruz Cabrália. The totaling 5 461 hectares (2 219 hectares at the end of 2011 and 2015, in return for a commitment made to project aims to produce food for the community and to 2014) were occupied by landless people’s movements invest in local development programmes. trade surplus production in regional markets, especially for Data and not involved in the Sustainable Settlement Initiative. The With investments of EUR 135 000 in 2015 (EUR 24 000 use in school lunches and municipal institutions. Assurance repossession of these areas is being sought through in 2014 and EUR 319 000 in 2013), the pact is benefitting To scale up this programme, Veracel has proposed legal processes. The occupied area increased during family farmers in several communities near Veracel. The a new participatory concept, where areas of Veracel’s the first quarter of 2015 mainly due to new occupations Pact’s projects contribute to the sustainable development land are contractually assigned to each neighbourhood association. Veracel additionally provides knowhow on how intercropping enables other crops such as cassava, beans, corn, and squash to be grown together with eucalyptus trees. This initiative has been developed together with the regional Forest Dialogue, which brings local stakeholders together to discuss topics related to forestry. By the end of 2015 the Agrovida initiative involved 71 farmers cultivating 102 hectares. Addressing social issues among young people In 2013 Veracel began cooperation with the NGO Instituto Mãe Terra on a project designed to train local young people to act as agents for local development in their communities. The project will help them to network and gain support from partners and public policies. The training has covered topics such as citizenship, human rights, education, environment, community development, drugs, violence, sexuality, family issues, and information technology. Most of these young people have also been trained to participate as volunteers in the Monitoring Network for Transport, which maps the needs of communities PEOPLE AND ETHICS / COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 26 regarding local investment opportunities that could while also working closely with the NGO Tribo Jovens and to rehouse 50 families from a local shantytown improve local infrastructure. to improve the conditions of indigenous people. This that was affected by floods. More than 400 families Governance Since 2013, Stora Enso and Veracel have been cooperation programme has been fostering social, applied for the Colonia houses. 279 were selected in working together with the NGO Childhood to combat economic, and environmental development since 2006. accordance with social conditions established by the child abuse and exploitation in nearby municipalities. local authorities, and 99 houses were allocated through People This cooperation, also involving the NGO Tribo Jovens, Montes del Plata, Uruguay a lottery. and Ethics has become part of the wider Territory of Protection Montes del Plata, a 50/50 joint operation between During 2015 Montes del Plata also made progress Forestry Programme, which is facilitated by Veracel. The Stora Enso and the Chilean company Arauco, runs on the construction of 30 houses in the nearby town and Land Use programme brings together government initiatives, private a state-of-the art 1.3 million tonne pulp mill at Punta of Carmelo as part of a commitment agreed with the Environment companies, and civil society projects aiming to promote Pereira in Colonia, southwestern Uruguay, together with Ministry of Housing, Land Planning, and Environment, and Efficiency and defend the human rights of children and adolescents. associated eucalyptus plantations. During its first year to provide homes for needy families. Some 80% of the In 2014 and 2015 the programme was extended to of full operations in 2015 Montes del Plata continued housing project is now ready. the tourism sector, as especially during the carnival strategic, long-term efforts to develop the local Montes del Plata and the Uruguayan water authority Data and season many tourists visit the city of Porto Seguro, workforce and local communities. signed an agreement to realise three infrastructural Assurance 50 kilometres from Veracel Mill. During 2015 the developments in Colonia: wastewater treatment plants training of professionals continued, and a new Steering Social investment in housing, roads, and water treatment in the communities of Colonia del Sacramento and Committee to Combat Sexual Violence was created to During 2015 the local authorities of Colonia Department Conchillas, and a drinking water purification plant to bring together representatives from the departments of continued to assign almost 100 housing units donated supply Conchillas and nearby towns. All three projects Social Welfare, Education, and Health, and various other by Montes del Plata to local families in need. The have been advancing, with financing from Montes del local stakeholders. housing units, which had been constructed for workers Plata. during the industrial complex construction, have been During 2015 Montes del Plata collaborated with the Engaging with indigenous communities sold by the authorities to families who pay for them in national roads authority on the maintenance of a section Veracel continues to engage actively with the area’s small instalments. The resulting payments have been of National Route N°55. Montes del Plata has also indigenous Pataxó and Tupinambás communities, used to create a local fund for future housing plans implemented improvements along the same road under an agreement with the national environmental authority, READ including better pavements, speed-reducers, new road MORE lighting, and traffic lights. Stora Enso awarded for Furniture earlier used in construction workers’ lodging social responsibility in Brazil centres has meanwhile been passed on to Uruguayan organisations for donation to needy families. In May 2015, Stora Enso received a prestigious responsibility award in the Brazilian Congress for Active stakeholder dialogues and grievance mechanisms our social responsibility actions in Bahia, Brazil. Montes del Plata maintains active dialogues with The Premio Neide Castanha Award was granted to local communities and other stakeholders through an initiative that combats child exploitation. various channels, including face-to-face meetings and communications disseminated via the national, regional, Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability and local media. The Good Neighbour Programme aims to ensure that communities in areas affected by forestry operations PEOPLE AND ETHICS / COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 27 become better acquainted with Montes del Plata and joint operation´s own employees, the employees’ of opportunities, maximising local hiring, developing its activities, and form a positive relationship with the contractors and suppliers, and members of local databases to connect local job-seekers with other Governance company. This encourages them to approach the communities. All submitted claims are handled by companies, and promoting further education and an company with any possible concerns or complaints. Montes del Plata’s Ethics Committee, and anyone entrepreneurial spirit among local youngsters. The anonymous Ethics Channel complaint submitting claims may track them online using a specific Montes del Plata is also involved in long-term People mechanism on the company’s website enables code. actions designed to support primary schools and high and Ethics stakeholders to bring up topics related to Montes del Montes del Plata has also continued working on schools in neighbouring municipalities, and encourage Forestry Plata’s Code of Ethics and Conduct. This channel initiatives designed to improve local conditions in the young people to continue their education. These and Land Use has been well publicised and is available to our community around the pulp mill. In 2015 the company initiatives include mill visits and face-to-face talks with Environment restored an area formerly used for the storage of professionals from various sectors. Montes del Plata and Efficiency dredging material, converting it into a 14-hectare public also participates in various collaborative schemes park. The company has also collaborated actively with designed to promote entrepreneurship and science other community projects, such as the El Palenque among local young people. Data and Native Society Project, which aims to improve local Assurance recreational developments. During 2015 Montes del Focusing on road safety Plata and the Colonia government also supported a During 2015 Montes del Plata continued to mitigate the project enabling local residents and schoolchildren to potential negative impacts of mill and forestry operations choose official names for their local streets. Montes del Plata runs the Bioparque M’Bopicuá, which includes a visitor centre and 150 hectares of land Montes del Plata in numbers used to breed endangered species and other animals for Montes del Plata, our 50/50 joint operation with the Chilean company Arauco, runs a state-of-the art 1.3 million tonne pulp mill at Punta Pereira eventual return to their wild natural habitats. The centre in southwestern Uruguay, together with associated eucalyptus promotes environmental education, enabling visitors to plantations. The pulp mill started production in 2014. Montes del Plata owns 190 000 hectares of land and leases 46 000 hectares of land. experience native wildlife at first hand, and learn how ecosystems function. The biopark welcomed more than 2015 2014 1 600 visitors in 2015. Employment Montes del Plata´s own employees 668 661 Productive integration Contractors´ employees 3 137 2 590 As part of its vision of sustainable growth Montes Number of local suppliers¹ 188 2422 del Plata has continued to create strategic alliances Agroforestry activities with local rural producers. More than 300 producers Partner farmers in the Forest Producer 308 258 Programme have enabled forestry plantations on their lands to be Honey producers on the company´s land 31 26 leased and managed by Montes del Plata. For more Cattle farmers on the company´s land 180 177 details about this cooperation and the related Alianzas Hectares of company land used for cattle grazing 135 386 139 119 programme see page 47. Social programmes Positive impacts through employment Investment in social programmes (EUR million) 0.4 0.4 1 Local suppliers in the Department of Colonia, where Montes del Plata Mill is Montes del Plata seeks to create positive impacts situated. in local communities by fostering employment 2 Restated due to reporting errors. PEOPLE AND ETHICS / COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 28 and wood transportation by running road safety and Plata to follow up on safety indicators and emphasise human rights violations including child labour are prevalent community health programmes. the need for permanent improvement. in the agricultural sector in Pakistan, and also exist in the Governance Since 2014 Montes del Plata has been developing The company’s transport system involves the recycled fibre collection in urban areas. This has also been a strategy for long-term sustainable transport, and a constant satellite tracking of the fleet to ensure seen as a major concern by our stakeholders. comprehensive action plan involving forest drivers, drivers´ compliance regarding routes, speed limits, As a part of Stora Enso’s ILO partnership in Pakistan, People transport companies, and local communities. Montes and mandatory rests. This allows Montes del Plata to preparations for the launch of a formative community and Ethics del Plata carefully trains all drivers before they start to sanction non-compliers and identify best-performers. study to examine labour practices were made in late Forestry work for the company, with high quality support from The methodology for identifying vulnerable locations 2015. The study particularly focuses on child labour in and Land Use the Roadway Safety and Education Institute. Quarterly has been developed to help address the main impacts the urban informal waste paper recycling sector and in Environment workshops are organised for the approximately 700 of traffic generated by Montes del Plata. Based on these the rural communities that supply biomass to the paper and Efficiency truck drivers, and regular meetings are held with the findings, the company has run workshops in selected and board industry. For more information about the ILO owners of the transport companies serving Montes del communities to build awareness of traffic safety issues. partnership see pages 18–19. Stora Enso supports six schools in cooperation with Data and The Ethos group – addressing the mill’s local impacts the Pakistani non-governmental organisation IdaraAssurance A working group named Ethos, composed of the e-Taleem-o-Aagahi. By the end of 2015, all of the 640 mill manager, the production manager, the mill’s children previously identified as child workers were environment manager, and the social sustainability attending the schools. The children are enabled to attend team, meets periodically to improve the management school for up to eight years. We are also working to of odour and noise impacts that affect localities near improve the marketable abilities and life skills of local the mill. Their approach encourages everyone in the parents and young workers. surrounding communities to help the company by using their ears and noses to facilitate the early detection of any problems at the mill. Bulleh Shah Packaging, Pakistan Bulleh Shah Packaging in numbers Bulleh Shah Packaging (BSP) sources various Stora Enso has a 35% shareholding in Bulleh Shah Packaging (Private) raw materials, such as fibre, chemicals, fillers, and Limited, which we own together with the Pakistani company Packages Limited. Bulleh Shah Packaging is Pakistan’s largest fibre-based agricultural by-products, mostly from Pakistani markets. packaging producer, and the country’s only liquid packaging board The domestic fibre used for packaging production producer. The company’s operations are located in Lahore, Karachi, and Kasur in Punjab Province. consists of recycled paper and board, and agricultural by-products such as wheat straw. The recycled paper 2015 2014 and board is largely sourced from post-consumer Employment sources, i.e. vendors who procure it from suppliers, who Bulleh Shah Packaging employees 1 121 1 102 in turn typically source it from shops and households. Contractors’ employees¹ 2 005 1 999 Wheat straw is an agricultural by-product of wheat School support initiative farming sourced from vendors, who collect it from farms. Number of children in school programme 640 125 For BSP, ensuring responsible supply chain Number of schools 6 2 management in the sourcing of domestic fibre and 1 Contractors’ employees working on-site at the production facilities in Kasur and Karachi, and at the collection sites for agricultural by-products. agricultural by-products is a top priority, not least because PEOPLE AND ETHICS / COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 29 allocated during 2015 (EUR 168 000 during 2014) was Stora Enso is supporting directed to infrastructure projects such as electricity Governance and water supply connections, road upgrading, and six schools in Pakistan. purchases of livestock to enhance food security. These projects have been designed together with the People villagers according to their needs and requirements, and Ethics Bulleh Shah Packaging runs a maternity and child in line with Stora Enso’s guidelines. Forestry healthcare clinic near its mill in Kasur. The clinic serves and Land Use women and children in the surrounding communities Chennai, India Environment with an annual budget of about EUR 12 000. In June 2015 Stora Enso announced the permanent and Efficiency Other community engagement actions taken in 2015 closure of the group’s corrugated packaging converting included preparations for launching a mobile health care unit in Chennai, India, due to long-term unprofitability clinic in 2016 in collaboration with Yunus Center at AIT and a major decrease in local market demand. The Data and (Asian Institute of Technology) and Shalimar Hospital to packaging unit in Chennai came into Stora Enso’s Assurance provide basic services to local communities. ownership in July 2011, when the group acquired 51% of Inpac International in China. Laos The mill closure involved negotiations with the local In Laos, Stora Enso has continued to develop a trial employees’ union. The mill had employed 350 people, plantation concept that combines tree-growing with who received compensation and other support including food production. The company’s trial plantations training, medical care, and assistance in finding new encompass 3 900 hectares of plantations, of which employment. The non-profit BSR provided advice on a 2 332 are planted with eucalyptus. Stora Enso Laos has responsible closure plan. approximately 140 employees. Chennai is one of the fastest growing metropolitan In Laos, our focus is on supporting the communities cities in India. Its growth has triggered large-scale who work with us. Our technical staff make regular visits migration, and many children live in the city’s slums to partner communities to establish and maintain open or on its streets. To make a positive contribution dialogues with villagers. The company also organises on our departure, Stora Enso provided support for excursions that enable farmers to meet and visit other Save the Children’s work in Chennai, which aims to farmers, discuss local issues, and exchange their ideas improve children’s quality of life, enhance the life skills and experiences in relation to the agroforestry model we of adolescents, make communities and caregivers are promoting in Laos. This engagement also enables more sensitive to children’s needs, and improve water farmers to bring up their concerns directly with the sanitation and hygiene. For more details of our work with company. For more details of our agroforestry model in Save the Children see pages 9 and 19. Laos, see page 46. As part of the related land compensation scheme, Stora Enso has set up a village development fund which aims to distribute benefits fairly and equally amongst villagers, and to further support local development and livelihoods. Most of the EUR 221 000 of funding PEOPLE AND ETHICS / COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 30 Governance Our workforce Opportunities and challenges Our policies Stora Enso strives to provide a safe and rewarding workplace Change through people Leadership in the forefront for employees and contractors, and to be an attractive People employer to potential recruits. This report section introduces As Stora Enso transforms from a traditional Occupational health and safety and Ethics paper producing company into one that Leadership is the key to take safety from a the occupational health and safety (OHS) and human resources Forestry focuses more widely on renewable materials, compliance mindset to a strong safety culture. and Land Use (HR) policies and practices that support these goals. the work that our people do and the skills they To provide a solid foundation, our occupational Environment need are changing as well. Growing in new health and safety (OHS) function relies on Stora and Efficiency markets with a new, younger workforce, while Enso’s Health and Safety Policy and our OHS dealing with the different demographics of our Mode of Operation, which defines how we workforce in Europe requires well-planned manage OHS topics in practice and integrate Data and people management, starting with responsible them into annual planning and reporting. Other Assurance leadership. This is especially important in safety relevant policies applied in our people and management. safety management include: Differences in operating contexts, such •• Code of Conduct as the availability of a suitable workforce, •• Supplier Code of Conduct challenge our operations, but at the same time, •• Minimum requirements for labour conditions the higher educational level of growing middle •• Diversity Policy. classes provides an expanding pool of potential employees with a good understanding of safety Human resources topics. Increasing awareness of health and Stora Enso’s People Strategy guides our well-being also support our goal of promoting efforts to provide employees with a safe our employees’ health and safety globally. work environment and good opportunities for personal development. This strategy focuses on four key policy areas: •• Leadership Building up a •• Workforce planning and recruitment company-wide •• Alignment and engagement •• Occupational health and safety. safety culture means that everyone is responsible for making every workday accident-free. PEOPLE AND ETHICS / OUR WORKFORCE Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 31 How we work at group-level, and steers the implementation of our contracts in Guangxi, meaning that any breaches of OHS roadmap. these requirements are considered breaches of the Governance Our units report monthly on safety performance entire contract. Construction management and project Everybody home safe, every day data including total recordable incidents (TRI), lost-time safety teams supervise and regularly inspect and audit accidents (LTA), attendance rates, and the numbers of the site to ensure compliance with our standards. The People Occupational health and safety safety observations per employee. Stora Enso’s on-site safety management system for the construction project and Ethics Stora Enso’s long-term goal is to become an accidentand forestry contractors report separately. is based on the OHSAS 18001 standard, and future mill Forestry free workplace. While this work begins with our leaders, operations will be similarly certified within two years of and Land Use building up a company-wide safety culture means that Promoting safety among contractors’ employees beginning commercial operations. Environment everyone is responsible for making every workday Stora Enso’s approach to safety extends to contractors, and Efficiency accident-free. suppliers, and on-site visitors. We encourage everyone Human resources Safety management at Stora Enso is based on to give feedback and provide ideas on how to further Leadership in people and safety management is international standards like OHSAS 18001, but our improve our safety practices. Our joint ventures may Stora Enso’s top priority, as it constitutes the strongest Data and processes go beyond those requirements. Our Safety have contractors of their own over whom Stora Enso driver behind company performance and our winning Assurance Toolbox is a set of tools to be used throughout the has less leverage, but we cooperate closely with culture. We measure our progress in this area with company. It includes, for example, practical support our partner companies to ensure the safety of these our overall Leadership Index, which measures the on safety observations, a daily practice of giving and contractor employees as well. For more information perception our personnel have of their leaders. Stora receiving feedback on safety behaviour, and monthly about how we work with our suppliers and contractors Enso’s approach to leadership is described in more management safety rounds that involve managers see pages 38–41. detail in the Progress Book. discussing the reasons behind unsafe behaviour with The construction of the Beihai Mill in Guangxi, China, Improving our employee performance management their employees, and giving positive feedback on safe for example, requires large numbers of contractor and engagement is another priority for us. We set behaviour and safety initiatives. employees. Our Supplier Code of Conduct and OHS targets for both our business and our people, and follow Responsibility for implementing each tool and management standards are integrated into all Stora Enso up on them during annual performance appraisals. We programme in our units lies with line management, are transparent about the way we use compensation to supported by local staff and the group-level OHS attract and keep the best people. function. During 2015 our safety tools were updated to We believe that diversity of thought, skills, and simplify reporting and clarify their structure based on background are key factors behind successful business feedback from across the company. The revamped tools and innovation. will be rolled out during 2016. Local OHS committees and working groups at our Hiring locally units provide a forum for taking up safety related topics It is important that our new investment projects are and suggestions. Our country-level OHS networks staffed with managers and employees who are wellin Finland, Sweden, and Germany also share good grounded in local cultures. While there is often an practices and organise training to enhance our safety initial need for expatriate employees, we make every procedures and competencies. Our OHS Management effort to hire locally wherever possible, especially for Team, consisting of division representatives, acts as a senior management positions. Local hires usually cross-functional body, developing and aligning groupbegin as early as during the construction phase, wide OHS programmes. The OHS Steering Group, bringing economic benefits to the local community established in 2015, directs strategic, long-term planning right from the start. PEOPLE AND ETHICS / OUR WORKFORCE Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 32 In Guangxi, we have succession plans in place for defined a new set of minimum labour conditions in The group-level attendance rate for 2015 was 96.9% expatriates in order to increase the number of locally 2014, and these conditions are now being implemented (97.0% in 2014). By the end of the year 74 of Stora Governance hired people. At the end of 2015, 77% of our employees throughout the company. Enso units had appointed joint safety committees (69), in Guangxi were local (80% at the end of 2014), while our covering 81% (74%) of our total workforce. Recorded management team included four managers of Chinese Progress safety observations per employee increased to 17.4 People origin and nine expatriates. (15.6). and Ethics In Uruguay, our joint operation Montes del Plata has a Forestry local workforce development programme that focuses on Enhancing performance on Other focus areas in our OHS management work during and Land Use recruiting from nearby communities for mill operations. safety and leadership 2015 included: Environment By the end of 2015, 58% of Montes del Plata personnel •• A Safety Leadership training programme for divisional and Efficiency working at the mill were from the Colonia Department Occupational health and safety management teams and mill managers where the mill is located. According to data presented Total recordable incident (TRI) and lost-time accident •• Strengthening our OHS culture by enhancing internal by the consultancy CIFRA, 45% of Conchillas residents, rates (LTA) function as our key performance indicators communications and increasing awareness of our Data and the closest community to the mill site, have employment (KPIs) for occupational safety. By the end of 2015, our safety tools, also in our offices Assurance connected to Montes del Plata. TRI rate fell to 11.0 (12.5 at the end of 2014) and the •• The updating of our Safety Toolbox, which will be LTA rate declined to 4.7 (5.2). Stora Enso´s short-term rolled out throughout the company during 2016. Fair working conditions targets were to achieve a TRI rate of 8.8 and an LTA All Stora Enso units are expected to work systematically rate of 3.6 by the end of 2015 (30% reduction from 2014 Fatal accidents to ensure that employees are treated with respect levels). Despite this improvement, our target levels were In 2015, five contractor employees working for Stora and fairness. These minimum requirements for labour not achieved. The group’s new safety targets will be Enso and two contractor employees working for our joint conditions create an environment where workers are communicated in the Interim Review for the first quarter operations were killed in accidents. These accidents are both willing and able to perform their tasks. Stora Enso of 2016. unacceptable for Stora Enso. Four Polish citizens, employed by a Stora Enso Logistics contractor, were killed in a fire on a tugboat in Total recordable incident rates (TRI) Lost-time accident rates (LTA) Sweden in September 2015. The boat was contracted by Number of incidents per one million hours worked Number of lost-time accidents per one million hours worked Stora Enso Logistics on behalf of Wood Supply Latvia 40 25 for transporting pulpwood from Latvia to Nymölla Mill via 35 Sölvesborg. The accident took place at night when the 20 30 ship was anchored in the Sölvesborg Harbour. 25 15 20 In July, a driver employed by our joint operation 15 10 Veracel’s contractor was killed in a traffic accident. 10 The contractor was immediately given re-training in 5 5 0 0 employee safety management. However, another employee of the same Veracel contractor was killed in 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 November after being crushed between two vehicles Finland 26.2 24.3 19.9 21.7 16.6 Finland 17.7 14.7 10.5 9.3 7.8 Sweden 26.0 22.8 19.9 19.2 17.4 Sweden 8.3 7.6 6.7 6.9 6.6 while attempting to tow his water truck off a slope. Central Europe 38.7 16.0 15.0 13.3 11.8 Central Europe 13.0 6.0 5.4 6.4 5.0 The contract between Veracel and the contractor was China 4.6 4.2 3.7 2.9 2.4 China 3.0 1.6 2.0 0.9 0.8 cancelled immediately following this second accident. Group 24.3 16.7 14.0 12.5 11.0 Group 11.0 7.7 6.0 5.2 4.7 PEOPLE AND ETHICS / OUR WORKFORCE Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 33 In December a chain saw operator employed by a customer-focused and create differentiation through Standard entry wages and local minimum wages1 sub-contractor of one of Stora Enso’s contractors in innovation. The best of the resulting ideas are now being Ratio of our standard entry level wage to the local minimum wage Governance Guangxi was killed after being hit by a felled tree at a realised. Brazil² 1.1 harvesting site. China³ 1.4 Providing living wages Laos 1.1 People Enhancing contractors’ safety in Guangxi One of our most significant steps towards fairer labour Pakistan4 1.1 and Ethics During 2015 we developed a new incident reporting conditions in 2015 involved defining and surveying Uruguay5 1.6 Forestry system for Guangxi to analyse the root causes of living wage levels in seven locations. We worked with Estonia 1.3 and Land Use safety incidents. More robust follow-ups of corrective the global non-profit sustainability organisation BSR to Latvia 1.1 Environment actions were conducted, particularly at our plantations. define and calculate living wages in Brazil, India, China, Poland 1.0 and Efficiency To create better awareness, employees are regularly Pakistan, Russia, Laos, and Uruguay. BSR defines living Russia 1.0 informed about safety performance and individual wage as a level of earnings that best corresponds to 1 In material locations based on the social risk assessments of our operations, incidents. the actual costs of acquiring the goods and services compared to minimum wage levels set at national, state, or provincial level as Data and A rapid escalation of construction activities took place that are necessary for a basic standard of living, in line applicable. The ratio shows how many times larger our entry level wage is compared to the local minimum wage. In certain countries guaranteed Assurance at the Beihai Mill site in 2015. To ensure effective safety with internationally accepted definitions. Our current benefits are included in the entry level wage. management, we established a site-wide system that minimum salary levels exceed the living wage estimates ² Including employees of our 50%-owned joint operation Veracel. defines rules and procedures for all of the contractors and in six of these countries. The exception is Laos, where ³ Due to variations in regional minimum wages the ratio is calculated as a people working at the site, including an introductory safety three employees, while earning well above national weighted average for Stora Enso’s units in China. The weighting is based on the units’ total number of employees. briefing mandatory for anyone entering the site. minimum wages, have an income 5% below the living 4 Including employees of our 35%-owned joint venture operation Bulleh Shah wage threshold estimated by BSR. Understanding the Packaging. Human resources living wage situation in Laos even better is one of the 5 Including employees of our 50%-owned joint operation Montes del Plata. Stora Enso’s key performance indicator (KPI) for key actions included in our human rights action plan for leadership, the Leadership Index, measures our Laos, defined in 2015 (for more details see page 20). personnel's perception of their leaders, and is calculated based on our annual employee survey. Our goal is READ to reach an index of 80/100 by 2018. In 2015, the MORE Leadership Index was 79 (76 in 2014). Safety comes first at Beihai Mill Our target is that all Stora Enso employees should be involved in at least one performance review meeting with Stora Enso is constructing the group’s largest mill their manager annually. In 2015, 91% of our employee investment to date, the Beihai Mill, in Southern China. survey respondents stated that they had taken part in a Despite thousands of on-site workers and challenging performance review during the past 12 months (88% in circumstances, our safety programme has made 2014). safety a natural part of our day-to-day activities. In 2015 many of our human resources activities were related to leadership. These actions are covered in more detail in the Progress Book. Our Reconnect 2015 event brought together 300 Stora Enso employees from Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability different functions and backgrounds, enabling them to share of ideas on how the company can become more PEOPLE AND ETHICS / OUR WORKFORCE Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 34 Share of female employees at Stora Enso 2015 2014 Governance Number of employees at year-end 1 25 011 26 543 Share of women among all employees (%) 24 22 People Women in the Group Leadership and Ethics Team 3 out of 13 4 out of 12 Women in the Board of Directors 2 out of 8 3 out of 9 Forestry and Land Use ¹ All consolidated data in our Sustainability Report 2015 excludes employees Environment of our 50%-owned joint operations Montes del Plata and Veracel. and Efficiency Compensation and equal opportunity1 Female employees’ Ratio of highest remuneration as a Data and individual compensation proportion of Assurance to median salary² male employees’³ Finland 11 95% Sweden 27 99% Poland 21 Not available Germany 14 91% China 52 100% ¹ Figures for the five largest countries in terms of the total number of employees. Employee distribution by gender, and employee turnover ² The ratio shows how many times larger the highest individual compensation is compared to the median salary. Americas Asia Europe Group total ³ Calculated using weighted averages based on each country´s employee Female Male Female Male Female Male categories as applicable. Figures in Finland and Sweden are based on Employees by gender 16% 84% 42% 58% 19% 81% evaluations covering approximately 40% (Finland) and 60% (Sweden) of the total workforce. Employee turnover 14% 12% 90% 45% 7% 6% 18% Number of hires¹ 22 63 639 873 240 755 2 592 Number of leavings² 10 46 1 909 1 346 268 893 4 472 Employee distribution by country¹ ¹ Hires: numbers of permanent employees joining the company. Excludes hires due to acquisitions. ² Leavings: numbers of permanent employees leaving voluntarily or due to restructuring, retirement or death. Excludes leavings due to divestments. Finland 25% Sweden 20% China 19% Poland 8% Employee distribution by age and region Germany 7% Age Americas Asia Europe Group by age Russia 4% Up to 30 26% 46% 13% 20% Other Europe 14% Latin America 2% 31–50 61% 49% 53% 53% Other countries 1% 51 and over 13% 4% 34% 27% ¹ All consolidated data in our Sustainability Report 2015 excludes employees of our Group by region 2% 20% 78% 50%-owned joint operations Montes del Plata and Veracel. PEOPLE AND ETHICS / OUR WORKFORCE Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 35 Governance Business ethics Opportunities and challenges Our policies Stora Enso’s goal is to focus on wider ethical topics Ensuring compliance in a Clearly setting out our rather than mere compliance with regulations. We believe complex global environment company’s values People and Ethics this approach will lead to successful business, foster Compliance with laws and regulations is the The Stora Enso Code of Conduct is a single accountability, and enhance our good reputation. Forestry highest possible priority for any global industrial set of values defined for all our employees, to and Land Use company today. However, we believe that provide guidance on our approach to ethical Environment adopting a wider ethical approach is a must for business practices, environmental values, and and Efficiency us as a value-driven organisation. human and labour rights. These same values Entering high-risk emerging markets offers are applied wherever we operate. excellent business opportunities, but also Other policies relevant to ethics and Data and entails exposure to serious risks relating to compliance include: Assurance topics such as corruption and fraud. Joint •• Business Practice Policy, which gives venture agreements may also expose a guidance on ethical business practices company to risks from a competition law pointrelating to topics such as anti-trust, of-view. Legislators have given governments corruption, fraud, and conflicts of interest and authorities impeccable tools to combat •• Gifts and Hospitality Guideline, which defines corruption, such as the UK Bribery Act and the how our personnel should address topics US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. These laws related to covering expenses, and giving and place high demands on companies’ controlling accepting gifts and hospitality mechanisms, but they also help to build trust •• Third Party Due Diligence Guideline, which among to both their employees and partners. ensures that we have adequate procedures New policies, such as the new EU Data in place to help prevent bribery committed by Protection Regulation, set requirements third parties concerning the processing of personal data, •• Competition Law Compliance Programme, with heavy fines imposed for infringements. which introduces to anti-trust and Cybercrime meanwhile represents a major competition legislation, and explains the challenge for companies. approval processes for benchmarking, mill visits, and competitor contacts •• Supplier Code of Conduct. Top level commitment is key in our efforts to make Stora Enso a more value-driven organisation. PEOPLE AND ETHICS / BUSINESS ETHICS Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 36 How we work Communications and training our business. Our risk assessment procedures on Our communication strategy for ethics and compliance compliance cover all our units. The most significant Governance aims to ensure that Stora Enso’s employees and compliance risks in our global operations relate to Combatting misconduct on all fronts business partners all understand what ethical behaviour corruption and anti-trust. is, and how they should navigate through ethical Our management and employees in Brazil, India, People Stora Enso’s Ethics and Compliance function is a dilemmas in their everyday work. Pakistan, and China receive extensive face-to-face and Ethics sub-function under our Legal team, headed by our All our employees receive Code of Conduct training training on our Business Practice Policy. Additionally, Forestry General Counsel, who reports directly to the CEO. Our through an e-learning tool, or through face-to-face employees of our joint ventures Bulleh Shah Packaging, and Land Use Ethics and Compliance Board, a governance body training provided for those who do not have direct Veracel, and Montes del Plata all receive training on their Environment appointed by the CEO that met four times in 2015, access to computers. Our aim is that new employees are respective Codes of Conduct and Business Practice and Efficiency monitors Stora Enso’s legal compliance and ethical trained within their first month. In addition, an in-depth Principles. The training sessions cover topics such as business conduct by following up on our Ethics and e-learning course on anti-trust and anti-corruption is human rights, environmental impacts, safety, and ethical Compliance Action List. In 2015, the list included training mandatory for all members of our Group Leadership practices. Data and and communications efforts and the monitoring of the Team, divisional and mill management teams, and Anti-trust guidelines designed for our joint ventures Assurance status of potential non-compliance cases. Our Division for all employees dealing with competitor contacts, are implemented with the help of related training in our Compliance Forums, established in 2015, help to purchasing, marketing, and sales. joint ventures in Uruguay, Brazil, Pakistan, and China. integrate ethics and compliance into business decisions, and support and advise the Executive Vice Presidents of Intensified efforts in risk areas Formal grievance mechanisms the divisions on compliance matters. Entering high-risk emerging markets and joint venture Our employees are encouraged to report any suspected Stora Enso’s Ethics and Compliance Strategy forms agreements can entail serious risk exposures for cases of misconduct or unethical behaviour to their the basis for annual action plans. The strategy has four focus areas: READ •• Top level commitment MORE •• Improved communication and training How can you tell if •• Intensified efforts in countries with heightened a company is truly ethical? concerns •• Developing our grievance channels. According to Professor Hans De Geer, an expert in business ethics who runs Stora Enso’s ethics Top level commitment workshops, ethical business is about identifying In our efforts to make Stora Enso a more value-driven overarching company values. organisation we highlight the significance of top level “An ethical company defines values that are commitment. All managers in key positions are required important to them and can be accepted by their to make an annual personal commitment to our Code of stakeholders. Being profitable can be aligned with Conduct and Business Practice Policy, and to undertake those values. If profitability is a company’s only to provide related training and information for employees mission, that is a very narrow definition of their within their respective organisations. purpose,” De Geer explains. We also organise ethics workshops for our employees in managerial positions, to provide training and promote Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability discussions on ethical questions. PEOPLE AND ETHICS / BUSINESS ETHICS Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 37 own supervisor, or to our Human Resources or Legal Progress We updated internal websites to include platforms functions. Our employees may also report their that enable employees to ask questions and discuss Governance concerns in confidentiality to the Head of Internal Audit. concerns. In September 2015, we launched a new Our Supplier Code of Conduct also obliges our suppliers Enhanced training and monitoring “Ethical Spotlight of the Month” concept to introduce and to report any non-compliance with the Code to Stora promote discussions on topics of interest, and to provide People Enso’s Head of Internal Audit. We have developed an index that enables us to follow material for our units to use in their internal discussions. and Ethics Stora Enso uses an additional external service and evaluate our employees’ perceptions of topics Forestry through which our employees globally and external related to our Code of Conduct. The index is based on More ways to speak up and Land Use stakeholders in certain locations can anonymously employees’ responses to related questions in our annual In March 2015, we rolled out the Do What’s Right Mobile Environment report potential non-compliance cases by phone, by employee survey. In 2015 this index improved to 79 (75 App to make it easier for our employees to find and and Efficiency mail, or online. This service, which covers all of our units, in 2014). Our goal is to maintain this positive trend. share compliance-related information and to report is in most cases free for callers, and available 24 hours a During 2015 we established a new Ethics and potential violations. In addition, our external grievance day, seven days a week. Compliance Self-Assessment Tool (T.E.S.T.) to give our channel was made available to stakeholders in China, Data and All potential non-compliance cases are duly divisions a better overview of the progress their units are India, Russia, Laos, and Brazil. This was partly in Assurance investigated. The findings are recorded and reviewed making on implementing our policies and compliance response to the findings of our group-level 2014 human by Stora Enso’s Heads of Internal Audit and Ethics and measures, while also identifying possible gaps and risks rights assessment, which recommended improvements Compliance function, and reported to our Ethics and related to compliance. The T.E.S.T. tool will be run twice in our grievance channels. Compliance Board as well as our Board of Directors’ a year. Its first two rounds were successfully finished in In 2015 a total of 67 reports received through Stora Financial and Audit Committee. Proven cases of nonJune and December 2015. Enso’s various grievance channels were identified as compliance can lead to disciplinary or legal actions. New Division Compliance Forums were also established potential non-compliance cases (46 in 2014). Proven Our 50%-owned joint operations Veracel and Montes in 2015. These forums bring together the heads of key misconduct leading to disciplinary and/or legal actions del Plata, and our 35%-owned equity-accounted divisional functions, and they play an important role in was identified in 10 cases (18 in 2014), while six further investment Bulleh Shah Packaging each have their own steering and monitoring compliance within divisions. The complaints were found to be valid without involving local grievance channels. forums’ first meetings were held in August 2015, covering misconduct. None of the proven misconduct cases were the results from the T.E.S.T. tool, and also establishing related to child labour, forced labour, or discrimination. divisional key performance indicators. Our grievance channel By the end of 2015, 22 421 Stora Enso employees was opened to external had received training on our Code of Conduct, and 3 919 had completed an in-depth e-learning course stakeholders in China, on anti-trust and anti-corruption. In addition, 2 523 Breakdown of potential non-compliance cases 2015 2014 India, Russia, Laos, and Stora Enso managers in key positions with regard to compliance made personal commitments to our Code of Fraud 8 12 Brazil in 2015. Conduct and Business Practice Policy during 2015. Corruption Anti-trust 26 2 14 1 A further 116 employees took part in our Ethics Conflict of interest 6 6 Workshops (75 in 2014). General human resources 17 9 Health and safety 0 1 Making ethics and compliance more visible Miscellaneous 8 3 During 2015 we put special emphasis on enhancing Total 67 46 communications related to ethics and compliance. PEOPLE AND ETHICS / BUSINESS ETHICS Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 38 Governance Sourcing Opportunities and challenges In addition to wood and fibre, Stora Enso sources other raw materials, products, and services Extended responsibility from nearly 30 000 suppliers and contractors globally. In our purchasing decisions we recognise People our responsibility to ensure that our suppliers are committed to high sustainability standards. We source a wide range of raw materials, and Ethics products, and services for our business Forestry globally. In 2015 purchases of materials, goods, and Land Use and services excluding fibre represented Environment 50% of our total variable costs, while fibre and Efficiency procurement covered the remaining 50%. In some areas the concept of responsible sourcing is a relatively recent development, Data and and local suppliers may not be familiar with Assurance sustainability requirements and audits. To demonstrate the added value that sustainability brings, we must understand the main drivers for business in each location. At the same time, however, increasing awareness of sustainability topics makes this an opportune time to promote responsible sourcing globally. Although we work in diverse regulatory environments, we must consistently respond to our stakeholders’ demands concerning transparency along supply chains. Imposing In addition to enforcing our Supplier Code of Conduct, we actively engage with our suppliers and help them to improve their sustainability. PEOPLE AND ETHICS / SOURCING Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 39 sustainability requirements on our suppliers also builds addressing the concerns of key stakeholders, complying services. Our key performance indicator (KPI) measures up their capacity to meet such increasing demands, and with regulatory frameworks, adhering to best practices, how much of our total supplier spend is covered by our Governance creates a larger pool of sustainable suppliers. and managing supply risks. These principles are put Supplier Code of Conduct. into practice in the everyday work of all employees Our policies responsible for sourcing. Our responsible sourcing process People Our approach to responsible sourcing has become A supplier who wishes to trade with Stora Enso must and Ethics more deeply embedded in purchasing and supplier first pre-qualify before being considered for a contract. Forestry Setting high standards for sourcing management since our new, more centrally led sourcing Like our Supplier Code of Conduct, this pre-qualification and Land Use organisation was established in 2014. process is applied to all sourcing globally. We use Environment Stora Enso strives to identify and address the impacts The materials and products we purchase include D-U-N-S® numbering, a globally recognised and and Efficiency of our operations along our supply chains. The Stora wood and fibre-based materials such as pulp and paper controlled way to identify companies and to maintain Enso Supplier Code of Conduct (SCoC) plays an integral for recycling (PfR), as well as chemicals, fillers, energy, accurate, comprehensive, and timely information about role in our sourcing. It is a binding legal document fuels, spare parts, and maintenance, logistics, and IT our suppliers. Data and that imposes minimum sustainability requirements Pre-qualification includes a set of basic questions, Assurance on our suppliers, covering human and labour rights, and the requirement to submit a signed Supplier Code of occupational health and safety, environmental Breakdown of raw material and service costs Conduct. To increase understanding of sustainability along commitments, and responsible business practices. It is % of our total variable costs the supply chain, Stora Enso suppliers are also required to applied globally to both direct and indirect sourcing. provide information about their own supply chain. Fibre 50% Other policies that support responsible sourcing: Logistics and commissions 16% •• Sourcing Strategy, which sets out a consistent Chemicals and fillers 15% Competence building and auditing Energy 10% framework for “Sourcing Best Partners” In addition to enforcing our Supplier Code of Conduct, Production services and materials 9% •• Practical Guide for Stora Enso Suppliers, which gives we engage with our suppliers and help them to address more practical guidance on the topics included in our sustainability topics. This may involve on-site visits, Supplier Code of Conduct •• Sourcing Guideline, which defines how sourcing actions should be approved, executed, managed, and controlled MANAGING SUPPLIER SUSTAINABILITY RISKS AT STORA ENSO •• Purchasers’ Guidance, which gives practical guidance on the sourcing process and how to tackle supplierrelated sustainability challenges Potential suppliers pass our Our purchaser uses a risk mapping Responsible sourcing pre-qualification process* and A supplier is selected •• Policy on Wood and Fibre Sourcing, and Land sign Supplier Code of Conduct for a contract with us. tool and other supplier analysis to team supports purchaser identify heightened sustainability risk. with organising audits. Management. (SCoC). How we work Constructive engagement with suppliers If supplier is unwilling to commit to our Auditor prepares audit report. Purchaser supports Our representatives and an external auditor perform audit. Pre-audit questionnaire is sent to supplier for completion and audit SCoC, relationship supplier with corrective Supplier signs corrective date confirmation. may be terminated. actions. action plans. For Stora Enso, responsible sourcing means demonstrating our deep commitment to sustainability, *The pre-qualification tool was launched in most of Stora Enso’s European units in September 2015. The remaining units will begin using it during 2016. PEOPLE AND ETHICS / SOURCING Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 40 detailed supplier assessments, or in-depth training organisation BSR in 2014, and updated in 2015. It includes Paper for recycling sessions, depending on the supplier’s location and criteria for geographical location, the nature of the supply Stora Enso sources paper for recycling (PfR) from Governance product category. chain, product category, and our purchasing power. various local authorities and waste management Suppliers may be selected for a third-party Any non-conformances with our Supplier Code companies. For more details of our PfR use see sustainability audit, conducted together with the of Conduct found during audits are followed up with pages 59–60. People purchaser, based on a pre-evaluation of the supplier’s supplier meetings to discuss the findings and define and Ethics social and environmental risk profile. Our risk mapping corrective action plans. Suppliers must sign up to these Contractors Forestry tool was developed in collaboration with the non-profit plans, and our local purchasers then monitor progress In some of our operations we hire contractors for longerand Land Use on their implementation. If a supplier does not take the term work such as forest and plantation management. Environment scheduled corrective actions, new discussions are held We also hire contractors for shorter periods of time, and Efficiency to examine the reasons, at higher management levels for example in large-scale investment projects and if necessary. In cases where suppliers are not willing to mill maintenance. During 2015 on average some 3 000 improve their performance, relationships are terminated. employees hired by our contractors worked daily on Data and the construction site of our board mill in Beihai, China. Assurance Pulp procurement Our Supplier Code of Conduct also applies to such Most of the pulp used at Stora Enso’s mills is produced contractors. While contractors are primarily responsible within the company, but for quality and logistical reasons for their own employees, we make every effort to ensure we also purchase some pulp from external suppliers for that everyone working on our premises is treated fairly our paper and board production. In 2015, 2% of our pulp and receives adequate safety training. was purchased externally (pulp from our joint operations We reviewed our approach to contractors during Veracel in Brazil is considered to be internally produced 2015, based on our responsible sourcing work plan for in these figures). the year 2015 and on the findings of our 2014 human As with wood purchases, we ensure that all of the rights assessments. Contractors’ performance has pulp we purchase comes from sustainable sources, particularly been monitored in relation to human and by applying third-party-verified traceability systems labour rights. and forest certification systems such as the Forest Stewardship Council’s®1 (FSC) Chain of Custody/ Progress Controlled Wood scheme, the Chain of Custody/ Due Diligence System of the Programme for the Endorsement of Forestry Certification (PEFC), and the Focusing on training ISO 14001 environmental management standard. All the pulp we purchase or produce also complies with the Our key performance indicator (KPI) for responsible EU Timber Regulation, which ensures that no illegally sourcing measures the proportion of our total supplier harvested wood or wood products enter the EU market. spend covered by our Supplier Code of Conduct. By the For more information about our approach to sustainable end of 2015, 90% of Stora Enso’s spending on materials, wood procurement see pages 43–49. goods, and services was covered by the Supplier Code of Conduct (78% at the end of 2014). In 2016 this indicator will also cover our Wood Supply units, and our 1 Stora Enso Communications’ FSC ® trademark license number is FSC-N001919. target is to reach 90% coverage by the end of 2016. PEOPLE AND ETHICS / SOURCING Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 41 During 2015 we provided extensive training for our conformances particularly relating to wages, working The sugar cane plantations were audited in December purchasers on a variety of topics, including supplier hours, and work place preparedness for emergency 2014 to verify that the feedstock supplier’s operations Governance pre-qualification, and children’s rights and business situations. During 2015 we were forced to terminate five comply with Stora Enso’s Supplier Code of Conduct. principles. Most of these training sessions used a supplier relationships due to suppliers' unwillingness to The sugar industry in Louisiana uses migrant workers train-the-trainer concept, where the trained purchaser commit to the Code (seven in 2014). in harvesting and production, and this was one the major People is then responsible for training their team. A total of 231 issues examined in the audit. During a 2015 field visit, and Ethics purchasers participated in training sessions during 2015. Sugar cane by-product sourcing Stora Enso evaluated labour rights in the bagasse supply Forestry In 2015 Stora Enso introduced a new Supplier in Louisiana, USA chain and among contractors working at the construction and Land Use Management Tool. This supplier on-boarding process Stora Enso is building a demonstration and market site. Some areas were identified where suppliers’ current Environment was designed to improve the pre-qualifying process development plant in Raceland, Louisiana, to validate labour practices may not meet international standards, and Efficiency used for potential suppliers. extraction and separation technologies developed by even though they comply with US legislation. We are Virdia – a start-up company purchased by Stora Enso currently investigating ways to address these issues. Supplier audits in 2014 – to convert cellulosic biomass such as wood or Another issue of concern in the bagasse supply chain Data and We continued our supplier audits in 2015 with a focus agricultural residual into highly refined sugars. The plant is that sugar cane biomass left in the fields following Assurance on high-risk suppliers in China. In the first half of the is due to start operating in 2016. harvesting is burnt, leading to air pollution close to year we paid special attention to suppliers who had The demonstration plant is located in the vicinity of an residential areas. We are investigating the viability been audited in 2014, aiming to complete corrective existing sugar mill and sugar cane plantations, enabling of collecting this residual for use in our production action plans. In the second half of the year we focused it to use bagasse by-product from the mill as feedstock. processes. on auditing suppliers not previously audited under our Supplier Code of Conduct, involving a total of 39 READ Chinese suppliers (56 in 2014). MORE We also audit strategically important suppliers Driving change with against our Supplier Code of Conduct before awarding better sourcing them a contract. The supplier audits in China revealed non-conformances mostly relating to occupational Companies face various challenges along their supply safety, wages and working hours, and basic workers’ chains. Working with suppliers who are not familiar rights as defined in our Supplier Code of Conduct. with the different aspects of sustainability can be In addition to the audits in China, we audited five challenging. of our global suppliers. These audits revelead non“Suppliers want to know what’s in it for them,” says Tara Norton, Director, Supply Chain Sustainability at BSR, an international non-profit organisation. “When By the end of 2015, 90% of purchasers understand the challenges suppliers face, they are able to work in a more collaborative our spending on materials way. But suppliers also need to understand that not and services was covered responding to sustainability requirements might mean losing business opportunities.” by our Supplier Code of Conduct. Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability PEOPLE AND ETHICS / SOURCING Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 42 Governance Forestry and People and Ethics Forestry and Land Use Land Use Environment and Efficiency Data and Assurance 43 Forests, plantations, and land use Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 43 Governance Forests, plantations, and land use Opportunities and challenges Sustainable forest management is in our immediate and long-term interest, as it keeps forests healthy Forestry in a changing world and productive, and thus helps secure the long-term availability of this renewable resource. People Forests and plantations have become an increasingly and Ethics important part of a wider global development agenda, Forestry especially in relation to combatting global warming. and Land Use As a renewable natural resource wood represents Environment a favourable alternative to materials based on fossil and Efficiency fuels. Trees absorb carbon dioxide (CO2) from the atmosphere, and together with wood-based products act as carbon sinks. If forests and plantations are Data and managed sustainably, new generations of trees replace Assurance those that are logged, sequestering more CO2 from the atmosphere. Global warming already affects forests and plantations due to the changing nature of storms, floods, and droughts, though it could also create new opportunities, for instance in areas where rainfall increases in formerly arid regions. Such changes can be expected to impact our operational environment. However, well-managed forests can make entire ecosystems more resilient to negative impacts. Global challenges such as population growth, increasing demand for agricultural land, and the widening gap between supply and demand for wood, require us to use forests, plantations, and other natural resources ever more efficiently, and to produce larger amounts of raw materials from less land. The need to conserve our remaining natural ecosystems is also increasing, necessitating new ways to integrate various land uses. Simultaneously, changing forest ownership structures in our main sourcing areas, fuelled by urbanisation, are bringing new challenges in relation to wood procurement. FORESTRY AND LAND USE / FORESTS, PLANTATIONS, AND LAND USE Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 44 Our policies operate. Our wood procurement is organised regionally, assessments to identify, conserve, and restore vital with our supply units in Finland, Sweden, the Baltic ecosystems and ecological features. Governance Countries, Russia, and Central Europe each responsible In 2015 89% of our wood came from managed Committed to sustainable forestry for sourcing wood for the Stora Enso mills in these semi-natural forests in the Northern Hemisphere where regions. Each of our tree plantations operates under the most forests are privately owned. Forest planning People Stora Enso’s policy on Wood and Fibre Sourcing, and mill to which it supplies wood. includes finding ways to optimise wood production and and Ethics Land Management guides our work in relation to forestry conservation. We work together with forest-owners to Forestry and land use. This policy covers the entire cycle of Wood procurement by region¹ identify sensitive forest areas in need of protection. and Land Use forest and plantation management. Key goals include 36.2 million m³ Environment ensuring that we can trace the origin of all the wood we Finland 15.7 (43%) and Efficiency use. We also aim to maintain open dialogues with our Sweden 9.5 (26%) stakeholders. Other policies that support sustainable Central Europe 5.1 (14%) forestry include, among others: Brazil2 2.0 (6%) Uruguay2 2.0 (6%) Data and •• Code of Conduct Baltic countries 1.3 (3%) Assurance •• Supplier Code of Conduct. Russia 0.6 (2%) ¹ Total amounts of wood (roundwood, chips and sawdust) procured within these regions for How we work delivery to our mills (million m³, solid under bark). 2 Figures for Brazil and Uruguay include 50% of the wood procurement of our joint operations Veracel and Montes del Plata, based on annual pulp production. Ensuring the sustainability of fibre Our Biomaterials division manages certain plantation projects that are not associated with a single mill, for Stora Enso’s approach to responsible forest and tree example our trial plantation in Laos, while our forestry plantation management and our related actions duly operations and mill investment in Guangxi, China, are takes the economic, social, and environmental aspects the responsibility of our Consumer Board division. of sustainability into account. We always comply with Our wood procurement process covers the entire national legislation, but laws and regulations are only the management cycle in both forests and plantations, starting point for our work, and we actively support and including: implement voluntary forest conservation and restoration •• Forest and plantation planning measures both in lands owned, leased, and managed •• Silvicultural operations (everyday forest and plantation by the company, and in other areas where we purchase management) wood. •• Wood harvesting We are also active members of numerous local •• Regeneration of forests and plantations and global forestry associations, networks, and •• Monitoring of each part of the process, for example programmes. For more information about our through audits and self-assessments. cooperation with different stakeholders see pages 9–10. To cover economic, social, and environmental Careful forest and plantation planning aspects of sustainability in our forest and plantation As trees take many years, and even decades, to mature, operations, we apply the same comprehensive wood long-term planning is essential. As part of this planning procurement process in all the regions where we we conduct ecological landscape plans and biodiversity FORESTRY AND LAND USE / FORESTS, PLANTATIONS, AND LAND USE Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 45 READ MORE the Endorsement of Forestry Certification (PEFC), and Teaming up to protect biodiversity the ISO 14001 environmental management standard. Governance We actively work with our stakeholders to promote In addition to their economic value as raw material sustainable forest management and the wider use of for the forest industry, Nordic forests have important certification systems. In Russia and Brazil, for example, People recreational and ecological values, related to leisure we promote group certification to encourage more and Ethics activities, landscapes, and biodiversity conservation, suppliers and farmers to join these systems. Forestry for instance. To underline the increasing importance As certification programmes cover all three and Land Use of alternative targets for forest management Stora aspects of sustainability, they are a reliable indicator Environment Enso has signed a unique partnership with WWF of responsible forestry. For this reason we follow and Efficiency Finland. our progress with a key performance indicator that “Stora Enso’s way of working is a fresh way to measures the proportion of the lands owned and acknowledge the various objectives that forestmanaged by Stora Enso that are covered by forest Data and owners may have with regard to their forests,” says certification schemes. Assurance Liisa Rohweder, WWF Finland’s Secretary General. We strive to increase the efficient use of land to produce more from less. We carefully monitor our Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability progress with the help of a key performance indicator (KPI) that averages out the amounts of fibre we produce per hectare. At the same time, forest certification schemes ensure that improvements in efficiency do not compromise the ecological and social sustainability of In 2015, 11% of our wood came from tree possible remedies, we decide on whether or not to go our productive forests. plantations. When establishing new plantations, we ahead with the project. We remain in constant dialogue use internationally approved principles, such as the with our stakeholders and strive to make sure that land Efficient and sensitive harvesting Food and Agriculture Organisation’s (FAO) Voluntary contracts are legitimate and fair. Stora Enso is constantly developing low-impact and Guidelines on Planted Forests, and we also certify our efficient ways to harvest trees. Wood Supply Sweden, commercial plantations to ensure all three aspects of Sustainable silviculture for example, devised new techniques known as the sustainability are duly taken into consideration. Stora Stora Enso closely monitors the sustainability of the “Right Method” in 2013, for application in individual Enso never establishes plantations in natural forests, everyday management of the forests and plantations sites. The goal has been to increase productivity protected areas, or water-sensitive locations. We only where we purchase wood. and product quality in the removal of biomass, while use land with low biodiversity value, such as former All the roundwood, chips, sawdust, and externally reducing damage to the soil and creating a better pasturelands. Our employees and forestry contractors purchased pulp supplied to our mills come from are given on-the-job training on ecological management, sustainable sources. We use a range of tools to ensure and we continuously monitor the impacts of our this, and to guarantee the sustainability of each part operations on biodiversity, soil, and water resources. of the forest management cycle. These tools include We strive to increase We recognise that our plantations are an integral forest certification and third-party traceability systems part of local land use, and we always evaluate and such as the Forest Stewardship Council’s (FSC) Chain the efficient use of land define sustainable land use practices for each location. of Custody/Controlled Wood scheme, the Chain of to produce more from less. After determining the scope of expected impacts and Custody/Due Diligence System of the Programme for FORESTRY AND LAND USE / FORESTS, PLANTATIONS, AND LAND USE Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 46 working environment. In response to the positive results on their impacts on biodiversity, soil, and water enhance wood production per unit of land. Tree from this scheme, other Stora Enso Wood Supply resources. We regularly audit our suppliers and work breeding targets may include factors such as increased Governance functions, Swedish forestry companies, and Swedish together with local institutions to make sure everything biomass production (i.e. faster growth), improved politicians have begun to promote the method. So is done according to the standards set by certification fibre quality, frost tolerance, or resistance to pests far, some 1 300 Stora Enso employees have received schemes and our own policies. and diseases. As a part of our breeding programme People training in Right Method final felling or thinning. In Sweden, for instance, our monitoring of the we are investigating the use of modern breeding and Ethics environmental quality of felling sites is based on tools, including marker assisted breeding and genetic Forestry Regeneration of forests and plantations information received during assessments and feedback engineering. and Land Use We always ensure that the forests and plantations where sessions conducted with harvesting teams. Some 100 Our genetic engineering activities are in the research Environment we harvest wood are regenerated. Often this is done felling sites are monitored in Sweden each year. and development phase, and as with traditional clone and Efficiency with active planting or sowing, though in many areas In China, we have continued our long-term improvements, it will take many years to develop active regeneration is complemented by natural seed cooperation with Flora & Fauna International (FFI) on genetically engineered clones. Field trials at one location dispersal from nearby forests, or by leaving seed trees biodiversity monitoring in tree plantations. in Brazil scheduled for 2017 will fully comply with the Data and in the harvesting area. Whatever the methods used, relevant local regulations. Stora Enso will not carry out Assurance we always make sure the trees that we harvest will be Tree breeding any trials considered by the authorities to be unsafe replaced by new growth. Stora Enso is working continuously towards the longor otherwise not permissible. Currently we have no In Brazil, our joint operation Veracel goes beyond term goal of improving the quality of the eucalyptus plans to plant genetically engineered trees in any of our regeneration by conserving and restoring areas of trees grown in our plantations, so as to sustainably commercial plantations. natural rainforest. Approximately half of Veracel’s 216 000 hectares of land are dedicated to rainforest READ preservation, including both natural regeneration and MORE planting where natural regeneration is not possible. Innovative land use in Laos The goal is to restore Atlantic rainforest ecosystems and connect the remaining areas with forest corridors, Could a tree-planting project increase food enabling animals to move from one area to another. availability? asks forestry expert Stephen Midgley. Veracel aims to restore 400 hectares of rainforest In Laos, Stora Enso is working with local villagers habitat every year through local partnerships. So far, to develop agroforestry. Farmers are encouraged to 5 695 hectares of forest have been restored since 1994. grow rice, cassava, and maize between the trees in a In 2015 the replanting of rainforest was affected by a new kind of planting design. After nearly ten years of prolonged dry season in the region, which will be taken testing this system, it has been found to be supported into account during replanting in 2016. by the community, whilst producing timber and The Veracel Station visitor centre, established in an helping with food supply, Midgley writes. area of preserved rainforest habitat, conducts research, conserves native and endangered ecosystems, and Read the full article in the Outreach Magazine provides environmental education for visitors. Detailed monitoring We closely monitor the sustainability of our forestry operations throughout the management cycle, focusing FORESTRY AND LAND USE / FORESTS, PLANTATIONS, AND LAND USE Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 47 Progress In 2015, Wood Supply Russia continued cooperation thrive on these lands. This improves local livelihoods, with WWF Russia to expand Stora Enso’s FSC reduces forest fire risks, and helps to build stronger Governance certification groups to more wood suppliers seeking relationships with the community. To increase the level Steady advances on certification forest certification. The company established three of trust between our business and local communities, groups to make certification more accessible and costAlianzas has set up networking opportunities for People Stora Enso owns or leases lands with a total area of efficient for small and medium-sized logging companies. potential and current Alianzas members. and Ethics 967 000 hectares globally. We follow our progress on Such certification now covers forest lease areas totalling Forestry responsible forestry with a key performance indicator 814 128 hectares. Stora Enso’s Russian subsidiary Correction of land contracts in Guangxi, China and Land Use that measures the percentage of these lands covered companies have been FSC-certified since 2006. Stora Stora Enso leases lands with a total area of 86 236 Environment by certification systems. Our target is to reach 96% Enso and WWF Russia helped two new harvesting hectares in four regions of Guangxi, of which 37% and Efficiency coverage by the end of 2017. In 2015 coverage companies to obtain FSC certification for their forests consists of social lands leased from village collectives, amounted to 90% (90% in 2014). The share of certified during 2015. individual households, and local forest farms. In many wood in our total wood supply was 80% (78%). cases these social lands have been previously subData and In 2015 the total amount of wood (including Responsible and effective land use leased, sometimes repeatedly, resulting in chains of Assurance roundwood, wood chips, and sawdust) delivered to our Stora Enso keeps track of progress on land use sub-leases. Often the original owners have not benefited mills was 36.2 million m3 (solid under bark) (32.4 million efficiency with a KPI that measures the increase in from increased land rental prices because of these m3 in 2014). the average volume of fibre produced per hectare in chains. In 2011 Veracel became one of the first companies certified tree plantations owned and managed by Stora Stora Enso has been reviewing and correcting in Brazil to promote group certification among its tree Enso. The target is to increase this average by 25% by land lease contracts in Guangxi since 2009, when farmers. In 2014, Aspex, the association representing the end of 2020 compared to the baseline figure for irregularities in the contract chains were first discovered. certified tree farms took over the management of the 2014. In 2015 the figure increased by 3%. The extensive legal screening and correction process certification process, previously shared with Veracel. that followed is still ongoing, with the goal to have 100% The pioneering certification group has certificates Alianzas in Uruguay of contracts corrected by the time the planned pulp mill granted by both FSC and Cerflor (PEFC), making it the Alianzas, formerly called the Productive Integration starts up. The decision on the investment in the pulp first group with dual forest management certification in Programme, is a Montes del Plata initiative that provides mill will be made after the start-up of the board mill in the country. By the end of 2015, dual forest certificates additional income for local farmers by enabling them to mid-2016. had been obtained by 79 farmers for areas totalling use their land to produce timber as well as agricultural 35 724 hectares, of which 15 351 hectares are planted crops. Participating farmers select parts of their lands with eucalyptus. to be used for plantation forestry, in return for financial compensation. At the end of the year 308 farmers with Social forestlands leased by Stora Enso in Guangxi lands totalling approximately 35 000 hectares had 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 joined the programme. It has been estimated that these Local farmers are able plantation areas will account for one-third of all the Social forestland leased, ha Lease area without contractual 32 322 16 471 32 591 16 003 wood procured by Montes del Plata. to use Montes del Plata’s Alianzas also promotes diverse land use by enabling defects¹, ha Lease contracts without 63% 61% lands for cattle crazing local farmers to use Montes del Plata’s lands for cattle contractual defects, % of all contracts grazing and honey production. By the end of the year, and honey production. 180 farmers had taken advantage of this opportunity. 1 In the contracts without defects the ownership of land is clear or resolved, and contracting procedures have proven to be legal, authentic and valid. Approximately 64 000 livestock and 4 000 beehives now FORESTRY AND LAND USE / FORESTS, PLANTATIONS, AND LAND USE Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 48 Our contract correction process includes: •• Desktop documentation reviews Governance •• Field investigations •• Legal and operational risk analysis •• Stakeholder consultations People •• The collection of missing documentation and Ethics •• The signing of new agreements or amendments Forestry directly with the villages or households concerned and Land Use •• In some cases, contract termination. Environment and Efficiency Our local team of legal and sustainability experts have been visiting all of the villages where the company has land contracts to conduct face-to-face interviews with Data and villager representatives. So far, we have compiled almost Assurance 3 200 contract investigation reports that describe the initial legal screening processes as well as the resulting contract improvements and corrections. By the end of 2015, 63% of the 1 590 contracts under review were found to be free from contractual defects (61% by the end of 2014). In irreconcilable cases we terminate leases in a responsible manner, considering all potential impacts. In 2015, we terminated identified irreconcilable contracts covering a total area of 401 hectares. Stora Enso leases 86 236 hectares of land in four regions in Guangxi. FORESTRY AND LAND USE / FORESTS, PLANTATIONS, AND LAND USE Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 49 Forests, plantations and lands owned by Stora Enso¹ as of 31 December 2015 Unit Area Certification coverage Details of local landscapes and protected areas Governance Montes del Plata plantations and lands, Uruguay 190 263 ha, of which 107 668 ha planted FSC for 190 263 ha Mainly pasturelands and agricultural fields. Remnants of native ecosystems, (joint operation with Arauco) such as grasslands and riparian forests, have been protected within the company’s lands. Veracel plantations and lands, Bahia, Brazil (joint 215 650 ha, of which 84 571 ha planted for CERFLOR (PEFC) for 177 259 ha; Dominated by pasturelands cleared from Atlantic rainforest between the 1950s People operation with Fibria) pulp production FSC for 177 259 ha and 1980s. 107 902 ha of Veracel’s lands are protected, including a 6 063 ha and Ethics Private Natural Heritage Reserve. These protected areas mostly consist of native forest remnants at different stages of regeneration (see page 46). Forestry Plantations and lands, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil 43 412 ha, of which 20 810 ha planted Mainly pasturelands and agricultural fields. 14 000 ha of the total area is and Land Use protected, including native grasslands, riparian forests and other habitats. Environment Wood Supply, Estonia 137 ha, of which 124 ha planted No protected areas within this area. and Efficiency 1 Including operations where Stora Enso’s shareholding is at least 50% and size of the area exceeds 100 hectares. In addition to the forest and plantation areas listed above, Stora Enso owns: 49% of Bergvik Skog, who owns 2.3 million hectares of land in Sweden and 0.1 million hectares in Latvia; and 41% of Tornator, who owns 0.6 million hectares of forestland in Finland, 53 000 hectares in Estonia, and 12 000 hectares in Romania. Data and Assurance Forests and plantations leased and managed by Stora Enso¹ as of 31 December 2015 Unit Area Certification coverage Details of local landscapes and protected areas Wood Supply, Russia 369 422 ha FSC group certificate In Russia protected areas are generally excluded from lease agreements. Areas amounting to 2 031 ha are protected as natural monuments (mainly marshlands). 409 ha are protected as natural monuments, including genetic pine reserves and watercourses. Plantations and lands, Guangxi, China2 86 259 ha, of which 73 000 ha planted with Chinese Forest Certification Council certificate Mosaic landscape including agricultural crop fields, forest plantations and eucalyptus and 11 900 ha with other species (PEFC) for 86 259 ha; FSC for 86 259 ha settlements. No native ecosystems are found in the leased lands. Areas totalling around 1 300 ha are protected (including 184 ha of public benefit forest), consisting of steep slopes, buffer zones and other important areas for watershed protection. Montes del Plata 45 769 ha, of which 36 670 ha planted FSC for 33 095 ha Mainly pasturelands and agricultural fields. Protected and sensitive areas are excluded from lease agreements. Veracel 12 014 ha, of which 5 996 ha planted FSC for 10 914 ha; PEFC for 10 914 ha 5 306 ha of leased lands are protected. They mostly consist of native forest remnants at different stages of regeneration. Trial plantations, Laos 3 900 ha, of which 2 332 ha planted The plantations are located within a mosaic of intensive shifting cultivation lands and traditionally protected remnants of native forests. One plantation area is located close to a National Biodiversity Conservation Area. The majority of the total area is covered by agroforestry production schemes. 1 Including operations where Stora Enso’s shareholding is at least 50% and size of the area exceeds 100 hectares. 2 Based on verified areas, which differ slightly from contractual areas. FORESTRY AND LAND USE / FORESTS, PLANTATIONS, AND LAND USE Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 50 Governance Environment People and Ethics Forestry and Land Use and Efficiency Environment and Efficiency Data and Assurance 51 Energy 54 Combatting global warming 59 Materials 63 Water 66 Environmental incidents Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 51 Governance Energy Opportunities and challenges Our policies Most of our paper, pulp, and board mills use biomass in their Responding to EU Steering our energy use internal energy production. In 2015 the share of biomass fuels calls for emission cuts People in our internal energy production rose to 81% (79% in 2014). Stora Enso’s energy use is based on longand Ethics The European Union (EU) 2020 Climate and term needs, and is steered by our Energy Forestry Energy Package and the 2030 Climate and Guidelines. In addition to steering our energy and Land Use Energy Framework, currently under revision, procurement and energy generation choices, Environment set out the way forward for industrial energy these guidelines also promote a wider corporate and Efficiency use in the EU. Revisions may include changes culture of responsible energy management. in the EU’s Emissions Trading System (ETS) (for more information see page 54), possible new How we work Data and emission compliance rules for combustion boilers Assurance within the pulp and board industry, and tougher requirements on industrial energy efficiency. Supply based on Most of our paper, pulp, and board mills long-term contracts use substantial amounts of biomass in their internal energy production. This renewable The most energy intensive phases in Stora energy is generated from harvesting residues, Enso’s value chain are our pulp, paper, and recovered wood, and by-products from our own board production processes. It is therefore production processes, such as black liquor, essential that our mills have access to a reliable bark, and different kinds of sludge generated energy supply at a reasonable cost. Stora during pulp and paper production. Our Enso’s energy supply is managed under longLangerbrugge Mill in Belgium, for instance, can term contracts, direct market access through sell green certificates on energy markets due energy exchanges, efficient combined heat and to its combined heat and electricity production power production, and shareholdings in power and the high share of biofuel used in the mill´s generation companies such as Pohjolan Voima boilers. Oy and Teollisuuden Voima Oy in Finland. For The EU’s Renewable Energy Directive sets more information on these partnerships see our member states a binding collective target to Financial Report (Note 31). realise 20% of their final energy consumption Stora Enso is committed to continuous from renewable sources by 2020. This can improvements in energy efficiency and energy be expected to increase global demand for self-sufficiency. Investments are made to enable biomass. With its high proportion of biomassflexibility regarding the use of biomass fuels or based energy, the forest industry can help EU other CO2 -efficient options. countries reach their national renewable energy targets. ENVIRONMENT AND EFFICIENCY / ENERGY Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 52 READ Structured energy management MORE Stora Enso follows a structured approach to energy Energy efficiency Governance management. Our Energy Services team is responsible with a human touch for procuring energy, including hedging of energy prices, managing the sales of emission rights, consulting In 2015 Stora Enso’s pulp, paper and board mills in People the mills in relation to energy procurement, trading in Sweden adopted the “Lean” approach to improve and Ethics green certificates, following our carbon dioxide (CO2) energy efficiency. Lean is a working method that Forestry allowance balance, and monitoring energy legislation. focuses on running processes with stable flow and Land Use The team also ensures that our energy efficiency patterns to add value and reduce waste. By the end of Environment strategy is implemented. the year the Lean approach had generated significant and Efficiency The main buyer of biofuels is our Wood Supply energy savings in our Swedish mills. organisation, whereas each mill is individually responsible for the procurement of other fuels. Each Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability Data and mill is responsible for optimising their energy efficiency Assurance using internal tools, certified environmental and energy management systems, and the support of our energy efficiency teams. Sachsen, Nymölla, Veitsiluoto, Heinola, and Oulu mills monitor energy efficiency online in real time. All of In 2015 our electricity self-sufficiency level remained At the end of 2015 altogether 36 of our European mills our pulp, paper, and board mills are part of an energy stable at 39%. Some 81% (80%) of our purchased were certified to the ISO 50001 system. efficiency best practice network. electricity was generated from low-carbon sources During 2015 our online energy efficiency tool was including nuclear and renewable energy. Existing adopted at Nymölla paper mill in Sweden. Progress contracts and our internal electricity generation capacity Arapoti paper mill in Brazil carried out a number are estimated to cover around 80% of our needs for the of energy optimisation actions in its pulp and paper next five years (80% in 2014). production processes. Combined with earlier actions, Internal energy production Energy accounted for 10% of Stora Enso’s variable these reduced the mill´s specific electricity and heat based on biomass costs in 2015 (12% in 2014). consumption per unit of sales production to a level 6.4% lower compared to the baseline year 2010. Our group-wide target is to reduce specific electricity Continuous improvement and heat consumption per tonne of pulp, paper, and During 2015 Stora Enso continued to improve energy board production by 15% by 2020, compared with the efficiency throughout the group’s operations: baseline year of 2010. In 2015 this indicator was 5.7% All of our Finnish paper, board, pulp and sawmills lower than the 2010 benchmark level (3.7% in 2014). were successfully audited for the ISO 50001 energy In 2015 our total energy self-sufficiency figure was management system, as were our sawmills at Ybbs and 62% (61%). The share of biomass in internal energy Bad St. Leonhard in Austria, Pfarrkirchen in Germany, production was 81% (79%). Alytus in Lithuania, and Zdírec in the Czech Republic. ENVIRONMENT AND EFFICIENCY / ENERGY Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 53 Our energy efficiency fund Fuels¹ Electricity¹ Another cornerstone of our continuous energy Governance efficiency work is a central energy efficiency investment Biomass 81% Purchased: nuclear 42% fund. In 2015 this fund was valued at EUR 11 million Gas 7% Internally generated: 38% (EUR 10 million in 2014) earmarked for use in our mills’ Coal 4% Purchased: fossil 12% People energy efficiency work. It supported 32 (43) projects Peat 4% Purchased: hydro 4% and Ethics Oil 2% Purchased: other renewable 4% during the year, including an upgrade of Skutskär pulp Other fossil 2% Forestry mill´s recovery boiler, enabling it to run on pitch oil and Land Use instead of fossil fuels; the upgrading of Ostrołęka Mill’s Environment wastewater treatment plant to utilise more efficient tube Our total annual fuel consumption was 148 550 terajoules (TJ) in 2015 (149 681 TJ in 2014). During 2015 we generated and purchased 13.4 terawatt hours (TWh) of electricity and 1 TJ = 1012 joules. consumed 13.0 TWh (13.5 and 13.2 during 2014). 0.5 TWh was sold (0.4). and Efficiency diffusors; and the utilisation of excess heat from Anjala TWh (terawatt hour) = 109 kilowatt hours. ¹ Figures cover pulp, paper and board production units. Normalised figures are reported per Mill’s boiler in the mill’s production processes. unit of sales production. ¹ Figures cover pulp, paper and board production units. Normalised figures are reported per unit of sales production. When in full effect, the projects financed in 2015 Data and should generate reductions in energy consumption Assurance totalling at least 290 GWh per year (38 GWh electricity Heat consumption1 2 3 Electricity consumption1 2 and 252 GWh heat). These figures are equivalent to 105 11 17 1.40 0.3% of our annual electricity consumption and 0.7% of our annual heat consumption. 100 10 16 1.35 95 9 15 1.30 Emissions to air 90 8 14 1.25 Our atmospheric emissions mainly result from the combustion of fuels used in energy generation. These 85 7 13 1.20 emissions include carbon dioxide (CO2), sulphur dioxide 80 6 12 1.15 (SO2), nitrogen oxides (NOx) and fine particles. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Trend 11–15 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Trend 11–15 We are working to reduce our emissions to air by using more renewable energy and by improving our PJ* 89.9 90.9 89.8 87.6 87.1 -3% TWh 15.1 15.0 14.1 13.2 13.0 -14% energy efficiency. SO2 and NOx emissions, which affect GJ/tonne 7.86 7.96 8.07 8.21 8.08 3% MWh/tonne 1.32 1.31 1.27 1.24 1.20 -9% air quality and cause acid rain and soil acidification, are ¹ Figures cover pulp, paper and board production units. Normalised figures are reported per ¹ Figures cover pulp, paper and board production units. Normalised figures are reported per unit of sales production. also controlled through advanced technologies such as unit of sales production. ² Excluding heat used for electricity generation. 2 Historical figures recalculated due to changes in baseline following divestments or reporting errors. scrubbers and boiler process control systems. 3 Historical figures recalculated due to changes in baseline following divestments or reporting errors. In 2015 our SO2 emissions amounted to 3.7 thousand * 1 PJ = 1015 joules. tonnes (4.1 thousand tonnes in 2014), NOx emissions totalled 11.0 thousand tonnes (10.9 thousand tonnes), and emissions of fine particles amounted to 1.8 thousand tonnes (1.8 thousand tonnes). ENVIRONMENT AND EFFICIENCY / ENERGY Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 54 Combatting Opportunities and challenges extreme weather events like storms, flooding and droughts, or changes in seasonal climatic global warming Governance conditions, can also be expected to affect our Creating value with operations directly and indirectly. renewable materials On the other hand, sustainable forest People management plays a vital role in mitigating and Ethics We constantly work to reduce fossil carbon dioxide (CO2) Carbon dioxide is the primary greenhouse global warming. Trees absorb CO2 from the Forestry emissions within our operations. The most effective ways for gas causing global warming. Our products atmosphere and together with wood-based and Land Use us to do this are to further improve our energy efficiency, and to are based on renewable materials with a products act as carbon sinks. If forests and comparatively low carbon footprint. They help plantations are managed sustainably, new Environment keep increasing the share of biomass in our total energy use. and Efficiency our customers and society at large to reduce generations of trees will grow back after mature CO2 emissions by providing alternatives to trees are logged, sequestering more CO2 from solutions based on fossil fuels and other nonthe atmosphere. Data and renewable materials. The Paris Climate Conference (COP 21) in Assurance The European Union’s (EU) Emissions December 2015 approved the first universal Trading System (ETS) is the biggest climate agreement, with 195 countries international system for trading greenhouse committing to the target of keeping the global gas emission allowances, and one of the EU’s rise in temperature below 2°C. Stora Enso efforts to combat global warming. The ETS welcomes this agreement as an important grants “carbon leakage” status to industries milestone in sustainable global development. where it is considered that costs related to As a renewable materials company we have climate policies might cause businesses to a solid base to build on for a low-carbon transfer production to countries with less economy. As part of Stora Enso’s wider demanding requirements to reduce greenhouse strategy to combat global warming, we are gas emissions. The forest industry currently has committed to a science-based CO2 reduction carbon leakage status for the period 2015– target. For more information on our COP 21 2019. Plans for the period beyond 2020 are actions see pages 9–10. being considered within the EU, with possible implications for the forest industry. The EU’s Climate and Energy Package, a set of binding legislation aiming to ensure that the EU meets its climate and energy targets -35% for 2020, can be expected to increase demand for biomass. It will also indirectly increase energy generation costs for our electricity suppliers when emission allowances have been Our target is to reduce our fossil CO2 completely purchased. emissions per saleable tonne of pulp, paper and board by 35% by the end of Physical problems resulting from global 2025 from a 2006 baseline. warming, such as the increasing frequency of ENVIRONMENT AND EFFICIENCY / COMBATTING GLOBAL WARMING Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 55 Our policies Stora Enso evaluates risks and opportunities We have also implemented methodologies for related to global warming through the Enterprise Risk calculating the quantities of carbon sequestered in Governance Management (ERM) process, which forms an integral forests and plantations owned and managed by Stora New carbon strategy framework defined part of the group’s management approach (for more Enso and our associate companies. details see our Progress Book). We also routinely People In 2015 Stora Enso defined a group-level carbon calculate the financial impacts of potential cost Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and Ethics strategy framework for assessing and building on our increases in relation to emission allowances, including Stora Enso was included for the sixth consecutive year Forestry current position, which is the result of actions taken the financial impacts on our business in case of in the Carbon Disclosure Project’s (CDP) Nordic Carbon and Land Use since the early 2000s. We aim to expand on this strategy consequent increases in energy prices. Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) in 2015 for our Environment during 2016. Other relevant policies include: group-level reporting on carbon emissions. and Efficiency •• Stora Enso’s current Statement on Climate Change, Carbon reporting which includes a target to reduce fossil CO2 emissions We publicly report on our greenhouse gas (GHG) per saleable tonne of pulp, paper, and board by 35% emissions in three categories: Data and by the end of 2025 from a 2006 baseline. This target is •• Emissions from sources we directly own or control, Assurance periodically adjusted to take into account the changing including on-site energy generation and processes, shape of the company. power boilers, lime kilns, vehicles and engines •• Supplier Code of Conduct and Practical Guide for (scope 1) Suppliers, which give guidance on how CO2 emissions •• Emissions related to the purchased electricity and can be reduced in our supply chain. heat consumed in our operations (scope 2) •• Emissions from other indirect sources along our value chain, reported as CO2 equivalent estimates (scope 3). How we work Our pulp, paper and board mills report carbon emissions monthly for scopes 1 and 2, while sawmills Improving our energy efficiency and converting facilities report annually.1 A group-level estimate for scope 3 emissions is updated biannually. Carbon dioxide is the most important greenhouse gas Our carbon footprint accounting is based on guidelines generated by our operations. Most of our CO2 emissions provided by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol of the World come from the energy we purchase at our mills. The Resource Institute and the World Business Council for most effective ways to reduce our direct fossil CO2 Sustainable Development. During 2015 we improved emissions are to further improve our energy efficiency, the external assurance of our direct and indirect fossil and to keep increasing the use of biomass fuels. For CO2 emissions (scopes 1 and 2) by moving from limited more information on our energy use see pages 51–53. assurance to reasonable assurance. For more details Our production units systematically work to meet see page 70. their environmental regulatory requirements and to improve their energy efficiency. Their work is supported by international third-party-certified systems such as the 1 The CO2 factors we use for purchased energy (scope 2) largely follow market based methodology, meaning that almost all of our units apply CO2 factors environmental management standard ISO 14001 and the provided by their energy suppliers, instead of average factors for the countries energy management standard ISO 50001. of operation. ENVIRONMENT AND EFFICIENCY / COMBATTING GLOBAL WARMING Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 56 by our own facilities, and indirect emissions produced In 2015 our direct fossil CO2 emissions decreased during the generation of the electricity and heat we both in absolute terms and per unit of sales Governance In 2015, 76% of the total purchase (scopes 1 and 2). In 2015 our CO2 emissions production. Fossil CO2 emissions per unit of sales CO2 emissions from our per saleable tonne of pulp, paper, and board were 32% production decreased in our Consumer Board, Paper, lower than the 2006 benchmark level (29% in 2014). and Biomaterials divisions, improving the group’s People own operations were from Large reductions in our CO2 intensity in previous performance. and Ethics biogenic sources. years have been achieved through investments in multiThe direct and indirect fossil CO2 emissions from all of Forestry fuel boilers that have reduced our use of fossil fuels, and our production units amounted to 3.95 million tonnes in and Land Use through increased efficiency in our internal production 2015 (4.07 million tonnes). Environment of power and heat. Other contributing factors have Our indirect CO2 emissions are significantly and Efficiency Company disclosures to CDP are rated on a scale included improved productivity, the use of more efficient influenced by the energy mixes used in the national of 0 to 100, and Stora Enso scored 99 in 2015. This equipment, and streamlined processes. For instance, grids of the countries where we operate. The fossil CO2 annual index highlights companies listed on Nordic a successful investment at Enocell in 2014 enabled emissions resulting from the generation of the energy we Data and stock exchanges who have demonstrated a robust about 85% of the fossil fuel oil used in the lime kiln to be purchased for electricity and heat during 2015 were 46% Assurance approach to the disclosure of information regarding replaced by sawdust. This helped to reduce the mill’s lower than in 2006 (45% lower). global warming. Our full response to the annual CDP annual fossil CO2 emissions by 49% in 2015. Twelve of Stora Enso’s mills are currently linked to local Climate questionnaire is available on our website. On the other hand, the group’s CO2 intensity has district heating systems. In most cases the heat supplied During 2015 Stora Enso participated in the CDP’s been adversely affected by the use of fossil fuels at our from our production units directly reduces the use of oil programmes on Climate Change, Forests, and Water. Ostrołęka Mill in Poland, where energy price trends have and other fossil fuels in these localities. In 2015 a total of not favoured the use of biomass-based fuels. 5 million GJ of heat was sold to these district heating Emissions from our logistics operations The carbon dioxide emissions generated during the transportation of our raw materials and products are the most significant environmental impacts associated with READ MORE our logistical operations, which are mainly performed by Signing the Paris Pledge external logistics service providers. Their other impacts to support global climate include traffic and noise, as well as emissions of sulphur agreement compounds, nitrogen oxides and particles. In the wake of the new inter-governmental climate agreement, non-state actors are also showing their Progress support for climate action. The Paris Pledge for Action is a unique way for businesses, investors, cities, and other organisations to pledge their commitment to Reducing our carbon dioxide intensity the goals of the agreement. Stora Enso is among the more than 800 organisations who have signed the Since 2007, our target has been to reduce our fossil CO2 Paris Pledge for Action. emissions per saleable tonne of pulp, paper, and board Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability by 35% from 2006 levels by the end of 2025. This CO2 intensity target covers both emissions generated directly ENVIRONMENT AND EFFICIENCY / COMBATTING GLOBAL WARMING Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 57 systems. Using this amount of renewable energy instead Our fossil CO2 emissions1 of light fuel oil for heating results in estimated emission Governance reductions amounting to 375 000 tonnes of CO2. Million tonnes kg/tonne 8.0 550 Biogenic emissions 7.0 490 People Biogenic CO2 emissions are fossil-free emissions and Ethics generated during the combustion of biomass-based 6.0 430 Forestry fuels. Biogenic CO2 emissions are considered carbon 5.0 370 and Land Use neutral when the biomass fuel comes from sustainably 4.0 310 Environment managed forests. Stora Enso’s operations utilise and Efficiency renewable biomass-based fuels to a large extent, 3.0 250 so the share of biogenic CO2 emissions in our total 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Trend 06–15 emissions is high. In 2015 76% (75%) of the total CO2 Million tonnes 6.87 6.18 5.19 4.04 4.56 3.85 3.75 3.87 3.76 3.64 -47% Data and emissions (biogenic CO2, scope 1 and scope 2) from Assurance our operations were from biogenic sources. kg/tonne 495 454 410 391 390 337 328 348 353 338 -32% Our carbon footprint ¹ Covering direct and indirect fossil CO2 emissions (scopes 1 and 2) from pulp, paper and board production units. Normalised figures are reported per unit of The direct emissions from our operations account sales production. Historical figures recalculated due to changes in baseline following divestments or reporting errors. for 21% (23% in 2014) of our carbon footprint, while emissions related to the energy we purchase for use in our operations account for 15% (15%) of our total Total carbon footprint 2011–20151 2 carbon emissions. The majority of the emissions in Fossil CO2 equivalent (million tonnes) our carbon footprint – 64% (62%) – are generated Emission source 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 elsewhere along the value chain, such as in the Stationary and mobile combustion sources (direct)3 Scope 1 2.36 2.49 2.50 2.40 2.61 sourcing and manufacturing of our raw materials and Purchased electricity and heat (indirect) Scope 2 1.72 1.71 1.82 1.80 1.71 services (36%); the further processing of our products Other sources (indirect) Scope 3 7.20 7.12 7.38 7.60 7.61 by customers (35%); and the transportation of raw materials to our mills and our final products to our 11.28 11.32 11.70 11.80 11.93 customers (23%). 1 Covers all Stora Enso production units. 2 Figures recalculated due to changes in baseline or reporting errors. 3 CO2 equilevant includes also other greenhouse gases in addition to CO2. 95% of our greenhouse gases under scope 1 are CO2, the rest are methane and nitrous oxide (N2O). ENVIRONMENT AND EFFICIENCY / COMBATTING GLOBAL WARMING Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 58 Stora Enso’s carbon footprint1 Governance People and Ethics Indirect emissions Our direct Indirect along the value chain emissions emissions 64% 21% 15% Forestry and Land Use Electricity and heat Environment purchased for our On-site electricity and Efficiency operations and heat production Data and Assurance Production of fuels Production of purchased materials and services: pulp, recycled paper and board, pigments, fillers Processing of products by our customers Harvesting Transportation and distribution of our products to customers globally Transportation of purchased raw materials and fuels Scope 1: Direct emissions from our operations. Scope 2: Emissions related to purchased energy consumed in our operations. Scope 3: Emissions from other sources along our value chain. 1 Covers all Stora Enso production units, a total of 11.28 million tonnes of fossil CO2 equivalent. ENVIRONMENT AND EFFICIENCY / COMBATTING GLOBAL WARMING Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 59 Governance Materials Opportunities and challenges Our policies As a renewable materials company, Stora Enso’s business Making more from less Guidance throughout model aligns well with the concept of a bioeconomy, offering the value chain People sustainable alternatives to fossil-based materials. Since our products are based on a raw material and Ethics that is renewable and reusable they offer Policies relevant to materials include: Forestry favourable alternatives to fossil-based goods. •• Policy on Wood and Fibre Sourcing, and and Land Use To keep us in the forefront of the developing Land Management, which guides our work in Environment bioeconomy we focus on innovation linked to forestry and land use, ensuring the origin of and Efficiency biochemistry and biomaterials. the wood we procure. Stora Enso’s operations also support •• Supplier Code of Conduct, Practical Guide for the concept of a “circular economy”, where Suppliers and Purchasers' Guidance, which Data and materials are repeatedly recycled and waste support the responsible sourcing of various Assurance generation is minimised, creating maximum raw materials used in our production. environmental and financial added value. Our material efficiency work promotes the efficient How we work use of raw materials, waste reduction, the reuse of fibre, and the creation of business opportunities and revenues from wastes and Improving material efficiency by-products. Approximately two-thirds of packaging Wood is the main raw material in Stora Enso’s materials used globally are produced from production processes. Virgin fibre is used non-renewable raw materials. Increasing for the production of all packaging materials eco-awareness among consumers results in used for sensitive products such as food, toys, growth opportunities for businesses, who use and pharmaceuticals and for several paper renewable raw materials. At the same time the grades. For more information about our wood increasing global demand for natural resources procurement see pages 43–49. may be reflected in changing environmental Seven of Stora Enso’s mills currently use requirements and costs in relation to our key paper for recycling (PfR) as raw material. raw materials, creating challenges that we need Recycled newspapers and magazines are to address. used to produce certain paper grades at Wider trends in waste management, such as Langerbrugge Mill in Belgium (where they reuse and recycling, are key factors that enable account for 100% of sourced fibre), Sachsen Stora Enso to successfully contribute to shaping (100%) and Maxau (75%) in Germany, Hylte a circular economy. The supply of sustainable in Sweden (50%), and Dawang in China raw materials, including both recycled and virgin (100%). Recovered board is used in certain fibre, is a key factor for the company throughout containerboard grades at Varkaus Mill in the value chain and in all markets. Finland and at Ostrołęka in Poland (85%). ENVIRONMENT AND EFFICIENCY / MATERIALS Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 60 During 2015 Stora Enso additionally used PfR at paper is of grades that cannot be recycled, such as tissue incinerators, and we report on their disposal in line with Heinola Mill in Finland and Barcelona Mill in Spain paper. This nevertheless means that 6% more paper could respective national regulations. Governance (100%). In October Stora Enso completed the still be recovered, and Stora Enso and the paper industry Our mills’ third-party-certified ISO 14001 systems divestment of Barcelona Mill to the private equity fund are actively collaborating to find ways to further increase form part of the on-site management procedures for the Quantum. the recycling rate. handling of chemicals and waste. Knowledge and best People Through contracts with local authorities, waste practices related to optimising material flows are shared and Ethics management companies, and by running our own Reusing waste and by-products through divisional and regional expert networks including Forestry collection facilities, we secure viable volumes of used Stora Enso’s production processes generate various our Environment, PfR, Chemical Safety and Product and Land Use paper and board for reuse as raw material. On top of the by-products and wastes, including black liquor, bark, Safety Networks. Environment material originating from households, Stora Enso uses wastewater treatment sludge, and different kinds of We are currently reviewing our approach to material and Efficiency paper from industrial and commercial sources such as sludge generated during pulp and paper production. efficiency, and new key performance indicators (KPIs) will printers and retailers in some regions. In Poland, Stora Many of the materials are used for our internal bioenergy be defined during 2016. Enso runs its own network of more than 20 depots, where generation and pulp production, or supplied to our Data and board is collected and baled for transportation to our partners for agricultural purposes, brick manufacturing, Progress Assurance containerboard mill at Ostrołęka. or road construction. We constantly look for innovative Europe’s PfR collection rate has been high for many ways to reuse materials that would otherwise end up as years, reaching a level of about 72% in 2014. This is a wastes. Waste reuse rate nearly 100% noteworthy achievement, especially since the European We dispose of hazardous wastes by ensuring that Recovered Paper Council (ERPC) estimates that 22% of all they are safely processed at suitable waste facilities or In 2015 the group’s revenues derived from wastes and residuals, including tall oil amounted to EUR 83 million (EUR 77 million in 2014). The waste and residuals reuse rate across the group was 98% (98%), covering internal READ and external reuse. Lignin – fractions of tomorrow MORE Hazardous wastes from our production include used oils, solvents, paints, laboratory chemicals, Stora Enso has been focusing on lignin extraction and batteries. In 2015 Stora Enso’s production units from wood as a door opener in transforming the generated a total of 3 574 tonnes of hazardous waste, pulp industry. The company's Sunila Mill in Finland slightly up from 3 422 tonnes in 2014. In addition, is the world’s first integrated lignin extraction plant 9 517 tonnes of sludge classified as hazardous waste producing dry kraft lignin. The lignin is burned in the was generated at the disused Falun Copper Mine in mill's lime kiln reducing the mill's fossil CO2 emissions. Sweden, for which Stora Enso is liable (8 871 tonnes in In terms of potential markets, refined lignin can 2014). The sludge is generated while removing metals be used in the production of adhesives and resins, from mine drainage water. coatings, specialty chemicals, and many other Stora Enso used 2.1 million tonnes of paper for products. recycling (PfR) in 2015 (2.5 million tonnes in 2014), making us one of the largest single PfR consumers in Read the full article at storaenso.com/lignin-of-tomorrow Europe. In 2015 the utilisation rate of PfR in our paper and board production was 24% (26% in 2014). The 2015 figures exclude the divested Barcelona Mill. ENVIRONMENT AND EFFICIENCY / MATERIALS Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 61 Material use in 2015¹ Governance People and Ethics Wood2 Forestry 33.4 million m³ Sold electricity and Land Use 0.47 TWh Environment and Efficiency Purchased pulp and paper for recycling 2.3 million tonnes Paper and board Data and 9.1 million tonnes Assurance Water 605 million m³ Wood products 5.3 million m³ Pigments, ﬁllers and starch 1.7 million tonnes Market pulp 1.2 million tonnes Fossil fuels 28.8 PJ Residuals for reuse3 External biomass 2.3 million tonnes 17.1 PJ ¹ Covers all Stora Enso production units. ² Excludes wood use by 50%-owned joint operations Veracel and Montes del Plata. ³ Residuals include by-products, waste, and other beneficially used sidestreams. The illustration shows the key materials used in our processes, together with our production figures for 2015. For a comprehensive view on how we create value for society see our Progress Book. ENVIRONMENT AND EFFICIENCY / MATERIALS Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 62 Utilisation of process waste and residual materials¹ Governance Energy generation 48% Pulp manufacturing 23% Wood pellet and chipboard People manufacturing 11% and Ethics Landscaping, landfill and road construction 7% Forestry Other 6% and Land Use Bricks 2% Process waste to landfill 2% Environment Agricultural use 1% and Efficiency ¹ Covers all Stora Enso production units, as dry tonnes. Data and Process waste to landfill¹ Assurance 77 710 tonnes Fly ash 54% Green liquor dregs 20% Bottom ash 15% Sludge and other materials containing fibre 4% Wood handling waste 2% Lime mud 1% Other process related wastes 4% ¹ Covers all Stora Enso production units. In addition to process waste to landfill Stora Enso’s production units created a total of 5 705 tonnes of non-process waste and 51 572 tonnes of waste sent to on-site storage facilities. Paper for recycling: procurement by origin thousand tonnes1 Western Europe 1 311 (57%) Central Europe 516 (23%) Nordic countries 326 (14%) Other countries 130 (6%) ¹ As delivered to our mills. ENVIRONMENT AND EFFICIENCY / MATERIALS Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 63 Governance Water Opportunities and challenges Our policies Water availability is one of the greatest challenges affecting A global concern with living conditions on our planet. We strive to reduce the local solutions A comprehensive approach People amounts of water used in our production. to water management and Ethics Water plays a central role in Stora Enso’s Forestry production processes, since the structure of Policies relevant to water include: and Land Use paper and board is dependent on the use of •• Statement on Water and Water Use, which Environment clean water. Water is also used for cooling reflects the company’s current position and and Efficiency machinery at the mills, for cleaning, as a activities carrier of energy in the form of steam, and as •• Code of Conduct, which provides guidance a medium to carry fibres through production on issues related to water use Data and processes. Water also plays a key role in •• Supplier Code of Conduct and Practical Assurance creating the electricity we use and purchase, Guide for Suppliers, which provide guidance particularly in hydropower plants. on issues related to water in our supply chain Water-related concerns are global, but their •• Policy on Wood and Fibre Sourcing, and impacts and solutions are local. Almost all of Land Management, which provides guidance our production units are located in regions on how water issues are integrated into our where water is a relatively abundant resource, sustainable forest management and the land and we can safely use water directly sourced use practices we follow in plantations and from lakes and rivers. However, the increasing forests. global demand for water may in the long-term impact our operations through our supply chains. As interest in global water scarcity increases, possible new policies and legislation regulating nutrient pollution, water recycling, Some 4% of the water prices, and the safe reuse of treated total volume of wastewater. In addition, the rising demand for the consumption and reuse of water may be water we withdraw reflected in new requirements for industrial is consumed in water use. Many of our planet’s water bodies are production processes polluted with toxic substances and nonwhile almost 96% is biodegradable materials. Stora Enso’s renewable, recyclable, and biodegradable recycled back to the products offer safe alternatives to products environment. with more harmful impacts. ENVIRONMENT AND EFFICIENCY / WATER Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 64 How we work Progress In 2015 our normalised discharges of nitrogen decreased, but normalised discharges of phosphorus Governance increased. Normalised discharges of absorbable Protecting water through Working to reduce organic halogen compounds (AOX) remained at a level cooperation with stakeholders process water discharges representing good performance.1 People and Ethics Our water use is regulated by the relevant authorities based Our two water-related targets and key performance Local water initiatives Forestry on local conditions and operational permits, with limits indicators (KPIs) aimed to reduce process water In 2015 we continued to actively participate in and Land Use set through each mill’s environmental permit processes. discharges and chemical oxygen demand (COD) levels international and local initiatives related to water in our Environment Our mills’ water management is supported by third-partyin discharged water per saleable tonne of pulp, paper operations and the surrounding communities. Arapoti and Efficiency certified management systems, such as ISO 14001. and board from 2005 and 2007 benchmark levels. Mill in Brazil implemented comprehensive energy-saving Even if Stora Enso withdraws relatively great amounts These targets and KPIs expired in 2015. measures that also resulted in an 8% reduction in of water, only some 4% of the total volume of water we In 2015 normalised process water discharges were process water discharges per tonne of paper produced, Data and withdraw is consumed in our production processes, 2% lower than in 2005 (3% in 2014) and normalised compared to a 2005 baseline. Assurance while almost 96% is recycled back to the environment. discharges of COD were 3% lower than the 2007 Skoghall Mill in Sweden piloted a project run by the The water is released after being carefully purified in our baseline level (5% in 2014). Alliance for Beverage Cartons and the Environment treatment plants (process water), or without treatment COD levels and the volumes of process water (ACE) to develop an industry-specific add-on to the (cooling water). discharges were affected by weak related performance WWF’s Water Risk Filter tool (WRF). This tool is Stora Enso is committed to use high-performing at some of our largest mills during the year, and the designed to help companies and investors assess and wastewater treatment systems to ensure that the water targets were not reached. The weak performance on mitigate potential water-related risks. we release is ecologically safe and meets all regulatory normalised process water discharges was mainly due Stora Enso and the chemicals company Kemira requirements. Our water treatment systems also recycle to Imatra Mill’s production problems during the third completed a joint water management project in three water within our mills where feasible, reducing the need quarter, and repair work on wastewater aerators at rural villages in Guangxi, China. For more details of this for water intake. Reducing the water demand of our mills Nymölla Mill during the year. project and its results see pages 23–24. also helps to improve the energy and material efficiency READ of our production. MORE We apply the Global Water Tool devised by the World A perfect match of wastewaters Business Council for Sustainable Development to assess water-related risks at our production units, and Blending wastewater streams from Stora Enso´s actively follow water footprint methodology developed by Kabel paper mill in Germany and four surrounding researchers and standardisation bodies. We also assess municipalities has resulted in valuable synergies: the impacts of the EU’s Best Available Technique (BAT) no nutrients need to be added in the wastewater reference documents (BREFs) in relation to our effluent treatment process. This unique collaboration helps to releases. make the River Ruhr cleaner. During 2016 Stora Enso will review the company’s approach to water use as part of the review of our Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability sustainability strategy. We will aim to address water topics more comprehensively with the help of a locally focused approach. 1 AOX figures relate to the amounts of chlorine or other halogens that end up bound to organic matter in wastewater. Since Stora Enso stopped using elemental chlorine in chemical pulp bleaching processes in the early 1990s, our discharges of AOX have fluctuated within a range representing good performance. ENVIRONMENT AND EFFICIENCY / WATER Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 65 Water withdrawal and consumption1 2 Governance Trend 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 11–15 Phosphorus1 2 Total water withdrawal (million m ) 3 150 16 Process water 304 301 297 299 318 5% People 135 14 Cooling water 362 320 334 323 283 -22% and Ethics Total 666 621 631 622 601 -10% 120 12 Forestry and Land Use 105 10 Process water withdrawal efficiency Environment m /tonne 3 26.6 26.3 26.7 28 29.5 11% 190 8 and Efficiency 75 6 Total water consumption 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Trend 11–15 million m3 26.1 24.7 26.1 25.3 22.9 -12% Data and m3/tonne 2.3 2.2 2.3 2.4 2.1 -9% 1 000 tonnes 112 121 108 111 130 16% Assurance g/tonne 9.8 10.5 9.7 10.4 12.0 22% Process water discharges 1 Figures from pulp, paper and board production units. Normalised figures are reported per unit million m3 290 285 280 276 282 -3% of sales production. 2 Historical figures recalculated due to changes in baseline following divestments or reporting m3/tonne 25.4 24.9 25.2 25.8 26.1 3% errors. 1 Figures from pulp, paper and board production units. Normalised figures are reported per unit of sales production. 2 Figures have been recalculated due to changes in baseline or reporting errors. Nitrogen1 2 Adsorbable organic halogen compounds (AOX)1 2 Chemical oxygen demand (COD)1 2 1.5 140 700 100 130 15 1.4 130 600 90 120 13 1.3 120 500 80 110 11 1.2 110 400 70 100 9 1.1 100 300 60 90 7 1.0 90 200 50 80 5 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Trend 11–15 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Trend 11–15 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Trend 11–15 1 000 tonnes 1.21 1.20 1.31 1.21 1.16 -4% tonnes 514 453 389 302 312 -39% 1 000 tonnes 103 102 93 94 97 -6% g/tonne 105 105 117 113 107 2% g/tonne 88 78 67 54 55 -38% kg/tonne 9.0 8.9 8.3 8.9 9.0 0% 1 Figures from pulp, paper and board production units. Normalised figures are reported per unit 1 Figures from bleached chemical pulp production units only. Normalised figures are reported 1 Figures from pulp, paper and board production units. Normalised figures are reported per unit of sales production. per unit of bleached chemical pulp production. of sales production. 2 Historical figures recalculated due to changes in baseline following divestments or reporting 2 Historical figures recalculated due to changes in baseline following divestments or reporting 2 Historical figures recalculated due to changes in baseline following divestments or reporting errors. errors. errors. ENVIRONMENT AND EFFICIENCY / WATER Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 66 Governance Environmental incidents in 2015 People and Ethics Forestry and Land Use Environment The list gives details of non-compliances with environmental legal requirements that occurred at our production units during 2015. Joint venture operations are excluded from the list. and Efficiency Unit Incident Corrective actions Enocell pulp mill, Finland The mill’s monthly permit limit for phosphorus was slightly exceeded in August A new mechanism for adding urea to the process has been installed. No 2015. Enocell’s phosphorous permit limits are 15 kg/day and the level in August requirements were imposed by the authorities. Data and was 15.4 kg/day. Assurance Ostrołęka corrugated plant, Poland Water contaminated with printing ink leaked into a rainwater sewer due to the The pump has been repaired, a new breakdown alarm has been installed, and breakdown of an effluent pump in November 2015. special instructions have been implemented. These actions were required and accepted by the authorities. Ostrołęka kraft mill The mill’s permit limits for chemical oxygen demand, total suspended solids and Actions have been taken to reduce the loads entering the effluent treatment plant biological oxygen demand were exceeded in September and November 2015. and to improve control of the process. No requirements were imposed by the authorities. Ostrołęka paper mill Damaged bag filter elements caused the dust emissions from a circulating fluidized New filter elements have been installed in the CFB. Further maintenance measures bed boiler (CFB) to exceed limits in November and December 2015. In addition, the that will improve the boiler’s dust removal system are planned for 2016. Measures mill’s permit limits for chemical oxygen demand, total suspended solids, and have also been taken to increase the flexibility and reliability of the effluent biological oxygen demand were exceeded. treatment plant. No requirements were imposed by the authorities. Sunila pulp mill, Finland The mill’s two recovery boilers were exceeded their permit limits for particulate Air leakages in one of the boilers were repaired in October 2015. Problems are matter content in August 2015. In addition, one of the mill’s recovery boilers expected to end in 2016 when loads in recovery boilers will be permanently lowered exceeded its total reduced sulphur (TRS) permit limit for a total of 18 hours during due to lignin extraction. TRS levels are expected to stay within permit limits due to January–August 2015. the improved stability of operations as dust formation is reduced. No requirements were imposed by the authorities. Varkaus Mill, Finland The mill’s monthly effluent limit for phosphorus was slightly exceeded in August No corrective actions were needed. The supervising authority was informed before 2015 due to maintenance work during a shutdown in paper production. the maintenance work began, and no further actions were required. ENVIRONMENT AND EFFICIENCY / ENVIRONMENTAL INCIDENTS Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 67 Governance Data and Assurance People and Ethics Forestry and Land Use Environment and Efficiency Data and Assurance 68 External recognition 69 Reporting scope 71 Data by unit 74 GRI Index 82 Assurance statement Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 68 Governance External recognition People FTSE4 Good Index OMX GES Sustainability Euronext Vigeo – Europe 120 and Ethics Stora Enso is included in the FTSE4Good Finland index Stora Enso has maintained its position in Forestry Index Series, where we have been listed since 2001. Stora Enso is included in the NASDAQ OMX and GES the Euronext Vigeo – Europe 120 index as one of the and Land Use These indices have been designed to measure Investment Service’s OMX GES Sustainability Finland 120 most advanced European companies in terms of Environment the performance of companies that meet globally index. GES Investment Services compare leading environmental, social, and governance performance. and Efficiency recognised corporate responsibility standards. companies listed on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki with regard to their responsibility work on environmental, social and Oekom Research Carbon Disclosure governance issues. Stora Enso is classified as “Prime” by Oekom Data and Leadership Index Research’s environmental, social, and governance rating Assurance Stora Enso is included for the sixth consecutive year in STOXX Global ESG Leaders indices methodology. the Carbon Disclosure Project’s (CDP) Nordic Carbon Stora Enso is listed for the fifth consecutive Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) for our reporting on year in the STOXX Global ESG Leaders indices. These The Stockholm School of Economics carbon emissions. indices rate leading global companies according to Stora Enso received the highest rating in a environmental, social, and governance criteria. study on sustainability communication in Sweden that MSCI Global Sustainability included all companies listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm and SRI Indexes ECPI Ethical Indices Large Cap index. The report was commissioned by the Stora Enso has been a constituent of these Stora Enso is included in the Mistra Center for Sustainable Markets (MISUM) at the Sustainability Index Series for more than five years. ECPI Ethical indices. ECPI is dedicated sustainability Stockholm School of Economics. MSCI ESG indices represent the most prevalent research, rating, and indices. environmental, social, and governance investment Sustainability report review in Finland strategies, using award-winning ESG data and ratings EcoVadis Stora Enso’s Global Responsibility on thousands of companies worldwide. Stora Enso received the highest recognition level (Gold) Performance 2014 was nominated as the best in this ethical supplier rating system. sustainability report in Finland’s leading annual RobecoSAM sustainability report review, coordinated by the Sustainability Award Ethibel Investment Register Corporate Responsibility Network FIBS. The report also Stora Enso has qualified for inclusion in RobecoSAM’s Stora Enso is listed in Forum ETHIBEL’s Ethibel won sub-categories in human rights and tax footprint 2016 Sustainability Yearbook with a Silver Class EXCELLENCE Investment Register and Ethibel reporting. distinction for excellent sustainability performance. Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence Europe. Such This yearbook lists the world’s most sustainable recognition indicates that a company performs better UN Global Compact 100 Stock Index companies in each industry, as determined by their than average in its sector in terms of corporate social Stora Enso is included in the United Nations Global scores in RobecoSAM’s annual Corporate Sustainability responsibility. Compact 100, a global stock index that combines Assessment (CSA). corporate sustainability and financial performance. DATA AND ASSURANCE / EXTERNAL RECOGNITION Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 69 Governance Reporting scope People At Stora Enso we regularly review the priorities in our The report does, however, describe issues directly Divestments and closures during 2015 and Ethics sustainability agenda, and ensure that our reporting duly relating to companies in which Stora Enso’s ownership Stora Enso completed the divestment of the specialty Forestry addresses them. When defining the materiality of issues is 50% or below, when these issues have been identified and coated fine paper mill at Uetersen in Germany and Land Use impacting our sustainable business model, we consider as material considering the sustainability impacts of on 18 February. The divestments of Barcelona Mill in Environment the expectations of stakeholders inside and outside the the group and related interest among our stakeholders. Spain, which produces recycled-fibre based consumer and Efficiency company. For this reason the report covers material sustainability board, and Komárom packaging plant in Hungary, During the years 2012–2014 we conducted significant topics relating to Stora Enso’s joint operations in South were completed on 2 October. In addition, the group’s materiality assessments among our internal and America, Veracel and Montes del Plata, as well as our corrugated packaging converting unit in Chennai, India, Data and external stakeholders including investors, online and 35%-owned equity-accounted investment Bulleh Shah Sollenau sawmill in Austria, and the Pälkäne modular Assurance traditional media, and a separate online panel set up for Packaging in Pakistan. building production unit in Finland were closed during stakeholders from across our markets. In 2014 this panel Our consolidated environmental and energy data 2015. Our consolidated sustainability data covers our received comments from 228 stakeholders from more covers our production units as of the end of the continuous operations as of the end of 2015, excluding than 35 countries (614 participants from 47 countries reporting period. The related historical performance has these divested and closed units, with the exception of in 2013). This work formed the basis for setting our been recalculated following the removal of divested units occupational health and safety (OHS) data, where these priorities for 2015. For details of our previous materiality from the baseline. Scope limitations related to specific units are included in the consolidated performance analysis see Stora Enso’s Global Responsibility environmental indicators are explained in footnotes. figures for 2015. Performance 2014. Stora Enso’s sawmills and converting facilities are To support our previous material reviews, we excluded from the group’s environmental targets due to In accordance with GRI conducted a survey among our top 20 investors to their lower materiality. This report corresponds to the ‘Comprehensive’ level in assess their views on our sustainability work in 2015. Human resources (HR) data is derived from the GRI G4’s reporting framework. This means that our A customer survey covering our top 50 customers and separately collected HR statistics, except for numbers of reporting covers all the Standard Disclosures of the G4 an independent study on sustainability reporting were employees, which are derived from financial accounting. framework and all the sustainability aspects we have also conducted during the year. Unlike in our Progress Book and Financial Report, identified as material in our operations. The index table consolidated HR data in the Sustainability Report on the following pages lists our Standard Disclosures Data boundaries excludes employees of our 50%-owned joint operations with reference to G4 categories, aspects and indicators, Unless otherwise stated, the group’s consolidated Montes del Plata and Veracel. All the presented HR data and refers to the pages or locations where these issues performance data as expressed in this report covers covers permanent and temporary employees as of 31 are addressed in our annual reporting publications and/ the parent company, Stora Enso Oyj, and all companies December 2015, except for the unit-specific numbers of or other information channels. in which we hold over 50% of voting rights directly employees on pages 71–73 which are yearly averages. or indirectly. The group’s consolidated sustainability Certain administrative functions and sales offices are Aspect-specific data boundaries performance data does not cover joint operations or not included in the group’s consolidated OHS data. Impacts that make sustainability topics relevant for equity-accounted investments where Stora Enso’s us may occur outside of Stora Enso, or they may be ownership is between 20% and 50%, or companies in material only for certain operations or locations. When which our ownership share is less than 20%. DATA AND ASSURANCE / REPORTING SCOPE Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 70 our reporting on a sustainability aspect or indicator only The UN Global Compact concerns specific units, geographical regions or other Stora Enso supports the ten principles of the UN Global Governance data collection boundaries, based on the identified Compact, a United Nations initiative set up to encourage materiality, this is specified in the comment field in businesses worldwide to embed responsibility into their the G4 index table, or in connection to the respective operations. We respect and promote these principles People disclosure. throughout our operations, and report on our respective and Ethics progress in this report. Forestry Disclosure on management approach Stora Enso is also a signatory of the UN Global and Land Use Stora Enso’s generic management approach to Compact’s CEO Water Mandate, a public-private Environment sustainability covers all of the aspects of the G4 initiative designed to assist companies in the and Efficiency framework identified as material. We also report on our development, implementation, and disclosure of water management approach with regard to specific aspects sustainability policies and practices. Our progress in in the relevant sections of this report, with respective addressing the six core elements of the CEO Water Data and page references included in the G4 index table. Mandate is also described in this report. Assurance External assurance This report has been assured by an independent third-party assurance provider in accordance with the voluntary external assurance practice followed in sustainability reporting. The assurance statement for this report appears on page 82. Deloitte & Touche Oy has provided a limited level of assurance covering the contents in this report, as well as pages 4-11 and 60-63 in the group’s Progress Book. For the first time a level of reasonable assurance has been provided for Stora Enso’s reporting on direct and indirect fossil CO2 emissions (scopes 1 and 2). DATA AND ASSURANCE / REPORTING SCOPE Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 71 Data by unit Governance This table presents unit-specific information on environmental performance, production, certificates, and numbers of employees. Joint ventures and units that were divested or closed during 2015 are excluded. People Certificates Fossil CO2 emissions and Ethics OHSAS 18001 PEFC™ CoC Forestry ISO 9001 ISO 14001 ISO 22000 ISO 50001 FSC® CoC and Land Use Number of Production Recovered Waste to Hazardous NOx as CO2, on-site Biogenic CO2, Process water employees a) capacity b) Products fibre c) FDA landfill waste d) SO2 e) NO2 Direct CO2 f) Indirect CO2 f) transport f) biomass fuels f) COD AOX Phosporous Nitrogen discharges Environment and Efficiency Unit 1 000 t t t t t t t t t t t t t 1 000 m3 Belgium Langerbrugge 354 155 1 x x x x x x x 7 755 79 11 247 98 903 51 718 1 475.1 557 127 919 1.2 4.9 25.1 6 472 Brazil Arapoti g) 321 185 1 x x x x x 128 112 14 930 47 059 572.4 84 538 380 0.7 3.0 2 215 Data and China Assurance Dawang 217 170 1 x x x x x 0 1 116 847 271.5 48 1.9 957 Dongguan 1 078 50* 4 x x x 2 0 0 130 6 711 31.8 28 0 0.1 0.3 0 Jiashan 325 10* 4 x x x x 2 028 7.7 0 Qian'an 1 331 55* 4 x x x 345 6 10 233 57.1 1 Suzhou 521 245 1 x x x x x 0 104 277 338 116 160 76 982 233.4 35 0.4 4.9 1 229 Estonia Tallinn 31 15* 4 x x x 721 277.5 1 Finland Anjala/Ingerois 326 435/280 1 2 x x x h) x x x x 74 8 237 138 047 189 009 1 505.4 124 023 1 862 4.0 99.7 9 368 Enocell 165i) 460 3 x x x x x x 4 488 50 104 1 032 41 152 169.3 1 389 729 7 055 52.2 2.7 46.4 21 574 Heinola Fluting 171 300 2 x x x x x x x 1 579 76 393 428 155 288 13 387 198.5 176 449 1 320 2.4 13.7 4 194 Heinola 135i) 100* 4 x x x x x x x 34 1 517 102.8 19 Imatra 1 071i) 1 110 2 3 x x x x x x x x 2 042 408 185 2 093 142 278 104 274 1 622.8 2 108 747 18 737 90.0 15.0 233.0 63 737 Kristiinankaupunki 42 20* 4 x x x x x x 0 106 100 20.4 1 Lahti 139 60* 4 x x x x x x 105 47 2 530 73.4 11 Oulu 614i) 1 105 1 3 x x x x x x 326 420 390 1 324 262 748 60 438 3 007.1 1 116 407 9 031 33.0 9.3 81.9 18 521 Sunila 165 370 3 x x x x x x 4 184 151 63 706 34 041 0 609.5 839 134 6 583 39.8 6.7 35.9 17 237 Varkausj) 173i) 285 1 3 x x x x x 3 976 94 121 460 43 221 8 898 464.1 426 257 1 879 10.8 4.6 33.5 8 239 Varkaus boardj) 263j) 390 2 3 x x x x x x x x 233 44 143 196 23 507 8 423 117.0 136 707 786 0.3 1.5 19.6 2 839 Veitsiluoto 524i) 830 1 x x x x x x 2 345 103 527 1 181 229 733 61 611 321.1 1 057 586 11 910 27.0 12.1 172.8 13 462 Germany Kabel 565 495 1 x x x x x x 147 84 104 216 247 520 974.5 224 782 0.3 5.3 21.8 7 083 Maxau 430 530 1 x x x x x x x 117 16 232 134 866 187 217 1 235.1 323 913 1 636 0.3 4.2 12.0 5 382 Sachsen 261 320 1 x x x x x x x 126 4 155 159 994 2 198 808.8 47 442 676 0.6 0.6 3.7 3 367 Latvia Riga 142 100* 4 x x x 2.16 4 175 178.4 9 Lithuania Kaunas 47 20* 4 x x x 0 1 445 71.6 5 Poland Łódz 204 110* 4 x x x x x x 1 0 3 3 267 6 375 11 Mosina 99 25* 4 x x x x x x 44 360 1 795 38.6 Ostrołękak) 983 267 1 2 4 xl) x x xm) x x x 0 3 51 1 16 086 281 601 301.6 184 593 814 1.9 16.7 4 923 Ostrołęka Narew 244 455 2 x x x x x x 0 23 182 155 347 232 -79 466 1 031.2 103 560 276 1.3 1 986 Tychy 136 90* 4 x x x x x x 5 2 702 4 232 10 DATA AND ASSURANCE / DATA BY UNIT Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 72 Certificates Fossil CO2 emissions ISO 14001 ISO 22000 ISO 50001 OHSAS 18001 FSC® CoC PEFC™ CoC Governance ISO 9001 Number of Production Recovered Waste to Hazardous NOx as CO2, on-site Biogenic CO2, Process water employees a) capacity b) Products fibre c) FDA landfill waste d) SO2 e) NO2 Direct CO2 f) Indirect CO2 f) transport f) biomass fuels f) COD AOX Phosporous Nitrogen discharges Unit 1 000 t t t t t t t t t t t t t 1 000 m3 Russia People Arzamas 173 100* 4 x x 39 1 3 2 980 13 728 121.8 25 and Ethics Balabanovo 328 165* 4 x x 82 1 2 4 547 20 504 209.6 29 Lukhovitsy 131 80* 4 x x 65 0 2 2 113 12 881 131.7 13 Forestry Sweden and Land Use Falu Rödfärg n) 5 x x 9 517 0 559 9 Fors 562 445 2 x x x x x x x 0 98 7 99 3 318 2 413 644.4 218 798 1 624 0.3 1.4 22.1 4 675 Environment Hylte 369 480 1 x 12 x x x x x 39 809 100 0 114 7 672 3 922 912.7 224 202 908 0.1 2.0 21.8 5 103 and Efficiency Jönköping 170 100* 4 x x 2 22 1 356 405 52.4 Kvarnsveden 552 720 1 x x x x x x 149 20 116 27 826 37 484 10.5 210 815 2 150 1.0 1.5 38.8 9 484 Nymölla 555 500 1 3 x x x x x x 5 608 558 -7 982 15 799 1 804.6 620 888 13 030 0.3 10.1 88.2 26 134 Skene 133 100* 4 x x 27 0 41 55 Data and Skoghall 718 840 2 x x x x x x x 3 232 491 118 431 55 349 17 958 2 046.9 890 633 8 231 15.8 7.6 74.7 23 622 Assurance Skoghall (Forshaga) 101 110 2 x x x x x x x x 7 1 233 97 209.8 Skutskär 361 540 3 x x x x x x 0 12 485 814 8 028 7 642 1 428.1 1 805 196 6 301 43.4 29.6 86.8 19 821 Vikingstad 55 75* 4 x x 4 2 1 017 194 0.5 Total pulp, paper, 12 022 o) 70 766 12 672 3 718 11 011 2 176 026 1 552 669 23 351 12 646 968 97 001 316 130 1 158 281 759 board, converted products Total, wood products Sawmills p) q) q) q) q) q) q) q) q) 6 945 370 25 390 3 158 170 257 19 936 394 977 524 5 185 Grand total All units 77 711 13 042 3 743 11 401 2 179 184 1 722 926 43 286 13 041 945 97 525 316 135 1 158 281 944 a) Yearly average. j) Mill production shifted from fine paper to board and packaging paper in The figure 0 (zero) in the table signifies that such discharges, emissions, or b) P  roduction capacities of integrated pulp, paper, and board mills include paper September 2015. Due to the short operation time, the number of employees is wastes do not occur or only occur below detection limits. Where cells are left and board production capacities. reported for the year end, and not as a yearly average. blank, this signifies that the parameter is considered as not relevant for that c) Mills using recovered fibre as raw material (fully or partly). k) Ostrołęka Mill includes two units. One produces corrugated board (capacity unit. converted into metric tonnes), the other produces kraft paper and recycled paper. d)  eported on the basis of country-specific definitions applied in national R * million m2 regulations. l) Kraft paper unit uses recycled fibre. e) Total sulphur is reported as sulphur dioxide (SO2) equilevant, but includes all m) Only covers corrugated board unit. Products: 1 paper 2 board and packaging paper 3 market pulp sulphurous compounds. n) Does not have its own personnel but hires personnel from Stora Enso AB. 4 converted products (e.g. cores, corrugated board) 5 red paint pigment f) All CO2 figures are calculated using the WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol. o) Excluding total corrugated board capacity 1 275 million m2. g) Stora Enso announced its plans to divest Arapoti Mill in December 2015. Production capacities (excluding Hartola) for sawn timber 5 550 000 m3 and for p) h) Covers only board production at Ingerois Mill. wood pellets 320 000 t. i) This figure does not include service company personnel. q) See separate table for Wood Products units. DATA AND ASSURANCE / DATA BY UNIT Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 73 Capacities Certificates Fossil CO2 emissions Governance Number of Sawn Further Wood ISO ISO OHSAS ISO PEFC ® FSC® Waste to Hazardous CO2 on-site Biogenic CO2, employees a) timber processed CLT pellets 9001 14001 18001 50001 CoC CoC landfill waste b) SO2 NOx as NO2 Direct CO2 c) Indirect CO2 c) transportation c) biomass fuels c) Unit 1 000 m3 1 000 m3 1 000 m3 1 000 t t t t t t t t t Non-integrated sawmills Austria People Bad St. Leonhard 224 390 290 65 x x x x x x 60 4 10 812 1 299.5 and Ethics Brand 205 470 290 x x x 25 1 784 1 869.7 Ybbs 321 590 420 75 x x x x x 48 3 075 2 452.2 Forestry Czech Republic and Land Use Planá 218 340 270 x x x 412 52 1 34 8 245 1 843.4 38 729 Ždírec 260 550 290 30 x x x x x 2 903 16 1 120 0 2 222.8 89 087 Environment Estonia and Efficiency Imavere 312 350 190 100 x x x x 2 112 52 48 734 1 768.9 49 043 Näpi 93 75 130 15 x x x x 0 11 0 5 19 8 258 358.2 4 733 Finland Honkalahti 114 310 90 x x x x x x 3 33 436 5 648 736.4 47 375 Kitee 76 260 120 25 x x x x x x 12 8 23 3 853 432.5 30 169 Data and Uimaharju 55 260 20 x x x x x x 21 1 1 130 2 159 866.0 967 Assurance Germany Pfarrkirchen 93 140 x x x x x x 20 2 2 17 2 840 272.7 8 210 Latvia Launkalne 122 215 10 x x x x x 338 4 31 226 2 910 1 051.6 21 044 Lithuania Alytus 171 200 105 x x x x x 19 12 12 606 1 156.8 18 875 The Netherlands Amsterdam Planing 40 110 x x x x x 21 716 6.9 Poland Murow 157 150 20 x x 4 1 0 2 1 679 473.8 978 Russia Impilahti 111 130 20 15 x x x x 229 0 0 4 16 394 33.8 10 025 Nebolchi 178 220 30 35 x x 910 0 0 44 133 30 663 28 697 Sweden Ala 140 380 45 x x x x 34 25 195 1 814.1 47 045 Gruvön 82 400 150 100 x x x 11 0 1 193 5 120 1 276.4 Non-integrated sawmills total 5 290 2 740 140 320 6 940 367 4 355 3 158 165 691 19 935.7 394 977 Sawmills Veitsiluoto d) 50 x x x x x x 17 23 2 727 Varkaus 54 260 x x x x x x 5 3 4 12 1 839 Hartola e) 34 a) Yearly average. b) Reporting is based on country-specific definitions applied in national regulations. c) All CO2 figures are calculated using the WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol. d) Veitsiluoto Sawmill in Finland with its sawing capacity of 200 000 m3 is reported with the Paper division. e) Module construction capacity at Hartola house factory is 1 000 modules. DATA AND ASSURANCE / DATA BY UNIT Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 74 Governance GRI Content Index (G4) SR Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 l Fully reported FR Stora Enso Financial Report 2015 ¤ Partially reported People PB Stora Enso Progress Book 2015 and Ethics Location and comments Level Forestry GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES and Land Use STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Environment G4-1 Statement from the most senior maker of the organisation PB 8–13, FR Report of the Board of Directors, SR 2 and 8 l and Efficiency G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities SR 6–8, PB 6–7 and 64–67 l ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of the organisation PB 2 l G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services PB 3 l Data and G4-5 Location of headquarters PB back cover l Assurance G4-6 Countries in which operations are located PB 4, SR 33 and 71-73 l G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form PB 2 l G4-8 Markets served PB 4–5 l G4-9 Scale of the reporting organisation FR Report of the Board of Directors, FR Note 30, SR 71-73 l G4-10 Breakdown of workforce SR 33–34, FR Note 3. 62% of the Group’s employees are production workers (67% in 2014). 5% of the group’s employees l have temporary contracts (4%). The share of women among the employees with temporary contracts is in line with the share of women among all the group’s employees. Based on our employee survey approximately 17% of our production workers are female. G4-11 Coverage of collective bargaining agreements At the end of 2015 approximately 83% of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements (79% in 2014). l This figure is approximate due to differences in national legislations. G4-12 Description of supply chain SR 38, 58 and 61 l G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period SR 69, FR Note 4 l G4-14 Addressing the precautionary approach or principle SR 6–10, 15 and 21–22, FR Report of the Board of Directors, PB 64–67 l G4-15 External charters, principles, or initiatives endorsed SR 9–10 and 68 l G4-16 Memberships in associations SR 10 l IDENTIFIED MATERIALS ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 Report coverage of the entities in the consolidated financial statements. FR Notes 30 and 31. SR 69. All entities in our Financial Report also are covered by our Sustainability Report. Joint operations l or equity-accounted investments are not consolidated in most of the group’s sustainability indicators. When they are consolidated in the group’s sustainability indicator this is specified with a footnote in connection to the respective disclosure. The sustainability performance of joint operations and equity-accounted investments is addressed where material in this report. G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the aspect boundaries SR 69-70 l G4-19 Material aspects identified We have identified all the aspects in the G4 framework except Marketing Communications as material for the Stora Enso group l Sustainability Report 2015. G4-20 Aspect boundary within the organisation SR 69-70 l G4-21 Aspect boundary outside the organisation SR 69-70 l G4-22 The effect of restatements of information provided in previous reports No major restatements l G4-23 Significant changes in the scope and aspect boundaries from previous report FR Note 4, SR 69 l DATA AND ASSURANCE / GRI INDEX Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 75 Location and comments Level STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Governance G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged SR 10 l G4-25 Identification and selection of stakeholders SR 9–10 and 14–29 l G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement SR 9–10 and 14–29 l G4-27 Response to key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement SR 9–10 and 14–29 l People REPORT PROFILE and Ethics G4-28 Reporting period 1 January 2015 – 31 December 2015 l Forestry G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 17 February 2015 l and Land Use G4-30 Reporting cycle Annual. Stora Enso additionally provides quarterly updates on material sustainability topics in the Sustainability sections of l the group’s Interim Reviews, available on the group’s website. Environment and Efficiency G4-31 Contact point for questions PB back cover l G4-32 ‘In accordance’ option, the GRI content index and external assurance SR content index for ‘In accordance’ – Comprehensive. SR 74-83 l G4-33 Policy and current practice regarding external assurance SR 70. Since the reporting period of 2014 the group principal auditor (statutory Financial Auditor) Deloitte has also provided l limited external assurance for the group’s sustainability information. In 2015 the external assurance engagement included Data and reasonable assurance level on direct and indirect fossil CO2 emission reporting. For the assurance statement, see SR pages 82-83. Stora Enso’s Internal Audit and Board of Director’s Financial and Audit Committee were involved in the review of the Assurance external assurance fee on sustainability reporting. The Board of Director’s Sustainability and Ethics Committee is involved in reviewing the observations and recommendations related to the external assurance on sustainability reporting. GOVERNANCE G4-34 Governance structure SR 6–7, PB 68–77 l G4-35 The process for delegating authority for sustainability topics SR 6–7, PB 68–77 l G4-36 Executive-level positions with responsibility for sustainability topics SR 6, PB 76–77 l G4-37 Processes for consultation between stakeholders and SR 6–7 and 37, PB 83. All shareholders have the right to make proposals to the shareholder meeting agenda regarding l the highest governance body matters that are within the authority of the Annual General Meeting (AGM). All shareholders also have the right to present questions to the Board of Directors (BOD) and executive management at the AGM. The employee representatives meet the chairman and the vice chairman of the BOD and the CEO in connection with board meetings on a regular basis. G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees SR 6 and 34, PB 68–75 l G4-39 Position of the chair of the board of directors The chair of the Board of Directors is independent from the company’s executive management. l G4-40 Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body PB 68–73. The company has a nomination board assigned by the AGM to propose new board members. When preparing l and its committees proposals the nomination board evaluates the specific needs of the Board of Directors, including also possible needs for sustainability related competencies, and takes those specific qualifications into account in its proposals. G4-41 Avoiding conflicts of interest PB 68-77 l G4-42 The role of the highest governance body and senior executives in setting SR 6, PB 68-77 l purpose, values, and strategy G4-43 Measures taken to enhance the Board of Directors’ collective knowledge SR 6 and 37, PB 68-77 l of sustainability topics G4-44 Evaluating board performance with respect to sustainability topics SR 6, PB 68-77. The evaluation of the board’s performance is generic in its nature and focuses mostly on working methods l and not on any specific area in particular. However, if concerns relating to sustainability issues arise, the Sustainability and Ethics Committee’s role is to identify those issues and bring them to the agenda of the Board of Directors. The Sustainability and Ethics Committee further evaluates its performance annually in connection, particularly focusing on the tasks within its responsibility. G4-45 The role of Board of Directors in the identification and management of economic, SR 6, FR Report of the Board of Directors l environmental, and social impacts, risks, and opportunities G4-46 The role of Board of Directors in reviewing the risk management processes SR 6, FR Report of the Board of Directors l for economic, environmental, and social topics G4-47 The frequency of the Board of Directors’ review of sustainability impacts, SR 6 and 37, PB 68-77 l risks, and opportunities DATA AND ASSURANCE / GRI INDEX Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 76 Location and comments Level G4-48 The highest committee or position to formally approve this report and SR 6 l its materiality review Governance G4-49 Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body SR 6 and 37, PB 83–84. All shareholders have the right to make proposals to the shareholder meeting agenda regarding l matters that are within the authority of the Annual General Meeting (AGM). All shareholders also have the right to present questions to the Board of Directors (BOD) and executive management at the AGM. The employee representatives meet the chairman and the vice chairman of the BOD and the CEO in connection with board meetings on a regular basis. People G4-50 Nature and number of critical concerns communicated to the highest SR 6, 10 and 37 l and Ethics governance body G4-51 Remuneration policies for the Board of Directors and senior executives FR Note 7, PB 68-77 l Forestry and Land Use G4-52 Process for determining remuneration FR Note 7, PB 68-77 l G4-53 Inclusiveness of stakeholders’ views regarding remuneration FR Note 7, PB 68-77 l Environment G4-54 Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organisation’s SR 34 l and Efficiency highest-paid individual to the median annual total compensation G4-55 Ratio of percentage increase with regards to G4-54 SR 34. The decrease of the ratio for Finland and increase for Sweden compared to 2014 are mainly due to organisational l changes in the Group Leadership Team. ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Data and Assurance G4-56 Values, principles, standards, code of conduct, and code of ethics SR 6 and 35–37. Our Code of Conduct is currently available in 16 languages. l G4-57 Mechanisms for finding advice on ethical and lawful behaviour, SR 37 l and matters related to organisational integrity G4-58 Mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behaviour, SR 37 l and matters related to organisational integrity SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES: MANAGEMENT APPROACH AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS GENERIC DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH ECONOMIC Economic performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed PB 7 l G4-EC2 Risks and opportunities due to climate change SR 54–55, PB 64–67 l G4-EC3 Coverage of defined benefit plan obligations FR Note 20 l G4-EC4 Financial assistance from government FR Stora Enso in Capital Markets, FR Note 5, FR Note 9, PB 60–63 l Market Presence G4-EC5 Entry level wage by gender compared to minimum wage SR 33. Gender-specific data not considered as material. l G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired locally SR 31 l Indirect Economic Impacts G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported SR 23–29, PB 7 l G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts SR 23–29, PB 7 and 60–63 l Procurement Practices Specific information on management approach to procurement practices SR 14 and 38–49 G4-EC9 Spending on local suppliers SR 23, 24, 27, 41, 44 and 60. Wood and paper for recycling (PfR) deliveries to our mills are largely based on local supply. l DATA AND ASSURANCE / GRI INDEX Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 77 Location and comments Level ENVIRONMENT Governance Specific information on management approach to environment SR 51–64 Materials G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume SR 61 l G4-EN2 Recycled materials used SR 60 and 62 l People Energy and Ethics Specific information on management approach to energy SR 51–53 Forestry G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation SR 53 l and Land Use G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organisation SR 57–58. The calculation of scope 3 of our carbon footprint is based on CO2 equivalents, not on energy consumption outside ¤ the organisation. Environment G4-EN5 Energy intensity SR 53 l and Efficiency G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption SR 52–53 l G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services SR 12, 57–58 ¤ Water Data and G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal SR 63-65 l Assurance G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Lake Ivö in Sweden and the River Mulde in Germany. Lake Ivö is a water source for our Nymölla Mill, whose average annual l withdrawals amount to more than 5% of the lake’s annual average volume of 200 340 thousand cubic meters. The lake is a Natura 2000 site due to rare fish species. The mill regulates water levels in the lake in accordance with legal obligations. No other measures are required by the authorities. The River Mulde in Germany is a water source for our Sachsen Mill. The river is a Natura 2000 site with alluvial landscapes which provide habitat for many bird species. The initial level of water pollution upstream from the mill is relatively high. G4-EN10 Total recycling and reuse of water SR 64. Around 96% of our total water withdrawal is recycled back to the environment. This water is typically reused in our ¤ processes before recycling, but figures on the volumes reused are not available. Biodiversity Specific information on management approach to biodiversity SR 43–49 G4-EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas SR 49 l and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas G4-EN12 Significant impacts on biodiversity SR 43–49 l G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored SR 49. Applicable for lands owned and managed by Stora Enso. l G4-EN14 Number of vulnerable species affected by operations SR 43–49. Number of species not reported, but biodiversity conservation efforts described. ¤ Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope 1) SR 55–58 l G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope 2) SR 55–58 l G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope 3) SR 55–58 l G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions intensity SR 55–58 l G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions SR 55-57 l G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ods) No ozone-depleting substances are used in Stora Enso’s manufacturing processes. l G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions SR 53 l Effluents and Waste G4-EN22 Total water discharge SR 65 and 71-73 l G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method SR 62 l G4-EN24 Significant spills SR 66 l G4-EN25 Hazardous waste transported, imported, exported, or treated SR 60. Data not available on hazardous waste internationally exported or imported by our authorised service providers. ¤ G4-EN26 Water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by water discharges and See EN9 above l runoff DATA AND ASSURANCE / GRI INDEX Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 78 Location and comments Level Products and Services Governance Specific information on management approach to products and services SR 11–12, PB 14–25 G4-EN27 Mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services SR 11–12 l G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by SR 59–61. The packaging materials we produce and use to protect our pulp, paper, and paper board deliveries during their l category transportation are mainly made of our own fibre-based products, and they are fully recyclable according to European People Parliament and Council Directive 94/62/EC of 20 December 1994 on packaging and packaging waste, and its amendments. and Ethics Compliance G4-EN29 Fines and sanctions for non-compliance with environmental regulations SR 66. No fines reported during 2015. l Forestry Transport and Land Use Specific information on management approach to transportation SR 56 Environment G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transportation SR 56 l and Efficiency Overall G4-EN31 Environmental expenditures and investments FR Report of the Board of Directors (Environmental opportunities and challenges) ¤ Supplier Environmental Assessment Data and Specific information on management approach to supplier assessment SR 38–47 Assurance G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria SR 40. Our key performance indicator on responsible sourcing is based on the coverage of our Supplier Code of Conduct in l supplier spending. G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain SR 38–47 and 57–58 l Environmental Grievance Mechanisms G4-EN34 Grievances about environmental impacts through formal grievance mechanisms SR 37. All our production units register and monitor complaints received from stakeholders in relation to the units’ ¤ environmental performance as an integral part of their respective environmental management systems. In 2015 units’ environmental management systems across the Group recorded a total of 136 stakeholder complaints (149 in 2014). LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Specific information on management approach to Labour Practices and Decent Work SR 14–20 and 30–33, and PB 56–59 Employment G4-LA1 New employee hires and employee turnover SR 34 ¤ G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or 5% of the Group’s employees have temporary contracts. The benefits provided for employees vary from country to country, l part-time employees depending on national legislation. In the European countries where we have many employees we typically do not provide differentiated benefits to employees on the basis of their contract type (permanent or temporary), though certain differences in benefits may exist in relation to the length of employment. Long-term employees in China typically receive differentiated benefits such as leave-of-absence rights and additional insurance benefits. G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave In 2015 return to work after parental leave as % of employees: 95% in Finland, 95% in Sweden, 75% in Germany, 73% in ¤ China, and not applicable in Poland. Retention rates one year after returning to work from parental leave: 85% in Finland, 88% in Sweden, 81% in China, and not applicable in Germany and Poland. Labour/Management Relations G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes Our aim is to be proactive and involve key stakeholders as early as possible whenever there is a need for major organisational l changes that will affect our staff. Depending on the type of change, the national legislation, and local union agreements, we normally inform employees and/or union representatives between 2 weeks and 2 months prior to planned changes. DATA AND ASSURANCE / GRI INDEX Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 79 Location and comments Level Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) Governance Specific information on management approach to OHS SR 30–31 G4-LA5 Percentage of workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health SR 32 l and safety committees G4-LA6 Injuries, lost days, absenteeism, and fatalities SR 32. We consider consolidated reporting of gender–specific data on safety incidents as not material from a safety l People management point of view in our operations, so such figures are not centrally compiled or reported in our group figures. and Ethics G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation SR 32–33 ¤ G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions See G4–11. Health and safety issues are additionally covered in our collective bargaining agreements as a separate topic at l Forestry the local level. and Land Use Training and education Environment G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee The average number of training hours per employee across all of our units in 2015 was 31 (27 in 2014). When broken down by l and Efficiency category gender and employee category, the average trainning hours were 26 hours for female employees (25), 33 hours for male employees (28), and 37 hours for production workers (27). G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued SR 29 and 30. Where redundancies are unavoidable, our key principle is to work together with the employees affected to help l employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings them find other employment wherever possible. Employee organisations and other stakeholders are fully involved in such processes, in line with all applicable regulations. Data and G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development SR 33 l Assurance reviews, by gender and by employee category Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and employee breakdown SR 34 l Equal Remuneration for Women and Men G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men SR 34 l Supplier Assessment for Labour Practices Specific information on management approach to supplier assessment SR 14–20 and 38–41 G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labour practices criteria SR 18 and 40. Our key performance indicator on responsible sourcing is based on the coverage of our Supplier Code of l Conduct in supplier spending. G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labour practices in the supply SR 14–20 and 38–41 l chain and actions taken Labour Practices Grievance Mechanisms G4-LA16 Grievances about labour practices through formal grievance mechanisms SR 37 l DATA AND ASSURANCE / GRI INDEX Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 80 Location and comments Level HUMAN RIGHTS Specific information on management approach to human rights SR 14–20 Investment Governance G4-HR1 Human rights screening or clauses included in significant investment agreements SR 15 l G4-HR2 Employee training on human rights SR 9, 15 and 37 l Non-discrimination People G4-HR3 Actions taken in incidents of discrimination SR 37 l and Ethics Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Forestry G4-HR4 Supporting right to freedom of association and collective bargaining in risk areas SR 14–20 and 35–41. Approximately 83% of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements (79% in 2014). l and Land Use This figure is only approximate due to differences in national legislations. In China the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining is expressly stipulated by law. Most of our Chinese operations have established unions that form part of Environment the state-authorised China Labour Union. We have also formed worker councils at most of our units in China to serve as channels for direct feedback and dialogues between employees and management. A similar system is in place in our and Efficiency operations in Laos, where we have a worker’s representative group elected by employees. Child Labor G4-HR5 Measures taken to eliminate child labour in risk areas SR 14–20 and 39 l Data and Forced or Compulsory Labour Assurance G4-HR6 Measures taken to eliminate forced or compulsory labour in risk areas SR 14–20 and 39 l Security Practices G4-HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures SR 15–20. Data not available on third parties’ security personnel training. ¤ Indigenous Rights G4-HR8 Violations of indigenous peoples’ rights and actions taken SR 20 l Assessment G4-HR9 Operations subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments SR 15 l Supplier Human Rights Assessment Specific information on management approach to supplier assessment SR 14–20 and 38–41 G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria SR 18 and 40. Our key performance indicator on responsible sourcing is based on the coverage of our Supplier Code of l Conduct in supplier spending. G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain SR 14–20 and 38–41. l Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms G4-HR12 Grievances about human rights through formal grievance mechanisms SR 37 l DATA AND ASSURANCE / GRI INDEX Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 81 Location and comments Level SOCIETY Governance Specific information on management approach to society SR 14–29 and 35–37 Local Communities Specific information on management approach to local communities SR 21–29 G4-SO1 Local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs SR 21–29 l People G4-SO2 Operations with significant negative impacts on local communities SR 21–29 l and Ethics Anti-corruption Forestry G4-SO3 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption SR 36–37 l and Land Use G4-SO4 Anti-corruption training SR 37 l Environment G4-SO5 Actions taken in response to corruption incidents SR 37 l and Efficiency Public Policy G4-SO6 Political contributions As a general rule, Stora Enso does not make political contributions. Guidance and rules for political contributions are defined l in our Business Practice Policy, available at www.storaenso.com/sustainabilitypolicies. Anti-competitive Behaviour Data and G4-SO7 Anti-trust and monopoly court cases FR Note 29 l Assurance Compliance G4-SO8 Fines and sanctions for non-compliance Stora Enso has not been subject to any significant fines or significant monetary sanctions due to non-compliance with laws l and regulation during 2015. Supplier Assessment for Impacts on society Specific information on management approach to supplier assessment SR 14–20 and 38–41 G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on SR 18 and 40. Our key performance indicator on responsible sourcing is based on the coverage of our Supplier Code of l society Conduct in supplier spending. G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain SR 14–20 and 38–41 l Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on society G4-SO11 Grievances about impacts on society through formal grievance mechanisms SR 37 l PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Specific information on management approach to product responsibility SR 11–12 Customer Health and Safety G4-PR1 Assessment of health and safety impacts of products SR 11 l G4-PR2 Compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the No significant non-compliance incidents occurred during 2015. l health and safety impacts of products Product and Service Labeling G4-PR3 Product information required by procedures SR 12 l G4-PR4 Compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product information No significant non-compliance incidents occurred during 2015. l G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction SR 9, PB 15 ¤ Customer Privacy G4-PR8 Complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and data SR 35. No substantial complaints were received during 2015. l Compliance G4-PR9 Compliance with regulations concerning the provision and use of products and No significant non-compliance incidetns occurred during 2015. l services DATA AND ASSURANCE / GRI INDEX Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 82 Governance Independent assurance statement People To the Management of Stora Enso Oyj the Sustainability Information and to provide reasonable engagement. It does not include detailed testing of and Ethics We have been engaged by Stora Enso Oyj (hereafter assurance on direct and indirect (scope 1+2) fossil CO2 source data or the operating effectiveness of processes Forestry Stora Enso) to provide a limited assurance on Stora emissions as a whole. and internal controls and consequently they do not and Land Use Enso’s Sustainability Information and a reasonable This requires that we comply with ethical enable us to obtain the assurance necessary to become Environment assurance on Stora Enso´s direct and indirect (scope 1+2) requirements and plan and perform the assurance aware of all significant matters that might be identified in and Efficiency fossil CO2 emissions as a whole within the Sustainability engagement to obtain limited assurance whether a reasonable assurance engagement. Information for the reporting period of January 1, 2015 any matters come to our attention that cause us to Our procedures on limited assurance has included: to December 31, 2015. The information subject to the believe that the Sustainability Information has not been •• Conducting interviews with senior management Data and assurance engagement is the Sustainability Report 2015 prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the responsible for sustainability at Stora Enso to Assurance and pages 4–11 and 60–63 of the Progress Book 2015 Reporting criteria or that the Sustainability Information gain an understanding of Stora Enso’s targets for (hereafter: Sustainability Information). is not reliable, in all material respects, based on the sustainability as part of the business strategy and Reporting criteria. operations; Management’s responsibility In addition, we have responsibility to form an •• Reviewing internal and external documentation and Management is responsible for the preparation of independent conclusion, based on our reasonable verifying to what extent these documents and data the Sustainability Information in accordance with the assurance procedures, on whether the fossil indirect support the information included in the Sustainability Reporting criteria as set out in Stora Enso’s reporting and direct CO2 emissions as a whole are reported, in Information and evaluating whether the information principles on pages 69-70 and 55 of the Sustainability all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting presented in the Sustainability Information is in Report and in the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines criteria and that it is reliable, in all material respects, line with our overall knowledge of sustainability at (G4 Comprehensive) of the Global Reporting Initiative. based on the Reporting criteria. Stora Enso; This responsibility includes: designing, implementing We did not perform any assurance procedures on the •• Conducting interviews with employees responsible and maintaining internal control relevant to the prospective information, such as targets, expectations for the collection and reporting of the information preparation and fair presentation of the Sustainability and ambitions, disclosed in the Sustainability included in the Sustainability Information and Information that are free from material misstatement, Information. Consequently, we draw no conclusion on reviewing of the processes and systems for data whether due to fraud or error, selecting and applying the prospective information. This assurance statement gathering, including the aggregation of the data for the appropriate criteria and making estimates that are has been prepared in accordance with the terms of Sustainability Information; reasonable in the circumstances. our engagement. We do not assume responsibility to •• Performing analytical review procedures and testing anyone else, except to Stora Enso for our work, for this data on a sample basis to assess the reasonability of Auditor’s responsibility statement, or for the conclusions we have reached. the presented information; Our responsibility is to express an assurance conclusion A limited assurance engagement with respect •• Performing site visits to selected sites in Suzhou and on the Sustainability Information based on our to sustainability related data involves performing Dawang in China to review compliance to reporting engagement. We conducted our assurance engagement procedures to obtain evidence about the Sustainability policies, to assess the reliability of the sustainability in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Information. The procedures performed depend on the data reporting process as well as to test the data Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised) to provide limited practitioner’s judgment, but their nature is different from, collected for the Sustainability Reporting purposes on assurance on performance data and statements within and their extent is less than, a reasonable assurance a sample basis; and DATA AND ASSURANCE / ASSURANCE STATEMENT Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2015 PROGRESS BOOK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT 83 •• Assessing that the Sustainability Reporting has governance and ownership positions which might Our assurance statement should be read in been prepared in accordance with the Sustainability affect, or be perceived to affect, our independence and conjunction with the inherent limitations of accuracy Governance Reporting Guidelines (G4 Comprehensive) of the impartiality and from any involvement in the preparation and completeness for sustainability information. This Global Reporting Initiative. of the Sustainability Information. We have maintained independent assurance statement should not be used our independence and objectivity throughout the year on its own as a basis for interpreting Stora Enso´s People Our reasonable assurance engagement involves and there were no events or prohibited services provided performance in relation to its policies of sustainability. and Ethics performing procedures to obtain evidence about the which could impair our independence and objectivity. Forestry indirect and direct fossil CO2 emissions. In addition to This engagement was conducted by a multidisciplinary Helsinki 16 February 2016 and Land Use the limited assurance engagement, our key assurance team including assurance and sustainability expertise Deloitte & Touche Oy Environment procedures have included an evaluation of the operating with professional qualifications. Our team is experienced and Efficiency effectiveness of internal control and the systems and in providing sustainability reporting assurance. processes for collecting and processing the indirect and direct fossil CO2 emissions data. Furthermore, we Limited assurance conclusion Data and have performed testing, on a sample basis, at selected On the basis of the procedures we have performed, Jukka Vattulainen Assurance sites, chosen based on an evaluation of significance, as nothing has come to our attention that causes us Authorized Public Accountant well as general and specific risks, to evaluate whether to believe that the information subject to the limited indirect and direct fossil CO2 emissions as a whole assurance engagement is not prepared, in all material presented in the Sustainability Information are reported respects, in accordance with the Sustainability according to the Reporting criteria. We believe that the Reporting Guidelines (G4 Comprehensive) of the Global evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate Reporting Initiative or that the Sustainability Information Lasse Ingström to provide a basis for our conclusion. is not reliable, in all material respects, with regard to the Authorized Public Accountant Reporting criteria. Our independence and competences in providing assurance to Stora Enso Reasonable assurance conclusion We complied with Deloitte’s independence policies On the basis of the procedures we have performed, in which address and, in certain cases, exceed our opinion, Stora Enso´s reporting on direct and indirect the requirements of the International Federation (scope 1+2) fossil CO2 emissions as a whole is prepared in of Accountants Code of Ethics for Professional accordance with the Reporting criteria and is reliable, in all Accountants in their role as independent auditors and in material respects, with regard to the Reporting criteria. particular preclude us from taking financial, commercial, DATA AND ASSURANCE / ASSURANCE STATEMENT
