ANNUAL REVIEW Valmet’s operations and sustainability in 2015 Contents Valmet in brief 3 CEO’s review 4 Business environment and strategy 8 Business environment 10 Strategy 14 Valmet’s value creation 18 Valmet’s operations 20 Serving pulp, paper and energy industries 22 Comprehensive offering 24 Research and development 26 Sustainability 28 Sustainable supply chain 31 Health, safety and environment 34 People and performance 38 Cost-effective sustainable solutions 41 Corporate citizenship 43 Contacts 47 Valmet r­ eports 2015 annual review Valmet’s operations and sustainability in 2015 ANNUAL REVIEW 2015 The report describes Valmet’s market environment and the progress of its strategy, operations and sustainability in 2015. financial statements 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 The report includes Valmet’s Financial Statements for 2015 and information about its shares, shareholders and management. gri supplement 2015 GRI SUPPLEMENT 2015 The report defines Valmet’s sustainability reporting scope and principles, and alignment with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Valmet Annual Review 2015 Valmet in brief Valmet Valmet is the leading global developer and supplier of process technologies, automation and services for the pulp, paper and energy industries. We aim to become the global champion in in brief serving our customers. Valmet’s strong technology offering includes pulp mills, tissue, board and paper production lines, as well as power plants for bioenergy production. Our advanced services and automation solutions improve the reliability and performance of our customers’ processes and enhance the effective utilization of raw materials and energy. Valmet’s net sales in 2015 were approximately EUR 2.9 billion. Our 12,000 professionals around the world work close to our customers and are committed to moving our customers’ Net sales by business line, % performance forward – every day. Valmet’s head office is in Espoo, Finland and its shares are listed on the Nasdaq Helsinki. C Services 39% (40%) ap ita Automation 8% (0%) l business ab le b Pulp and Energy 31% (39%) usiness Key figures 1 Paper 23% (21%) St 20155 2014 CHANGE Net sales by area, % Orders received, MEUR 2,878 3,071 -6% North America 21% (18%) Order backlog2, MEUR 2,074 1,998 4% South America 11% (13%) Net sales, MEUR 2,928 2,473 18% EMEA* 45% (43%) Earnings before interest, taxes and ­ China 10% (11%) amortization ­(EBITA) and non-recurring items, Asia-Pacific 13% (15%) MEUR 182 106 73% % of net sales 6.2% 4.3% * Europe, the Middle East and Africa Operating profit (EBIT), MEUR 120 72 65% Dividend per share, EUR 0.35 3 0.25 40% Personnel by business line, % Return on capital employed (ROCE) before taxes, MEUR 12% 9% Services 44% (50%) Research and development expenses, net, MEUR 59 42 Automation 13% (0%) Personnel 2 12,306 10,464 18% Pulp and Energy 14% (17%) Lost-time incident frequency (LTIF) 2, 4 3.3 5.5 -40% Paper 25% (30%) Other 4% (4%) Support for non-profit organizations, MEUR 0.6 0.5 18% Carbon dioxide emissions, 1,000 t 88 86 3% Energy consumption, TJ 1,270 1,260 1% Personnel by area, % Water consumption, 1,000 m 3 3,032 3,305 -8% North America 11% (11%) Group figures: the formulas for calculation of the key financial figures are presented in the Financial 1 South America 4% (4%) Statements 2015. 2 At the end of period. EMEA 63% (61%) 3 Board of Directors’ proposal. LTIF reflects the number of injuries resulting in an absence of at least one workday per million 4 China 16% (18%) hours worked. Asia-Pacific 6% (6%) 5 2015 figures include Automation, which has been included in Valmet’s reporting since April 1, 2015. 3 Valmet Annual Review 2015 CEO's review CEO’s review Valmet progressed steadily towards its targets in 2015. The acquisition of the process automation business complemented the company’s unique offering and increased business stability along with our strong services business. Valmet also retained its position among the world’s sustainability leaders for the second consecutive year. Valmet now has two strong years behind it as an independent listed company. These years have been a time of renewal and continuous improvement, and the company now has a solid platform to move forward. Successful automation integration In spring 2015, Valmet took a natural strategic step and acquired the process automation business, which was a perfect fit for the company. The integration of the business as Valmet’s fourth business line has been a success, and the acquisition has been warmly welcomed by customers and employees. By uniting automation expertise with our pulp, paper and energy technology and process know-how within the same company, we created an unrivalled offering for our customers. This was an important step towards our vision – to become the global champion in serving our customers. Strategy focusing on Must-Wins Valmet’s mission is to convert renewable resources into sustainable results. The company’s strategy concentrates on key Must-Wins: “Customer excellence”, “Leader in technology and innovation”, “Excellence in processes”, and “Winning team”. Under these focus areas, we have defined objectives and programs that we have taken systematically forward. During the year, Valmet was able to improve its profitability to the targeted range with an EBITA margin of 6.2%, and the work towards further profitability improvement will continue. The growing, profitable and stable services and automation businesses, along with our work to enhance cost competitiveness and cost flexibility, contributed to the profitability improvement. Good progress in “Customer excellence” Customer excellence at Valmet means being close to our customers and growth markets, providing significant customer benefits by utilizing our full offering, and continuously developing our local and remote services. 4 Valmet Annual Review 2015 CEO's review The integration of the chine. Moreover, our new recovery boiler with record-high steam generation efficiency was chosen for Metsä Fibre’s upcoming bioprocess automation product mill and Huanggang Chenming’s new pulp mill. business has been a Valmet has also a clear roadmap to develop its Industrial Internet offering, and we intend to be front runners in this field. In success. the coming years, we will introduce even more advanced automation technologies and embedded diagnostics in our customers’ production processes. At the same time, we will enhance Valmet’s first year as an independent company in 2014 was a the mobility of our expert services, while keeping information year of exceptional customer activity and an impressive number security a high priority. of new orders. In 2015, the order intake stabilized and the energy market in particular slowed down significantly. On the other Savings and improved performance through process hand, our services business developed well and was able to grow. excellence Furthermore, market activity and customer orders in the automaBy developing its key processes, Valmet can still improve quality tion business were satisfactory throughout the year. and operating efficiency and achieve significant savings. During The order highlights in 2015 were the agreements to supply key the year, we strengthened the implementation of Lean as a key technology for SCA’s pulp mill expansion project in Sweden, Metsä tool to improve quality, reduce quality costs and shorten lead Fibre’s upcoming bioproduct mill in Finland, and the Huanggang times throughout Valmet. We continued to develop our sales Chenming pulp mill in China. We signed several OptiConcept M and project management processes to ensure a globally harmoboard machine supply contracts during the year: with Yuen Foong nized and effective way to operate. In 2015, we were again ahead Yu Packaging in Taiwan, APRIL Group in Indonesia, and Lee & of our procurement savings target and continued to integrate Man in China. Furthermore, we received a number of tissue line sustainable supply chain practices into our global procurement orders in different parts of the world. process and tools. To enhance our presence in the growing Asia-Pacific market, we As a result of our long-term focus on occupational safety and progressed with the service center investment in Indonesia. In addisafety culture, our safety results continued to improve and we tion, through our advanced process analytics and intelligent machines were able to reach an LTIF of 3.3 by the end of the year. As a token that are fully integrated into the Industrial Internet, we enabled our of our strong overall sustainability work, Valmet was selected to customers all over the world to achieve significant energy, water and the Dow Jones World Sustainability Index as being among the 317 raw material savings, to improve the availability and performance of most sustainable companies in world for the second year in a row. their production processes, and to optimize their end product quality. Enhancing technological leadership The significant profitability Success in the highly competitive global environment demands improvement is a result of continuous investments in research and development, as well as renewal from our customers and employees. Valmet has three team work and determination. targets for its research and development work: to ensure advanced and competitive technologies and services, to enhance Towards a winning team raw material and energy efficiency, and to create ways to replace Valmet has today over 12,000 employees around the globe, fossil fuels and raw materials with renewable ones. working close to our customers. The employee engagement Valmet invested around EUR 59 million in research and survey was carried out for the second time in 2015. The results development in 2015. We cooperate closely with our customers showed that our employees’ engagement with Valmet has deand utilize our 16 technology research centers around the world. veloped strongly and positively, and our employees are proud These centers are also often used by our customers to study their to work for Valmet and to serve our customers. Furthermore, process performance and product quality. we continued the systematic development of our personnel by We have focused on accelerating the commercialization of introducing a global training portfolio focusing on strategic key innovations. In 2015, we introduced the Valmet IQ product competences for Valmet: services, quality and procurement. In family for online quality control and monitoring of the paperthe next phase, the portfolio will be complemented with sales and board-making process. Our OptiConcept M modular paper management skills. Our efforts to build a performanceand and board machine and Advantage NTT tissue machines have service-oriented culture, as well as our systematic employee entered the markets successfully. In 2015, Valmet sold its tenth development, are bearing fruit already today, and will be a key OptiConcept M machine and sixth Advantage NTT tissue mato the company’s competitiveness in the future. 5 Valmet Annual Review 2015 CEO's review Highlights 2015 JANUARY 15 MAY 5 AUGUST 21 SEPTEMBER 15 Acquisition of Process Valmet-delivered pulp line Valmet’s tenth OptiConcept M Valmet’s second LignoBoost ­Automation Systems at the CMPC Guaíba mill in paper production line order from plant handed over to Stora business Brazil started up Lee & Man in China Enso’s Sunila mill in Finland MARCH 11 JULY 31 SEPTEMBER 10 OCTOBER 28 Order from Acquisition Inclusion in Dow Employee survey Nokianvirran Energia of tissue rewinder Jones Sustainability shows engagement for biomass-based boiler business from Index for the second increase of 9% points plant and automation Massimiliano consecutive year system in Finland Corsini srl in Italy APRIL 1 AUGUST 18 SEPTEMBER 14 DECEMBER 2 Acquisition of ­ Main equipment order Valmet’s sixth Key technology Process Automation from Huanggang Advantage NTT order from SCA for Systems business Chenming Pulp & tissue production its Östrand pulp mill completed Paper for its new line order from expansion project in pulp mill in China Renova in Portugal Sweden FEBRUARY 13 JUNE 30 SEPTEMBER 7 SEPTEMBER 16 Key technology order from Incident frequency (LTIF) Multi-year consumables Launch of Valmet IQ product Metsä Fibre for its Äänekoski reached target level of 4 and roll service agreement family for pulp and paper quality bioproduct mill in Finland with Stora Enso Kvarnsveden control and monitoring Balanced geographical exposure creates Strong platform to move forward opportunities It has been delightful to see the continued positive development Today, Valmet is present on all continents. Our balanced geoof Valmet’s brand and reputation among our customers and othgraphical presence increases the stability of our order book and er stakeholders. The recent independent surveys have showed overall business. that already today – after only two years – Valmet is rated among North America and the EMEA area are established markets the top ten most reputable companies in Finland. Our global that have a large base of aging pulp, paper and energy production customer survey also showed that our reputation among our technology. These areas continue to offer opportunities for Valmet’s customers is positive and unified, and the customer trust is services business, for new machines and machine rebuilds. South strong in all market areas. America is traditionally a strong market for our pulp technology The unique combination of intelligent process technologies, business, and it is currently also a promising services market. services and automation along with our committed team create China has suffered from overcapacity, and its share of ­Valmet’s the platform to move our customers’ performance and the whole net sales has considerably decreased since 2009. We have prepared industry forward. We will continue to work towards our strategy for the new market situation in China already in the previous and financial targets, and we will especially focus on improving years. In 2015, we got a number of board and tissue machine orour customers’ experience of Valmet every day. ders and a pulp mill order from China. The future of the services I would like to thank all our customers and partners for business looks promising in the Chinese market, as well. inspiring cooperation and trust, and the Valmet team for their In Asia-Pacific, there is particular demand for board and tissue committed work and energetic spirit, where everybody has machines, which in the long run also opens up opportunities for given their best during the year. our services business. Pasi Laine President and CEO 6 Valmet Annual Review 2015 CEO’s review MUST-WIN: CUSTOMER EXCELLENCE Increased benefits through full offering High environmental efficiency Taking board production to the next level Oskarshamn Energi’s new biomass-fired power plant for Siam Kraft PM 16 is a great example of how Valmet’s modcombined heat and power production in Sweden was ular OptiConcept M paper machine can take board-makinaugurated in September 2015. It will cover 70% of the ing to the next level. “PM 16 showcases the cutting-edge Oskarshamn municipality’s annual district heat demand. technology of paper packaging manufacturing. It comAmong the key criteria for the new plant was its environbines the world’s latest technologies with our expertise, mental efficiency and possibility to utilize renewable fuels. enabling us to meet our customers’ needs in all details, These targets were achieved with an optimized combinaincluding finer details,” says Wichan Jitpukdee, Managing tion of Valmet’s energy production technologies as well as Director of Siam Kraft Industry. environmental and automation solutions. Valmet’s OptiConcept M technology combines high The plant has a thermal output of 17.7 megawatts (MW) productivity with low energy usage. It uses around 30% less of district heating and an electrical output of 3.8 MW. The energy compared to average containerboard production, flue gas condenser provides additional 4 MW thermal while maintaining high strength properties with lower output to district heating network. Due to high combusgrammages to produce high-quality container board. tion efficiency the plant has low emissions. As feedstock Valmet’s scope for the project included a full the boiler is able to use local forest residues such as bark board-making line with related automation systems and and wood chips with moisture content of up to 55%. extended project implementation, as well as comprehensive service packages for maintenance and fabrics. Synergies across all mill operations In Maranhão, Brazil, Valmet has delivered all the main technology for a greenfield pulp mill for Suzano Papel e Celulose S.A. Operational since the end of 2013, the mill has capacity to produce 1.5 million tonnes of bleached eucalyptus pulp per year, making it one of the largest in the world. The mill has been designed for high production and energy efficiency. The fiber line includes Valmet’s compact cooking G2 digester, which is the most efficient digester on the market. The mill also produces bioelectricity for the national grid from black liquor and biomass sources. The project is a good example of the benefits of Valmet’s unique offering, which enables synergies across all mill operations. Valmet’s scope of delivery comprised all the key technologies for the pulp production and recovery process, including an integrated, mill-wide automation solution. 7 Business environment and strategy Valmet has a long track record in developing and providing solutions that convert biomass into renewable energy and recyclable products such as pulp, paper, board and tissue. #1–3 Valmet has a leading market position in all its target markets. Automation became Valmet’s fourth business line on April 1, 2015. Valmet Annual Review 2015 Business environment Business environment The demand for Valmet’s process technologies, services and automation continues to be driven by the consumption of board, paper, tissue, pulp and energy in the global markets. At Valmet, services and automation are considered to be “stable” cific and South America, where the installed machine base is businesses, as they represent rather stable and slightly growing increasing and a younger, but ageing, installed base needs more markets that are driven by the size of the installed base and mill care than before. Customers are still doing services mostly inoperating rates. Currently, the increasing consumption of board, house, which leaves room for service market growth. tissue and pulp in particular, as well as demand for bioenergy, are boosting production growth, which is creating new demand Automation for Valmet’s services and automation. Automation services and replacements are developing along Board, paper and tissue machines, pulp mills, and biomass with the size and age of the installed base. New automation syspower boilers are referred to as “capital” businesses. They are tem deliveries can be replacements of old systems or completely driven by new investments in machinery and mills, which new systems for new machines and mills. Customers typically makes these businesses more cyclical and volatile compared to choose an automation provider for even more than a decade, the more stable services and automation businesses. which creates high barriers to market entry for new competitors. The distributed control system (DCS) market in the pulp, paServices per, energy and other process industries is growing slightly, with Demand for services is driven by increasing pulp, paper1 and growth in the installed base, as well as a large existing installed energy production globally, capacity increases – especially in base approaching replacement age. The quality management emerging markets – and the development of capacity utilizasystems market in the pulp and paper industries is in a similar tion rates. Demand for services is favorably affected by energy situation to the DCS market, with a slightly growing installed and raw material efficiency improvements and the increased base and a large installed base at replacement age. Analyzers outsourcing of non-core operations by our customers, while and measurements in the pulp and paper industries is a niche machine and mill closures in developed markets are having an market with specific applications, which is also slightly growing adverse impact on this trend. These drivers are creating a conin line with growing pulp and paper production. sistent and slightly growing demand for process improvements, spare and wear parts, and outage and maintenance services. Pulp Over half of the current installed machine base is in deGrowth in board and tissue consumption are contributing to the veloped markets. In North America and Europe, the service demand for pulp. Since recycling rates cannot grow indefinitely, market is stable or slightly growing, despite machine closures there is demand for virgin wood pulp. Large new pulp mills are beand flat overall pulp and paper production. Customers’ maturity ing built, mostly in South America and Asia, but there are business in buying services and increasing the outsourcing of non-core opportunities also in the Nordic countries. Upgrades, rebuilds and operations is high in developed markets. The largest growth poconversions of the installed base will continue in North America tential, however, is in the emerging markets of China, Asia-Paand Europe, with some of these projects including large deliveries of Target market size by business Target market size by area (Total target market size2 ~ EUR 15 billion) (Total target market size2 ~ EUR 15 billion) Services 51% North America 19% 1 Paper in general Includes board, paper and tissue, Automation 13% South America 10% as well as other paper grades. Energy 13% EMEA 40% 2  arket size is defined as Valmet’s target market, M Pulp 9% China 14% meaning those geographical markets, product segments and customer industries where Valmet is Paper 14% Asia-Pacific 17% currently competing or aiming to compete. 10 Valmet Annual Review 2015 Business environment new pulp equipment and technologies. In European, North American and South American pulp mills, there is also growing interest in Global megatrends new technologies, e.g. for lignin separation and its further refining. Energy For Valmet, the energy market means biomass power boilers, where our focus is on pulp and paper industries globally and the power generation segment in Europe, North America and Asia-Pacific. Demand for bioenergy is driven by growing global energy consumption, increasing interest in renewable and sustainable energy, Increasing standard the competitiveness of different energy sources, and security of of living supply. Especially in Northern Europe, combined heat and power generation solutions are increasing the attractiveness of bioenergy, Global GDP growth, urbanization and in all markets multifuel solutions provide fuel flexibility for and a growing middle class customers. The multifuel solutions market continues to grow in are driving customer demand, Asia-Pacific and Eastern Europe. Also repowering, fuel conversions which is in turn increasing the and refurbishment of aging plants are opening up new business demand for energy, packaging opportunities. and hygiene papers. In Europe, advanced environmental regulations have fueled the biomass-based energy market, but the recession has weakened the market. Long-term drivers of bioenergy are threatened also by uncertainty in regulatory policies, incentives and acceptance. In North America, shale gas-based energy production has reduced the marClimate change ket’s interest in bioenergy investments, but there are still occasional and bioeconomy bioenergy projects. In emerging markets, bioenergy production is mostly based on low-cost solutions for agro-fuels; however, there are Consumers’ environmental increasing opportunities for bioand multifuel solutions in Asia-Paawareness and international cific. The South American market is challenging for global players emissions reduction ­initiatives due to local competitors. are creating demand for ­energy-­efficient and sustainable Board, paper and tissue technologies and solutions based World trade and economic growth – especially in emerging on biomass. Increasing the promarkets – increasing standards of living, the growth of e-comduction of CO2-neutral bioenergy merce and increasing environmental awareness are driving the is seen as one of the solutions to demand for packaging, which again is increasing the demand mitigate climate change. for renewable boardand paper-based packaging materials. Investments in high-performance, medium-sized packaging board machines and paper grade conversions are continuing. The increasing role of digital media is decreasing the demand Need for renewable for the graphic paper grades, such as newsprint, magazine, and printing. From a global point of view, the growth in demand for resources graphic paper has stopped. However, there is still some growth in emerging markets, but the demand is decreasing even more Resource scarcity is creating quickly in developed markets. demand for renewable raw Tissue consumption is growing strongly in all markets, materials, products and energy. Products and energy based on thanks to the economic growth, increased purchasing power biomass are both renewable and and rising standards of living. Urbanization trends, improved CO2-neutral and can replace nonhygiene and living conditions are also playing a part, especialrenewable raw materials and fossil ly in emerging markets, and new products and consumption fuels. models, particularly in developed markets, are increasing the demand for our new tissue-making technologies. 11 Valmet Annual Review 2015 Business environment Market data by business MARKET SIZE1 VALMET’S POSITION AND BUSINESS & GROWTH MARKET DRIVERS PRODUCT GROUP COMPETITION Services EUR • Increasing pulp, paper2, and • Rolls and Workshop • #2–3 energy production Services • Voith, Xerium 7.5bn • Increasing capacity utilization ~2% rates • Mill Improvements • #1–2 • Demand for more efficient • Andritz, Voith processes, maintenance and outsourcing of non-core • Performance Parts • #1–2 operations • Andritz, Kadant, Voith • Machine and mill closures in EMEA and North America • Fabrics • #4–5 • Albany, AstenJohnson, Voith, Xerium • Energy and • #1–2 Environmental • Amec FosterWheeler, Andritz • Increasing pulp, paper and • Distributed Control • #2 in P&P3, niche player Automation EUR energy production Systems (DCS) in Energy 2.0bn • Investments in new pulp and • ABB, Honeywell, Siemens ~1% paper machines and power plants • Quality Management • #1–2 in P&P • Aging automation systems Systems • ABB, Honeywell, Voith • Analyzers and • #1 in P&P Measurements • ABB, BTG Pulp EUR • Growth in board and tissue consumption • #1–2 • Recycling rate development • Global leader with Andritz 1.4bn • Increased efficiency and size of pulp lines and mills ~1% • Rebuilds and extensions of existing mills • Cyclical demand for large greenfield projects Energy EUR • Growth in energy consumption • #1–3 • Demand for renewable energy • One of few global players in 2.0bn • Modernization of aging power plants bioenergy niche ~1% • Incentives and regulation regarding climate change • Amec FosterWheeler, Andritz • Competitiveness of different energy sources • Increased focus on security of supply • Demand for combined heat and power solutions Board EUR • World trade and economic growth especially in emerging markets • #1 • Increasing e-commerce • Andritz, Bellmer, Voith 1.0bn • New applications and shift from plastic packaging to renewable ~3% materials Paper EUR • Increasing role of digital media decreasing demand for • #1 printing and writing papers • Voith 0.6bn ~-1% Tissue EUR • Economic growth and rise in purchasing power and living • #1 standards in emerging markets • A.Celli, Andritz, Toscotec 0.6bn • Urbanization and improved hygiene and living conditions Voith ~3% • New products and consumption models Market size is defined as Valmet’s target market, 1 2 Refers to board, paper and tissue, 5 Based on estimates by leading research companies. meaning those geographical markets, product as well as other paper grades. Board, paper and tissue machines, pulp mills, and 6 segments and customer industries where Valmet is 3 Pulp and paper. biomass power boilers are referred to as “capital” currently competing or aiming to compete. 4 Based on RISI estimates. businesses. 12 Valmet Annual Review 2015 Business environment Market data by area MARKET SIZE1 VALMET’S POSITION AND AREA & GROWTH MARKET CHARACTERISTICS COMPETITION North • Target market • Mature, services-focused market with recurring • Net sales: EUR 615m (21% of total) America size1: EUR 2.9bn opportunities in paper, tissue and automation • Employees: 1,367 (11% of total) • P&P3 annual • Large installed base to be served • Strong position and market share in • Opportunities in agreement-based services business Valmet’s targeted capital businesses. production4: • Growth opportunities in increased outsourcing • Well-established services and 150m tonnes, • Capital6 project opportunities in tissue and board automation businesses growth: +0.1% • Capital project activity currently at high level • Key competitors: ABB, Andritz, • Size of energy Emerson, Honeywell, Voith and US market5: EUR services players Albany, AstenJohnson, 300m Kadant and Xerium South • Target market • Cyclical capital business relies on new pulp projects • Net sales: EUR 335m (11% of total) America size: EUR 1.5bn • Services, tissue and selected board applications • Employees: 531 (4% of total) • P&P annual provide growth opportunities • Valmet has a strong position and • Services growth potential through growing installed installed base in Pulp mills and Services production: 45m base and demand for more efficient customer operations • Strong competition with local and tonnes, growth: • Growing interest in optimization projects regarding e.g. global players in all businesses (Services, +1.6% energy, chemicals savings; efficiency of operations and Paper2 and Energy) • Size of energy • Fierce competition with Andritz for large availability of equipment market : EUR new pulp projects 200m • Local presence and solutions important EMEA • Target market • Valmet’s largest and most important area with • Net sales: EUR 1.3bn (45% of total) size: EUR 6.0bn significant services and technology markets in all • Employees: 7,747 (63% of total) • P&P annual Valmet’s businesses • Valmet has a strong position in both production: 160m • Large installed base to be served capital business and services • Small players have strengthened their tonnes, growth: • Growth opportunities in customer agreement+0.6% offering through acquisitions based service business • Size of energy • Declining printing and writing business, potential in market : EUR 1bn conversions • Capital project opportunities in board, pulp, tissue and bioenergy • Uncertainties in regulation and low energy price postpone customers’ decision making China • Target market • Market for capital projects flat and cyclical while • Net sales: EUR 303m (10% of total) size: EUR 2.1bn services market growing • Employees: 1,955 (16% of total) • P&P annual • Capital project opportunities in board and tissue, • Valmet has a strong position in Paper. production: 100m investments especially in lower cost mid-sized Recent successes with modular board tonnes, growth: machines and rebuilds machine (OptiConcept M) • Developing services market with growth potential • Continued competition: new competitors +2.5% through increasing installed base and aging machinery in mid-size segment, local competitors • Size of energy strengthening through partnering with market : EUR Western companies 300m • Large Valmet-installed base Asia• Target market • Increased investments in multifuel boilers and plans for • Net sales: EUR 372m (13% of total) Pacific size: EUR 2.6bn renewable energy development • Employees: 706 (6% of total) • P&P annual • Capital project opportunities in energy and board • Valmet has strong market position and production: 120m through customers’ portfolio changes or production is increasing its local presence line upgrades • Competitors are growing their local tonnes, growth: • Developing services market with growth potential presence +1.4% through capacity increases, larger installed base and • Share of energy higher market share market: EUR 200m 13 Valmet Annual Review 2015 Strategy Strategy The implementation of Valmet’s strategy and Must-Wins continued to bring good results in 2015. The acquisition of the Automation business helps Valmet on its way forward to becoming the global champion in serving its customers. Valmet’s mission is to convert renewable resources into sustainValmet’s strategy and financial targets were initially announced able results. This means that our process technologies, automain autumn 2013 (see table on page 16). Valmet’s Board of Direction and services make it possible for our customers to produce tors reconfirmed the strategy and financial targets in June 2015. sustainable products and energy from renewable resources. Moreover, they help Valmet and its customers to perform profIncreased customer benefits from integrated offering itably and responsibly. As part of its strategic Must-Wins, Valmet is striving to enhance Our strategy emphasizes competitive offering and a strong com“Customer excellence” by strengthening its presence close to mitment to serving our customers. In order to achieve our strategic customers, providing a unique, full-scope offering and further goals, we pursue four Must-Wins that identify the most important developing its services offering. We also develop our key acareas and mobilize us to successful execution to reach our perforcount management. mance targets (see table on page 15). Valmet’s vision is to become In order to strengthen our presence close to customers and the global champion in serving its customers. growth markets, we are continuing to build a stronger sales and Valmet’s way forward Our Vision To become the global Our Must-Wins champion in serving our Customer excellence customers Our Strategy  eader in technology L Valmet develops and and innovation Our Mission supplies competitive  xcellence in E technology and services to processes Converting renewable the pulp, paper and energy r­esources into Winning team industries. sustainable results We are committed to moving our customers’ performance forward. Our Values Megatrends Sustainability focus areas Customers Increase in standards of living Sustainable supply chain Renewal Bioeconomy and climate change Health, safety and environment (HSE) Excellence Need for renewable solutions People and ­performance People Cost-effective sustainable solutions Corporate citizenship 14 Valmet Annual Review 2015 Strategy customer plans and sales management. We have also prepared a Our values specific training program for sales management for 2016 to harmonize sales and customer processes and to further exploit our Customers competitive advantages. As a result of the Automation business We move our customers’ performance forward. acquisition, Valmet now has a unique and distinct offering of process technology, automation and services enabling increased Renewal customer benefits. We promote new ideas to create the future. In services, we are continuing the development of a unified conExcellence cept integrating our full offering, development of remote services We improve every day to deliver results. and long-term service agreements. The combination of our existing remote connections and our installed base together with our People process technology and automation know-how gives us an edge in We work together to make a difference. developing Industrial Internet and next-generation services. Focus on cost competitiveness and new innovations The target of the “Leader in technology and innovation” Mustservice network. We are focusing especially on countries with high Win is to improve product cost competitiveness and develop pulp, energy and paper production and where Valmet currently new products and technologies to create new revenue. does not have a strong presence. In order to reduce customers’ operational and investment By enhancing key account management, we aim to better costs and improve Valmet’s profitability, we are focusing on serve our customers’ needs and improve market coverage. As developing product cost competitiveness. Modularization, part of this development, we are focusing on utilizing our cusproduct design and technology transfer enable us to decrease tomer relationship management (CRM) system more broadly in engineering, manufacturing and installation costs. MUST-WIN STRATEGIC GOALS KEY ACHIEVEMENTS 2014–2015 Customer Valmet has strong, capable, • New service center in Brazil and another under construction in Indonesia, excellence and committed teams close supported by new talent hires in emerging markets to customers. We serve our • Key account management: customer relationship management (CRM) system customers with our full offering more broadly in use and orders received from key customers increased combining process technology, • Services sales continued to grow automation and services. • Automation business acquired to provide increased customer benefits by combining process technology, automation and services Leader in Valmet provides leading technology • Share of orders received from new products increased including technology and cost-competitive products and further orders for Valmet’s new paper production technologies such as and services that reduce customers’ OptiConcept M board and paper machines and Advantage NTT tissue innovation operating and investment costs. machines We develop innovative new • Several new product launches including Valmet IQ online quality solutions which create new management solution customer revenue streams. • Further development and commercialization of lignin separation, prehydrolysis and gasification of biomass and waste Excellence Valmet operates with efficient • Programs initiated to harmonize and improve sales and project management in processes and harmonized processes and processes continuously increased cost • Lean program being implemented with quality cost and lead time reduction competitiveness. In capital • Procurement cost saving targets exceeded in 2014 and 2015 business, we increase our flexibility • Lost time incident frequency (LTIF) decreased from 5.5. to 3.3 to respond to a cyclical demand. • Profitability and flexibility of the cost structure continued to improve Quality as well as health and safety following EUR 100 million cost competitiveness program in 2013–2014 are constantly improved. Winning Valmet has engaged and • Values embedded in way of working and company culture team performance-driven teams • Values index created living Valmet’s shared values. • New annual review discussion process implemented Competences are globally • Five new global training programs launched balanced and close to customers. • Development plans created for 700 management resources, successors and high potentials identified as part of talent review process 15 Valmet Annual Review 2015 Strategy We are continuing to bring new products to the markets from In order to increase cost competitiveness and flexibility in all business lines and increase the share of sales from new offerings. cost structure, we are focusing on keeping fixed costs flat with We are developing innovative new solutions that create new cusincreased volumes and continuing to shift costs to lower-cost tomer revenue streams, including bioconversion technologies such countries with outsourcing plans and production transfers. as LignoBoost lignin separation and pre-hydrolysis. In R&D, we are also increasing our focus on services products and solutions to even Building a winning team better support our customers and grow our services business. (See Our “Winning Team” Must-Win creates a strong foundation R&D focus areas on page 38.) for an engaged community by nurturing shared values, driving high performance and ensuring that we have the right compeIncreased efficiency through global processes tencies in place globally. Our target is to build and maintain a The “Excellence in processes” Must-Win focuses on increasdiverse, engaged and performance-driven team. ing efficiency and profitability by improving sales and project In nurturing our shared values, we have moved from awareness management processes, reducing quality costs and lead times, to action by linking our values to our daily work and utilizing the reducing procurement costs, improving health and safety, and OurVoice engagement survey to evaluate how well we understand enhancing cost competitiveness and the flexibility of the cost and act according to our values. structure. We are continuing to evolve our compensation framework In 2015, Valmet established new, group-wide initiatives to and develop managerial skills to better drive performance. In harmonize sales and project management processes, develop order to increase our competencies close to our customers, we are common tools and systems, and improve profitability. We also continuing the globalization of our capabilities through resourccontinued to implement the Lean methodology globally to furing and the creation of competence pools, especially in emerging ther reduce quality costs, lead times and non-value-adding acmarkets and key countries. We are constantly deepening our tivities, and engage our personnel in continuous improvement understanding of current and future talent needs, creating action of our processes and ways of working. plans to address gaps and developing our resource planning tools Strong procurement cost-saving development continued to facilitate more proactive resourcing. with an increased focus on design-to-cost practices, category management, and improved supplier relationship management. Sustainability agenda In 2015, the scope of procurement activities was expanded to In 2015, Valmet continued to implement the sustainability agenensure sustainability in the supply chain. We also work systemda as part of the implementation of its business strategy (see table atically to improve health and safety performance by further on page 30). The agenda has five focus areas with concrete targets, streamlining common standards, procedures and tools, as well action plans and key performance indicators for 2014–2016. The as improving competencies and awareness of health and safety. agenda will be reviewed in early 2016. Valmet’s financial targets TOPIC TARGET STATUS 2015 Growth Net sales growth to exceed • Services sales growth (14%) exceeded market4 growth (~2%) market growth • Cyclicality continues in capital business, Valmet has increased its market share compared to key competitors Profitability EBITA1 before non-recurring items: 6–9% • 2015 EBITA: 6.2% • Significant gradual improvement from 2013 (2.1%) and 2014 (4.3%) ROCE Return on capital employed (pre-tax), •2 015 ROCE: 12% ROCE 2: minimum of 15% • Significant improvement from 2014 (9%) Dividend Dividend payout: at least 40% • Dividend payout: 81% of 2014 net profit policy of net profit • Dividend payout: 68% of 2015 net profit3 1 EBITA (earnings before interest, taxes and amortization) before non-recurring items = operating profit + amortization + nonrecurring items 2 ROCE (pre-tax) = (profit before taxes + interests and other financial expenses) / (balance sheet total non-interest-bearing liabilities (average for period)) 3 Based on Board of Directors’ proposal. 4 Services market long-term growth 16 Valmet Annual Review 2015 Strategy MUST-WIN: EXCELLENCE IN PROCESSES Enhancing quality and lead times with a comprehensive Lean approach As part of its Must-Wins, Valmet has started a specific Lean Lean is a long-term commitment to continuous improvement transformation program to cut quality costs and lead times. The in all parts of the company. It’s a transformation which requires Lean methodology emphasizes the flow of products, services or a change in mindset at all levels of the Valmet organization. information through the operations and functions, rather than “Lean tools have earlier been implemented in some teams just maximizing the use of resources. The target is to create value in our organization, but we are now implementing a comprefor customers by eliminating different kinds of waste – unnechensive Valmet-level approach. Our target is to train everyone essary work phases or waiting times – and process constraints. at Valmet to get the transformation to full speed. The training “In 2015, we held 39 one-day training sessions for over 800 has already generated almost a hundred new Lean development managers and key professionals. We also kicked off a ‘Leading projects across the organization and already some concrete rethrough lean’ program focusing on the Lean leadership princisults driving further transformation in turn.” ples, and launched a Lean passport e-learning course for Lean fundamentals,” says Jaakko Pentti, Director of QHSE at Valmet. IF I CAN SEE IT, I CAN FIX IT “Visualizing weekly workflows ensures that everyone can follow progress in a timely manner. The joint effort of all employees has led to a number of development suggestions that have resulted in improved process efficiency, productivity and safety,” says Jussi Sinisalo, Director of Boiler Production in Tampere, Finland. 5S1 ALL THE WAY Following a successful Lean implementaALIGNED PROCESSES tion in its workshop, Valmet’s Araucária site in Brazil decided to take a step further Lean methodology functioned as a gamein 2015: “This year, we also implementchanger when the spray blade operations ed 5S at our offices, which significantly in Clackamas, Oregon, merged with improved the physical environment and Valmet’s Beloit Service Center in Wisconsin: material flows, as well as the electronic “Implementing standardized work processes environment and information flow. This has helped us reduce variability in the way we change has had a very positive impact on make the product. All of our operators are now the overall working environment,” says aligned, which has enabled us to reach record Christiane Bento, a member of the local levels in quality, delivery times and productivity,” 5S Committee. says Will Bolstad, a Grinder Operator at the Valmet Beloit Service Center, USA. Sort, straighten, sanitize, standardize 1 and sustain 17 Valmet Annual Review 2015 Valmet’s value creation Valmet’s value creation INPUTS BUSINESS MODEL Financial · Total equity EUR 860 million · Interest-bearing debt EUR 371 million · Cash and cash equivalents EUR 165 million Customers Natural Pulp and paper industry · Purchased components (mainly metals-based) Energy industry · Purchased raw materials (mainly metals, minerals, polymers Other process industries and gas) · Energy consumption 1,270 TJ · Water consumption 3,032,000 m3 yp rocesses Human Ke · Number of employees 12,306 R&D · FTE1 of subcontractors and supervised workers Marketing · Investment in development and know-how Sales · Investment in occupational health and safety Engineering Infrastructure Procurement · 140 locations in 33 operating countries2 Production · 34 production units and over 100 service centers Delivery · 80 sales offices Service · Suppliers in over 50 countries Intellectual · Proven customer references · Technology know-how · Product portfolio · 16 technology centers and pilot facilities · R&D expenses EUR 59 million Our employees, · 1,800 protected inventions expertise and Social and relationship experience · Open dialogue with stakeholders (e.g. customer events, investor meetings, supplier days, stakeholder surveys) · Cooperation with over 30 universities and research institutes · Over 25 memberships in associations · Relationships and partnerships · Collaboration with local communities Valmet’s Way Forward: Mission, Strategy, Must-Wins, Vision and Values 1 Full-time equivalent 2 Includes technology centers All figures are from Dec 31, 2015, unless otherwise stated. 18 Valmet Annual Review 2015 Valmet’s value creation OUTPUTS OUTCOMES CUSTOMERS’ END PRODUCTS Process technologies Economic · Pulping process equipment, · Payments to shareholders and process islands and complete creditors EUR 51 million pulp mills Board · Wages and benefits EUR 748 million · Individual board, tissue and paper · Payments to suppliers EUR 2,090 machine sections, complete million production lines and machine rebuilds · Taxes EUR 29 million · Boiler islands, power plants, · Support for non-profit organizations Paper heating plants EUR 0.6 million · Environmental solutions · Retained equity EUR 40 million · Technologies for converting biomass · More efficient and profitable to fuels, chemicals, and materials customers’ processes Automation Tissue Social · Distributed Control Systems (DCS) · Direct and indirect employment · Quality Management Systems · Improved employee competences · Analyzers and measurements · Direct and indirect occupational · Performance and service solutions health and safety Pulp · Customer loyalty Services · Trust and reputation · Spare parts and consumables · License to operate · Paper machine clothing and filter · Influence on operating environment Process fabrics and regulations steam · Rolls and workshop services · Mill and plant improvements Environmental · Maintenance outsourcing · Services and environmental solutions Valmet’s own operations District for energy production · More efficient processes enable the heating use of less natural resources and lower CO2 emissions Other outputs CO2 emissions: Customers’ operations · Scope 13: 15,400 tCO2 · Valmet’s technology and services enable the production of customer’s Electricity · Scope 24: 72,700 tCO2 products with less energy, water and Waste: raw materials and improved flexibility · Non-Hazardous waste 37,000 t in fuel source selection to replace · Hazardous waste 1,800 t fossil fuels with renewable ones Biofuels Biomaterials 3 Scope 1 emissions are direct GHG emissions from sources that are owned or controlled by Valmet, such as fossil fuels burned on site. 4 Scope 2 emissions are indirect GHG emissions resulting from the generation of electricity, heating and cooling, or steam generated off site but purchased by Valmet. 19 Valmet’s operations With the combination of process technology, automation and services, we take our customers performance forward. Over 50% 440 of the world’s 3,800 pulp online connections to customer and paper mills are served sites enable the utilization of the by Valmet. Industrial Internet already today. Valmet Annual Review 2015 Serving pulp, paper and energy industries Serving pulp, paper and energy industries globally Valmet’s unique offering of process technology, automation and services helps to take the pulp, paper and energy industries’ performance forward. Global presence close to our customers Today’s success is built on strong history To reach our vision to become the global champion in serving Valmet’s over 200 years of industrial history includes numerous our customers, we have systematically increased our presence mergers and acquisitions, which have led to a comprehensive close to our global customers. Valmet has operations in 33 counoffering for the industries served. Several of the companies tries in a total of 150 locations. Many of our over 100 service forming part of today’s Valmet date back to the 19th century, centers are located at our customer sites. with some of the earliest being Tamfelt (1797), Tampella (1856), Valmet is organized around four business lines and five geoBeloit (1858) and Karlstad Mekaniska Werkstad (1860). The graphical areas. The business lines – Services, Automation, Pulp name Valmet was first taken into use in 1951. and Energy, and Paper – are responsible for technology and prodThe new Valmet was born on December 31, 2013, when the uct development, technology projects, and services solutions. Pulp, Paper and Power segment was demerged from Metso. In The areas – North America, South America, EMEA, China and January 2015, Valmet announced the agreement to purchase the Asia-Pacific – are responsible for sales and providing services and Process Automation Systems business from Metso. As a result also supporting project deliveries in their respective regions. of the acquisition, Automation became Valmet’s fourth business The business focus varies slightly from area to area depending line in April 2015. on the market maturity and the current market situation. For example, Europe and North America have a large installed base and Unique combination of process technologies, thus a wide services market with several opportunities for rebuilds automation and services in particular, but also for new production lines. In South America, Valmet develops and supplies advanced technologies, autoAsia-Pacific and China, there are growth opportunities in both sermation solutions and services for the pulp, paper and energy vices and in new pulp, board, tissue and bioenergy projects. industries. Additionally, we have been able to extend some of Valmet has reached a leading position in all its key market the products and services to serve other process industries. Our segments, with thousands of technology solutions and automamission is to convert renewable resources into sustainable retion systems delivered and over 2,000 customer plants and mills sults, which means that our customers can produce bio-based served globally. end products by utilizing our technologies and services. Orders received by business line, EUR million Orders received by area, EUR million 3,500 3,500 North America 717 (490) 3,000 Services 1,119 (1,055) 3,000 2,500 2,500 South America 166 (281) 2,000 Automation 222 (–) 2,000 EMEA 1,320 (1,470) 1,500 Pulp and Energy 864 (1,344) 1,500 1,000 1,000 China 428 (244) 500 Paper 673 (671) 500 Asia-Pacific 247 (586) 0 0 2014 2015 2014 2015 22 Valmet Annual Review 2015 Serving pulp, paper and energy industries Valmet worldwide Valmet locations The unique combination of process technology, automation and consumables, fabrics, rolls and workshop services, mill and and services enables innovative product and service developplant improvements, maintenance outsourcing, as well as services ment and also a more competitive offering. and environmental solutions for energy production. For pulp production, our offering includes entire pulping lines from wood handling to pulp drying, including recovery and evapoCommitted to moving our customers’ ration systems. For paper producers, we offer paper, board and tisperformance forward sue production lines and equipment. In heat and power generation, We are committed to moving our customers’ performance our focus is on biofueland multifuel-based solutions. Additionally, forward. In order to maximize the return on their assets, enwe deliver environmental protection solutions to different process hance their processes, and support sustainable development, industries. We deliver new technology and solutions to widen the we focus on finding the right combination of technology, auraw material base and to produce new bio-based materials. tomation and service elements for each of our customers in a Our advanced automation solutions are designed to improve particular situation. the performance of our customers’ processes and their efficiency Process technology, automation and services are all comin terms of costs, material and energy. The solutions range from bined in our Industrial Internet offering. We have the infrasingle measurements to mill-wide turnkey automation projects. structure in place to gather and analyze the data from our cusThe “Valmet DNA” distributed control system is the single automers’ machines and processes. Together with our customers, tomation system for all functions – process, machine, drive and we move their performance forward by utilizing the data to quality controls. The automation systems are complemented by optimize operations and to plan preventive maintenance. We Valmet’s analyzers and measurement solutions portfolio. Addihave already implemented hundreds of solutions utilizing our tionally, we offer a comprehensive quality monitoring and control Industrial Internet capabilities. system for pulp and paper production that utilizes the latest vision Enabled by advanced communication technology and big and scanner technology. data analysis, the Industrial Internet is already moving to the Our comprehensive services offering increases the environnext level – outside the production facilities. In the coming mental and cost efficiency of production processes, while ensuryears, we will enhance mobility and introduce even more ading safe and reliable operations. Our services include spare parts vanced automation technologies and embedded diagnostics. 23 Valmet Annual Review 2015 Comprehensive offering Comprehensive offering BOARD AND TISSUE PULP PAPER Advantage NTT tissue lines Complete pulp mills Recycled fiber lines Advantage DCT tissue lines Wood handling systems Tailor-made OptiConcept Advantage TAD tissue lines Cooking systems board and paper lines Rebuilds Fiber lines OptiConcept M modularized board and paper lines Stand-alone products, Pulp drying systems e.g., Yankee cylinders Modernizations and grade Evaporation systems conversions RECOX Recovery boilers Standalone products from stock preparation to roll handling White liquor plants ENERGY BIOTECHNOLOGIES CYMIC, circulating fluidized PROCESS Pyrolysis solutions for bio-oil production bed boilers (CFB) TECHNOLOGY HYBEX, bubbling LignoBoost for lignin fluidized bed boilers (BFB) extraction Biomass and waste Steam exploded pellets gasification production lines Modularized power CUSTOMER Biomass prehydrolysis plants for further refining Waste heat recovery Emissions control systems SERVICES AUTOMATION SERVICES AUTOMATION Spare parts and consumables Valmet DNA Distributed Control System (DCS) Paper machine clothing and filter fabrics Valmet IQ Quality Control System (QCS) Rolls and workshop services Profilers Mill and plant improvements Analyzers and measurements Maintenance outsourcing Performance solutions and services Services and environmental solutions for energy Industrial Internet solutions production (evaporation plants, power boilers and recovery boilers) Process simulators Safety systems 24 Valmet Annual Review 2015 Comprehensive offering MUST-WIN: LEADER IN TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION Improving profitability and sustainability Saving energy with diamonds Maximizing the value of raw material Valmet’s groundbreaking “Galileo” concept has taken the The world’s second Valmet-supplied LignoBoost lignin sepaextremely energy-intensive wood grinding process to a ration plant started up at Stora Enso’s new biorefinery at Sunila totally new level, as it utilizes diamonds instead of conPulp Mill in Finland in early 2015. The plant is integrated with ventional ceramic stones. the pulp mill to separate and collect lignin from the black liquor. The Galileo grinder consists of steel segments bolted Lignin is a very efficient fuel that can be used in powonto a steel core covered by 120–180 surface segments. Each er boilers. It can also be further processed into valuable segment contains over 60,000 diamonds set in a specific, chemicals or materials. This gives pulp mills new potential precise pattern depending on the species of wood in questo increase production, reduce costs and create new sources tion, the process conditions, and the desired pulp quality. of income. This innovative technology not only cuts energy cost The new LignoBoost plant will produce 50,000 tonnes of by an estimated 20% to 25% per year, but it also increases dried lignin per year, which will be used to replace natural gas pulp production between 20% and 40%. As diamonds are in the lime kilns in order to reduce carbon dioxide emissions said to last forever, the diamond surface retains its pattern and to provide a new source of income through external sales. throughout its lifetime and also leads to more uniform LignoBoost is a good example of how Valmet’s technoloend product quality. gies contribute to a wider value network when industries start to connect in search of synergies and new business potential. High-quality tissue with less fibers Valmet’s flexible Advantage NTT technology stands out for producing tissue at low energy cost and high productivity, while increasing end-product quality and flexibility of production. The first NTT line installed at Papel de San Francisco’s mill in Mexicali, Mexico in 2013, has proven to be a success in many aspects. “This is an extremely energy efficient machine, with high dryness, which gives us previously unheard of productivity. We get conventional products at low energy, and textured tissue as an extra bonus with a quick and easy changeover. I believe NTT can become the new standard for conventional tissue making,” states Dario Palma, Operations Director. The plain mode enables both high production volumes and softness at low energy consumption. The textured mode provides the possibility to produce premium quality tissue with 50% to 80% more bulk and softness, while saving up to 20% of fiber. 25 Valmet Annual Review 2015 Research and development Research and development Valmet’s research and development work is driven by customer needs. As a result of this work, we have continuously improved our products and services and brought new innovations to market. With our research and technology development work, we aim to can produce pulp, paper and other bioproducts without emissions ensure an advanced and competitive offering of process technoland with minimum water consumption, and new high-value end ogies, automation and services for our current and future cusproducts utilizing bio-based raw materials. We are also developing tomers, enhance raw material efficiency, and promote the use of new ways to utilize the Industrial Internet and advanced communirenewable raw materials. cation technologies to use indoor navigation and augmented reality During recent years, Valmet has developed its board, paper and in the production facilities we deliver and serve. tissue machine offering towards more standardized and modular solutions. This has brought significant savings in customer investDifferentiation with R&D centers and pilot machines ments, improved environmental efficiency and reduced the time Valmet’s own R&D centers and pilot machines form the backfrom order to start-up. bone of our research and development work. Altogether, we Our biotechnology innovations enable wider use of bio-based have 16 R&D centers and pilot facilities located in Finland, raw materials and create new revenue streams. Recent examples Sweden and Portugal. include LignoBoost lignin separation technology and bio-oil proOur research and development work is complemented by close duction with pyrolysis technology. Additionally, we have several cooperation with a network of world-leading research facilities new and innovative solutions in the pilot and demonstration phase. and universities. A large amount of our technology development Our long-term vision is to develop solutions that take the inis done in cooperation with our customers, who also have the posdustry to the next level. Such solutions would include mills that sibility to conduct their pilot projects with Valmet’s pilot machines. EXAMPLES OF SUCCESS CUSTOMER NEEDS VALMET’S R&D FOCUS AREAS CONCEPTS AND PRODUCTS • Increase production Ensure advanced and competitive technologies and • OptiConcept M board efficiency services: and paper machine • Improve We develop cost-competitive, leading production and • Advantage NTT competitiveness automation technologies and services. tissue machine • Maximize value of • Valmet DNA raw materials Enhance raw material, water and energy efficiency: distributed control • Widen raw material -We combine process technology, automation and system base services to reduce raw material, water and energy • High-power recovery • Provide high-value consumption. boiler end products • LignoBoost lignin • Develop new Promote renewable materials: separation innovations and We develop solutions to replace fossil materials with technologies renewable ones and to produce new higher-value end products. Resources • 16 own technology centers and pilot facilities • Annual R&D spend about EUR 59 million • Around 1,800 protected inventions • Cooperation with customers, universities and research institutions • Over 400 R&D professionals globally 26 Valmet Annual Review 2015 Research and development MUST-WIN: LEADER IN TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION Valmet IQ – the smartest way to reach quality goals In 2015, Valmet launched a renewed Valmet IQ product fam“Valmet IQ is designed with the experience of thousands of ily for its pulp and paper industry customers. Valmet IQ is a system deliveries by Valmet over more than half a century. The next-generation online quality management solution to oprenewed Valmet IQ quality management solution marks a new timize production processes and the end product quality. The milestone in pulp and paper quality management featuring a renewed product family consists of a quality control system, number of innovations like online softness measurement for profilers, web monitoring and web inspection systems. tissue. The new Valmet IQ is a beneficial solution whether our All components of the Valmet IQ solution are designed to customer is looking to replace aging or obsolete quality control work together. The products are designed to work seamlessly systems or to build up entirely new quality management soluwith other automation systems and all paper machines regardtion,” says Jari Almi, Director of Quality Management Solutions less of manufacturer. The easy connectivity with any system at Valmet. allows replacements even piece by piece. COMPREHENSIVE ONLINE DIAGNOSTICS The heart of a Valmet quality control system is situational information from the process. Valmet IQ scanners have selectable and adaptive scanning functions combined with high-speed quality sensors to provide many online diagnostic functions to improve paper quality, machine stability and process efficiency. MEASUREMENTS FOR IMPROVED PROCESS EFFICIENCY IMPROVED USER INTERFACE INTEGRATED WITH PROCESS DATA Measurements are essential tools for reducing production costs and improving The new Valmet IQ user interface with quality and efficiency. Valmet IQ introintegrated performance reporting takes the duces several new quality measurements user experience to a new level, revealing a such as an online IQ Softness sensor for clear view of the past, present and future tissue – the first of its kind the industry. of the process and product quality through The non-nuclear sensor portfolio for basis intuitive navigation. It also allows for easy weight and moisture measurement has grade management. been extended to pulp drying, providing accuracy measurement without the need for special certification or radiation safety issues. 27 Sustainability We carry out our operations in a socially responsible, safe and environmentally efficient manner, and help our customers to improve the energy and raw material efficiency of their production processes. For the LTIF second 3.3 year in a row, Valmet was The year 2015 was Valmet’s included in the Dow Jones safest ever, with a record-low Sustainability Index (DJSI). lost time incident frequency. Valmet Annual Review 2015 Sustainability Sustainability agenda FOCUS AREA KEY TARGETS HIGHLIGHTS 2015 Sustainable supply chain • 100% of Valmet’s procurement contracts • All active suppliers informed about the to include Sustainable Supply Chain policy Sustainable Supply Chain policy and the policy We enhance our supply included in all new procurement contracts • 80% of Valmet’s active and 100% of new chain management and the suppliers assessed for potential sustainability • 100% of new and existing suppliers assessed transparency of our value chain. risks for potential sustainability risks • Training of Valmet’s entire procurement • 41 supplier sustainability audits conducted organization by the end of 2015 • 100% of Valmet procurement professionals • Compliance with chemical legislation received sustainability training by end of 2015 Health, safety and • Zero harm, wherever we work • No fatalities environment (HSE) • 3 safety observation reports per person • 0.7 safety observation reports per person We provide a safe, healthy by end of 2018 • LTIF -40% and TRIF -16% and well-managed work • Incident frequency by end of 2018: • Energy consumption +1% environment and minimize the LTIF < 2, TRIF < 5 • CO2 emissions +3% environmental impact of our • Energy and CO2 emissions reduction of 20% operations. • Water consumption -8% by 2020 • Water consumption reduction of 15% by 2020 • Waste amounts -3% • Waste reduction of 15% by 2020 • No non-compliance issues People and performance • Values as part of company culture and • New values index in place way of working • New manager role rolled out to clarify We develop an engaged and • Defining strategic competencies for each expectations towards managers performance-driven community. business line and area • 5 new global training programs kicked off • Manager skill development concept • Engagement increased by 9 percentage in place points • Positive trend in engagement and performance levels as measured by regular engagement surveys Cost-effective sustainable • Positive trend in the environmental efficiency • Share of orders received from new products solutions of Valmet’s solutions increased including further orders for • Orders received for new solutions new board, paper and tissue production We develop and provide technologies solutions that support • Several new products launched including sustainable development. the next-generation IQ quality management solution • Major orders for pulp technologies Corporate citizenship • Demonstrate leadership in third-party • Inclusion in Dow Jones Sustainability World sustainability ratings and Europe Indices (DJSI) for the second We are a trusted partner to our • Enhance dialogue with stakeholders consecutive year stakeholders and a respected • Updated Code of Conduct enforced with an corporate citizen. e-learning completion rate of 90% 30 Valmet Annual Review 2015 Sustainable supply chain Sustainable supply chain In 2015, Valmet continued to implement its global activities to enhance sustainable sourcing and the transparency of its value chain. Valmet has a global supplier base with some 9,000 active suppliPurchasing Conditions (GPC) and made an integral part of ers in more than 50 countries. However, the majority of Valmet’s contract documentation and purchase orders. purchases originate in Finland, Sweden and the United States. Valmet expects all its suppliers to comply with the susValmet’s main purchases consist of metals-based products and tainability requirements in the policy and has zero tolerance components, electronics as well as different services. towards the use of forced labor or child labor. Compliance with In order to ensure responsible business practices throughout the policy is the starting point for entering into and maintainthe supply chain, Valmet’s sustainable supply chain focus area ing all business relationships with Valmet. Valmet wants to comprises five specific actions to enhance more sustainable prowork with partners who share the same ethical principles and curement practices and to minimize potential negative social or ideology of responsible business practices. The policy acts as a environmental impacts. basis for supplier evaluations, self-assessments and third-party sustainability audits. Enforcing new sustainability requirements In 2015, Valmet communicated its Sustainable Supply Chain Assessing sustainability risks policy and the requirements set therein to all its active suppliValmet assesses a wide range of topics in its global supplier selection ers globally. The policy was also included in Valmet’s General process, ranging from management practices and financial and Sustainable supply chain roadmap 2014–2016 Actions 1. Sustainable Supply Chain policy: We expect our suppliers to comply with our Sustainable Supply Chain policy and we will incorporate it in all new procurement contracts. 2. Supplier risk assessment: We integrate supplier sustainability risk assessments into procurement processes. 3. Sustainability audits and supplier self-assessments: We request supplier self-assessments and conduct audits. 4. Conflict-free minerals and compliance with chemical legislation: We strive to ensure that the materials and components we use do not include legally restricted chemicals or minerals from conflict areas. 5. Training: We increase awareness of and competences in sustainable procurement practices within procurement. Performance • Coverage of suppliers informed about the • Number of supplier sustainability indicators Sustainable Supply Chain policy self-assessments • Coverage of risk assessments of new and • Number of sustainability audits existing suppliers • Coverage of new way to operate related to • Implementation rate of internal processes chemicals regulations Highlights • All active suppliers informed about the policy and the • Global way to operate for sustainability audits 2015 policy included in General Purchasing Conditions (GPC) defined and local sustainability auditors nominated • All active suppliers assessed for potential • 41 supplier sustainability audits conducted including sustainability risks self-assessments • 380 Valmet procurement professionals received • New program kicked-off to ensure compliance with sustainability training by the end of 2015 chemical legislation 31 Valmet Annual Review 2015 Sustainable supply chain ­ perative performance to ethical business practices, human and o labor rights, occupational health and safety, environmental manPurchases agement and product safety. In 2015, Valmet integrated sustainability risk assessments with (10 largest countries) its supplier approval system. The risk evaluation is based on the country of origin and the purchase category in question. As part of this process, Valmet’s entire global supplier base was assessed EUR MILLION 2015 2014 through a five-level sustainability risk assessment. Finland 770 639 Ensuring compliance through audits Sweden 194 222 Valmet has a global process in place to ensure compliance with USA 143 130 the requirements set out in its Sustainable Supply Chain policy. Based on a sustainability risk assessment, Valmet may ask its China 132 119 suppliers to evaluate their sustainability performance by conGermany 78 59 ducting a self-assessment, which is used as one of the criteria to Brazil 74 54 define the need for a potential sustainability audit. The self-assessment is an online questionnaire integrated with Valmet’s Estonia 35 17 supplier approval system and available in nine languages. Poland 30 37 In 2015, Valmet together with an independent, certified Italy 29 20 third-party auditor, conducted a total of 41 supplier sustainability audits in Brazil, China, Finland, India, Mexico, Poland, Japan 26 26 Sweden and the United States. Based on the experiences from the audits, we created a unified All suppliers way to operate in sustainability audits to ensure a consistent process for all Valmet’s sustainability audits globally and to enable comparability between suppliers. The new way to operate will be launched globally in early 2016. informed about new Increased focus on regulated substances sustainability requirements. The regulatory framework is continuously developing and will create new obligations for companies. In 2015, Valmet focused 41 on ensuring compliance with the European Union’s REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals) and RoHS (Reduction of Hazardous Substances) directives, and on sourcing conflict-free minerals. To ensure future compliance with, for example, new substance restricsupplier sustainability audits tions, Valmet also kicked off a specific development program to further develop its existing processes and controls. conducted globally. Sustainability training 380 As part of its efforts to enhance the sustainability of its supply chain, Valmet has focused on increasing the awareness and competences of sustainable procurement practices in its global procurement organization. In 2015, the sustainability training continued in all areas globally, covering in total 380 procureprocurement professionals ment professionals. trained for sustainability. 32 Valmet Annual Review 2015 Sustainable supply chain MUST-WIN: EXCELLENCE IN PROCESSES From plan to action – auditing suppliers in India In September, Valmet’s team spent one intensive week in India to New global way to operate for sustainability audits audit three of its key suppliers in different parts of the country: The audits were part of Valmet’s supplier sustainability auditing ­Vadodara, Nagpur and Chennai. The target was to ensure that the program in 2015. Together with a certified third party specialsuppliers meet the requirements set out in Valmet’s Sustainable izing in standardized sustainability auditing Valmet conducted Supply Chain policy, as well as those stated in international and supplier sustainability audits in all its geographical areas. The local laws. audits served as a basis for defining Valmet’s global way to op“At each site, we conducted comprehensive workshop tours, erate in auditing, which will be rolled out in early 2016. The employee interviews and documentation reviews to see how new way to operate consists of Valmet-specific processes and the supplier operations are arranged. The audits also served as a guidance, as well as relevant tools and templates. good basis to further develop a strong foundation for our future process and cooperation with suppliers,” says Manish Sharma, Head of Asia-Pacific Supply Centers. NEW POLICY The Sustainable Supply Chain policy addresses Valmet´s requirements for its suppliers regarding business ethics, compliance, human rights and labor rights, occupational health and safety, environmental management and sustainability in products and services. SUSTAINABILITY TRAINING LOCAL AUDITOR POOLS Currently 380 procurement professionals from all business lines and areas have Valmet’s procurement organizations in each area have a pool of nominated local sustainability participated in sustainability training auditors. “Not only have the sustainability pilot audits brought a great deal of added value to us during 2015 to ensure effective as individuals, but they also present a whole new area for us to explore, learn and grow,” says implementation of the new sustainable Mr. Manmeet Singh Kohli from Valmet’s Gurgaon Supply Center in India. procurement processes. 33 Valmet Annual Review 2015 Health, safety and environment Health, safety and environment Together, we continue to create a culture of HSE excellence through development of leadership, engagement and effective processes. In 2015, we increased our focus on preventive and protective measures. Our roadmap for health, safety and the environment (HSE) sets leadership. The new Valmet manager role description and out the milestones to achieving best-in-class HSE performance. the associated “Forward for Managers” training embed key This program engages our people and partners with our goal elements of HSE leadership, such as being a role model and of zero harm in four areas: culture, processes, competency and driving change. More concretely, we continued the leadership performance. The year 2015 was Valmet’s safest ever, with a 40% safety walk process and all units set performance targets for key reduction in lost time incident frequency. We continued to remanagers. These walks support local HSE engagement as well as alise eco-efficient gains in water consumption and waste reducimprovements, and they have received positive feedback from tion during the year. Due to the acquisition of the automation our people and our customers. operations during the year, our absolute energy consumption We promote HSE awareness throughout the year in our global and CO2 emissions increased slightly. communications program, supported by local actions. In 2015, a total of 56 Valmet locations took actions as part of the WWF Focus on leadership and engagement Earth Hour campaign to demonstrate our overall environmental HSE responsibilities and accountabilities are clearly defined at commitment. In April, we launched a campaign to increase safety Valmet, and actions taken in 2015 have promoted active HSE observation reporting. In October, we held our second annual Health, safety and environment (HSE) roadmap 2014–2016 Actions 1. Culture: We systematically enhance leadership, engagement and mindset to move HSE forward. 2. Processes: We ensure processes for effective HSE management are in place in all operations with a focus on defining global standards. We implement best practice as common practice. 3. Competency: We ensure training, competency and awareness are delivered and maintained to effectively manage HSE hazards and impacts. 4. Performance: Our strategic HSE targets and initiatives, translated into local action plans, drive continuous and sustained improvements in safe systems of work, employee wellbeing and our operational footprint. Performance • Safety observation and near miss reporting • Incident and illness frequency indicators • Safety committee coverage (%) • Operational eco-efficiency targets: energy and CO2 • Management system coverage reductions, water consumption, amounts of waste • HSE training hours per employee Highlights • No fatalities (own people and contractors) • 8 HSE training hours per employee 2015 • LTIF decreased by 40% and TRIF by 16% • Harmonization of procedures for safety on customer • 0.7 safety reports per person sites completed • Energy consumption +1%, CO2 emissions +3%, water • Launch of incident reporting app consumption -8%, amounts of waste -3 % 34 Valmet Annual Review 2015 Health, safety and environment Health, safety and environmental data Energy CO2 emissions Water consumption TJ 1,000 t 1,000 m3 2,000 0.8 120 0.06 5,000 100 0.05 4,000 1,500 0.6 80 0.04 3,000 1,000 0.4 60 0.03 2,000 40 0.02 500 0.2 20 0.01 1,000 0 0.0 0 0.00 0 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Fuel District heating Direct emissions (scope 1) Water consumption Electricity Steam Indirect emissions (scope 2) TJ/MEUR Net sales 1,000 tCO2/MEUR Net sales Waste Management systems (% of headcount) 1,000 t 50 SHARE OF CERTIFIED OPERATIONS1 2015 40 ISO 9001 Quality Management System 90% 30 ISO 14001 Environmental Management System 77% 20 OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and 10 61% Safety Management System 0 2013 2014 2015 1 Including offices Hazardous waste Non-hazardous waste Lost time incident frequency Total recordable incident frequency Coverage of safety (LTIF)2, own employees (TRIF)3, own employees committees4, % of workforce 12 20 10 16 8 12 6 Safety 8 committees 4 80% 2 4 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2 LTIF reflects the number of injuries 3 LTIF+medical treatment and restricted 4 Percentage of workforce represented in resulting in an absence of at least one work cases formal joint management-worker health workday per million hours worked and safety committees 35 Valmet Annual Review 2015 Health, safety and environment HSE awareness week, in conjunction with which we also launched Valmet’s environmental efficiency program a video about our mill maintenance operations at Orora B9 in Targets Australia, demonstrating how we are building safety excellence INDICATORS (ROLLING 12 MONTHS) TARGET 2020 on a daily basis. In addition to planned activities, we share local Energy consumption and CO2 achievements in HSE performance, such as years-without-inciemissions reduction (% reduction in yearly consumption compared to net sales, dents milestones and best practices, in our internal news flow. baseline reference yearly average 2005–2009) 20% Municipal water consumption reduction Implementing high standards (% reduction in yearly consumption compared to net sales, We embed best practice HSE processes in all our operations baseline reference yearly average 2011–2012) 15% using common approaches and systems. On one hand, we Total waste amount reduction (% reduction in yearly amounts compared to net sales, continuously implement global standards for critical processes, baseline reference yearly average 2011–2012) 15% such as serious incident investigation and hazardous substances Waste utilisation rate (%) management. We also started to harmonize site safety proce(% increase in waste utilisation dures this year, and we will continue to pilot them in customer (recycled waste + incineration / total waste), baseline reference yearly average 2011–2012) 10% projects in 2016. On the other hand, we have started a process of HSE and quality management system standardization and extension of certification to cover all production facilities. Health and safety targets 2018 Our global standards and practices guide all our people, contractors and visitors in safe and responsible behavior in their evLost time incident rate (LTIF) (Lost time incidents per 1.000.000 working hours) 2 eryday work. To assure compliance with global standards, as well as with legal and customer requirements, a corporate HSE audit Total recordable incident rate (TRIF) (LTIF + medical treatment and restricted work cases) 5 program is followed each year by the Global HSE team of experts. Our focus in 2015 was on compliance with the Valmet minimum Near miss and risk observations 3 / employee / year safety standards for high-risk tasks such as isolation of plant and HSE training 8h / employee / year machinery, and working at height. A total of 15 production faciliNumber of documented safety inspections per ties, as well as 12 customer sites, were audited. million whrs 150 Competent people and teams During 2015, we established a global approach for ensuring that our people and partners are competent to carry out their work safely, wherever we operate. A common mandatory level of HSE training is defined for Valmet comprising fundamental HSE topics, as well as location/site-, role/taskand customer-specific Work to implement global standards continued through ditraining. We renewed our HSE awareness e-learning during the rected business line/area actions. The Paper business line impleyear, and it will be mandatory for all employees and partners mented a lifting safety program and the China area a program for as of 2016. We are also continuing consolidation of local HSE enhancing isolation of plant and machinery. training matrixes into country-level matrixes capturing all releSteps towards our eco-efficiency targets are taken in all provant legal requirements matched to specific roles and tasks. duction facilities based on global and operation-specific HSE action plans. Improvements in 2015 included the ongoing rationalSustainable improvements in performance ization of the production footprint, upgrading existing processes Through the annual planning process, Valmet defines clear imand application of best available technology for new investments, provement initiatives to achieve its HSE targets. Co-ordinated as well as many small local contributions, such as the practice actions are implemented at the global, business line/area and of turning off workshop lighting during lunchtime, as we do in location levels. Since 2014, additional focus and support has Gorizia in Italy and Araucária in Brazil. been provided to ten selected locations that have the most room Local health and wellness promotion is planned annually, for for improvement in terms of HSE performance. example through fitness classes, healthy lifestyle seminars and peA key global focus in 2015 was to activate safety observation riodic health check-ups. The Jyväskylä unit became a smoke-free reporting as an improvement process. Our global incident manageworkplace in 2015, and all Finnish locations will follow by 2017. ment system was developed to enable classification of safety observaThe target of the non-smoking policy is to support the health of tions into unsafe behavior and unsafe conditions. A mobile reporting the employees, decrease costs and positively affect the image of app was also developed and launched at the end of the year. the company as a workplace. 36 Valmet Annual Review 2015 Health, safety and environment MUST-WIN: EXCELLENCE IN PROCESSES Taking safety forward – every day As stated in Valmet’s HSE policy, we strongly believe that all between 2012 and 2015. In doing so we eliminated ten serious injuries, incidents and health hazards can be prevented, and we injuries per month from our places of work. Our operations are committed to taking personal responsibility for HSE. were again fatality-free for both our people and our contractors On a monthly basis, all levels of Valmet management review (2014: zero). We are actively improving reporting systems to be progress towards HSE performance targets and follow up action able to track contractor incident frequencies. plans with a focus on highlights, challenges and the next steps to Our ongoing focus is on ensuring appropriate systems, comensure improvement. HSE alerts with key lessons for all serious petence and behaviors are in place to create a culture where HSE incidents, as well as good HSE practices, are standard items in the excellence is embedded in our day-to-day activities. We remain monthly review. committed to active engagement with our customers, people and During 2015, we met our mid-term target for lost time incipartners as we continue to move safety forward towards zero dent frequency for own employees and realized a 60% reduction harm, wherever we operate. LEADING THE WAY DELIVERING SAFETY EXCELLENCE AT THE CMPC GUÁIBA MILL, BRAZIL “Safety is always first on my agenda. It is all about people, the heart of the compaSafety was a top priority during the ny, and that we all return home from work delivery of the new pulp line. At the peak safe, healthy and more knowledgeable of construction, Valmet had over 4,000 each and every day. Our commitment to people and contractors at the site, and 5% zero harm is built upon personal responsiof work hours were spent on HSE training. bility, accountability and clear, consistent At start-up, LTIF (12-month rolling) was leadership by example,” says Bertel at a record good level: 0.41. Leadership Karlstedt, President of Valmet’s Pulp and commitment to safety was a key success Energy business line (in the right). factor, and constant attention was paid to supervision for safe systems of work. INNOVATING SAFELY IN TAMPERE, FINLAND Valmet’s R&D center focuses on developing current and new technologies and fuels. One of many locations with a significant safety milestone, the center has already achieved more than four years injury-free through building a culture where HSE is a visible and integral part of daily operations. Effective risk management and active use of preventive safety observations in particular have been used as means to drive continuous improvement. 37 Valmet Annual Review 2015 People and performance People and performance Our people are at the heart of our business. We continuously work to build and develop teams with people from different backgrounds, genders and cultures. Having a diverse workforce creates a more dynamic work environment and leads to new ideas and more competitive products. Engagement on the rise, values support daily work Driving performance The results of our employee engagement survey improved for Driving performance continued to be a priority in 2015. We further nearly all questions in 2015, with total employee engagement developed our compensation framework to support high perforincreasing globally by nine percentage points to 65%. The remance, ensuring the right mix of global and local bonus plans and sults also showed clear improvement in the global focus area performance-based salary increases and rewards. The special re“Instilling belief in Valmet’s future”, defined based on the 2014 ward introduced in 2014 to reward individuals on the spot for top survey. The share of positive responses for this area increased performance was expanded with an strengthened focus in 2015. from 56% to 64%, once again showing that when we focus on a We continued to utilize our Annual Review discussion topic, we see results. process to review past performance and set targets and develThe survey was used to establish the Values Index, a baseline for opment actions for the year ahead. In 2015, we introduced a how successfully we are embedding our values into our work. People, new tool and schedule to streamline the overall process. These in particular, saw a high result, with 83% of employees responding improvements led to better coverage, a six-week shorter process favorably to the statement “the people I work with cooperate to get and more time for manager-employee dialogue. We also introthe job done.” The results of the six values-related questions will be duced a mid-year review process to support target achievement, used to further strengthen our culture and way of working. emphasize feedback and monitor ongoing development actions. People and performance roadmap 2014–2016 Actions 1. Nurturing shared values: We encourage our people to live our shared values by connecting them to our way forward as a company. 2. Driving performance: We look for ways to improve the performance of our people. We develop processes that recognize and reward top performance, improve managerial skills, and encourage individuals to take an active role in driving their own performance. 3. Globalization of capabilities: In addition to developing our knowledge base, we strive to ensure that we have the right competence in the right place at the right time. Performance • Employee engagement survey indicators • Annual performance reviews • Global and local training offering Highlights • New Values Index to measure how well we are embedding our values in our work 2015 • Engagement survey with global response rate of 81%, up from 68% • Overall engagement rose by 9 percentage points • Launch of 5 global training programs with over 320 participants • Implementation of Manager Role as part of Forward for Managers training program • Mind the Gap competence assessment proceeding worldwide • Over 900 actions completed to develop management resources, successors and HIPOs (high potentials) 38 Valmet Annual Review 2015 People and performance 81% Developing our people Valmet’s talent development portfolio came to life in 2015 with five new global training programs being kicked off, along with a number of global e-learning courses on fundamental topics like the Code of Conduct, Information Security, and Lean. To compleof our employees ment the global learning mix, a range of business-specific and local responded to the training courses were also held in line with our 70-20-10 learning philosophy, where 70% of learning is on the job, 20% from learning employee engagement relationships and 10% from traditional training, both internal and survey in 2015. external. In addition, we closely followed the development of our talent pool comprising over 700 management resources, successors 9% and high potentials. In 2015, we completed over 900 development actions for this group. For managers, we developed clear expectations that were brought together in a concise manager role description and incorporated into the 360 Feedback and a new manager training point increase in program called Forward for Managers, which was completed by 66% of managers in 2015. It is an intensive day-long course that overall employee focuses on Valmet’s Way Forward and our manager role in a engagement. dynamic and interactive way. All Valmet managers will take the training by mid-2016. Managing our knowledge base We are continuing to actively develop and globalize our capabilities close to our customers, ensuring we have the right resources in the right place at the right time. The Mind the Gap project, which began in 2014 to assess and develop critical business competencies, is proceeding, and the results are being used to create action plans to address gaps and future talent needs. This work is supported by the development of efficient resourcing tools to enhance resource planning and facilitate more proactive resourcing moving forward. Education structure, % Age structure, % Service years, % Doctorate degree 1% 30 30 25 25 Master’s degree 13% 20 20 Bachelor’s degree 27% 15 15 Technical diploma 21% 10 10 Associate’s degree / 5 5 College degree 11% 0 0 Non-degree program 3% ≤19 20–29 30–39 40–49 50–59 60–64 ≥65 ‹1 1–2 3–4 5–10 11–20 ≥21 High school diploma 11% Basic education 7% Unallocated 3% 39 Valmet Annual Review 2015 People and performance MUST-WIN: WINNING TEAM A new era in global training Valmet’s global training portfolio was successfully kicked off in 150+ projects 2015 with five programs and 11 sessions being run throughout Project work is a key element of the programs. Projects bring the year. Each of the five programs – Forward Strategy, Fast Forpositive energy to all involved and act as a springboard for innoward, Champions in Services, Networking in Procurement and vative thinking. In 2015, more than 150 projects were completLeading through Lean – helps us achieve our Must-Wins and ed that focused on a variety of topics ranging from improving utilize our values to drive desired behavior. The programs use a customer competitiveness in the refiner segment and developing variety of learning methods to inspire thinking and bring minds more sustainable solutions in paper technology to overall process together. The participant feedback has been positive for all proimprovement and Lean thinking. Sponsors from senior managegrams, with especially high scores for the innovative hands-on ment support all project work. At the end of each program, the approach and the cross-organization networking opportunity. projects are evaluated by a committee of senior managers and peers and shared internally with the entire Valmet community. PROJECTS THAT TAKE US FORWARD “As the sponsor of our Fast Forward program, I have the opportunity to evaluate the participants’ individual projects at the close of each program. I’ve been particularly impressed with the level of ambition of the topics and their potential impact on Valmet, and I look forward to their realization in the future. In addition to that, the projects enable significant individual development. They also challenge and energize our people and give them the possibility to spar with their senior management mentors,” says Julia Macharey, Senior Vice President of Human Resources at Valmet. UNIQUE NETWORKING OPPORTUNITY Forward Strategy and Fast Forward participants experienced a new type of networking called “meeting points”. Meeting points bring participants together from the two different programs for unique learning, networking and mentoring ­opportunities. DIVERSE THINKING Valmet’s global programs are international programs that focus on our strategy and MustWins. When selecting participants we work hard to ensure we have the right mix of experience, competence and future talent to encourage diverse thinking. Over 320 people from Valmet locations around the world participated in the programs in 2015. 40 Valmet Annual Review 2015 Cost-effective sustainable solutions Cost-effective sustainable solutions Valmet’s solutions help to convert biomass into renewable energy and recyclable products while increasing the economy and efficiency of production. From renewable resources into sustainable results ficiency through lightweighting and by using lower quality raw With its advanced technologies and services, Valmet can help materials in the manufacturing of high-quality end products. In its customers produce more value from each tonne of feedstock paper machines, Valmet’s research and development work continor fuel they process. All our solutions target maximal raw ued to focus on modular and standardized solutions with optimal material utilization and increased recycling, lower energy technology scope. An excellent example is the OptiConcept M consumption and increasing use of renewable energy, while at modular board and paper machine, which can offer improvethe same time seeking to reduce fresh water consumption, use ments in energy efficiency of up to 30% and enhanced operating of chemicals and emissions. profitability, as well as improved user experience and safety. In energy production the flexibility in fuel selection enables Technologies for more sustainable and profitable our customers to utilize a variety of renewable fuels that are loprocesses cally available and reduce their use of fossil fuels. For example, In pulp and paper production, improved material efficiency and Valmet’s energy offering includes technologies for converting lower amounts of waste, as well as reduced energy and water conbiomass, waste or a combination of different fuels into energy. sumption, are normally achieved through process improvements. Our offering also includes odor and emission control systems Paper and board producers can also improve their materials effor pulp mills as well as heat and power plants. Cost-effective sustainable solutions roadmap 2014–2016 Actions 1. Environmental efficiency of solutions: We continuously improve energy, water and raw material efficiency of solutions. 2. New offering: We develop and commercialize new solutions to increase sustainability and economy of customer processes and to create new revenue streams. 3. Customers’ sustainability needs: We actively engage in dialogue with our customers about their sustainability needs to meet the changing market needs. 4. Intellectual property rights (IPR): We actively protect our own product rights and monitor and respect those of others. Performance • Environmental efficiency of solutions indicators • Orders received for new products • R&D investments in sustainability • IPR development Highlights • Share of orders received from new products increased including further orders for Valmet’s new paper production 2015 technologies such as OptiConcept M board and paper machines and Advantage NTT tissue machines • Major orders for pulp technologies with high environmental efficiency • Several new products launches, including Valmet IQ online quality management solution • Further development and commercialization of bioconversion technologies such as lignin separation, pre­­­ hydrolysis and gasification of biomass • Increase in customers’ positive perceptions of the sustainability of Valmet’s offering increased from 94% to 98% 41 Valmet Annual Review 2015 Cost-effective sustainable solutions Valmet has also developed new biomass conversion technoland regulations. To ensure safe operations, customer training ogies for producing new bio-based end products such as biogas, is included in all project deliveries. Moreover, the majority of biofuels and biomaterials. In recent years, we have introduced Valmet’s operations are certified to quality, health and safety several new technologies to the market including LignoBoost and environmental management standards, and processes that for lignin separation, a pyrolysis solution for bio-oil production, ensure product safety are followed. and a gasifier for solid biomass and waste. In addition, Valmet has developed its prehydrolysis technology to be applied in secNew opportunities from the changing business ond-generation ethanol production. environment The growing concern over the availability of earth’s resources is Improving life cycle efficiency creating pressure to continuously increase resource efficiency. At Valmet’s capabilities and unique offering of process technologies, the same time urbanization, population growth and increased services and automation is a strong basis for serving our customers consumption pose a threat to clean air, arable land and fresh in a sustainable way throughout the entire lifecycle of the production water. Evolving environmental regulations are also creating a process. Our comprehensive range of services and automation helps need for more sustainable processes. to improve life cycle efficiency by increasing the environmental and Based on life cycle analysis of two product families, we have cost efficiency of customers’ production processes while ensuring estimated that around 95% of the environmental impacts of safe and reliable operations. Valmet’s entire value chain occurs when Valmet’s solutions are The utilization of the Industrial Internet provides further pobeing used for production at the customer sites. For this reason, tential to increase efficiency in customers’ processes. Moreover, choosing efficient production technologies play a key role in advanced remote connections enable our services teams to serve mitigationg climate impacts. our customers 24/7, regardless or time and place. Valmet actively engages and cooperates with its customers, as well as research institutions and universities, to collect informaSafety is part of the innovation process tion on customers’ sustainability needs and to develop new and Safety is an integral part of Valmet’s technologies, automation improved solutions for the market. and services. The safety requirements of all Valmet’s solutions In 2015, roughly one-fourth of Valmet’s R&D spend was diare carefully reviewed and assessed in the innovation process and rectly linked to improvements in the sustainability performance must be fulfilled in each product development phase. of new and existing solutions. However, many solutions are also Valmet’s solutions are required to be safe to use, and they subject to indirect sustainability impacts through other perforare designed to meet or exceed all applicable safety standards mance improvements. (See R&D focus areas p. 26.) Valmet’s solutions convert renewable resources into sustainable results EndBiogas Biofuels Biochemicals Biomaterials New paper grades products Heat Electricity Dissolving pulp Chemical pulp Mech pulp Paper Board Tissue Technologies Automation Services Energy Pulp Paper Raw materials Waste Agro Wood Recycled paper Customer industries Energy production Biofuel refining Pulp Paper 42 Valmet Annual Review 2015 Corporate citizenship Corporate citizenship In 2015, Valmet reinforced its Code of Conduct to secure a uniform standard of behavior across its global operations. The company also maintained its position among the global sustainability leaders. Valmet is a truly global company with operations in over 30 countries. We provide employment and business opportunities not only directly to Valmet’s over 12,000 employees globally, but also to a wide range of other stakeholders, and we indirectly build wealth in local societies. We aim to be seen as a trusted local partner and to build active relations with our stakeholders. We are transparent in our communications with our stakeholders and strive to ensure that all our operations are carried out in accordance with laws and regulations in a socially responsible and globally aligned manner. Operations aligned with international principles and guidelines Valmet has been a signatory of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) since January 2014 and is committed to following the ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption in its business. We support and respect the protection of human rights and labor rights as expressed in the United Nations Universal Declaration Corporate citizenship roadmap 2014–2016 Actions 1. Globally aligned principles: We operate in compliance with laws and regulations and respect globally acknowledged ethical values, principles and human rights. Our operations are guided by our Code of Conduct and related policies. 2. Communication and reporting: We promote active stakeholder dialogue and transparently report on our sustainability performance on an annual basis. 3. Local programs: We participate in community programs to support local economies and communities based on our Principles for Sponsorships and Donations. Performance • Third-party sustainability ratings indicators • Depth of stakeholder dialogue Highlights • Inclusion in Dow Jones Sustainability World and Europe Indices (DJSI) for a second consecutive year 2015 • Score of 97/100 for disclosure in CDP’s climate change program • Updated Code of Conduct enforced across all operations with an e-learning completion rate of 90% • Reporting according to GRI G4 core guidelines • Valmet’s customers, suppliers and employers rated the company’s sustainability performance as “good” or “excellent” in the 2015 reputation survey • The results of the 2015 stakeholder survey align well with Valmet’s current sustainability agenda 43 Valmet Annual Review 2015 Corporate citizenship of Human Rights, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and in the Declaration on Fundamental PrinciIn 2015, Valmet invested EUR 20 ples and Rights at Work of the International Labour Organization (ILO). We also take into account the OECD’s Guidelines for million Multinational Enterprises. Updated Code of Conduct Our daily operations are guided by Valmet’s Code of Conduct, which is aligned with the principles set out in the UN Global in more sustainable business Compact. Valmet’s Code of Conduct guides the behavior and decisions of Valmet’s employees and its partners, and creates a practices. uniform foundation for all our business transactions and work 90% assignments. The Code addresses topics such as human rights, labor practices, environmental issues, compliance with laws and regulations, fair competition, occupational well-being and safety, and ethical standards throughout the value chain. In 2015, Valmet updated its Code of Conduct and organized of Valmet’s personnel a management training and an obligatory global e-learning course for all employees. The updated Code links more strongly completed the updated with Valmet’s shared values and introduces practical “dos and Code of Conduct don’ts” to help apply the Code in daily work. The Code also includes instructions for reporting suspected misconduct, for e-learning in 2015. which Valmet established a new reporting channel in 2015. The new channel is maintained by a third party to guarantee anonymity and enables Valmet’s employees or any of our stakeholders to make a report 24/7 via telephone or the Internet in Valmet’s Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) policy their native language. guides our approach to HSE in our own operations, stakeholder Both the Code of Conduct leaflet and the e-learning material collaboration and our offering. The Sustainable Supply Chain are available in 19 languages. Employees without Internet acpolicy sets requirements for our suppliers related to sustainable cess are invited to attend classroom training. By the end of 2015, operations. Valmet’s Equal Opportunity and Diversity policy some 90% of Valmet employees had completed the training. All promotes equal opportunities for all employees, regardless of new employees are introduced to, and must familiarize themgender, age, race, religion or beliefs, ethnic or national origins, selves with, the Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct and its marital/civil partnership status, sexuality or disability. updates are approved by Valmet’s Board of Directors. Creating added value Other guiding policies Valmet cooperates with a number of different stakeholders evValmet’s Code of Conduct is supported by a set of policies deery day. Our stakeholders are existing and potential customers, fining more detailed principles for specific activities. Valmet’s existing and potential employees, suppliers and subcontractors, Anti-Corruption policy addresses our zero-tolerance approach shareholders and investors, media, non-governmental organito bribery and corruption. The Competition Compliance zations, authorities and local communities, research institutes, Guidelines provide practical instructions for compliance with universities and vocational schools. competition and anti-trust laws. Training for these topics is We strive to operate in a manner that creates added value to organized on a regular basis. The most recent training for the us and our stakeholders. Valmet’s value creation model on page Anti-Corruption e-learning was launched in the last quarter 18–19 describes in more detail how our operations impact the of 2015. The training will be given first to top management economy, environment and societies around us. and other senior management and employees from sales and procurement. The previous training cources on Competition Active stakeholder dialogue Compliance Guidelines and Anti-Corruption were completed Valmet actively communicates with its stakeholders through during 2014. The next Competition Compliance Guidelines multiple channels such as events, face-to-face meetings, cuse-learning will take place in 2016. tomer magazines, company reports and brochures, online channels, and surveys. 44 Valmet Annual Review 2015 Corporate citizenship In order to enable a continuous stakeholder dialogue about its sustainability performance, Valmet has a Web-based brainIncome taxes storming tool in place. In 2015, 595 external stakeholders and (10 largest countries) Valmet employees had used the brainstorming tool. The feedback received through the tool indicates that Valmet’s stakeholders EUR MILLION 2015 2014 share the current view on what is important with regard to the company’s sustainability performance. The most important topics concerned safety, sustainable solutions, ethical behavior and emFinland 17.2 0.0 ployee wellbeing. The brainstorming results are reviewed and anUSA 7.6 4.0 alyzed on a regular basis to assess potential new topics of concern. Sweden 6.5 5.6 In addition to the stakeholder survey, Valmet actively collects stakeholder feedback at different events and meetings, as China 2.2 3.0 well as through specific other surveys and external ratings. In Japan 1.3 -0.2 2015, Valmet’s customers, suppliers and employers rated the Portugal 1.0 0.7 company’s sustainability performance as “good” or “excellent” in our reputation survey, and the rating of Valmet as a socially Canada 0.8 1.8 and environmentally responsible company increased in the emIndia 0.8 0.0 ployee engagement survey. Also, the proportion of customers reporting positive perceptions of the sustainability of Valmet’s Germany 0.6 1.0 offering increased from 94% to 98% in 2015. Chile 0.6 0.4 Comprehensive sustainability reporting We strive to have globally consistent and transparent manageSupport for non-profit organizations, % ment and reporting practices so that all our stakeholders can EUR 647,183 in total reliably assess the company’s sustainability performance and deYouth activities 48% (64%) velopment. Valmet reports annually on its sustainability perforEnvironmental protection 46% (18%) mance according to the Global Reporting Initiative, GRI G4 Core Science, research and education 3% (13%) option, with selected indicators assured by an independent third Others 2% (3%) party. We also report to selected third-party sustainability ratings. Sports 1% (1.6%) In 2015, Valmet was included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Culture 0.1% (0.4%) Index (DJSI) for the second consecutive year. Valmet also reported to CDP’s Climate Change program with a score of 97/100 and performance level B. Distribution of economic value added to our stakeholder groups DIRECT ECONOMIC ECONOMIC VALUE RETAINED IN VALUE GENERATED DISTRIBUTED BUSINESS Operating costs: EUR 2,090 million Employee wages and benefits: EUR 748 million Revenues Payments to providers of capital: EUR 51 million EUR 40 million EUR 2,959 million Payments to government: EUR 29 million Support for non-profit organizations: EUR 0.6 million 45 Valmet Annual Review 2015 Corporate citizenship Improving daily life with fresh water Every year, Valmet supports selected projects globally to meet Valmet decided to solve the challenge by donating new water the needs of the communities around it. We believe that colfilters to the school for cooking and drinking, including a serlaboration with local communities around the world results in vice agreement to ensure proper functionality of the equipment. mutual benefits. Valmet also donated second-hand computers to the students In 2015, Valmet teamed up with Keng Zhen Central Primary and promised to provide IT support via the internet. School located in Shaanxi province in China to address the chal“The project demonstrates well the initiatives we hope to prolenge of fresh water. Keng Zhen Central primary school is one of mote in local communities. Back in 2008, Valmet in China and all more than 100,000 rural schools in China, located in a mounits local employees donated for the rebuilding of two schools which tainous and geographically remote area. The school had been were damaged during the Wenchuan earthquake. Our recent activpumping poor-quality water from underground since there is ities in Jiaxian are further examples of our means to collaborate with no water supply system in the town. Fresh water was previously the communities around us and support their daily operations,” only available a kilometer away in the valley. says Xie Daorong, Vice President of China Operations. LONG-TERM CHANGE “I was delighted to see the faces of the students who tasted the water. It showed we really succeeded in addressing one of the daily challenges of the school, and I am confident that access to fresh water will have a positive impact on the wellbeing of the students and teachers in the long-term,” says Wang Hongmei, Marketing Communications Manager at Valmet in China. ACCELERATING LEARNING IN BRAZIL In Brazil, Valmet has participated in social and environmental programs INVESTING IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES through two local non-profit organizations since 2011. “One of the main In 2015, Valmet spent EUR 0.6 million on targets of the programs is to develop selected projects around the world. Valmet’s and ensure access to basic education sponsorships and donations focus on for 75,000 young people in the state of science, research, education, environmental Maranhão. For example, the programs protection, nature conservation and youth provide special courses for illiterate activities. Valmet’s seasonal donation for students to enable them to catch up 2015 was dedicated to Save the Children, with their peers at school,” says Laura WWF and UN Women. Puustjärvi, Head of Sustainability at Valmet. 46 Valmet Annual Review 2015 Contacts Contacts Visiting address Follow Valmet in Twitter or YouTube and join Keilasatama 5, 02150 Espoo, Finland us in Linkedin and Facebook. Postal address Twitter.com/valmetglobal P.O. Box 11, 02151 Espoo, Finland Tel. +358 (0)10 672 0000 firstname.lastname@valmet.com Youtube.com/valmetglobal Media contacts media@valmet.com Linkedln.com/company/valmet Sustainability contacts sustainability@valmet.com Facebook.com/valmetcorporation Investor relations ir@valmet.com www.valmet.com Order publications www.valmet.com/subscribe About this report Concept, design and production The paper, and the pulp used in making Miltton Oy the paper, was produced with machines and equipment manufactured by Valmet. The Paper report is printed on MultiArt Silk, which is MultiArt Silk 300 g PEFC-certiﬁed and meets the environmental MultiArt Silk 130 g criteria for the Swan ecolabel. PEFC certiﬁcation conﬁrms that the forests are Printing being sustainably managed. The printing inks Oy Fram Ab and chemicals used in printing comply with the requirements for the Swan ecolabel. The printing ink is plant oil-based, and the other materials used are recyclable and ecofriendly. 4041 0797 Printed matter 47 Converting renewable resources into sustainable results Valmet Corporation Keilasatama 5 / PO Box 11 FI-02150 ESPOO, FINLAND www.valmet.com
