CSR REPORT 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY IN PFA efforts and results PFA · CSR report 2015 1 CSR REPORT 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY IN PFA efforts and results CONTENTS PFA heading for 2020 3 Selected key figures and overview 2015 4 About this report 6 PFA’s strategy heading for 2020 8 PFA and society 10 PFA Brug Livet Fonden 12 PFA for the customers 14 Responsible value creation 18 Investment process responsibility 20 Sustainable operations 24 PFA for the employees 26 CSR key facts and figures 30 Responsible corporate culture 34 Responsible corporate practice 36 Responsible value creation 38 Resource and CO2 consumption 40 Relationships and dialogue 42 TRANSLATION: This is a translation of PFA Holding’s CSR Report 2015 in Danish. In case of any discrepancy between the Danish text and the English translation, the Danish text shall prevail. The photos in this report The photos in this report show organisations and projects that have been elected as the causes of 2015 and have received financial support from PFA Brug Livet Fonden. Photos by photographer Jakob Dall. Front page: Projekt Husvild One of PFA Brug Livet Fonden’s 2015 causes Facebook.com/projekthusvild 2 PFA · CSR report 2015 PFA HEADING FOR 2020 The world around us is changing. It happens every day even though we do not notice it. New opportunities arise, and with very few taps on our smartphones, we can shop, pay bills or get an overview of our pension yield. We are all part of the global change, and are compelled to adapt our business strategies to meet the needs and expectations entailed by the changes. There are many expectations to a large pension company such as PFA from customers, employees, politicans and the media. For this reason, PFA has initiated Strategy2020 which pinAs a pension company that manages our custompoints PFA’s priorities for the next five years. ers’ savings, we have a special responsibility. We are conscious of this responsibility and strive to The strategy is based on three core values which contribute to the society that we are a part of. always have been part of PFA’s foundation: ProFor this reason, we back the UN Global Compact fessional, fair and accountable. Our keywords and aim at ensuring compliance with the ten increate a framework for the identity that we wish ternational principles for responsible corporate for PFA and for the way that we wish to meet behaviour which create the framework for PFA’s customers, the market and society. work on corporate responsibilty. Furthermore, through PFA Brug Livet Fonden, we support a In the future, PFA will work to ensure that the range of causes that help others to live life. values are key in all our activities, so that we on a continuous basis can deliver accountable adviThe current report combines the year's activities sory services, create a high long-term return with and results in the many areas in which PFA has respect for human rights and the environment integrated accountablity in the organisation and as well as develop products that take care of our strives to make a difference for the customers, customers if they should fall ill. the employees and society. The report presents a picture of PFA’s comprehensive efforts within It is far from all who think that pension planning corporate responsibility. It describes how we in is exciting, and it may be difficult to relate to PFA already work in a professional, fair and acsomething if it is far off into the future. In PFA, countable manner in a wide range of areas. At we consider it our responsibility to help our custhe same time, we acknowledge that we with the tomers and people in Denmark in general to convalues of Strategy2020 can increase our efforts sider pension and to help them understand what and create accountable long-term results for our pension is in order to provide an insight into customers and contribute to the development of what the future looks like. the society that we are all part of. Allan Polack Group CEO PFA · CSR report 2015 3 SELECTED KEY FIGURES AND OVERVIEW 2015 790,000 Visitors at My PFA (mitpfa.dk) 75,000 Pension consultations APPROXIMATELY 1. 1 MILLION Pension customers 88,000 Joined PFA Customer Programme in 2015 – in total 130,000 § 113 Customer Representative issues incl. proaktive issues 4 PFA · CSR report 2015 1,367 Employees (annual average) DKK 527 BILLION Investments under management 11.8 PER CENT Employee turnover DKK 28.7 BILLION Payments (excl. Mølholm Forsikring) 3.0 PER CENT DKK 20.0 BILLION Payouts Sickness absence 76 OUT OF 100 DKK 239 MILLION Total tax payments Employee satisfaction DKK 8,816 MILLION Total tax collections 38 PER CENT Women in management 2004 TONS CO2 consumption 224 TONS 74 The employees’ combined Health Estimate Waste 2.5 TONS Reduction of food waste in the canteen PFA · CSR report 2015 5 ABOUT THIS REPORT The purpose of this report is to communicate PFA’s efforts and results in connection with our work on corporate responsibility during 2015. The initiatives of the year have been characterised by changes in PFA's work with corporate responsibility. The CSR effort is strengthened in many areas and integrated in new ways. A number of the year’s actions were preparations Structure of the report for activities to be initiated in 2016. For this reaThe report is structured around the central subson, a couple of the focus areas for 2015, which jects of PFA's new Strategy2020 and focuses on were described in the 2014 CSR report, have only the subjects that have been prioritised in the been partially realised in 2015 or postponed until dialogue with customers, employees, the Board 2016. These are described on the following page. of Directors and other stakeholders. Learn more about the strategy on page 8. The report covers the entire 2015 and comprises the PFA Group. PFA Holding’s annual report, this The last part of the report consists of PFA’s CSR report with appendices and the CSR pages at CSR-related key figures and data. As a new thing, pfa.dk all comply with the Danish Financial Statethe numbers are structured in the same manner ments Act regarding the reporting of the comas in PFA's corporate responsibility model which pany’s corporate responsibility. The mentioned is based on PFA’s policy for corporate responsireports also represent PFA’s Communication on bility and ethics. In this way, data and key figures Progress report (COP) to the UN regarding PFA’s provide an overview of how PFA complies with implementation of the Ten Principles of the UN the policies. The 2015 figures are compared with Global Compact. figures for the past two years in order to show how the results have developed. The 2015 figures Priorities of the contents of the report and the figures for the past years will be in­ In 2015, PFA initiated a range of new initiatives cluded wherever relevant throughout the report. which during the preparation involved a broad This way, the final part of the report provides a dialogue with the customers, the employees combined overview of figures and data of how and other stakeholders. This applies to both the PFA complies with its CSR policy and guidelines. development of products and the preparation of The report itself focuses on the results that PFA’s Strategy2020 as well as to the prioritisahave been prioritised by customers, the Board tion of our work with responsible investments. of Directors, employees and other stakeholders Overall, this has contributed to an assessment of during the year. which areas that are the most valuable for PFA to focus on, and these areas are thus the ones that Contact for the current CSR report and PFA’s will be described as the actions and results of the work with corporate responsibility is: year in the current report. Mette Vadstrup, CSR Manager, Corporate Affairs & Compliance, mev@pfa.dk 6 PFA · CSR report 2015 SMILfonden One of PFA Brug Livet Fonden’s 2015 causes for children receiving treatment in Danish hospitals smilfonden.dk The 2014 CSR Report, “PFA and Corporate Responsibility initiatives and results”, described a number of focus areas for PFA’s work with corporate responsibility in 2015. Below, you can read about the scope and position of the focus areas in the report. PFA will prepare a health strategy for PFA’s employees – see page 26. PFA will map and revise internal guidelines and advance the employees’ knowledge of the guidelines through internal communication – see page 26. PFA will develop a complete CSR strategy – this will be commenced in 2016 in connection with Strategy2020. PFA will make an effort to communicate a number of the elements involved in the work with active ownership without compromising the confidentiality needed in the dialogue with the companies in which PFA invests – see page 20. PFA will revitalise the Customer Board and involve the members to an even higher degree than previously. The Customer Board has been involved in the preparation of Strategy2020 – see description page 8. As a CDP Investor Member, PFA will work more systematically with the data that the companies report to the CDP. This is partially realised and will be completed in 2016. See description page 22. WE SUPPORT PFA · CSR report 2015 7 PFA’S STRATEGY HEADING FOR 2020 In 2015, PFA's Board of Directors agreed on Strategy2020. The purpose of the strategy is to ensure that PFA becomes increasingly customer-oriented and efficient. The preparation of the strategy has involved PFA’s management and other employees as well as PFA's customers, Customer Board and external experts. * PFAANDSTRIVES TO INCREASINGLY FOCUS ON THE INDIVIDUAL PENSION CUSTOMER AND THE VARIOUS SITUATIONS NEEDS THAT THE CUSTOMER ENCOUNTERS. ALL IN A PROFESSIONAL, FAIR AND ACCOUNTABLE WAY. Strategy2020 The strategy builds on the same mission as PFA’s Accountability: PFA is accountable both to the founding principles which were established almost outside world and the individual customer – be it a 100 years ago, namely ensuring financial security, company, organisation or private customer. For infamily protection and pension for the customers. stance, PFA does not have a higher cost level than The business model has always rested on PFA’s what is necessary to deliver its services. Likewise, principle not to make money on its customers, but PFA ensures that customers have the possibility to solely to make money for the customers. get relevant advice in an easy-to-understand and accessible way. Involving the Customer Board Accountability is also an integral part of the inDuring the preparations of Strategy2020, PFA vestment approach in PFA. The goal is to ensure has actively involved the Customer Board in the that PFA’s investment return is achieved with reprocess of development. The members of the spect for human rights, environmental issues and Customer Board have either participated through internationally recognised standards. interviews or workshops to provide feedback on a range of subjects. The feedback from this When it comes to PFA’s corporate responsibility, extensive process is an integral part of StratePFA needs to be conscious about its role and the gy2020’s value model to the market. way that PFA contributes to the public debate and the development of society. PFA must be PFA Professionalism, Fairness and professional and systematic regarding its value Accountability creation and ensure that this is carried out reIn order to be loyal to the mission, PFA is driven sponsibly with respect for the international prinby a set a values based on Professionalism, Fairciples that PFA has joined and must comply with ness and Accountability. in a fair and balanced way. Professionalism: PFA is a highly qualified in­ Outlook for 2016 vestor and insurance provider that focuses on Our values are absolute key for the processes maximising the customers’ savings in the long and solutions that PFA will manage in the futerm and ensuring financial security for its custure. PFA’s activities and results in the CSR area tomers on their way towards retirement and comply with the values, but, at the same time, thereby create security both now and in the Strategy2020 gives occasion to go through PFA’s future. CSR policy and policy for responsible investments to ensure that they reflect the strategy and have Fairness: PFA treats all customers with respect a suitable focus on our values: professionalism, based on the same fundamental rules. This fairness and accountability. means that there is a direct link between what that the customer pays and the advice and service provided. In addition, PFA channels back any excess value it generates to its customers. 8 PFA · CSR report 2015 Morgencafé for Hjemløse One of PFA Brug Livet Fonden’s 2015 causes for the homeless and socially vulnerable morgencafeen.dk PFA · CSR report 2015 9 PFA AND SOCIETY PFA is an essential part of the pension system in Denmark and is aware of that role. Therefore, PFA has made it its business to place pension on the public agenda and create the best possible conditions for pension saving in Denmark. PFA contributes to the society that PFA is part of, and jointly with with PFA Brug Livet Fonden, focus is on a number of the dedicated individuals who help others to live life. * PFATISESTRIVES TO CONTRIBUTE TO THE DEVELOPMENT OF SOCIETY BY PASSING ON KNOWLEDGE AND EXPERFROM PFA’S CORE ACTIVITIES AND ENSURE THAT OUR VALUES PROFESSIONAL FAIR AND ACCOUNTABLE ARE COMPLIED WITH. Pension on the agenda in Denmark PFA’s tax accounts PFA manages a large part of pension savings in PFA strives to contribute to increase transparDenmark and influences many lives. PFA takes ency within the tax area. Therefore, the boards the entrusted responsibility seriously, and in of directors of PFA Holding and the other PFA 2015, we have made active contributions to companies have adopted a tax policy in 2015 that the public debate on subjects such as pension, applies to the entire PFA Group. The tax policy health, preventive measures and savings. This covers all tax areas where PFA has activities in was achieved through a high level of openness its capacity as company, employer and investor. and dialogue with customers, the press and It covers corporation tax, pension yield tax, VAT, other stakeholders. The purpose was to ensure payroll tax, income tax applicable to employees a better understanding of pension as a central as well as retirees, tax on investments made in part of society’s financial foundation as well as Denmark and abroad as well as any other taxes increase the knowledge of PFA and strengthen that PFA settles in Denmark and abroad. The polits reputation. This has resulted in a significant icy describes principles for compliance with tax amount of press coverage of PFA. In 2015, PFA legislation, dialogue with customers and advisory was mentioned 5,100 times in the media which services for customers concerning tax matters as is the highest number of mentions in the Danish well as what PFA expects of its business partners pension sector. During the first part of 2015, PFA and others in relation to tax matters. experienced a number of critical articles focusing on PFA’s business model and replacements in the As part of complying with the policy, PFA has in management. Thereafter, PFA has experienced 2015 developed a joint statement of the taxes a constant increase in positive press coverage. and fees that PFA annually pays and collects. The PFA took the position as number 66 in the image statement can be found on page 37. The policy survey in Berlingske Business' Gold issue which and the tax accounts describe a part of PFA’s soincluded 140 companies. cietal contribution and can be found at pfa.dk. PFA at Folkemødet In 2015, PFA participated in Folkemødet in Allinge on Bornholm, Denmark. PFA backed Folkemødet as gold sponsor and arranged a number of presentations and debates in its own tent at the meeting. The purpose was to create awareness of the societal meaning of a strong pension system as well as inform about PFA’s corporate responsibility and business activities. During the four days that Folkemødet lasts, PFA arranged six debates concerning pension ranging from green investments to how to future-proof the Danish pension system. 10 PFA · CSR report 2015 PROJEKT HJEMLØS One of PFA Brug Livet Fonden’s 2015 causes for the homeless and socially vulnerable projekthjemløs.dk Payments DKK 28.7 billion Payouts DKK 20 billion Total tax payments DKK 239 million Total tax collections DKK 8,816 million PFA · CSR report 2015 11 PFA BRUG LIVET FONDEN In 2015, PFA Brug Livet Fonden once again elected causes where dedicated individuals could nominate their cause in order to create awareness about them. Moreover, in collaboration with PFA, the foundation has put additional spotlight on seven of the causes by making videos about them. * PFA BRUG LIVET FONDEN SUPPORTS CAUSES AND DEDICATED INDIVIDUALS WHO HELP OTHERS TO LIVE LIFE. Information videos about causes that the The 2015 causes foundation supports During the nomination period in 2015, 84 causes During the year, the foundation collaborated with were nominated at bruglivetfonden.dk against the recipients of the donations to make seven 77 causes in 2014. During the 14 days when it information videos. The videos were about the was possible to vote for the nominated causes, causes and provide an insight into what each of 65,458 votes were casted. This is more than a them work for. The videos received broad exdoubling of the amount of votes from 2014. The posure and were displayed on the foundation’s voting resulted in 17 nominations which were website as well as during Folkemødet on Bornpresented for the board. In 2015, the board deholm. The foundation also made a short informacided to distribute the sponsorship on to two tion video about the foundation’s activities and areas: Activities for children receiving treatment the causes that have been elected previously. in Danish hospitals and support for the homeless and socially vulnerable in Denmark. The founPFA Brug Livet Fonden at Folkemødet dation supported five different causes and dedPFA Brug Livet Fonden had the opportunity to use icated individuals that for one thing create joy a part of PFA’s tent at Folkemødet. In this way, and happiness for children receiving treatment the causes that were supported by the foundation at hospitals in Denmark and for another thing, had the opportunity to bring attention to their arranges food and shelter for homeless and socause with both information material and speakcially vulnerable in Denmark. Each cause received ing time in the foundation’s activity program for DKK 50,000. Folkemødet. 15 out of the 17 cases that the foundation has supported throughout the years accepted the invitation to present their cause. This was a new activity for the foundation. The videos can be viewed at the foundation’s website and with the respective organisations. Videos were created for the following causes in 2015: • Børnelungefonden • Neonatalstrik • Hjernebarnet • Danske Hospitalsklovne • Søskendekram • Gigtramte Børns Forældre Forening • Happy Dogs 12 PFA · CSR report 2015 Causes in 2015 5 Information videos 7 Causes present at Folkemødet 15 Number of votes for this year’s causes 65,458 Followers on the foundation’s Facebook page 36,565 PFA Brug Livet Fonden’s five causes in 2015: PROJEKT HJEMLØS PROJEKT HJEMLØS is open to Copenhagen’s homeless people every weekend. Here, homemade food is served at no charge. This organisation of volunteers also offers care for the city’s socially vulnerable and tries to motivate as many as possible to get on with their lives. They, among other things, put a lot of effort into helping substance abusers who wish to recover from their abuse. SMILfonden SMILfonden is a new voluntary association that has been created to put a smile on the lips of children who receive treatment at Danish hospitals – and make them think about something else than their illness. The purpose is to give the children and their families a shared experience and make them forget the illness that otherwise influences their lives at least for a while. Projekt Husvild Projekt Husvild is a non-profit association from Odense, Denmark that helps and supports the city’s homeless with anything from clothes, shoes and food to assistance at medical consultations, in court and with the local authorities. Projekt Husvild collects furniture and other household goods to homeless who get a home of their own, so that they can have a comfortable and safe place to live. They furthermore help if a homeless' pet has an issue. Foreningen Cancerramte Børn The main purpose of Foreningen Cancerramte Børn is to support cancer-stricken families, help to create networks in a traumatic period of time and arrange activities for the children and their families. During the year, the association organises 60 different activities all over Denmark. Morgencafé for Hjemløse Morgencafé for Hjemløse works to reduce the number of homeless and improve the living conditions for the socially vulnerable. The users of Morgencaféen live a rough life on the streets, where violence and threats often are part of everyday life. Morgencaféen is a fixed point in an otherwise turbulent life, where the homeless can get food, clothes, care and can receive medical treatment, legal counselling etc. PFA · CSR report 2015 13 PFA FOR THE CUSTOMERS With the customer in focus, information must be easily accessible and be adapted to the individual customer. At the same time, intensified advisory services and continued development of digital platforms are initiatives to boost customer satisfaction further. The customers are consulted, and if they are dissatisfied, making a complaint must be easily accessible. * PFAON THEAIMSCUSTOMERS' TO BE CUSTOMER-FOCUSED AND TO CONTINUE TO IMPROVE THE CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE BASED INDIVIDUAL NEEDS. Digital solutions that focus on the customer corporate customers were involved early in the In 2015, digital self-service has become easier process. The purpose was to gain insight into the for PFA’s customers. This is due to the fact that companies’ concrete needs. Among other things, PFA launched the Pension Plan which collects all this process contributed to illustrate that in comdata on the customer's savings and insurance panies, there may be several employee groups cover in one facility at the customer portal My with different needs and requests. PFA can now PFA (mitpfa.dk). This means that a customer meet the different needs, as the corporate cusonly needs one tool to engage in a dialogue on tomers may choose the particular product that saving and dissaving with PFA. The purpose of suits the company the best way possible – and the Pension Plan is to be a supplementary advithey do not need to settle with just one product sory tool in which a customer basically can find but can target product types concerning loss of the answer to many of the concrete questions occupational capacity to the different employee that a customer may have – without needing to groups in the company. contact PFA. Helping customers to get back to work During 2015, the customers have embraced PFA PFA Active Claims Handling aids the customers Customer Programme. PFA Customer Programme to get back to work through early and efficient was introduced in 2014 to give customers a actions in order to avoid long-term sickness perigood grasp of the content of their plans and get ods, which involve a greater risk of the customer targeted and personalised recommendations by never returning to employment. This creates e-mail on a regular basis. Around 90,000 customvalue for the customer, the company and sociers have in 2015 agreed to that PFA sends them ety. Help is granted individually and through a personal e-mails. process where it can be adjusted to match the customer’s current needs. Active Claims Handling In 2015, My PFA had more than 790,000 log-ins covers reactivation, prophylactic cases, grants against approximately 590,000 in 2014. The cusand treatments. PFA Active Claims Handling has tomer satisfaction at My PFA has increased to 7.5 been in dialogue with 328 customers in 2015 on a scale of 1-10 against 6.6 in 2014. against 410 in 2014. In 2015, 27 customers were helped so that they once again are able to get Consulting the customers on product back to the labour market, and 51 prophylactic development processes have been terminated. It is important for PFA that the products that are offered support the customers' needs and wishes Efficient complaints handling in the best way. This creates value for the customThe Complaints & Customer Satisfaction Deers. Therefore, PFA focuses on that development partment is anchored in PFA's legal entity. Since is made in collaboration with the customers. In 2015, the department has increased the efforts 2015, PFA introduced a new and more flexible to improve customer satisfaction. A range of ini­ portfolio of products for the corporate customers tiatives have been implemented with a focus on regarding loss of occupational capacity. improving the customer experience and ensuring a fair treatment of the individual customer. When PFA initiated the development of the new product for loss of occupational capacity, several 14 PFA · CSR report 2015 Number of customers 1.1 million Consultations 75,000 E-mails to PFA’s Advisory Services Centre 68,000 Calls to PFA’s Advisory Services Centre 210,000 Calls to the Health and Claims Centre 256,000 Customers trained in pension insurance 4,000 Customers helped back to the labour market 27 Total number of customer interactions 610,000 PFA’s employees in the department Complaints & Representative is to see the course of events Customer Satisfaction have established working from the customer's perspective and evaluate groups and fora to provide agile and fast hanwhether the development of the individual case dling of customer inquiries with specific topics. is meaningful. Most often, the customers initiate The purpose has been to optimise the application contact to ensure that everything is as it is supof ressources in PFA in order for it to have a diposed to, or if they need to inform of a matter rect and noticeable effect for the customers. The that they would like PFA to improve in the future. working groups have strengthened the internal The cases are often terminated by identifying the knowledge sharing and increased the possibilities customer's needs and then fulfilling them. to focus on relevant problems. The Customer Representative also steps into casPFA has to a larger degree than previosuly been es proactively. This occurs when PFA’s advisers capable of preventing complaints or customer point to potential issues. In 2015, 39 out of 113 inquiries of the same type from recurring. This cases were proactive which was a decrease comresulted in a significant decrease of 22 per cent pared with the 143 cases in the previous year. in the number of compaints in that PFA received From the 113 cases, 57 were solved with a joint 354 complaints in 2015 against 453 complaints solution, 6 were found to be partly or totally in in 2014. favour of the customer, 30 were found to be in favour of PFA, 7 cases were discontinued, 2 were Enquiries to the Customer Representative referred to the Complaints & Customer Satisare effective faction Department and 11 cases are still under The customers’ trust is very important to PFA, review. and for that reason, PFA has a Customer Representative. The purpose of the Customer § Cases presented to the Danish Insurance Complaints Board In 2015, 56 complaints about PFA have been presented to the Danish Insurance Complaints Board. This is thus a relatively low number when considering that PFA has 1.1 million customers, and that PFA had more than 600,000 interactions with customers in 2015. The amount must in part be ascribed to the efficiency in complaints handling procedures, and in part to the mentioned efforts to improve customer satisfaction. The Danish Insurance Complaints Board has in 2015 completed 74 complaints. In overall terms, PFA was found in favour in 4 out of 5 completed cases. The large percentage of cases in which PFA has been found to be in favour shows that PFA engages in professional and accountable decision-making. PFA · CSR report 2015 15 Subjects and results in Customer Representative issues in 2015 In all essential cases, the customer inquiries are reported to the relevant areas in PFA to serve as inspiration. Subjects for Customer Customer What the customers gain Representative cases Representative from inquiries contributing with knowledge of PFA’s processes Basic interest rate Communication with Written information with a Insecurity whether everything is customers about pension. simpler way of facilitating as it is supposed to regarding the Focus on the principles of pension-related subjects. customer’s plan. guaranteed benefits. Products Continuous training of Focus on presenting Changes in pension products give advisers in the areas examples for the rise to doubt and insecurity. that the customers find customers and calculation themselves to be insecure. tools at My PFA (mitpfa.dk). Transfer allowance Request for an altered Altered method: The Scepticism towards PFA’s calculation method that provides transfer allowance will of transfer allowance. greater security for the be fixed in the future and customers. is thus known when the customer is to make a decision. Contact with PFA Focus on the customer’s Strategy2020 evolves Lacks communication from PFA. angle when working on around the customer. PFA’s future strategy. 16 PFA · CSR report 2015 Morgencafé for Hjemløse One of PFA Brug Livet Fonden’s 2015 causes for the homeless and socially vulnerable morgencafeen.dk PFA · CSR report 2015 17 RESPONSIBLE VALUE CREATION Responsible value creation is about having processes and know-how that support the choice of responsible solutions for the customers. Responsible solutions cover widely and apply to the choices that are made in the investment process, in the way that the company is run and to the products that are being developed. When the solutions are responsible, they create value for the customer, PFA and for society in particular. * PFATERMAIMSANDTOATCONTINUE GENERATING RETURNS THAT OFFER MORE VALUE TO THE CUSTOMER IN THE LONG THE SAME TIME IMPROVE SENSE OF SECURITY IN THAT THE CUSTOMERS’ INSURANCE PLANS HELP THEM SHOULD THEY NEED IT. PFA’s healthcare partnerships the work with evidence-based preventive mea­ It is important for PFA to create awareness about sures to achieve good health that creates value the value of healthy employees and to nurse for the company, its employees and for PFA. health in the work place. It is not only the employees’ energy and efficiency that prosper by it. New process for risk management of The company, society and PFA’s business model suppliers prosper too. Therefore, evidence-based health It is important to ensure that the partners that and preventive measures are important elements PFA work with also act responsibly. Since 2013, in PFA’s responsible value creation. PFA has colPFA has therefore applied a Code of Conduct in laborated with a range of companies to complete the formation of contracts. In 2014, the work evidence-based online health screenings of their process was divided into two parts relating to employees. The screenings show that healthy critical and less critical suppliers, respectively. In employees estimate their own productivity and 2015, PFA tightened the process for the appliability to perform their job to be high. cation of PFA’s Code of Conduct when entering into contracts with business partners. During Based on data about the individual company, PFA 2015, the various administrative procedures were develops solutions for advisory services, analtherefore looked over to, among other things, yses, health strategy, implementations within secure the process regarding signing and complyphysical and mental health as well as diet, sleep ing with PFA’s Code of Conduct. and lifestyle. In 2015, PFA performed health screenings with 54 corporate customers and carThe new process will be fully implemented during ried out strategic health collaborations with 190 2016, and everyone involved in entering into concustomers with activities that varied from long tracts will receive an introduction on how to approcesses of health strategies with major corpoply PFA’s Code of Conduct in practice both when rate customers to short sequences of events and entering into contracts and when reporting on actions with smalland medium-sized corporate progress. In practice, the new and stringent procustomers. cess means that PFA will not enter into collaboration with a critical supplier if this supplier will not Example of health collaboration in 2015: accept the demands of PFA's Code of Conduct PFA took part in formulating a health strategy in and if the supplier cannot answer in the affirmawhich the steering committee, the project group tive the questions in PFA's self-evaluation. and the customer’s stakeholders were involved This also applies to the less critical suppliers throughout the entire process. PFA assisted with who do not accept a declaration of intent on strategic expertise on health and ran the change complying with PFA’s Code of Conduct. At the process that was required for the strategy to same time, PFA has introduced a new demand for become an integrated part of the customer's corcritical suppliers in the form of annual documenporate culture and values. The result is a strategy tation of compliance with PFA's Code of Conduct. that is both ambitious and realistic when conThe less critical suppliers are still subject to acsidering the company’s structure. Throughout a cepting random checks. three-year period, the goal is to, in collaboration with PFA, accomplish quantifiable results from 18 PFA · CSR report 2015 PROJEKT HJEMLØS One of PFA Brug Livet Fonden’s 2015 causes for the homeless and socially vulnerable projekthjemløs.dk This new process is implemeted in future contracts, and in 2016, PFA will evaluate existing contracts and expects to be able to include Code of Conduct in the process for the existing contracts with critical suppliers. PFA · CSR report 2015 19 INVESTMENT PROCESS RESPONSIBILITY PFA’s policy on responsible investments is the pivotal point for PFA’s processes to integrate responsibility in the investment process. PFA’s Responsible Investment Board handles the ethical investment dilemmas and has in 2015 focused on a wide range of areas that have had an impact on investments and the investment process in PFA. * PFAWHEREAIMSTHETOCUSTOMERS BE A RESPONSIBLE INVESTOR CREATING A HIGH AND LONG-TERM RETURN ON INVESTMENT CAN TRUST THAT THEIR SAVINGS ARE INVESTED WITH RESPECT FOR HUMAN BEINGS, THE ENVIRONMENT AND INTERNATIONALLY RECOGNISED CONVENTIONS. PFA’s work on international principles is found that a company’s practices conflict with PFA’s Policy for responsible investments dethe policy, PFA’s screening and engagement proscribes how international UN principles and convider GES will initiate an engagement dialogue to ventions are put into practice and are integrated change practices. Dialogue is also a part of the as a part of the investment process. The policy process with the company in the instances where is based on the Ten Principles of the UN Global it is not clear if the company complies with the Compact. The processes for screening companies international principles. GES screens the compaand active ownership are based on the six UNnies in PFA’s portfolio. In 2015, PFA has experibacked principles for responsible investment. enced an increase in the number of cases where GES has assessed if a company is non-compliant. PFA backs the principles and have followed the In 2015, GES has assessed 181 cases against 128 latest development of the organisation PRI (Princases in 2014. ciples for Responsible Investment). PRI collects, among other things, a wide variety of players Country screenings who all work with responsible investments and PFA screens and analyses the countries in acthe six UN-backed principles for responsible cordance with PFA’s guidelines for responsible investments. PFA withdrew its membership investments in government bonds and procedure from PRI in 2013 along with five other Danish for country screening. We do not enter into eninvestors. The reason for the joint withdrawel of gagement dialogues with countries, as this is membership from PRI was, among other things, considered to be a foreign policy issue. In 2015, due to a lack of governance structures. The six the guidelines and the screening procedure were investors-group has in 2015 been in dialogue updated. The applied indices and the screening with PRI, and PFA expects the dialogue to continprocedure are available at pfa.dk. There was a ue in 2016. follow-up on the situation in Ukraine and Russia in 2015. Furthermore, the RI Board monitored the PFA has furthermore focused on how the methsituation in Angola and the Ivory Coast which are ods of the UN’s Guiding Principles on Business countries that the RI Board has estimated to be and Human Rights can be translated into the difsuitable for investment in 2014, but at the same ferent processes for investment, screening and time has under observation. At end-2015, PFA indialogue on active ownership in a better way. It vested in government bonds in 66 countries. The is an ongoing process based on a due diligence list of countries and the list of excluded countries approach which is integrated as a part of the risk are available at pfa.dk. management, and PFA will continue its work in 2016. Dialogue with companies Throughout the year, GES entered into dialogue Company screenings in the portfolio of with 56 companies in PFA’s portfolio of shares. shares The dialogue has been with companies that have Screening and dialogue are important elements either committed an offence against internationin uncovering whether companies in which PFA al conventions or where indications showed that invests comply with the international principles a company has committed an offence against in PFA's policy for responsible investments. If it international conventions. Three cases were 20 PFA · CSR report 2015 Investments under management DKK 527 billion Investment return DKK 13.6 billion Companies on PFA's exclusion list 33 Countries on PFA’s exclusion list 3 resolved during 2015 in that the companies have in the West Bank. During the same time as this altered their practice to comply with the internadialogue, PFA has cooperated with GES on anational conventions. lysing the individual companies' activities. Subsequently, PFA has prepared analyses and been in dialogue with companies on how they comply with Breakdown of GES’s dialogues with the principles of due dilligence and their non-ascompanies in PFA’s portfolio of shares: sociation with violations of human rights when engaging in activities in an occupied territory. In Human rights 22 continuation of this dialogue, PFA has established a log at pfa.dk which is regularly updated with a Employee rights 21 range of concrete companies that PFA has been Environment 12 asked about previously. This way, a part of the often long dialog with a company is made visible so Corruption 7 that customers, media and other stakeholders are able to stay updated on the process. This activity supports PFA’s work concerning increased transPFA has also entered into dialogue with individparency which continues in 2016. ual companies. Since the end of 2014, PFA has been in dialogue with individual customers and Responsible Investment Board other players on how to manage investments in Group CFO Anders Damgaard is chairman of PFA’s companies associated with activities in Israel and Responsible Investment Board (RI Board) which Example of an ongoing dialogue with a company In December 2014, PFA was presented with a report and a video showing criticisable conditions in the supply chain with the company Syngenta which PFA has invested in. GES conducted an investigation and an analysis of the report’s conclusions. Therein, GES concluded, after a dialogue with Syngenta, that there was no evidence that the company had violated international conventions on this area. PFA initiated a dialogue with the company, and Syngenta asked Fair Labour Association (FLA) in India to examine practice in their supply chain. FLA’s report on Syngenta’s supply chain (Procurement price and credit practices in Syngenta hybrid seeds supply chain, India), was published in July 2015. PFA has noted the results of the report and Syngenta’s set-up of an internal team, whose job is to proceed with the recommendations outlined in the report. PFA will follow the work of the team on a continuous basis. PFA · CSR report 2015 21 additionally comprises the management of PFA Asset Management as well as other managers PFA in ’Hall of Fame’ from the business units dealing with investment In 2015, PFA entered into the ‘Hall of and CSR. Fame’, an acknowledgement that is awarded by the Dutch peace organisaThe RI Board has throughout the year assessed tion PAX. The organisation has evaluatthe progress in the dialogue with cases that both ed PFA’s policy and practice for exclusion PFA and GES have had with a number of compaof companies that produce nuclear nies. Focus has furthermore been on responsible weapons. investments in conflictual areas, and the RI Board has a continuous focus on investments in the energy sector. Previously, in connection with answering questionnaires, PFA has estimated the Energy consumption screenings in PFA’s development of the share of investments that property portfolio have been exposed against fossil and green enThe buildings in PFA’s property portfolio is an ergy, respectively, in the portfolio of shares. PFA area where PFA can be involved in influencing the strives to focus on creating a robust method for energy consumption, which is a focus area of the estimating such numbers during 2016. Another partnership between Dong Energy and PFA. The area that PFA also focuses on in 2016 is the work partnership covers the period from 2015-2017 with mapping CO2 emission in the companies in and is an extension of the partnership concernPFA’s portfolio of shares. PFA is a CDP Investor ing energy optimisation of PFA’s headquarters Member (previously known as Carbon Disclosure from 2010-2014. The partnership means that Project) and has been in dialogue with CDP about PFA’s 60 properties will be screened for possible establishing an overview of the CO2 emission of energy efficiency measures. PFA’s portfolio of shares. The purpose of the work is to achieve an overview that can be apThroughout 2015, PFA worked on mapping the plied internally in PFA. energy consumption in its property portfolio. The total energy consumption is to form the basis of Exclusion of companies future calculations and goals for the properties PFA’s exclusion list comprises companies and in the portfolio. The time spent on collecting countries that do not comply with PFA’s policy data has been longer than expected. Therefore, for responsible investments. This means that a total number is not present by end-2015. Six we exclude companies that violate the policy buildings have been selected to be mapped for and companies that do not respond to dialogue energy efficiency measures in the first phase. The or initiate non-complying actions. In addition, selection of the buildings was based on age, size, companies that produce certain types of controuse and energy label. The mapping phase also inversial weapons and weapons in contravention of volves a dialogue with the buildings’ tenants, and international law are excluded. To PFA, exclusion when the results are found, PFA will review the is by no means an aim in itself. PFA strives to be possible solutions and options in collaboration an active owner that through dialogue attempts with the tenants. The purpose is that the investto make a company change its practices. In 2015, ments are an advantage to both the tenants, the PFA has excluded three companies that according environment and are a profitable investment for to GES were involved in the production of nuclear PFA’s customers. weapon. The companies are AECOM Technology Corp., Huntington Ingalls Industries and Flour In 2016, PFA expects to be able to deliver more Corp. Moreover, towards the end of 2015, PFA specific figures and goals regarding the mapping excluded HeidelbergCement. The exclusion took and the energy optimisation of the property place after the RI Board for an extended period portfolio. had looked into the company’s activities in conflictuous regions, and was based on analyses and PFA’s interpretation of the usage of international law in the field. 22 PFA · CSR report 2015 SMILfonden One of PFA Brug Livet Fonden’s 2015 causes for children receiving treatment in Danish hospitals smilfonden.dk Screening of the first property The energy advisor has started mapping the buildings that have been chosen in the first phase. The first building has a floor area of approximately 45,000 square metres and is located in Copenhagen. The building is from 2001 and has in particular focus on expenditure for heat, cooling systems and lighting. The screenings will be based on previous experiences from PFA’s properties and focus on four main areas: Ventilation, heating, cooling systems and lighting. The mapping of the first building is almost completed and has been based on the usage of the building, demands of indoor climate and requests for management and operation. The advisor prepares a report with an overview of the identified areas with potential. PFA · CSR report 2015 23 SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS Sustainable operations are key to the value creation. The operations involve a systematic and persistent effort in the environmental and climate area, where the returns and the benefits must be balanced in consideration of the value for society and the customers. * PFAOPERATIONS AIMS TO BRING ATTENTION TO RESPONSIBLE CONDUCT AND TO HOW RESSOURCES ARE APPLIED IN AND ARE INVOLVED AS AN IMPORTANT ISSUE IN THE PROCUREMENT PROCESS. Optimisation of resources Web-based advisory services reduce CO2 PFA has introduced a number of initiatives to reconsumption duce the resource consumption and to increase In 2015, 7,769 web-based advisory services recycling. This development is part of PFA’s enwere carried out. This type of advisory service is vironmental efforts and runs parallel with the ranked in the same category as the face to face energy optimisation that PFA carried out as part advisory services with the customer. When PFA's of the climate partnership with Dong Energy. advisory service is rendered online instead of the In 2015, 47,420 kg paper and cardboard waste advisers driving to the customer, it is possible to was recycled, which is a decrease compared calculate the advisers’ reduced CO2 emission from with 2014, where 58,120 kg was recycled. PFA transport. In 2015, the number of online consulhas continued to digitise its communication and tations increased to 7,769, compared with 5,053 primarily approaches its customers via My PFA the previous year. This means that PFA reduces (mitpfa.dk) and e-Boks, a secure electronic mailthe factual CO2 emission by 5.17 tons. box solution. The total amount of information through e-Boks and other digitised information Total CO2 figures for the PFA Group has increased. This way, PFA has converted The year’s total CO2 consumption includes the 463,021 kg of paper to electronic communication buildings with PFA’s own offices in Denmark, corresponding to a saving of 450 tons CO2. transportation and the paper consumption in PFA. This has been made up at 2,004 tons CO2. In 2015, PFA continued its efforts to reduce food In 2015, PFA reduced CO2 consumption by 455.17 waste from the canteen. This initiative was intons. troduced in 2014 by request of the employees who wanted PFA to focus on minimising the large amount of leftovers that are thrown in the waste bin every day. This was introduced through an information campaign and by replacing dinner plates with smaller lunch plates. The goal was to reduce food waste by 1 ton per year. In 2014, the goal of 1 ton was realised after the first six months. 2015 is the first full calendar year where PFA daily registers food waste. PFA’s employees have in 2015 reduced food waste by 2.5 tons corresponding to approximately 5000 pizzas. 24 PFA · CSR report 2015 Foreningen Cancerramte Børn One of PFA Brug Livet Fonden’s 2015 causes for children receiving treatment in Danish hospitals cancerbarn.dk CO2 consumption 2,004 tons Total amount of waste 224 tons Reduced amount of food waste from the canteen 2.5 tons Total CO2 reduction 455 tons PFA · CSR report 2015 25 PFA FOR THE EMPLOYEES PFA’s employees are key to achieve the goals that have been set and to follow the strategies that are drawn up. This includes creating responsible long-term returns, providing the customers with good advice and ensuring that PFA always is professional, fair and accountable in a busy everyday life. * PFAWHERESEEKSTHE TOEMPLOYEES PROVIDE THE FRAMEWORK FOR AN ATTRACTIVE, EFFICIENT AND HEALTHY WORKPLACE, CREATE AND RECEIVE ENERGY. PFA’s employee satisfaction survey This is a good starting point, however, there is In 2015, the overall employee satisfaction was room for improvement in selected parameters. measured to be in line with 2014. In 2015, the The knowledge that has been gathered regarding score was 76 (out of 100) against last year’s reour employees' habits and activities from the sult of 77. PFA finds the result very satisfactory, screening has, combined with the work place asand it is in line with the benchmark. 94 per cent sessment and sickness absence data, formed the of the employees chose to participate in the basis for three focus areas in a new health stratstudy which attests to a large commitment. PFA egy for PFA. The strategy runs until 2018 with has experienced a minor decline in the employthe purpose of ensuring that PFA’s health soluees’ evaluation of PFA's image which has dropped tions match the employees’ challenges and at the from 83 to 80. However, this means that the levsame time are attractive to the employees. el still is high. The work-related energy is at 74, which is a slight increase compared with 2014. PFA’s health strategy is based on the following health strategic focus areas: Focus on sickness absence • Increase mental energy and strength Throughout 2015, PFA has intensified its focus • A physically active (work)life on sickness absence which has resulted in a de• Health recovery and regeneration crease from 3.3 per cent in 2014 to 3.0 per cent of energy levels in 2015. This helps to create increased well-being as well as agile operations. The specific efforts In 2015, PFA concentrated all efforts on the secwithin this area are based on that PFA wants ond focus area on how to incorporate physical openness about sickness absence. As a part of activity during the workday. Based on good rePFA’s sickness absence policy, the manager is ensults from an internal pilot project in 2014, PFA couraged to keep in contact with employees who offered all departments exercises with resistance are absent owing to illness unless an employee bands in 2015. It is scientifically proven that exexplicitly has requested not to be contacted ercises with resistance bands 15 minutes three during sickness absence. The purpose of the diatimes per week relieve neck, shoulders and back. logue is to aid the employee to get back to work The resistance band exercises thus help to preand jointly make arrangements for this. This provent the negative effects of sedentary work. vides the employee with peace of mind regarding his or her situation. Revision of human resource policies Throughout 2015, PFA has reviewed the human New long-term in-house health strategy resource policies to make them suit the organiBased on PFA Health Screening, PFA has carried sation’s values and culture and to be understood out a health screening of PFA’s employees. The as a part of the set of norms governing the orscreening is the same that PFA offers its customganisation. The policies describe, among other ers and is based on analysis, effort and effect. things, how PFA strives to cooperate, and that 988 participated in the study, and the results PFA does not tolerate discrimination based on from the screening showed that PFA’s employees gender, race, ethnicity or religious belief. The polhave a total Health Estimate of 74 out of 100. icies describe PFA’s employment terms, which exclude close relatives from employment, discloses 26 PFA · CSR report 2015 PFA’s Health Estimate 74 Sickness absence 3 per cent Number of employees (annual average) 1,302 Employee satisfaction 76 (out of 100) Women in management 38 per cent our procedures for receiving gifts, representaon the Board of Directors of PFA’s companies in tion, sickness absence etc. This way, the policies 2016 and 2017 are stated in the policy. ensure that the employees in PFA know what is expected from them including in situations with For boards of directors with three members, potential dilemmas that need to be handled. the objective is a distribution of 33/67 per cent between the genders in 2016 at the latest. This Women in PFA’s management target was met by end-2014 and was similarly PFA's targets for the share of women in manmet at end-2015. For boards of directors with agement is 40 per cent. Throughout the period more than three members that is PFA Asset 2012-2015, the share has been 39, 39, 41 and 38 Management and PFA Soraarneq – the target is per cent, respectively. PFA is thus steady around that the share of the underrepresented gender the target and has therefore not initiated specific gradually is to be increased to a minimum of 33 measures to increase the total share of women per cent by end-2017 at the latest. By end-2015, in management. the distribution in PFA Asset Management was 20/80 per cent, and throughout most of 2015, When looking at the distribution of women at PFA Soraarneq had 25 per cent women in the manager-level, senior manager-level and direcBoard of Directors which consists of four memtor-level, the distribution at end-2015 was 44, 38 bers. The Board of Director’s female member reand 13 per cent, respectively. The share of womtired from the board in November 2015, and the en at manager-level and senior manager-level is position is still vacant. For the Board of Directors thus satisfactory, while the share of women at in PFA Holding and PFA Pension, the target is to director-level does not live up to the target. reach a minimum of 25 per cent women in 2017. PFA’s policy and target figures for gender distriAt end-2015, the board comprised 11 per cent bution on the Board of Directors were updated in female board members excluding board members 2015. The target figures for the share of women elected by employees. About PFA’s Health Estimate PFA’s Health Estimate provides an overview of the individual’s state of health by creating a combined figure based on factors such as diet, smoking, alcohol, exercise as well as physical and psychological well-being. The Health Estimate is divided into three categories: ”Healthy”, ”less healthy” and unhealthy”. A person is considered healthy if the Health Estimate is above 70. Each health factor in the Health Estimate is measured and followed annually, and the intention is to improve the number in the areas where the organisation is challenged the most and where the efforts will be most effective. PFA · CSR report 2015 27 Foreningen Cancerramte Børn One of PFA Brug Livet Fonden’s 2015 causes for children receiving treatment in Danish hopsitals cancerbarn.dk 28 PFA · CSR report 2015 PFA · CSR report 2015 29 CSR KEY FACTS AND FIGURES This part of the report comprises PFA’s key figures and results on CSR. The figures are presented in accordance with the structure of PFA’s policy for corporate responsibility and ethics and with the figures from previous years. This is to ensure a quick overview of how PFA complies with the policy as well as the context in which the results for the year is to be considered. The purpose of this approach is to provide the reader with an opportunity to read the appendix as an independent part without having to consult the report for a description of specific activities. To the extent that the figures have changed considerably compared with previous years, a short description is provided below the individual diagram. Behind the figures in the report The figures in this report are based on the figures that are calculated and applied to the activities in PFA. All figures are generally figures that have been recognised and calculated in PFA. This both includes the calculations of the total amount of customers and customer inquiries as well as the application of various products. The same applies to the figures concerning employee relations. Regarding the figures on CO2 consumption, a wide range of suppliers of electricity, heating, paper and transportation are involved. In 2015, PFA applied another method of calculation for the CO2 consumption and expanded it at the same time to comprise all PFA’s offices in Denmark. The calculations of CO2 reductions have been prepared externally and are based on figures provided by PFA. The figures are primarily realised by means of digitisation of letters and publications as well as waste disposal in which paper and cardboard are recycled. The amount of company screenings and active ownership dialogues are based on figures from the screening and engagement company that PFA collaborates with. PFA and its business model PFA's history dates back to 1917. The share capital of the parent company PFA Holding amounts to DKK 1 million, and the dividend distributable by the company is maximised to 5 per cent of the share capital, corresponding to DKK 50,000. In this way, the ownership structure supports PFA’s objective to create the highest possible value for its customers. Shareholders of PFA Holding are the PFA Foundation and other shareholders which primarily comprise the founding organisations from 1917, whose members and employees for the main part are customers with PFA. In 2015, the PFA Group was adjusted as follows: The group structure of PFA Invest International was changed to the effect that the previous parent company, PFA Invest International A/S, merged with the subsidiary, 125 Wood Street London A/S. After the merger was completed, the parent company was discontinued, whereas 125 Wood Street London A/S continued under a new name: PFA Property Investment A/S. Two of PFA Property Investment A/S’ subsidiaries 31-47 Victoria Street London A/S and Great Minster East London A/S – then merged into PFA Property Investment A/S. This CSR Report concerns the PFA Group and comprises the following companies: • PFA Holding A/S (parent company) • PFA Pension, forsikringsaktieselskab • PFA Asset Management A/S • PFA Bank A/S • PFA Property Investment A/S and subsidiaries • PFA Ejendomme A/S (properties) and subsidiaries • The Midgard Fixed Income Fund Limited • PFA Kapitalforening • PFA Soraarneq, forsikringsaktieselskab • Mølholm Forsikring A/S 30 PFA · CSR report 2015 PFA Brug Livet Fonden PFA-Fonden 49% Other shareholders 51% PFA Holding A/S PFA Asset PFA Pension, PFA Bank A/S Management A/S forsikringsaktieselskab 76% PFA Property PFA Ejendomme The Midgard PFA PFA Soraarneq, Mølholm Investment A/S A/S Fixed Income Kapitalforening forsikringsForsikring A/S (incl. 2 subsidiaries) (incl. 5 subsidiaries) Fund Limited aktieselskab Investeringsforeningen PFA Invest PFA Pension is not the sole investor in PFA Kapitalforening Embedding CSR efforts in PFA The framework for PFA’s work with responsibility is Strategy2020 as well as PFA’s policies and guidelines on corporate responsibility. The policy for corporate responsibility and ethics as well as the policy for responsible investments are based on the principles from the UN Global Compact and the underlying UN conventions that define respect for human rights, employment rights, the environment and anti-corruption. Policies and guidelines can be found at pfa.dk. The overall responsibility for CSR at PFA lies with PFA’s excutive management. The CSR department performs the daily work with CSR as well as coordination of activities and efforts in collaboration with other departments and companies within the PFA Group. The CSR department is a part of Corporate Affairs & Compliance. Responsibility for complying with the policy for responsible investments and the work with active ownership lies with PFA’s Responsible Investment Board (RI Board). The RI Board meets on a monthly basis, and its members are employees in the management of PFA Asset Management, the vice president of Corporate Affairs & Compliance and the CSR manager. PFA's Group CFO is Chairman of the RI Board. PFA · CSR report 2015 31 Implementing the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact – an overview PFA’s scope of the work with corporate responsibility is based on the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact, and therefore, the activities and results in this CSR report also concern these ten principles. The illustration below provides an overview of where the various principles are dealt with in the report. Page number Global Compact Principle PFA activity in CSR report Implementing policy for responsible investments 20 and policy for corporate responsibility and ethics Screening of PFA’s portfolio 20-21 Engagement dialogue with companies that violate 21 1-10 international standards RI Board meetings, assessments and decisions 22 Code of Conduct 18 Dialogue with customers, the media and other 10 stakeholders 1-6 & 10 Whistleblower scheme 36 Employee satisfaction, health initiatives and 1&6 26-27 competency development 7, 8 & 9 Climate and environmental activities 23-24 Energy efficient initiatives and resource 8 24 optimisation at headquarters Customer dialogue, customer satisfaction and 1 14 online tools PFA’s responsibility model PFA’s responsibility model is based on the four basic principles that form the basis of the policy for corporate responsibility and ethics. The basic principles illustrate the areas that PFA has decided to focus on in 2015 in order to embed the policy. The outer wheel in the model is composed of the themes that are described in the report and form the basis of how PFA presents key facts and figures on CSR. Responsible products Responsible Sustainable investments operations Risk Responsible Customer management, value creation dialogue suppliers Responsible Tax policy corporate Corporate Relationships Social practice responsibility and dialogue engagement and ethics Responsible Whistleblowing Customer corporate culture trust Competency Health development Sickness absence 32 PFA · CSR report 2015 PROJEKT HJEMLØS One of PFA Brug Livet Fonden’s 2015 causes for the homeless and socially vulnerable projekthjemløs.dk PFA · CSR report 2015 33 Corporate responsibility and ethics RESPONSIBLE Responsible corporate culture CORPORATE CULTURE Competency Health development Sickness absence Number of employees 2015 2014 2013 Number of employees (annual average of employ1,367 1,351 1,359 ees in the PFA Group) Staff turnover in per cent (excl. Mølholm Forsikring) 11.6 11.8 7.7 Employees in flex jobs 2015 2014 2013 Number of employees in flex jobs 10 10 10 PFA’s employee satisfaction survey PFA’s employee PFA’s employee PFA’s employee satisfaction survey atisfaction survey satisfaction survey 2015 2014 2013 Satisfaction 76 77 74 Image 80 83 83 Would recommend others to apply 75 77 75 for a job with PFA Competency development In 2015, PFA held around 90 in-house courses where the employees could develop their competences. Furthermore, the employees were offered e-learning in various areas. In 2014, around 150 in-house courses were held. Sickness absence 2015 2014 2013 Sickness absence (in per cent) 3 3.3 3.1 Sickness absence has decreased as a result of a targeted effort. 34 PFA · CSR report 2015 Pregnancy coaching PFA’s pilot scheme of coaching pregnant employees continued in 2015. Out of 30 pregnant women, 17 received coaching, while 13 chose not to participate. The purpose of the pilot scheme is to focus on the women’s specific needs and organise their workday in way so that pregnancy-related absence is at a minimum. The participants have been satisfied with the offer, but data from 2014 and 2015 shows that the participants in the pilot scheme only have slightly less sickness absence compared with women who do not participate. 2015* 2014 2013 Participate in coaching 17** 22 13 Number of pregnant women 30 30 28 Share of pregnant women with sickness absence (in 40 47 36 per cent) Share of pregnant women with no sickness absence 60 53 64 (in per cent) *In mid-March 2015, PFA changed its practice so that the employees are invited to a meeting with the pregnancy coach once the employee discloses pregnancy. Previously, the employees were to request a meeting themselves if they wanted to use the coach. ** The employees who did not want any further coaching after the first meeting have not been included in the number. Occupational injuries 2015 2014 2013 Number of occupational injuries 3 1 3 PFA has a working environment organisation, the purpose of which is to create a safe and healthy working environment at PFA. The figures are based on PFA's reports to the Danish Working Environment Authority. Women in management, on boards and on PFA's Customer Board 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 PercentPercentPercentMen Women age of Men Women age of Men Women age of women women women Level 1 Vice 13 2 13 12 2 14 14 2 12 President Level 2 Senior 24 14 38 26 16 38 26 14 35 manager Level 3 40 31 44 35 33 49 40 36 47 Manager Total 77 47 38 73 51 41 80 52 39 By end-2015, PFA’s Executive Board consists of three men. PFA's Executive Board consists of nine members elected at the annual general meeting, of which one is a woman, corresponding to 11 per cent. PFA’s Customer Board consists of 70 members (six seats were vacant at end-2015) of which 17 were women, corresponding to 24 per cent. Learn more about PFA's key figures and initiatives to increase the proportion of the under-represented gender on boards in the PFA Group’s companies and in managerial positions in PFA at pfa.dk. PFA · CSR report 2015 35 Risk management, suppliers RESPONSIBLE Tax policy Responsible corporate Corporate responsibility CORPORATE PRACTICE practice and ethics Whistleblowing Whistleblowing portal PFA’s whistleblowing portal makes it easier for employees to report serious cases and at the same time remain anonymous. No reports were received through the portal in 2015. Control of and compliance with PFA’s guidelines to avoid money laundering The PFA Group has internal guidelines to prevent that its companies are used for money laundering or terrorist financing. In 2015, one matter was looked further into, but no cause for suspicion was found. There were no reports to the Danish authorities on any suspicions of money laundering. New process for risk management of suppliers In 2015, PFA tightened the process for the application of PFA’s Code of Conduct when entering into contracts with business partners. The new process will be implemented during 2016, and everyone involved in closing contracts will receive an introduction on how to apply PFA’s Code of Conduct in practice both when entering into contracts and when reporting on progress. The process is described on page 18 in this report. A large part of PFA’s critical suppliers are IT suppliers. PFA has outsourced the majority of its IT infrastructure and essential parts of operations and development to external suppliers. Therefore, PFA mapped the existing contracts to gain an overview of how many of these had incorporated Code of Conduct, and thus a process for risk management for the collaboration, since 2013. This was the beginning of a new simplified process, in which a duty to annually report the work with responsible corporate practice has been introduced for the critical suppliers. 36 PFA · CSR report 2015 Tax accounts for the PFA Group In 2015, PFA developed a joint statement of the taxes and fees that PFA pays and collects each year. Taxes and fees (DKK million) 2015* 2014 2013 Paid by PFA Corporation tax 23 11 0 Payroll tax 110 99 90 Property tax 89 81 64 Non-life insurance tax 9 6 9 Other 8 4 9 Total 239 201 172 PFA has collected Pension yield tax 2,453 5,333 1,551 Taxes according to the Danish Pension Taxation Act 2,045 5,595 1,471 A-tax and labour market contribution (pensions) 3,898 3,649 3,428 A-tax and labour market contribution (employees) 352 336 319 VAT 68 31 49 Total 8,816 14,944 6,818 * The figures are calculated as at 31 December 2015. Changes to the figures will occur in connection with the final statement prior to the final report in June 2016. PFA · CSR report 2015 37 Responsible Responsible products Sustainable investments operations RESPONSIBLE Responsible VALUE CREATION value creation Corporate responsibility and ethics Company screenings The screening of investments and engagement dialogues are undertaken on behalf of PFA by GES, which has screened and evaluated PFA’s investments in shares and corporate bonds. PFA itself also undertakes engagement dialogues with a number of companies and is involved in ongoing dialogues with external managers regarding CSR-related issues. In 2015, GES has evaluated 181 cases against 128 cases in 2014, and GES has entered into dialogue with 56 companies that have either committed an offence against international conventions or where there have been indications that a company has committed an offence against conventions. This is an increase of ten cases compared with the previous year. Engagement dialogue with companies in which non-compliance 21 (2014:19) with PFA's RI policy has been established Engagement dialogue with companies in which there has 35 (2014:27) been signs of non-compliance with PFA's RI policy Total number of GES engagement dialogues with companies 56 Three engagement cases have been closed involving BP, Anadarko and China Mobile, which have all met the criteria. By the end of 2015, 22 companies were on PFA’s focus list. Non-compliance with PFA's standards had been observed for each of these companies, and goals for the engagement dialogue with these companies have been set. There were a further 31 cases pending where it was not yet established whether non-compliance has taken place or not. Country screenings In 2015, there was a follow-up on the situation in Ukraine and Russia. Furthermore, the RI Board has monitored the situation in Angola and the Ivory Coast which are countries that the RI Board has estimated to be suitable for investment in 2014, but at the same time are under observation. By the end of 2015, PFA invested in government bonds in 66 countries. Exclusion PFA has systematically excluded three companies which according to GES were involved in the production of nuclear weapons. The companies are AECOM Technology Corp., Huntington Ingalls Industries and Flour Corp. Moreover, towards the end of 2015, PFA excluded HeidelbergCement. The exclusion was a result of the fact that the RI board through a long period of time had looked into the companies’ activities in conflictual areas. The exclusion was based on analyses and PFA’s interpretation of the companies’ employment of public international law in the area. At pfa.dk, PFA publishes both investment lists of the companies and countries in which it invests and an exclusion list. 38 PFA · CSR report 2015 Projekt Husvild One of PFA Brug Livet Fonden’s 2015 causes for the homeless and socially vulnerable Facebook.com/projekthusvild Voting at companies’ annual general meeting In compliance with PFA’s guidelines for voting at companies’ annual general meetings, PFA prioritises to participate and vote at Danish companies’ annual general meetings. PFA cooperates with an external supplier, Manifest, that delivers analyses and recommendations on votes regarding annual general meetings in foreign companies. It is PFA’s RI Board that decides whether PFA votes at the annual general meeting in a foreign company. This happens as a part of the dialogue that PFA has with the company on potential or current non-compliance. Manifest and PFA assess the agenda and the material from the companies on PFA's focus list. In 2015, this resulted in PFA voting at two annual general meetings. PFA · CSR report 2015 39 RESOURCE AND CO2 CONSUMPTION CO2 emissions in PFA 2015 2014 2013 Total CO2 emissions (t) 2,004 1,971 2.294 CO2 emissions (t) per employee 1.47 1.46 1.69 CO2 emissions from electricity 2015 2014 2013 Electricity consumption kWh 1,939,603 1,958,322 1,887,854 CO2 consumption from electricity 552 558 667 CO2 emissions from district heating 2015 2014 2013 District heating consumption kWh 2,556,990 2,193,130 2,254,570 CO2 consumption from district heating 339 290 336 CO2 emissions from cars Number of cars Consumption in litres Petrol-driven cars 2015 4 7,687 2014 4 7,590 2013 4 7,802 Diesel-driven cars 2015 138 260,506 2014 143 276,229 2013 163 310,918 Year Cars in total CO2 (t) 2015 142 710 2014* 147 752 2013 167 844 *The considerable reduction of CO2 from 2013 to 2014 can in part be ascribed to a decrease in the total amount of cars in the same period. Waste (t) 2015 2014 2013 Total waste* 224 252 225 * Waste includes the following types of waste: Waste deemed suitable for incineration, cardboard, paper, confidential paper, plastic wrap, iron and metal, food waste, glass, waste electronic equipment and mixed waste to be sorted. 40 PFA · CSR report 2015 Paper consumption Paper (t) 2015 85 2014 80 2013* 92 *The figures for 2013 include 7.8 tons old envelopes/paper that were discarded. Reduction of paper consumption* 2015 2014 Reduction of letters, now sent through e-Boks, in kilos paper 10,257 16,057 Reduction of letters, now available at the portal, in kilos paper 425,764 401,980 Total reduction in kilos paper 436,021 418,037 Converted into tons CO2** 450 432 *Only valid data is available for 2014 and 2015, and therefore, the concept of describing the development for three years has been dispensed with. ** The calculation of CO2 is based on a model developed by the Danish Energy Agency for the Climate Compass’ Carbon Calculator. If the calculation is based on Stena’s calculation model, which is developed in collaboration with the Ministry of Environment and Food of Denmark, the figures for 2014 and 2015 would be 624 and 657 tons CO2, respectively. CO2 consumption (t)* 2015 2014 2013 Electricity 552 558 667 District heating 339 290 336 Air travel 70 59 82 Petrol-driven cars 18 18 18 Diesel-driven cars 692 734 826 Paper and other 330 311 366 Total 2,004 1,970 2,294 * The figures have been calculated with the Climate Compass’ CO2 calculator. CO2 reduction in scope overview (t) 2015 Scope 1 710 Scope 2 891 Scope 3 403 Total 2,004 PFA leans against Greenhouse Gass Protocol’s method in which CO2 reductions are made up in scopes. Scope 1 = petrol and diesel consumption, Scope 2 = electricity and district heating consumption, Scope 3 = air travels, waste disposal and values deriving from Scope 1 and 2. PFA · CSR report 2015 41 Customer dialogue RELATIONSHIPS Corporate Relationships Social AND DIALOGUE responsibility and dialogue engagement and ethics Customer trust Customer enquiries and contact Advisory Advisory SerHealth Centre Services Centre vices Centre and Claims Consultations* calls e-mails Centre calls** Total*** 2015 74,817 210,469 68,209 256,334 609,829 2014 68,600 249,731 71,074 208,000 597,405 2013 53,642 224,271 61,508 200,000 539,421 *The figures include customers who have received advisory services at a seminar, by phone, web and face-to-face pension consultations. ** The figures include calls to PFA Health Centre and Claims Centre and inquiries through Falck HealthCare from PFA’s customers. The figure from 2014 has been adjusted on the basis of this definition. *** The figure for 2014 has been adjusted so that e-mail inquiries to PFA Health Centre and Claims Centre are not a part of the figure, as these cannot be estimated. Settled complaints in the Complaints & Customer Satisfaction Department broken down by outcome Partially in favour Rejected Accommodated Found in favour Outcome (per cent) (per cent) (per cent) (per cent) 2015 10 43 28 19 2014 6 31 37 26 2013 6 28 45 21 Inquiries and proactive Customer Representative issues Referred Number to Comof comFound in Partially plaints plaints Total Accommodated favour in favour Rejected Pending Dept. Lapsed** 2015 113* 57 4 2 30 11 2 7 2014 143* 77 12 6 38 1 7 2 2013 57 4 6 5 3 8 31 * These specifications also include that the Customer Representative from 2014 initiated to proactively handle issues. To provide an overview of the total amount of issues, these have been included in the specification. ** The category is not registered until 2014. It comprises issues where the problem is solved during the normal process, and the customer therefore informs that no further action should be taken. 42 PFA · CSR report 2015 Councils and network to promote corporate responsibility • Member of the UN Global Compact • Member of the UN Global Compact Nordic Network • Member of the Advisory Board in Big Future 2025 on development of realistic and sustainable business scenarios for the Danish business sector • Member of Dansif and Dansif’s working group for events Support for associations and voluntary work PFA has supported various initiatives with financial contributions or with cooperation on specific projects. Business partnerships • Red Cross Denmark • Ingeniører Uden Grænser • Foreningen til Hovedstadens Forskønnelse Partnerships: PFA cooperates with the Danish organisation Børn, Unge & Sorg to make PFA’s customers aware of the possibility of getting help for children and young adults who face a serious illness or death in their family. The partnership with Børn, Unge & Sorg began at the end of 2013, was extended in 2015 and runs until September 2016. PFA cooperates with the Danish Cancer Society, the Danish heart foundation (Hjerteforeningen), the Danish stroke association (Hjernesagen), and the Danish Multiple Sclerosis Society. The partnerships consist in PFA offering a one-year free membership with one of the four organisations to customers who receive payouts from their critical illness insurance within one of the areas covered by the organisations. In 2015, 1,406 customers were offered a membership with one of the four organisations. 39 per cent chose to accept the offer of a membership. This is an increase compared with last year where 38 per cent out of 1,269 customers accepted the offer. Breakdown of memberships offered Hjernesagen 183 Hjerteforeningen 293 The Danish Cancer Society 877 The Danish Multiple Sclerosis Society 53 Total 1,406 Reputation PFA’s reputation is affected by a number of factors such as reliability and visibility, and PFA’s mentions in the press have made a positive contribution to the development of PFA’s image. 2015 2014 2013 Number of mentions in the press 5,100 6,166 3,635 Awards PFA has been awarded the international IPE Award for best pension fund in Denmark. The prize is awarded by IPE, Investment and Pensions Europe, which is a magazine for institutional investors in Europe. PFA · CSR report 2015 43 BN6132 03.2016 PFA Pension Sundkrogsgade 4 2100 Copenhagen Denmark Tel. (+45) 39 17 50 00 pfa.dk CVR No.: 22 43 80 18
