A MEMBER OF THE SAMEER GROUP SASINI LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30TH SEPTEMBER 2015 CONTENTS Directors and Statutory Information 1 Vision, Mission, Core Values & Certification 2 Board of Directors 3-4 Senior Management Team 5-6 Notice of the Annual General Meeting 7 Ilani ya Mkutano Mkuu wa Kila Mwaka 8 Chaiman’s Statement 9 12 Taarifa ya Mwenyekiti 13 16 Graphical Highlights 17 Report of the Directors 18 Ripoti ya Wakurugenzi 19 Corporate Governance 20 24 Corporate Social Investment 25 26 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 27 Report of the Independent Auditors 28 Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income 29 Company Statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income 30 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 31 Company Statement of Financial Position 32 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 33 34 Company Statement of Changes in Equity 35 36 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 37 Company Statement of Cash Flows 38 Notes to the Financial Statements 39 80 Five Years Comparative Statements 81 82 Form of Proxy / Fomu ya Uwakilishi Directions to Kamundu Estate 2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements Sasini Limited and Subsidiaries for the year ended 30th September 2015 DIRECTORS AND STATUTORY INFORMATION DIRECTORS AUDITORS VISION Dr. J.B. McFie, PhD, MBS Chairman KPMG Kenya “ To be the leading agribusiness in Africa.” Dr. N. N. Merali, PhD, CBS 8th Floor, ABC Towers A.H. Butt, CPA (Kenya), FCCA Waiyaki Way S.N. Merali, MSc PO Box 40612 00100 Mrs. L.W. Waithaka, MSc NAIROBI MISSION Dr. S.O. Mainda, PhD, MA, ACII, EBS A.R. Kassam “ To focus on innovative and efficient business practices, M.K. Changwony, BA (Hons), MBS BANKERS quality products and commitment to all our stake holders.” Barclays Bank of Kenya Limited SECRETARY Barclays Plaza PO Box 46661 00100 OUR CORE VALUES Mary Rebecca Ekaya, CPS (Kenya), LLB NAIROBI PO Box 30151 – 00100 NAIROBI Commercial Bank of Africa Limited • Integrity Mara & Ragati Roads, Upper Hill • Efficiency PO Box 30437 00100 • Positive Attitude ADVOCATES NAIROBI • Respect Shapley Barret & Company Equatorial Commercial Bank Limited • Teamwork PO Box 40286 00100 Equatorial Fidelity Centre NAIROBI Waiyaki Way PO Box 52467 00200 Hamilton Harrison and Mathews NAIROBI CERTIFICATIONS PO Box 30333 00100 NAIROBI Kenya Commercial Bank Limited • Utz certification for coffee operations; Kiambu Branch • Rain Forest Alliance certification for Tea and Coffee Timamy and Company Advocates PO Box 81 00900 operations PO Box 87288 80100 KIAMBU MOMBASA • Kenya Bureau of Standards Diamond mark of quality for Standard Chartered Bank Kenya Limited branded Tea’s Kiambu Branch • ISO 22000:2005 certification REGISTERED OFFICE AND PRINCIPAL PLACE OF PO Box 117 00900 • Fair Trade Flo Certification BUSINESS KIAMBU • C.A.F.E. Practices (Starbucks Coffee) Sasini House UBA Kenya Bank Limited Loita Street Ring Road, Vale Close Westlands PO Box 30151 00100 PO Box 34154 -00100 NAIROBI NAIROBI Telephone SO RICH SO KENYAN Better farming (+254-020) 3342166/71/72 Better future Mobile (+254 ) 0722 200706, 0734 200706 E-mail info@sasini.co.ke Website www.sasini.co.ke Annual Report and Financial Statements 1 for the year ended 30th September 2015 BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD OF DIRECTORS Dr. James Boyd McFie, Phd Chairman Independent Non Executive Mrs. Lucy Waguthi Waithaka Non Executive Dr. McFie is the Chairman of the Board of Directors. He holds a PhD in Accounting from Lucy W. Waithaka is an export development specialist. She holds a Master of Science the University of Strathclyde and Masters of Mathematics from Oxford University. He is a degree in Horticulture/Agronomy and a BSC in Agriculture from the University of Fellow of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants and a Fellow of the Institute Nairobi. Her last formal employment was at the Export Promotion Council (EPC), the of Certified Public Accountants of Kenya (ICPAK). Dr. McFie is a lecturer in Financial national trade promotion organization in charge of development and promotion of Reporting and Forensic Accounting at Strathmore University. Between 1993 and 2002 Kenya’s exports as the General Manager, Enterprise and Product Development, up to he was Director of the Kenya Capital Markets Authority, a member of the Kenya Added November 2015. She has extensive experience in agriculture, export marketing and Tax Tribunal and a Trustee of the Kenya Corporate Governance Trust and of Jitegemee business management having held senior positions in agriculture and international trade Trust. He is also a director of The Standard Group Limited. He also serves as the Honorary related institutions, namely, the Horticultural Crops Development Authority (HCDA) and Treasurer on the Board of Directors of AfriAfya, the African Network for Health Knowledge the Fresh Produce Exporters Association of Kenya (FPEAK), where she was the Chief Management and Communication. He was the Training Manager in Ernst and Young and Executive before joining the Export Promotion Council of Kenya. She has served as a a member of Education and Training Committee of ICPAK. Dr. McFie joined the Board on member of Board of Directors of the Kenya Plant Health Inspectorate Service (KEPHIS) 30th August 2007. and is currently Chairman of Eveready East Africa Limited and a member of Sasini Limited Board of Directors, where she chairs the Sasini Audit Committee. Dr. Naushad Noorali Merali Non Executive Mrs. Waithaka has carried out research work and published widely in the areas of cut Dr. Naushad N. Merali was awarded a doctorate degree (Honoris Causa) in Business flowers, post-harvest handling of horticultural produce and export marketing. She has Leadership by Kabarak University on 18th December 2015. He is a businessman and the organized and led market study and export promotion missions to several international Chairman of the Sameer Group of Companies. Sameer Group of Companies, is a leading markets in Europe, USA, Japan, Middle East and Africa, providing business to business conglomerate in Kenya (and a regional presence in East Africa) with interests in Agriculture linkages for Kenyan exporters. At the EPC, she managed several programmes, all aimed and Agribusiness (Sasini Ltd and Sameer Agriculture & Livestock Ltd), Manufacturing at enhancing the export supply base and export competitiveness through enterprise (Sameer Africa Ltd and Eveready East Africa Ltd), Construction and Engineering (Warren development initiatives and capacity building. These included product development Enterprises Limited), Financial Services (Equatorial Commercial Bank Ltd), Commercial and test marketing; market penetration and promotion; and training in export trade and (Ryce East Africa Ltd, Sasini Coffee House Ltd, Sameer EPZ Ltd, Sameer Industrial Park business management skills. Ltd) and Real Estate Sameer Business Park is an ultra modern building comprising five units totaling more than 500,000sq ft of built up area in show rooms and offices. Mr. A. R. Kassam Non Executive Mr. A. R. Kassam has a wealth of experience in FMCG operations having worked for Dr. Merali has also served on various Presidential Committees relating to trade and social Multi internationals for more than 33 years with strong financial, corporate, strategic services and was a member of the National Economic and Social Council. He is a board management knowledge and experience. He has in-depth knowledge in sales and Trustee member of the National Cancer Institute of Kenya. Owing to his contribution distribution in the local and export markets. to the development and economic growth of Kenya, Dr. Merali has been awarded the honour of the highly prized national award of the Chief of the Order of the Burning He previously worked with Sara Lee/S C Johnson Kenya and the East Africa Region, Spear (CBS) and Elder of the Burning Spear (EBS). Dr. Merali has been a Director of Sasini holding the Position of Finance/Acting Managing Director. Limited since 6th June 1989. He was appointed to the Board of Sasini Limited on 30th September, 2014. Mr. Akif Hamid Butt Non Executive Mr. A H Butt is a Fellow of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) and Dr. Steve Omenge Mainda, PhDNon Executive a Certified Public Accountant of Kenya (CPA) and has a wealth of experience in financial Dr. S. O. Mainda was awarded a Doctrate Degree (Honoris Causa) in Strategic Management management, corporate planning and strategic management acquired over time. He by Makerere University in 2013. He also holds a Master of Arts degree in Management previously worked with PriceWaterhouse Coopers in Kenya and the East Africa Region, .He is a member of the Chartered Institute of Insurance. Mr Mainda has a wealth of Liberia and England. He joined the Sameer Group in 1989 and is currently the Group’s experience in Finance, Insurance, Strategic Management and Education. He is currently Finance Director. He represents the interest of the Sameer Group on the boards of various the Chairman of Insurance Regulatory Authority and Housing Finance Company of Kenya companies. He was appointed to the Board of Sasini Limited on 1st May 1990. Mr. Butt is Ltd which is also listed in the Nairobi Securities Exchange. He is a Director of Fina Bank also a Director of Sameer Africa Ltd and Eveready East Africa Limited, which are quoted Ltd, Ryce East Africa Ltd (a member of the Sameer Group of Companies). He joined the on the Nairobi Securities Exchange. Board on the 21st September 2012. Mr. Sameer Naushad Merali Non Executive Mr. Moses K. Changwony Group Managing Director Executive Mr. S. N. Merali holds a Masters of Science degree in Banking and International Finance. Mr. Moses K. Changwony has over 25 years experience in managerial capacity. He holds Mr. Merali initially worked with Merrill Lynch International Bank Limited in the United a Bachelor of Arts Degree from the University of Nairobi. He studied Government and Kingdom as Investment Analyst between October 2000 and February 2003. He joined graduated summa cum laude. Sameer Investments Limited in March 2003 and now serves as the Chief Executive Officer of Sameer Investments Limited. He is the Chairman of Ryce East Africa Limited, Nandi Prior to joining Sasini Limited, he served as Project Director of Mat International Tea Estates Ltd and Warren Enterprises Ltd. He is a Director of Sameer Africa Limited, a Sugar Limited and as Managing Director of Riverine Invests Limited, Tana and Athi company listed on the Nairobi Securities Exchange Ltd. He is also a Director of Sameer ICT Rivers Development Authority, and DL Group. He has consulted for various local and international enterprises in the areas of sugar and livestock farming, fish farming and Ltd, Sameer Telkom Ltd and Fidelity Shield Insurance Company Ltd. He joined the Board green house project for tomato farming. of Sasini Ltd on 26th May 2006. Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements 3 for the year ended 30th September 2015 Sasini Limited and Subsidiaries Sasini Limited and Subsidiaries for the year ended 30th September 2015 4 SENIOR MANAGEMENT TEAM SENIOR MANAGEMENT TEAM Mr. Moses K. Changwony Mr. Shashidhar Menon Mr. James Muriithi Kieu Mr. Samuel Kanga Odalo Mrs. Mary Rebecca Ekaya Ms. Priscah Muthoni Keah Group Managing Director Managing Director, General Manager, Group Financial Company Secretary / Head Of Human Resources Kipkebe Limited Coffee Operations Controller Group Legal Officer (Tea Operations) Mr. Moses K. Vast experience of over Vast experience of over Over 28 years Over 13 years Over 13 years Changwony has over 35 years in managing tea 23 years in Managing experience in Finance, experience in Legal experience in Human 26 years experience in estates & factories in Coffee and Tea Estates Accounting and Audit. practice. Resource Management. managerial capacity. India and Kenya. & Factories. He holds a Bachelor of Prior to joining Sasini Prior to joining Sasini Prior to joining Arts Degree from the Prior to joining Prior to joining Sasini Ltd, he held various Ltd, she practiced Sasini Ltd, she held University of Nairobi. Sasini Ltd, he held Ltd, he held senior senior Finance and Law as well as held various Senior Human He studied Government senior positions with positions within the Accounting positions in senior position in the Resources Management and graduated summa Goodricke Group Ltd, Neumann Kaffee Agribusiness Industry. Insurance Industry. positions in Agribusiness cum laude. India ( a member of Gruppe managing and Manufacturing Camellia plc, UK ) on Coffee and tea estates Holds a Global Executive Holds Bachelor of Arts Industries. Prior to joining Sasini their tea plantations, & factories both at local Masters of Business (BA) (Economics Major) Limited, he served where he worked for 18 and International levels. Administration (MBA) (Hons), LLB Degree Holds Masters as Project Director years. from United states (Hons), Post Graduate of Business of Mat International Holds a Diploma in International University Diploma in Legal Administration (MBA) Sugar Limited and as Holds a Bachelor of Arts Agricultural Engineering (USIU) in partnership Practice (Kenya School in Human Resources Managing Director of degree from the Madras from Jomo Kenyatta with Columbia Business of Law), is an advocate Management, Bachelor Riverine Invests Limited, Christian College, India. University of Agriculture School in New York, of the High Court of of Science (BSc.) Tana and Athi Rivers and Technology among Bachelor of Science in Kenya, Commissioner (Mathematics) (Hons), Development Authority, Appointed Managing other management and Business Administration for Oaths as well as a Post Graduate Diploma and DL Group. He has Director, Kipkebe leadership courses. (Accounting) (Hons) Notary Public. Member in Human Resources consulted for various Ltd ( a wholly owned from USIU, Certified of Institute of Certified Management and is a local and international subsidiary of Sasini Ltd ) Appointed General Public Accountant Public Secretaries of Member of the Institute enterprises in the areas in December 2014. Manager, Coffee (CPA K), Member of Kenya (ICPS K). of Human Resources of sugar and livestock Operations in February Institute of Certified Management (IHRM). farming, fish farming Prior to this, he was 2004. Public Accountants of Appointed Group Legal and green house project the General Manager, Kenya (ICPAK). Joined Officer in October 2007 Appointed Head of for tomato farming. Kipkebe Ltd from the group in 1998 and Company Secretary Human Resources in January 2000 and and appointed to the in 2008. July 2010. Deputy General position in July 2009. Manager for 1 year. Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements 5 for the year ended 30th September 2015 Sasini Limited and Subsidiaries Sasini Limited and Subsidiaries for the year ended 30th September 2015 6 NOTICE OF THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING ILANI YA MKUTANO MKUU WA KILA MWAKA Notice is hereby given that the Sixty-fourth (64th) ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING of the members will be held at Kamundu Ilani inatolewa hapa kuwa MKUTANO MKUU WA KILA MWAKA wa sitini na nne (64) wa wanachama utafanyika katika Estate, Kiambu, on Friday 4th March 2016, at 11.30 a.m., for the following purposes: shamba la Kamundu, Kiambu, Ijumaa, tarehe 4 Machi 2016, saa tano na nusu asubuhi, kwa madhumuni yafuatayo: 1. Kuthibitisha kumbukumbu za Mkutano Mkuu wa Kila Mwaka wa Sitini na tatu (63) uliofanyika tarehe 27 Februari 1. To confirm the minutes of the Sixty-third (63rd) Annual General Meeting held on 27th February 2015. 2015. 2. Kupokea, kuchunguza na ikionekana sawa kuidhinisha Ripoti ya Mwaka na Taarifa za Kifedha za mwaka uliomalizikia 2. To receive, consider and if deemed fit, adopt the Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th tarehe 30 Septemba 2015, pamoja na taarifa za Wakurugenzi na Wakaguzi wa hesabu. September 2015 together with the reports thereon of the Directors and of the Auditors. 3. Kuthibitisha mgao wa muda wa faida wa asilimia 100 uliolipwa tarehe 15 Septemba 2015 na kutangaza malipo ya 3. To confirm the interim dividend of 100% paid on 15th September 2015 and to declare the payment of a final dividend mgao wa mwisho wa faida wa asilimia 25. of 25%. 4. Kuwachagua Wakurugenzi wafuatao: (i) Dkt. J. B. McFie, Mkurugenzi anayestaafu kwa zamu, ambaye kwa kuwa ana haki ya kuchaguliwa, anajitolea kuchaguliwa tena. 4. To elect the following Directors: (ii) Bi. L. W. Waithaka, Mkurugenzi anayestaafu kwa zamu, ambaye kwa kuwa ana haki ya kuchaguliwa, anajitolea I. Dr. J. B. McFie, a Director retiring by rotation, who being eligible, offers himself for re-election. kuchaguliwa tena. II. Mrs. L.W. Waithaka, a Director retiring by rotation, who being eligible, offers himself for re-election. 5. Kutangaza malipo ya Wakurugenzi. 6. Kuwachagua KPMG Kenya kama wakaguzi wa hesabu wa mwaka unaofuata na kuwaidhinisha wakurugenzi kuamua 5. To confirm the Directors’ emoluments. ujira wao. 7. Kushughulikia jambo lingine lolote linaloweza kushughulikiwa katika Mkutano Mkuu wa Kila Mwaka. 6. To appoint KPMG Kenya as auditors for the ensuing year and authorize Directors to fix their remuneration. Kwa Amri ya Halmashauri 7. To transact any other business which may be transacted at an Annual General Meeting. By Order of the Board Bi. M. R. Ekaya Katibu wa Kampuni Nairobi Mrs. M. R. Ekaya Tarehe 16 Desemba mwaka 2015 Company Secretary Nairobi 16th December 2015 Maelezo • Mwanachama mwenye haki ya kuhudhuria na kupiga kura katika mkutano huu aweza kuchagua mwakilishi kuhudhuria na kupiga kura kwa niaba yake na mwakilishi huyo si lazima awe mwanachama wa Kampuni. Notes. • Fomu ya uwakilishi imeshikanishwa.Fomu ya uwakilishi yaweza pia kupatikana kutoka kwa tovuti ya kampuni: • A member entitled to attend and vote at this meeting may appoint a proxy to attend and vote on his/her behalf, www.sasini.co.ke and such a proxy need not be a member of the Company. • The form of proxy is enclosed. The form of proxy can also be downloaded from the company website: www.sasini.co.ke. Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements 7 for the year ended 30th September 2015 Sasini Limited and Subsidiaries Sasini Limited and Subsidiaries for the year ended 30th September 2015 8 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT (Continued) ECONOMY AND BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT National Economy Security risks associated with terrorism—and compounded by negative political competition, corruption and low Global and African Economies commodity prices persisted over the year 2015. Despite these effects, economy grew by 5.4% during the period, largely The year 2014-2015 marked a consecutive five year decline in overall World Economic supported by infrastructure spending and household consumption. The rate of inflation remained relatively stable Growth. This decline in growth has happened albeit recorded recovery in the advanced during this period and although inflation grew marginally during this period it remained within projection. Robust economies from past financial crisis. The revised forecasts in this latest World Economic performance in sectors such as construction, agriculture and financial services supported the poor performance Outlook report underscores the challenges all countries face. Despite considerable registered in tourism, and stock markets to keep economic growth on course. In the second half of this financial differences in country-specific outlooks, the new forecasts mark down expected nearyear, the banking sector suffered setbacks following placement of Dubai Bank and Imperial Bank under Central Bank term growth rates marginally, but nearly across the board. Moreover, downside risks supervision. Although this move may have been seen to have combined with depreciation of the Kenya Shilling against to the world economy appear more pronounced following slow growth in emerging major currencies to undermine growth, Central Bank’s efforts to defend the currency caused the shilling to stabilize in economies and continued strengthening of the USD against major international October. currencies. 1 On a positive note, Kenya’s position improved markedly in the World Bank’s latest Ease of Doing Business Index as the Crude Oil prices remain depressed as world stocks continue increasing against weak demand. Oil prices have tumbled government promised to step up efforts to further improve the business environment. Kenya Private Sector alliance since June last year due to supply and demand imbalances. U.S. shale gas production has risen and OPEC has maintained through the Presidential Round Table meetings continue to support government on this initiative. The World bank in its output, while demand from China, a massive consumer of commodities, has waned. Easing of sanctions against Iran, evaluation of Kenya’s Economy in the first half of the financial year observed that, “Low oil prices and loose monetary may bring in more supply complicating further the possibility of recovery of prices. policy in the U.S. have bolstered Kenya’s economy, East Africa’s largest, helping it grow faster than expected last year and setting it on course for sustained growth in the years ahead, the World Bank said in a report. Kenya’s economy grew by 5.4% in 2014. The next few years are set to look better yet, with growth rates seen at 6% for 2015, 6.6% for 2016 and 7% for 2017”. African Economy Africa’s resilience to global and regional headwinds was disturbed during this period by conflicts, insecurity, the outbreak of Ebola and falling commodity prices especially crude oil. These challenges slowed down growth in some African Economies. The Ebola virus particularly hit Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone, causing tremendous human Global Tea Market Trend hardship and high economic costs. The epidemic curtailed the immense strides those countries had made in macro and Global tea Production has increased by 42.5% in the last 10 years with China and India leading world Tea producers fiscal stability in recent years. Only a gradual recovery is expected in the near term. 2 Growth in Africa although slower with a market share of 40.2% and 24.5% respectively. Kenya which comes third after India accounted for 7.9% of global over this period than it was last year remained close to projected performance, having been supported by favourable Tea Production during the period under review. Mintel, a consumer research company, has reported that tea sales in international oil prices, favourable investments climate, growing Foreign Direct Investments following emphasis by the U.K. have fallen by 22 percent between 2010 and 2015, to 76 million kilograms. What’s more, it said, the trend is governments on policies that make businesses much easier to establish. continuing, and predicted that tea sales would dip to 68 million kilograms by 2020. Specialty tea and coffee is replacing this market with growth of green tea, flavoured teas and herbal tea growing in the UK by 31% over this period according to the report. Although drop in consumption of black CTC tea is evident in the UK, global consumption of tea continued to grow at the rate of 4.2% against a registered global production growth over this period of 4.1%. Global supply of tea Sub Saharan Africa outstrips demand a phenomenon that is shifting demand in Kenya towards higher quality tea at the expense of poor Like is the case in the rest of Africa, Sub Sahara Africa remains resilient with most economies growing above 4% quality tea. which although lower than previous years remains significant considering the performance of the rest of the world. Oil exporting countries have faced setbacks in their respective growths precipitated by continued decline in crude oil prices. On the other hand strengthening US Dollar against major currencies has supported commodity exporting Young consumers are less attracted by the traditional English Tea. The US however is registering growth in consumption countries from the effects of low commodity prices witnessed during the period to create a balance on growth in these with emphasis on black tea and green tea majorly because of perceived health benefits. regions which over the period remains the highest in the world. South Africa’s Economy is one of those that suffered decline following industrial strikes, and challenges in electricity supply, Countries around the epicentre of the Ebola The war in traditional export markets for Sri Lankan tea, combined with the devaluation of the Russian shilling has outbreak together with oil exporting countries were also negatively affected. affected exports of Sri Lankan tea forcing prices to drop at the auction. High labour wages has made this situation worse for Sri Lankan estates whose profitability is under threat. India which has been one of the leading exporters of tea is registering decline in production and falling export volumes. This seemingly positive growth in Sub Saharan Africa is however faced with the challenges of strengthening dollar and declining financing. Global financial conditions are likely to tighten in the short term over this financial year a phenomenon that will complicate growth in in this region where most countries are facing budget deficits. Given this National Tea Trends likelihood, financing may suddenly become unavailable or when available, costs may rise steeply. Countries may then Tea production in Kenya is recovering from two years of have to undertake a deeper than-planned adjustment with cuts to capital spending likely to bear the brunt. In that poor performance which started with oversupply in context, there would be a negative impact on growth in both the near and the medium term. World Bank review of the market in 20132014 crop year to draught and low this region’s growth reports Sub Saharan Growth in 2015 to slow to 4.2 percent on average from 4.6 percent in 2014, a production in 2014-2015 crop year. During both periods downward revision of 0.4 percentage points relative to the January 2015 GEP. The revisions reflect the reassessment of prices dropped drastically and only recovered from the prospects in Angola, Nigeria, and South Africa. Growth in the region is expected to pick up in 2016 to at an Average of Month of July for the well-made teas which attracted 4.6 percent and to accelerate to 5.0 percent in 2017. 3 very good prices while low quality teas recovered only marginally. The El Nino Rains which began in November are expected to increase production this Financial Year. 1 IMF World Economic Outlook October 2015 Between September and November, Kenyan tea prices have continued their upward trend, with top-grade leaf 2 UNDP Report on Economic Impact of Ebola 2014 prices setting a new high by breaking through the USD 5 3 World Bank Global Economic Prospects June 2015 Source : Tea Board of Kenya per kg barrier. Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements 9 for the year ended 30th September 2015 Sasini Limited and Subsidiaries Sasini Limited and Subsidiaries for the year ended 30th September 2015 10 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT (Continued) CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT (Continued) Following wars in Turkey Russia and the rest of that region demand for Sri Lanka tea has dropped pulling down prices 2015. The lack of rainfall over this period caused most of our tea bushes to wither away while the rest of the bushes while India drop on exports may support demand for Kenya Teas, although prices will continue chasing quality teas. went dormant causing closure of one of our factories. During this period most of the leaf processed was of poor quality Lower quality teas are projected to continue suffering depressed markets for another year running. resulting in the production of more secondary grades which attracted less demand and fetched lower prices at the auction. Global Coffee Trends According to figures released by United States Department of Agriculture in June 2015, World coffee production for Coffee Production 2015/16 is forecast to rebound 6.4 million bags from the previous year to 152.7 million due primarily to record output in During the year, our estates produced 993 Tons of Coffee compared to 1,153 Tons in the previous year. The drop in Indonesia and Honduras as well as modest recovery in Brazil. Current stocks however indicate a drop in 20142015 crop production is attributed to the poor rainfall during the first part of the year. All of our reservoirs dried up during this season of 4.4 % according to reports by ICO. This drop happened in the face of projected global demand in consumption period making irrigation impossible. This denied the coffee bushes critical precipitation required to form the coffee particularly in none traditional coffee drinking countries were the middle class continue to adopt western coffee drinking berries fully. The result was poor quality, light coffee with a very low proportion achieving AA standard. culture. Global exports and consumption are forecast at record quantities, drawing ending inventories to their lowest The average price realized for coffee dropped to USD 4.55/kg compared to USD 4.82/kg in the previous year; the level in 4 years. Brazilian Arabica production is projected to improve compared to last year following favorable weather elevated price in the previous year was due to the poor performance of the Brazilian coffee in the world market. conditions. World demand for Arabica beans will remain high because of draw down on stocks. According to ICO coffee market report of October 2015, the jump witnessed on prices in October was going to be short lived? It attributes this to a return of rains in Brazil, the weakening of Brazilian Real to the USD, perceived slowdown on Chinese’s Economy and SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY the potential introduction of interest regime by US economy. ICO however projects growth in global coffee demand During the year under review, the company commissioned the construction of a Secondary School and a Laboratory using a grant received from the Zarina and Naushad Merali Foundation amounting to 45 million shillings. The school located in our tea division, has been named Zarina and Naushad Merali School in honour of the sponsors and will serve National Coffee Trends students from that region. Uncertainty and a lack of confidence in Kenya’s marketing system following the recent demands by County Governments continue to pose pertinent questions regarding the traceability and accessibility of coffees from the Country, this Conservation efforts in streams around both our tea and coffee estates has ensured availability of water in the villages threat, however seem to be easing following challenges the county governments faced while trying to market their around these estates and a wonderful habitat for birds, dik dik, monkeys and other local wild life. An annual farmer’s own coffee. Kenya remains an important source of high quality mild Arabica coffee, sought by roasters for blending less day was held at Kiambu to reflect on the support of our technical extension service and on the partnership with coffee fine coffee. Kenya’s production for the year 2015-2016 will remain in the region of this year’s production estimated to farmers. During this meeting the Company gave out 200,000 seedlings of improved coffee varieties to the farmers and close slightly above 450,000 MT. The 2014-2015 was affected by poor rainfall and although volumes went down, prices indigenous tree seedlings to neighboring primary schools surged owing to poor supply from Brazil. Good prices in the international market saw coffee fetch Sh19 billion last year, an 18.8 per cent growth over the previously year. STRATEGIC INITIATIVES The Board Continues to direct management on the path of continuous improvement and during the year a number of strategic initiatives were commissioned. These initiatives included restructuring of the dairy herd which saw GROUP FINANCIAL RESULTS rationalization of the herd to a size that is balanced and profitable. The Company in response to the challenges faced in our tea division over the last two years, has shifted emphasis towards manufacture of higher quality leaf, a shift from a Overview decade of lower standard leaf. In our estate at Mweiga, a Biogas plant was commissioned to assist in cutting down the The results for the year indicate an increase in profitability in operating activities following the interventions implemented cost of electricity and to support in expanding our irrigation capabilities. This investment is also targeted as a source after a review of business in the first half and restructuring of non-performing assets. Significant contributions to this of Nitrogen and Phosphorous rich slurry for utilization in our coffee fields as an alternative fertilizer. Savana Coffee improvement arose from restructuring of non-performing assets. The year closed with a profit after tax arising from Houses and Sasini Retail businesses have been restructured and staffed appropriately to guarantee delivery of value to operating activities after minority interest of Kshs.953.6 million compared to a profit of Kshs.85.5 million in the previous the bottom line. An embryo pilot program commissioned late last year has run a full year circle and is currently under year. review in preparation for scale up. The year was characterised by a biting drought that severely affected the operations of the company in the first half Acknowledgement of the financial year of the company which continued into the third quarter. The production volumes in both tea and I wish to express my gratitude to the Sasini Management and staff for their commitment to the Company. I would also coffee divisions dropped considerably. However, the improvement in tea prices in the second half supported by a like to thank my colleagues on the Board for their continued unwavering support change in manufacture strategy in tea production and stringent control on operation costs contributed to the recovery in profitability. The coffee price however dipped in the second half due to the lower quality of the coffee produced after the drought. Finally, on behalf of the Board, I wish to thank you, our esteemed shareholders for the trust bestowed upon us as your representatives. With your unwavering support, Sasini will continue to strive for sustainable growth for the benefit of all its stakeholders. During the year, the restructuring of non-performing assets reported in the last financial year, which included the sale of part of the land in two of the subsidiary companies was completed. These parcels of land had been persistently loss making for the last six years running. The successful disposal of these assets in the second half yielded considerable contribution to the bottom line. Dr J. B. McFie PhD Chairman Tea Production 16th December 2015 During the year, our factories produced 8,578 Tons of made tea compared to 11,564 Tons in the previous year. The average price realized for tea marginally increased to USD 1.87/kg compared to USD 1.82/kg in the previous Financial Year. The drop in the volume of tea produced was caused by the failure of rain in the months of December 2014 to April Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements 11 for the year ended 30th September 2015 Sasini Limited and Subsidiaries Sasini Limited and Subsidiaries for the year ended 30th September 2015 12 TAARIFA YA MWENYEKITI TAARIFA YA MWENYEKITI (Kuendelea) MAZINGIRA YA UCHUMI NA BIASHARA Uchumi wa Kitaifa Hatari za usalama zinazotokana na ugaidi na kuzidishwa na ushindani hasi wa kisiasa, ufisadi na bei duni za bidhaa Chumi za Ulimwengu na za Afrika ziliendelea katika mwaka wa 2015. Licha ya athari hizi, uchumi ulikua kwa asilimia 5.4 katika kipindi hiki, ukisaidiwa hasa Mwaka wa 2014-2015 uliweka wazi upungufu wa miaka mitano ya kufuatana katika na utumizi wa muundomsingi na matumizi ya nyumbani. Kiwango cha mfumko wa bei kilibakia thabiti kwa kiasi katika ukuaji wa uchumi wa ulimwengu wa kijumla. Upungufu huu katika ukuaji umetokea kipindi hiki na ijapokuwa mfumko wa bei uliongezeka kidogo katika kipindi hiki ulibakia katika makisio. Utendaji imara ijapokuwa nafuu iliorekodiwa katika chumi zilizoendelea kutoka kwa hali ya wasiwasi katika sekta kama vile ujenzi, kilimo na huduma za kifedha ulisaidia utendaji dhaifu uliopatikana katika utalii na masoko wa kifedha iliopita.Tabiri zilizobadilishwa katika ripoti hii ya karibuni zaidi ya Mtazamo ya hisa kuufanya ukuaji wa kiuchumi sawa. Katika nusu ya pili ya mwaka huu wa kifedha, sekta ya benki ilikumbwa wa Kiuchumi wa Ulimwengu inasisitiza changamoto zinazokabiliwa na nchi zote. Licha na vipingamizi kufuatia kuwekwa kwa benki za Dubai na Imperial chini ya usimamizi wa Benki Kuu. Ijapokuwa hali hii ya tofauti si haba katika mitazamo ya kila nchi maalum, tabiri mpya zinapunguza kidogo inaweza kuonekana kuchanganyika na kupungua kwa thamani ya Shilingi ya Kenya dhidi ya sarafu kuu na kudhoofisha viwango vya ukuaji vinavyotarajiwa vya karibu muhula kamili, lakini kwa karibu yote. ukuaji, juhudi za Benki kuu kulinda sarafu zilisababisha shilingi kuimarika katika mwezi wa Oktoba. Na zaidi, hatari mbaya kwa uchumi wa ulimwengu zinaonekana zaidi kufuatia ukuaji wa taratibu katika chumi zinazoibuka na kuimarika kwa dola ya Kimarekani kunakoendelea Kwa mtazamo chanya, nafasi ya Kenya iliimarika kiasi katika Kielezo cha Benki ya Dunia cha Urahisi wa Ufanyaji Biashara dhidi ya sarafu muhimu za kimataifa . wakati serikali ikiahidi kuongeza juhudi kuimarisha zaidi mazingira ya biashara. Muungano wa Sekta ya Kibinafsi ya Kenya kupitia mikutano ya Majadiliano ya Raisi unaendelea kusaidia serikali katika juhudi hii. Katika tathmini yake ya Bei za mafuta yasiyosafishwa ilibakia ya chini wakati akiba ya ulimwengu ikiendelea kuongezeka dhidi ya mahitaji Uchumi wa Kenya katika nusu ya kwanza ya mwaka huu wa kifedha Benki ya Dunia ilitoa wazo kuwa, “ Bei za chini za pungufu. Bei za mafuta zimeporomoka kutokea mwezi Juni mwaka jana kutokana na kutolingana kwa ugavi na mahitaji. mafuta na sera huru za kifedha nchini Marekani zimeshikilia uchumi wa Kenya, ambao ni mkuu zaidi Afrika Mashariki, Uzalishaji wa gesi ya mwambatope Marekani umeongezeka na OPEC imeendeleza uzalishaji, hali mahitaji kutoka Uchina, ukiusaidia kukua haraka zaidi kuliko ulivyotarajiwa mwaka jana na kuuweka sawa kwa ukuaji wa kuendelea katika miaka mnunuzi mkuu wa bidhaa yamepungua.Upunguzaji wa vikwazo dhidi ya Iran, unaweza kuleta ugavi zaidi na kutatiza inayokuja, Benki ya dunia ilisema katika ripoti.Uchumi wa Kenya ulikua kwa asilimia 5.4 katika mwaka 2014. Miaka uwezekano wa bei kuongezeka zaidi.1 michache inayofuata inatarajiwa kuonekana bora zaidi na tena viwango vya ukuaji vikionekana katika asilimia 6 mwaka 2015 , asilimia 6.6 mwaka 2016 na asilimia 7 mwaka 2017”. Uchumi wa Afrika Unyumbukaji wa Afrika kwa pepo za mbishi za kilimwengu na kieneo ulivurugwa katika kipindi hiki cha migongano, Mwelekeo wa Soko la Majani Chai la Ulimwengu kutokuwa na usalama, mlipuko wa Ebola na bei zinazopungua za bidhaa hasa za mafuta yasiyosafishwa. Changamoto Uzalishaji wa majani chai wa ulimwengu uliongezeka kwa asilimia 42.5 katika miaka 10 iliopita na Uchina na India hizi zilipunguza ukuaji katika baadhi ya chumi za Afrika. Ugonjwa wa Ebola hasa uliathiri Guinea, Liberia na Sierra Leone, zikiongoza wazalishaji wa majani chai wa ulimwengu wakiwa na hisa ya soko ya asilimia 40.2 na asilimia 24.5 mtawalia. ukisababisha shida kuu za kibinadamu na gharama kuu za kiuchumi. Ugonjwa huu ulikatiza uthabiti wa uchumi mkuu Kenya inayokuja nafasi ya tatu baada ya India ikichukua asilimia 7.9 ya uzalishaji majani chai wa ulimwengu katika na hazina ya serikali katika miaka ya karibuni.Nafuu ya polepole tu inatarajiwa katika muhula unaokamilika.2 Ijapokuwa kipindi kinachopitiwa.Kampuni ya utafiti wa watumizi, Mintel imeripoti kuwa mauzo ya majani chai nchini Uingereza ukuaji katika Afrika katika kipindi hiki ni wa taratibu kuliko ulivyokuwa mwaka jana ulibakia karibu na utendaji uliotarajiwa, yameanguka kwa asilimia 22 baina ya mwaka 2010 na mwaka 2015, kuwa kilo milioni 76. Na zaidi, ilisema, mwelekeo ukiwa umesaidiwa na bei za mafuta za kimataifa zilizo nzuri, mazingira mazuri ya uekezaji, kukua kwa uekezaji wa moja unaendelea, na kutabiri kuwa mauzo ya majani chai yataanguka kuwa kilo milioni 68 kufikia mwaka 2020. Majani chai kwa moja wa kigeni kufuatia msisitizo wa serikali kwenye sera zinazofanya kuanzisha biashara kuwarahisi zaidi. na kahawa maalum zinabadilisha soko hili na ukuzaji wa majani chai ya kijani, chai za ladha na ukuzaji wa majani chai ya viungo nchini Uingereza kwa asilimia 31 katika kipindi hiki kulingana na ripoti.Ijapokuwa upungufu katika utumizi Maeneo ya Afrika Chini ya Sahara wa majani chai meusi ya CTC ni dhahiri nchini Uingereza, utumizi wa majani chai wa ulimwengu uliendelea kukua kwa Kama katika hali nyingine za sehemu zilizobakia za Afrika , maeneo ya Afrika chini ya Sahara yamebakia nyumbufu na kiwango cha asilimia 4.2 dhidi ya ukuaji wa uzalishaji wa ulimwengu wa aslimia 4.1 uliorekodiwa katika kipindi hiki.Ugavi karibu chumi zote zikikua juu ya asilimia 4 ambayo ijapokuwa ni chini ya miaka iliopita, inabakia muhimu ikifikiriwa wa majani chai wa ulimwengu ulizidi mahitaji jambo linalogeuza mahitaji nchini Kenya kuelekea majani chai ya ubora wa utendaji wa sehemu zingine za ulimwengu.Nchi zinazosafirisha mafuta zimekabiliwa na vipingamizi katika ukuaji wao juu kuliko majani chai ya ubora wa chini. zikitanguliwa na kupungua kulikoendelea katika bei za mafuta yasiyosafishwa. Kwa upande mwengine kuimarika kwa dola ya Kimarekani dhidi ya sarafu kuu nyingine kumesaidia nchi zinazosafirisha bidhaa kutokana na athari za bei duni za Watumizi wadogo hawavutiwi sana na Chai Asilia ya Kiingereza.Ijapokuwa Marekani inaandikisha ukuaji katika utumizi bidhaa zilizoshuhudiwa katika kipindi hiki kuleta usawa wa ukuaji katika maeneo haya ambao katika kipindi hiki ulibakia na msisitizo hasa katika majani chai meusi na majani chai kijani kwa sababu ya faida zinazoaminiwa za kiafya. Vita katika wa juu kabisa ulimwenguni. Uchumi wa Afrika ya Kusini ni mmoja kati ya zile zilizopata upungufu kufuatia migomo ya masoko ya mahuruji asilia ya majani chai ya Sri Lanka, pamoja na kushuka kwa thamani ya shilingi ya Urusi zimeathiri kiviwanda na changamoto za ugavi wa umeme. Nchi zilizo karibu na kitovu cha kulipuka kwa ugonjwa wa Ebola pamoja mahuruji ya majani chai ya Sri Lanka ikilazimisha bei kupungua katika mnada. Ujira mkuu wa wafanyi kazi umefanya hali na nchi zinazosafirisha mafuta pia ziliathiriwa kihasi. hii kuwa mbaya zaidi kwa mashambaya Sri Lanka ambayo faida yao inatishiwa.India ambayo imekuwa mojawapo ya wasafirishaji wanaoongoza wa majani chai inarekodi upungufu katika uzalishaji na kupungua kwa viwango vya mahuruji. Ukuaji huu chanya unaoonekana katika maeneo chini ya Sahara ijapokuwa, umekabiliwa na changamoto za kuimarika kwa dola na kupungua kwa fedha. Hali za kifedha za ulimwengu zinaelekea kukabika katika kipindi cha muda mfupi katika Mielekeo ya Kitaifa ya Majani Chai mwaka huu wa kifedha jambo litakalotatiza ukuaji katika eneo hili ambapo karibu nchi zote zinakabiliwa na upungufu Uzalishaji wa majani chai nchini Kenya unapata nafuu kutoka kwa miaka miwili ya utendaji mbaya ambao ulianza na ugavi wa bajeti.Kutokana na uwezekano huu, fedha ghafla zinaweza kutopatikana au zinapopatikana, gharama zinaweza wa ziada katika soko katika mwaka wa mazao wa 2013-2014 na ukame na uzalishaji mdogo katika mwaka wa mazao wa kuongezeka sana. Basi nchi zinaweza kutakikana kufanya mageuzi makuu kuliko yaliyopangwa na hasa upunguzi wa 2014-2015. Katika vipindi vyote viwili bei zilianguka sana na kupata nafuu tu kutokea mwezi wa Julai kutoka majani chai matumizi ya mtaji ukipata pigo zaidi. Katika muktadha huo, kutakuwa na athari hasi kwenye ukuaji wote wa kipindi cha yaliotengenezwa vizuri yaliopata bei nzuri sana hali majani chai ya ubora wa chini yalipata afueni kidogo sana. Mivua ya muda wa karibuni na cha muda wa kati.Mapitio ya ukuaji wa eneo hili ya Benki ya Dunia yanaonyesha ukuaji wa maeneo El Nino ilioanza mwezi Novemba inatarajiwa kuongeza uzalishaji mwaka huu wa kifedha. Bei za majani chai ya Kenya chini ya Sahara katika mwaka 2015 kupungua kuwa asilimia 4.2 kwa wastani kutoka asilimia 4.6 katika mwaka 2014, zimeendeleza mwelekeo wake wa kuongezeka, na bei za majani ya gredi ya juu zaidi zikipata kiwango kipya cha juu badiliko la pointi asilimia 0.4 kuwiana na ya Januari 2015 GEP. Mabadiliko yanaonyesha ukadiriaji upya wa matarajio ya kwa kupita kizuizi cha dola 5 za Kimarekani kwa kilo baina ya Septemba na Novemba.Kufuatia vita nchini Uturuki, Urusi Angola, Naijeria, na Afrika ya Kusini. Ukuaji katika eneo hili unatarajiwa kuimarika katika mwaka 2016 kwa wastani wa na sehemu nyingine za eneo hilo mahitaji ya majani chai ya Sri Lanka yalipungua yakivuta bei chini wakati upungufu asilimia 4.6 na kuongezeka kuwa asilimia 5 katika mwaka 2017.3 wa mahuruji ya India unaweza kusaidia mahitaji ya majani chai ya Kenya, ijapokuwa bei zitaendelea kufuata majani chai ya ubora wa juu. Majani chai ya ubora wa chini yanakisiwa kuendelea kutopata masoko kwa mwaka mwengine unaoendelea. 1 Mtazamo wa Kiuchumi wa Ulimwengu wa IMF Oktoba 2015 2 Ripoti ya UNDP kuhusu Athari ya Kiuchumi ya ugonjwa wa Ebola 2014 3 Matazamio ya Uchumi wa Ulimwengu ya Benki ya Dunia Juni 2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements 13 for the year ended 30th September 2015 Sasini Limited and Subsidiaries Sasini Limited and Subsidiaries for the year ended 30th September 2015 14 TAARIFA YA MWENYEKITI (Kuendelea) TAARIFA YA MWENYEKITI (Kuendelea) {Chati 1.7: Uzalishaji majani ya chai wa kenya – watendaji Uzalishaji Majani Chai muhimu – % hisa} {Mwaka 2014/15} Nyingine – 10.7% Katika mwaka, viwanda vyetu vilizalisha tani 8,578 za majani chai yaliyotengenezwa ikilinganishwa na tani 11,564 katika mwaka uliopita.Bei ya wastani ya majani chai iliopatikana iliongezeka kidogo kuwa USD 1.87 kwa kilo ikilinganishwa Mielekeo ya Ulimwengu ya Kahawa na USD 1.82 kwa kilo katika Mwaka wa Kifedha uliotangulia.Upungufu katika viwango vya uzalishaji wa majani chai Kulingana na hesabu zilizotolewa na Idara ya Kilimo ya ulisababishwa na kukosekana kwa mvua katika miezi ya Desemba 2014 hadi Aprili 2015.Kutokuwepo kwa mvua katika Marekani mwezi Juni 2015, uzalishaji wa kahawa wa kipindi hiki kulisababisha vichaka vyetu karibu vyote vya majani chai kukauka hali vichaka vilivyobakia vilikuwa bwete ulimwengu wa mwaka 2015/2016 unakadiriwa kuduta ikisababisha kufungwa kwa kiwanda chetu kimojawapo. Katika kipindi hiki karibu majani yote yaliyotengenezwa magunia milioni 6.4 kutoka mwaka uliotangulia kuwa yalikuwa ya ubora wa chini yakisababisha uzalishaji wa gredi nyingine zaidi ambazo zilihitajiwa kwa uchache na kupata milioni 152.7 kutokana na uzalishaji wa rekodi Indonesia na bei za chini katika mnada. Honduras na pia afueni ya kiasi kidogo nchini Brazil. Ijapokuwa akiba ya sasa inaonyesha upungufu wa asilimia Uzalishaji wa Kahawa 4.4 katika msimu wa mazao wa 2014-2015 kulingana na Katika mwaka unaopitiwa, mashamba yetu yalizalisha tani 993 za kahawa ikilinganishwa na tani 1,153 katika mwaka ripoti ya ICO. Upungufu huu ulitokea katika hali ya uliopita.Upungufu wa uzalishaji ulitokana na mvua chache katika sehemu ya kwanza ya mwaka. Mabwawa yetu yote makadirio ya mahitaji ya ulimwengu ya utumizi hasa katika yalikauka katika kipindi hiki yakifanya unyunyizaji kutowezekana.Hili lilinyima vichaka vya kahawa unyevu muhimu nchi zisizokuwa asilia za unywaji kahawa ambapo tabaka la kati linaendelea kufuata utamaduni wa kimagharibi wa unaohitajika kutengeneza kokwa za kahawa kamilifu.Matokeo ni ubora wa chini, kahawa hafifu ya kiwango cha chini kunywa kahawa.Mahuruji ya ulimwengu na utumizi yanatabiriwa katika viwango vya rekodi,ikionyesha kumalizika kwa sana kufikia kiwango cha AA. hesabu za kiwango chao cha chini kabisa katika miaka 4.Uzalishaji wa kahawa ya Arabika ya Brazil unakadiriwa kuimarika ikilinganishwa na mwaka jana kufuatia hali nzuri za anga.Mahitaji ya ulimwengu ya mbegu za Arabika yatabakia ya juu Bei wastani iliyopatikana ya kahawa ilipungua kuwa USD 4.55 kwa kilo ikilinganishwa na USD 4.82 kwa kila kilo katika kwa sababu ya kupungukwa kwa akiba. Kulingana na ripoti ya soko la kahawa ya ICO ya mwezi Oktoba 2015, kuongezeka mwaka uliotangulia; bei ya juu ya mwaka uliotangulia ilitokana na utendaji mbaya wa kahawa ya Brazil katika soko la kulikoshuhudiwa katika bei mwezi Oktoba kutakuwa kwa muda mfupi? Inatoa sababu ya hili kwa kurudi kwa mvua ulimwengu. nchini Brazil, kudhoofika kwa riali ya Brazil ikilinganishwa na dola ya Kimarekani, kuonekana kupungua kwa mwendo wa uchumi wa Uchina na uwezekano wa kuanzishwa kwa mfumo wa riba na uchumi wa Marekani.Ijapokuwa ICO inakadiria WAJIBU WA KIJAMII ukuaji katika mahitaji ya kahawa ulimwenguni. Katika mwaka unaoangaliwa, kampuni ilianzisha ujenzi wa Shule ya Sekondari na maabara ikitumia ruzuku ya jumla ya shilingi milioni 45 iliotoka kwa Mfuko wa Fedha wa Zarina na Merali.Shule iliopo katika eneo la majani chai imepatiwa Mielekeo ya Kitaifa ya Kahawa jina la Zarina na Naushad Merali kwa heshima ya wadhamini na itahudumia wanafunzi kutoka eneo hilo. Juhudi za Wasiwasi na ukosefu wa imani katika mfumo wa uuzaji wa Kenya kufuatia mahitaji ya karibuni ya serikali za kaunti uhifadhi wa vijito katika yote mashamba yetu ya majani chai na kahawa zimehakikisha upatikanaji wa maji katika vijiji zinaendelea kuzua maswali muhimu kuhusiana na uwezekano wa kupata asili na upatikanaji wa kahawa kutoka vya karibu ya mashamba haya na mazingira mazuri ya ndege, dikidiki, kima na wanyama wengine wa kiasili.Siku ya nchini, ijapokuwa hatari hii inaonekana kupungua kufuatia changamoto zinazokabili serikali za kaunti zinapojaribu wakulima ya kila mwaka iliadhimishwa Kiambu kuonyesha msaada wa huduma yetu ya uenezi wa kiufundi na ubia kuuza kahawa yao wenyewe.Kenya inabakia chanzo muhimu cha kiwango cha juu cha kahawa isiyokali ya Arabika, na wakulima wa kahawa katika mkutano huu.Kampuni katika mkutano huu, ilitoa miche 200,000 ya aina za kahawa inayotafutwa na waokaji kwa kusaga kahawa isiyokuwa laini kabisa. Uzalishaji wa Kenya wa mwaka 2015 -2016 utabakia zilizoimarishwa kwa wakulima na miche ya miti ya kiasili kwa shule za msingi za karibu. katika eneo la uzalishaji unaokadiriwa wa kumalizika kwa mwaka huu juu kidogo ya TM 450,000. Mwaka 2014-2015 uliathiriwa na mvua chache na ijapokuwa viwango vilipungua, bei ziliongezeka kutokana na ugavi mchache kutoka JUHUDI ZA KIMKAKATI Brazil. Bei nzuri katika soko la kimataifa zilifanya kahawa kupata Sh. bilioni 19 mwaka jana, ukuaji wa asilimia 18.8 zaidi Halmashauri inaendelea kuelekeza usimamizi kwenye njia ya uimarikaji wa kuendelea na katika mwaka juhudi kadhaa ya mwaka uliopita. za kimkakati zilianzishwa. Juhudi hizi zinajumlisha upangaji upya wa kundi la ng’ombe wa maziwa uliosababisha kundi kuwa na idadi sawa na ya faida. Kampuni katika uitikio wa changamoto zilizokabiliwa katika miaka miwili iliopita na MATOKEO YA KIFEDHA YA KUNDI kitengo chetu cha majani chai, imeelekeza msisitizo kwenye utengenezaji wa majani ya ubora wa hali ya juu, badiliko Mtazamo kutoka mwongo wa majani ya kiwango cha chini.Katika shamba letu la Mweiga, kiwanda cha gesi kilianzishwa kusaidia Matokeo ya mwaka yanaonyesha ongezeko katika faida ya uendeshaji shughuli kufuatia juhudi zilizotekelezwa baada katika kupunguza gharama za umeme na kusaidia katika kupanua uwezo wetu wa kunyunyiza. Uekezaji huu umelengwa ya mapitio ya biashara katika nusu ya kwanza na upangaji upya wa rasilimali zisizoleta faida. Michango mikubwa kwa pia kama chanzo cha tope laini ya udongo tajiri cha nitrojeni na fosforasi kwa utumizi katika mashamba yetu ya kahawa uimarikaji huu ulitokana na upangaji upya wa rasilimali zisizoleta faida. Mwaka ulimalizika na faida baada ya ushuru kama mbolea badalia. Mikahawa ya Savana na biashara rejareja ya Sasini zimepangwa upya na kuandikwa wafanyikazi iliotokana na uendeshaji shughuli baada ya riba ndogo ya Ksh. milioni 953.6 ikilinganishwa na faida ya Ksh. milioni 85.5 wa kutosha kuhakikisha utoaji wa thamani kwa faida. Mpango wa majaribio ya kiinitete ulioanzishwa mwishoni mwa katika mwaka uliotangulia. mwaka uliopita umemaliza mwaka mzima na kwa sasa unaangaliwa kwa matayarisho ya kuendelezwa kwa kiwango Mwaka ulikuwa na ukame mkuu ambao uliathiri sana shughuli za kampuni katika nusu ya kwanza ya mwaka wa kifedha kikubwa. wa kampuni ulioendelea hadi katika robo ya tatu.Viwango vya uzalishaji wa vitengo vyote viwili vya majani chai na kahawa vilipungua sana.Ijapokuwa, uimarikaji katika bei za majani chai katika nusu ya pili ukisaidiwa na badiliko katika SHUKRANI mkakati wa utengenezaji katika uzalishaji wa majani chai na udhibiti mkali wa gharama za shughuli zilichangia katika Ningependa kutoa shukrani kwa Usimamizi na wafanyikazi wa Sasini kwa kujitolea kwao kwa Kampuni. Pia ningependa kupata nafuu katika faida.Ijapokuwa bei ya kahawa ilianguka katika nusu ya pili kutokana na kahawa ya ubora wa chini kuwashukuru washiriki wenzangu katika Halmashauri kwa usaidizi wao wa kuendelea usiotetereka. iliyozalishwa baada ya ukame. Mwishowe, kwa niaba ya Halmashauri, ningependa kuwashukuru, wenye hisa wetu watukufu kwa imani mliotupatia Katika mwaka, upangaji upya wa rasilimali zisizoleta faida uliripotiwa katika mwaka uliopita wa kifedha, uliojumlisha kama wawakilishi wenu. Kwa usaidizi wenu usioyumba, Sasini itaendelea kujitahidi kuwa na ukuaji unaoendelea kwa uuzaji wa sehemu ya ardhi katika kampuni tanzu mbili ulikamilishwa.Vipande hivi vya ardhi vimekuwa vikiendelea manufaa ya washika dau wake wote. kufanya hasara kwa miaka sita iliopita. Kufaulu kwa uuzaji wa rasilimali hizi katika nusu ya pili ulitoa mchango mkuu kwa faida. Dkt. J. B. Mc Fie PhD Mwenyekiti Tarehe 16 Desemba mwaka 2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements 15 for the year ended 30th September 2015 Sasini Limited and Subsidiaries Sasini Limited and Subsidiaries for the year ended 30th September 2015 16 GRAPHICAL HIGHLIGHTS REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS EARNINGS PER SHARE ON OPERATING The Directors have pleasure in submitting their report 7. Substantial shareholdings ACTIVITIES (KSHS) together with the consolidated and separate financial The directors are aware of the following interests which statements for the year ended 30 September 2015, which amount to 5% or more of the issued share capital of the 4.5 disclose the state of affairs of the Group and the Company. Company: 4 3.5 Shareholding % 3 1. Activities 2015 2014 2.5 4.18 The principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries Legend Investments Limited 41.84 41.84 2 are the growing, processing and sale of tea and coffee, Yana Towers Limited 12.60 12.60 1.5 1 1.69 commercial milling and marketing of coffee, value East Africa Batteries Limited 9.94 9.94 0.5 0.37 0.56 0.82 addition of related products, forestry, dairy operations Gulamali Ismail 8.42 7.76 0 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 EARNINGS/(LOSS) PER SHARE ON and livestock. 72.80 72.14 BIOLOGICAL ASSETS (KSHS) 2. Results 8. Directors’ interests 0.2 0.09 -­‐0.02 0.03 The results of the Group and Company for the year are set Directors’ interests in the shares of the Company were as 0 -­‐0.2 2015 -­‐0.27 2014 2013 2012 2011 out on pages 29 and 30, respectively. follows. -­‐0.4 2015 2014 3. Dividends -­‐1.12 -­‐0.6 Name of Director No. of shares No. of shares -­‐0.8 An Interim dividend of KShs 1.00(100%) (2014-Nil) was Mr. A. H. Butt 30,300 30,300 DIVIDEND PER SHARE (KSHS) -­‐1 declared and paid on 15th September 2015. The Directors Mr. S.N. Merali 45,900 45,900 -­‐1.2 recommended the payment of a final dividend of KShs 1.4 0.25 per share (25%) (2014-KShs 0.25 (25%)). This amounts 1.2 to total dividend of KShs 1.25 per share for the year (20149. Auditors The auditors, KPMG Kenya, continue in office in accordance 1 KShs 0.25(25%)).The final divided, if approved will be paid with Section 159(2) of the Kenyan Companies Act. 0.8 on or around 18th March 2016 to the members on record 1.25 at close of business on 25th February 2016. The register 10. Approval of financial statements 0.6 1 0.4 0.75 will be closed for one (1) day on 26th February 2016. The financial statements were approved at a meeting of 0.2 0.25 0.25 the directors held on 16 December 2015 0 DIVIDEND COVER (TIMES COVERED) 4. Equity and reserves 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 The authorized issued share capital of the Company at 30 BY ORDER OF THE BOARD 3.5 September 2015 and matters relating thereto are set out 3 in note 28 and 29 to the financial statements. 2.5 2 Full details of the Group and Company reserves and 1.5 3.34 movements therein during the year are shown on pages 2.24 33, 34, 35 and 36. 1 1.48 1.69 Mrs. M. R. Ekaya 1.09 0.5 Company Secretary CAPITAL EMPLOYED PER SHARE 0 5. Property, plant and equipment Date: 16 December 2015 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Details of the movements in property, plant and equipment 70 are shown in note 18 to the financial statements. 60 50 6. Directors 40 68.3 The directors who served during the year and upto the 63.12 30 date of this report are set out on pages 3 and 4. 36.5 36.56 38.93 20 10 In accordance with the regulation 94 of the Articles of 0 Association, Dr. J.B. McFie and Mrs. L.W. Waithaka retire 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 by rotation, and being eligible, offer themselves for reelection. Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements 17 for the year ended 30th September 2015 Sasini Limited and Subsidiaries for the year ended 30th September 2015 18 RIPOTI YA WAKURUGENZI CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance is the manner in which the power of, and the power over a company is exercised in the stewardship of its assets and resources so as to enhance and sustain shareholders value while at the same time satisfying the needs Wakurugenzi wanafuraha kuwakilisha ripoti yao pamoja 7. Umilikaji wa Hisa Nyingi and interests of all its stakeholders. Sasini Limited recognizes that corporate governance is a shared responsibility and na taarifa za hesabu zilizounganishwa na za kando za Wakurugenzi wanafahamu kuhusu makampuni mwaka ulioishia tarehe 30 Septemba 2015 zinazoonyesha as such accords the shareholders opportunity to exercise their responsibility for safeguarding and propagating their yanayofuata yanayomiliki asilimia 5 au zaidi ya rasilimali ya hali ilivyo ya Kundi na Kampuni. interests by participating in the affairs of the company, as appropriate, to ensure their company is well governed. hisa zilizotolewa za Kampuni: Umilikaji wa hisa % The Group conducts its operations in accordance with recommended principles of good corporate governance 1. Shughuli 2015 2014 as provided in the guidelines issued by the Capital Markets Authority (CMA) and complies with the Capital Markets Shughuli muhimu za Kampuni na kampuni zake tanzu ni Legend Investments Limited 41.84 41.84 (Securities), (Public Offers, Listing and Disclosures) Regulations, 2002. In this regard, the Board has adopted a Corporate ukuzaji, utengenezaji na uuzaji majani chai na kahawa, Yana Towers Limited 12.60 12.60 Governance Framework and a Board Charter consistent with the CMA guidelines. usagaji kahawa wa kibiashara na uuzaji, uongezaji thamani East Africa Batteries Limited 9.94 9.94 wa bidhaa zinazohusiana, biashara ya misitu, shughuli za Gulamali Ismail 8.42 7.76 Following an independent evaluation of the Company’s Governance practices and process, Sasini Limited was awarded maziwa na bidhaa zake na mifugo. 72.80 72.14 the Champion of Governance Award in the agriculture sector, in the premiere event organized by the Institute of Certified Public Secretaries of Kenya in 2011. The award recognized that Sasini demonstrates excellence and integrity in 2. Matokeo 8. Ushirika wa Wakurugenzi its Governance Systems, Leadership and Management Practices. Matokeo ya Kundi na Kampuni ya mwaka yako katika Ushirika wa wakurugenzi katika hisa za Kampuni ni kama ukurasa 29 na 30, mtawalia. ufuatao: Board of Directors 2015 2014 The composition of the Board is in keeping with good corporate governance practices. The role of the Chairman and 3. Mgao wa Faida Jina la Mkurugenzi Idadi ya Hisa Idadi ya Hisa the Managing Director are segregated. The Managing Director is in charge of the day to day running of the business of Mgao wa muda wa faida ya KShs 1.00 kwa kila hisa (asilimia Bw. A. H. Butt 30,300 30,300 the Group. A non-executive director acts as Chairman of the Board. The current Board is composed of one Executive 100) (mwaka 2014-Kapa) ulitangazwa na kulipwa tarehe Bw. S. N. Merali 45,900 45,900 Director and seven non-executive directors and it includes committed individuals with diverse and complementary skills 15 Septemba 2015. Wakurugenzi wanapendekeza ulipaji to ensure that there is sufficient wealth of experience at Board level. All the directors’ appointments are subject to wa mgao wa mwisho wa faida wa KShs 0.25 kwa kila 9. Wakaguzi confirmation by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting. One third of the directors, except the Managing Director, hisa(asilimia 25) (mwaka 2014KShs 0.25). Hii inajumlisha Wakaguzi, KPMG Kenya, wameonyesha kuridhika retire by rotation annually and are eligible for re-election at the Annual General Meeting. jumla ya faida ya mwaka ya KShs 1.25 kwa kila hisa (mwaka kuendelea na wadhifa kufuatana na sehemu 159(2) ya 2014-KShs 0.25). Ukiidhinishwa, mgao wa mwisho wa faida Sheria za Kampuni za Kenya. The directors are given appropriate and timely information to enable them to maintain full and effective control over all utalipwa tarehe 18 Machi 2016, kwa wanachama watakao strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues. kuwa kwenye rikodi wakati wa kufunga biashara tarehe 25 10. Kuidhinishwa kwa taarifa za kifedha Februari 2016. Rejesta litafungwa kwa siku moja (I) tarehe Taarifa za kifedha ziliidhinishwa katika mkutano wa Board of Directors Responsibilities 26 Februari 2016. wakurugenzi uliofanyika tarehe 16 Desemba 2015. The Board of Directors is responsible for the long term strategic direction of the Group which is aimed at sustainable value creation to maintain a profitable growth, and at the same time upholding high standards of corporate governance 4. Rasilimali ya Hisa na Akiba Kwa Amri ya Halmashauri and business ethics. A summary of Board of Directors responsibilities is highlighted below: Rasilimali ya hisa za Kampuni zilizoidhinishwa na kutolewa • Formulation of Group strategy and ensuring there are adequate structures to implement it; kufikia tarehe 30 Septemba 2015 na mambo yanayohusiana • Monitoring the Group performance against strategy and budgets; nazo yanaonyeshwa kwenye tanbihi 28 na 29 ya taarifa za • Approval for publication of Group financial statements in line with legal and regulatory requirements. kifedha. • The selection, appointment and appraisal of senior executives who are qualified to manage the Group affairs; • Review of the effectiveness of the structures put in place to guide the Group operations; Maelezo kamili ya Kundi na akiba ya Kampuni na mienendo Bi. M. R. Ekaya • Ensuring there are adequate systems for monitoring compliance with laws and regulations; and yake katika mwaka yameonyeshwa katika kurasa za 33, Katibu wa Kampuni • Determining the terms of all Board Committees and ensuring that they carry out their functions effectively. 34, 35 na 36. Tarehe:16 Desemba 2015 Board Meetings 5. Mali, Mtambo na Vifaa Board Meetings are held every quarter and in exceptional circumstances as dictated by exigencies of Group operations. Maelezo ya mienendo ya mali, mtambo na vifaa yanaonyeshwa katika tanbihi 18 ya taarifa za kifedha. This financial year, a total of five (5) Board Meetings were held. 6. Wakurugenzi During their meetings the Board reviews the Group performance against the planned strategies and also approve Wakurugenzi waliohudmu katika mwaka huu na mpaka issues of strategic nature. tarehe ya ripoti hii wameonyeshwa katika kurasa za 3 na 4.Kulingana na Sheria ya 94 ya Kanuni za Kampuni, Dkt. Board Committees J.B.McFie na Bi. L. W. Waithaka wanastaafu kwa zamu, na The Board has approved the delegation of certain authorities to Board Sub-Committees where applicable, and to the kwa kuwa wanastahili, wanajitolea kuchaguliwa tena. management. The Board has two committees both of which are guided by clear terms of reference. The committees are instrumental in monitoring Group operations, conduct of business, systems and internal controls. The committees are the Audit Committee, and the Remuneration and Nominations Committee. Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements 19 for the year ended 30th September 2015 Sasini Limited and Subsidiaries for the year ended 30th September 2015 20 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (Continued) CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (Continued) Audit Committee Social and Environmental Responsibilities The members of this committee are all non-executive directors and professionals. All the members meet minimum The Group is mindful of its responsibilities with regard to the social welfare of its employees, their families and the host financial literacy standards and have accounting or financial management expertise. The committee meets four times communities. The Group, therefore, provides housing, health, educational and recreational facilities to meet the needs in a year and the Managing Director, the Group Financial Controller, the Internal Auditor and occasionally the External of its employees who are resident on its estates. Maintenance of the facilities is provided to the highest standards and Auditors attends. success in this regard has been manifested by the good results achieved in primary schools situated in the Group’s estates. The roles of the committee include: (a) The review of interim and annual financial statements to ensure compliance with Accounting Standards and other The Group is also concerned with the maintenance of the environment and in this regard it maintains sections of disclosure requirements; indigenous and non-indigenous forests in its tea plantations and shade trees in its coffee plantations. The Group has (b) The maintenance and review of the Group’s system of accounting and internal controls; maintained a continuous afforestation program in all areas with idle land. It also maintains natural vegetation in all (c) Liaising with external auditors of the Group and effecting their recommendations; and water catchment areas. (d) Defining the scope and responsibilities of the internal auditors Certifications The committee met four times during the year. (a) Tea The Committee is made up of the following Directors: The Group has attained the internationally recognized Rain Forest Alliance (RFA) Certification for its Tea estates. This certification confirms the attainment of minimum standards in relation to ecosystem conservation, wildlife protection, (a) Mrs. L. W. Waithaka and fair treatment and good working conditions for workers. (b) Mr. S. N. Merali (c) Mr. A. R. Kassam In addition, the Group’s tea operation is ISO 22000 certified. This certification embraces quality management system processes and food safety standards. Remuneration and Nominations Committee This Committee’s remit is to assist the Board in addressing issues pertaining to remuneration levels, employee (b) Coffee development and motivation. It ensures that the appropriate reward mechanisms are in place at all levels of the In Coffee, the Group’s operation is UTZ Certifified. This internationally recognized certification is given on fulfilling a organization while maintaining principles of equity and appropriateness. The Committee also oversees the rigorous code of conduct which tests coffee operations based on three criteria, namely, good agriculture and business practices, and transparent process for bringing new Directors on to the Board, and for appointing Directors to Board Committees, social responsibility and environmental considerations. Besides, the Coffee operation is Rain Forest Alliance, Fairtrade subject to approval by the full Board. and ISO 22000 certified. The group has satisfied the requirements by the AFFA-Coffee Directorate for certification of the Mark of Origin. The members of the Committee are all independent non-executive directors and professionals who by reason of education and/or experience possess sufficient expertise to enable the Committee to execute its mandate. The Group not only earns substantial foreign exchange through the export of its produce, but also makes a significant contribution through the payment of taxes, cess and other levies to the respective County Governments in the areas The Committee met four times in the year. in which it operates. The Committee is made up of the following Directors: Code of Conduct The Group has a code of conduct which seeks to guide employees in ethical conduct of business. All directors, (a) Dr. S. O. Mainda management and employees are expected to observe high standards of integrity and ethical conduct when dealing (b) Dr. J. B. McFie with customers, staff, suppliers and regulatory authorities. (c) Mr. A. H. Butt Internal Control Directors’ Remuneration The effectiveness of the Group internal control is monitored on a regular basis by the Internal Audit function. The The remuneration for non-executive directors consists of fees for their services and sitting allowances in connection Internal Audit function reviews the Group compliance with the laid down policies and procedures as well as assessing with attendance at Board and committee meetings. the effectiveness of the internal control structures. The Internal Audit function focuses their attention to areas where the Group could be exposed to greatest risks. The Internal Audit function reports to the Audit Committee of the Board. The aggregate amount of emoluments paid to directors for services rendered during the financial year ended 30 September 2015 are contained in Note 14 and 34 to the financial statements in this annual report. The Group has established operational procedures and controls to facilitate proper safeguard of assets and accurate financial reporting. Neither at the end of the financial year, nor at any time during the year did there exist any arrangement to which the Group is party, whereby directors might acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of the Group’s shares. There were no directors’ loans at any time during the year. Conflicts of Interest All directors and management are under duty to avoid conflicts of interest. The directors are required to disclose outside business interests which would conflict with the Group business. Communication with Shareholders The Group is committed to ensuring that shareholders and the financial markets are provided with timely information in regard to its performance. This is achieved by issuing notices in the press of its half-yearly and annual financial Going Concern results. The full annual report and financial statements are posted on the Group’s website and also distributed to all The directors confirm that the Group has adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future and shareholders and to other parties who have an interest in the Group’s performance, on request. therefore to continue to use the going concern basis when preparing the financial statements. The Group responds to numerous letters from shareholders and interested parties on a wide range of issues. The Group also invites shareholders to seek clarity on company performance in general meetings. Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements 21 for the year ended 30th September 2015 Sasini Limited and Subsidiaries Sasini Limited and Subsidiaries for the year ended 30th September 2015 22 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (Continued) CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (Continued) Significant Change in Shareholders Distribution of shareholders The Company discloses to the Nairobi Securities Exchange at the end of each quarter the names of persons who hold or acquire 3% or more of the issued shares. The Company also files the foreign investors’ returns as required, on a monthly Shareholding (No. of Shares) No. of No. of % Shareholding basis. shares held Shareholders Board/Board Committees Attendance The following table gives the record of attendance of the Sasini Board and its Committee meetings for the year ended Less than 500 783,515 3,689 0.34 30 September 2015: 500 5,000 4,737,642 2,812 2.08 5,001 10,000 2,374,781 327 1.04 Meetings attended 10,001 – 100,000 12,529,837 439 5.49 Number of meetings held Main Audit Remuneration and Board Committee Nomination Committee 100,001-1,000,000 18,928,299 66 8.30 Dr. J. B. McFie 5 N/A 5 Above 1,000,000 188,701,426 13 82.74 M. K. Changwony 5 N/A N/A N. N. Merali 3 N/A N/A Total 228,055,500 7,346 100 A. H. Butt 5 N/A 5 S. N. Merali 3 4 N/A A. R Kassam 5 4 N/A Mrs. L. W. Waithaka 5 4 N/A S. O. Mainda 3 N/A 5 Dr. J.B. McFie M.K. Changwony Chairman Director Top ten shareholders at 30 September 2015 Date: 16 December 2015 The ten largest shareholders of the Company as at 30 September 2015 were as follows: No. Name of shareholder No. of shares % Shareholding 1 Legend Investments Limited 95,417,345 41.84 2 Yana Towers Limited 28,725,240 12.60 3 East African Batteries Limited 22,658,300 9.94 4 Gulamali Ismail 19,201,200 8.42 5 Gidjoy Investments Limited 6,230,800 2.73 6 Karim Jamal 4,587,841 2.01 7 Bid Plantations Limited 2,504,300 1.10 8 Shardaben Vithaldas Morjaria 2,111,780 0.93 9 Joseph Schwartzman 1,972,100 0.86 10 The Jubilee Insurance Company of Kenya Limited 1,475,900 0.65 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements 23 for the year ended 30th September 2015 Sasini Limited and Subsidiaries Sasini Limited and Subsidiaries for the year ended 30th September 2015 24 CORPORATE SOCIAL INVESTMENT CORPORATE SOCIAL INVESTMENT (continued) The Company is increasingly emphasizing Social Corporate Investment (CSI) which we consider to be much more valuable than CSR, because CSI echoes the general emphasis on sustainability, which is foundational to the organization in its day-to-day operations. Sasini is focused at building a strategy that delivers enduring and lasting difference in the lives of beneficiaries. The Company continues to be proactive on environmental conservation and in supporting communities with whom we do business with. The construction of the Zarina and Naushad Merali School in Nyamira County was commissioned. The annual farmers’ day was held and farmers had the opportunity to visit the coffee milling facilities and interact with the managers on plant husbandry and other value added services for improving production volumes and quality of coffee. During this meeting the Company gave out 200,000 seedlings of improved coffee varieties to the farmers and indigenous tree seedlings to neighboring primary schools. Conservation efforts in streams around both our tea and coffee estates has ensured availability of water in the villages around these estates and a wonderful habitat for birds, dik dik, monkeys and other local wild life. Registration of farmers Ground Breaking for construction of Secondary School Coffee farmers at annual event Site for Secondary School construction Coffee farmers at day’s event Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements 25 for the year ended 30th September 2015 Sasini Limited and Subsidiaries for the year ended 30th September 2015 26 KPMG Kenya Telephone +254 20 2806000 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES Certified Public Accountants 8th Floor, ABC Towers Waiyaki Way Fax Email Internet +254 20 2215695 info@kpmg.co.ke www.kpmg.com/eastafrica P.O. Box 40612 00100 GPO Nairobi, Kenya REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS TO THE MEMBERS OF SASINI LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES The Directors are responsible for the preparation and presentation of the company and consolidated financial statements of Sasini Limited and its subsidiaries set out on pages 29 to 80 which comprise the statements of financial Report on the financial statements positions of the group and of the company as at 30 September 2015, and the group and company statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, the group and company statements of changes in equity and group and We have audited the consolidated and separate financial statements of Sasini Limited set out on pages 29 to 80 which company statements of cash flows for the year then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other comprise the statements of financial position of the group and the company as at 30 September 2015, and the group and the explanatory information. company statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, group and the company statements of changes in equity and group and the company statements of cash flows for the year then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. The Directors’ responsibilities include: determining that the basis of accounting described in Note 2 is an acceptable basis for preparing and presenting the financial statements in the circumstances, preparation and presentation of Directors’ responsibility for the financial statements financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and in the manner required by the Kenyan Companies Act and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation As stated on page 27, the directors are responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in of financial statements that are free from material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error. accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and in the manner required by the Kenyan Companies Act and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free Under the Kenyan Companies Act, the Directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year from material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error. which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and of the company as at the end of the financial year and of the operating results of the group for that year. It also requires the Directors to ensure the company and Auditors’ responsibility its subsidiaries keep proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the group and the company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing. Those standards require that we comply with relevant ethical The Directors accept responsibility for the annual financial statements, which have been prepared using appropriate requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free accounting policies supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, in conformity with International from material misstatement. Financial Reporting Standards and in the manner required by the Kenyan Companies Act. The Directors are of the An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial opinion that the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the financial affairs of the group and the statements. The procedures selected depend on our judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement company and of the group operating results. of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, we consider internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that The Directors further accept responsibility for the maintenance of accounting records which may be relied upon in the are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s preparation of financial statements, as well as adequate systems of internal financial control. internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. The Directors have made an assessment of the group and the company’s ability to continue as a going concern and have no reason to believe the company and its subsidiaries will not be a going concern for at least the next twelve We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. months from the date of this statement. Opinion Approval of the financial statements In our opinion, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the consolidated and separate financial position of Sasini The financial statements, as indicated above, were approved by the Board of Directors on 16 December 2015 and were Limited at 30 September 2015, and the consolidated and separate financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and in the manner required by the Kenyan Companies signed on its behalf by: Act. Report on other legal requirements As required by the Kenyan Companies Act we report to you, based on our audit, that: (i) we have obtained all the information and explanations, which to the best of our knowledge and belief were necessary for the purpose of our audit; Dr. J.B. McFie M.K. Changwony Chairman Director (ii) in our opinion, proper books of account have been kept by the company, so far as appears from our examination of those books; and (iii) the statement of financial position of the company is in agreement with the books of account. The Engagement Partner responsible for the audit resulting in this independent auditors’ report is CPA Jacob Gathecha – P/1610. KPMG Kenya is a registered partnership and a member firm of the Partners EE Aholi JL Mwaura KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG PC Appleton* RB Ndung’u International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity (British*) BC D’Souza JM Ndunyu Date: 16 December 2015 JM Gathecha JI Kariuki AW Pringle* PI Kinuthia Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements 27 for the year ended 30th September 2015 Sasini Limited and Subsidiaries Sasini Limited and Subsidiaries for the year ended 30th September 2015 28 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND COMPANY STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND OTHER OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 2015 2014 2015 2014 Note KShs’000 KShs’000 Note KShs’000 KShs’000 Revenue 8 2,786,126 2,762,547 Cost of sales 9 (2,052,821) (2,077,482) Revenue 8 934,798 723,432 Cost of sales 9 (699,819) (477,260) Gross profit 733,305 685,065 Gross profit 234,979 246,172 Fair value changes on biological assets 20(a) 18,290 (50,198) Other income 10 962,791 238,675 Fair value changes on biological assets 20(b) (97,068) 379,100 Total operating income 1,714,386 873,542 Other income 10 711,531 230,699 Administration and establishment expenses 11 (723,728) (762,819) Selling and distribution costs 12 (26,134) (23,392) Total operating income 849,442 855,971 Results from operating activities 964,524 87,331 Administration and establishment expenses 11 (348,983) (388,806) Finance income 13(a) 93,864 2,199 Results from operating activities 500,459 467,165 Finance costs 13(b) (19,166) (27,737) Net finance income/(costs) 13 74,698 (25,538) Finance income 13(a) 20,211 1,001 Finance costs 13(b) (6,986) (25,443) Profit before tax 14 1,039,222 61,793 Net finance income/(costs) 13 13,225 (24,442) Tax credit/(expense) 15(a) 61,990 (16,372) Profit before tax 14 513,684 442,723 Profit for the year 1,101,212 45,421 Other comprehensive income Tax expense 15(a) (9,480) (136,542) Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Revaluation gain net of tax 405,712 5,674,530 Profit for the year 504,204 306,181 Change in deferred tax with change in tax rate 203,699 Remeasurement of post-employment benefits 32,734 18,106 Other comprehensive income Total comprehensive income 1,743,357 5,738,057 Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Revaluation gain net of tax 169,229 4,409,658 Profit attributable to: Remeasurment of post-employment benefits 3,742 1,714 Owners of the company 974,763 23,657 Non-controlling interest 126,449 21,764 1,101,212 45,421 Total comprehensive income 677,175 4,717,553 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Owners of the company 1,565,800 5,595,964 Profit is made up as follows: Non-controlling interest 177,557 142,093 Profit arising from operating activities 572,152 40,812 1,743,357 5,738,057 Fair value changes on biological assetsnet of tax (67,948) 265,369 Profit attributable 504,204 306,181 to the owners of company is made up as follows: Earnings per share: Profit arising from operating activities 953,650 85,476 Fair value changes on biological assetsnet of tax 21,113 (61,819) Basic and diluted (KShs) 16 2.21 1.34 974,763 23,657 Earnings per share: Dividend per share (KShs) 17 1.25 0.25 Basic and diluted (KShs) 16 4.27 0.10 Dividend per share (KShs) 17 1.25 0.25 The notes set out on pages 39 to 80 form an integral part of the financial statements. The notes set out on pages 39 to 80 form an integral part of the financial statements. Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements 29 for the year ended 30th September 2015 Sasini Limited and Subsidiaries Sasini Limited and Subsidiaries for the year ended 30th September 2015 30 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION COMPANY STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION AS AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 AS AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 2015 2014 ASSETS Note KShs’000 KShs’000 2015 2014 Non-current assets ASSETS Note KShs’000 KShs’000 Property, plant and equipment 18(a) 8,770,714 8,362,361 Non-current assets Capital work-in-progress 18(c) 33,358 29,678 Property, plant and equipment 18(b) 6,003,214 5,812,692 Intangible assets 19 8,393 8,210 Intangible assets 19 5,855 6,330 Biological assets 20(a) 5,077,329 5,240,576 Biological assets 20(b) 1,842,777 1,942,322 Prepaid leases on leasehold land 21 18,473 20,074 Prepaid leases on leasehold land 21 7,633 7,760 Available-for-sale financial asset 22 525 525 Investment in subsidiary companies 23 172,697 172,697 Deferred tax asset 30 77,070 23,070 8,032,176 7,941,801 13,985,862 13,684,494 Current assets Inventories 24 96,595 78,192 Current assets Trade and other receivables 25 205,944 292,425 Inventories 24 341,362 318,063 Amounts due from related companies 26 31,429 251,535 Trade and other receivables 25 510,106 582,494 Cash and cash equivalents 27 317,023 144,813 Amounts due from related companies 26 1,209 1,198 650,991 766,965 Tax recoverable 15(b) 5,474 17,463 TOTAL ASSETS 8,683,167 8,708,766 Cash and cash equivalents 27 1,200,514 325,865 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 2,058,665 1,245,083 TOTAL ASSETS 16,044,527 14,929,577 Capital and reserves (Pages 35 & 36) Share capital 28 228,055 228,055 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Non distributable reserves 29 6,903,329 6,798,306 Distributable reserves 29 686,917 399,834 Capital and reserves (Pages 33 & 34) Share capital 28 228,055 228,055 Total equity 7,818,301 7,426,195 Non-distributable reserves 29 10,739,105 10,223,449 Distributable reserves 29 2,201,242 1,427,709 Non-current liabilities 13,168,402 11,879,213 Deferred tax liability 30 671,781 638,246 Non-controlling interest 29 390,103 241,755 Post-employment benefits 31 15,113 21,094 Total equity 13,558,505 12,120,968 686,894 659,340 Non-current liabilities Current liabilities Deferred tax liability 30 1,801,496 2,003,249 Post-employment benefits 31 3,208 Post-employment benefits 31 216,814 270,520 Amounts due to related companies 26 49,499 357,805 2,018,310 2,273,769 Trade and other payables 32 123,862 264,008 Current liabilities Tax payable 15(b) 1,403 1,418 Post-employment benefits 31 28,596 10,373 177,972 623,231 Amounts due to related parties 26 1,082 681 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 8,683,167 8,708,766 Trade and other payables 32 429,139 522,368 Tax payable 15(b) 8,895 1,418 467,712 534,840 The financial statements set out on pages 29 to 80 were approved by the Board of Directors on 16 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 16,044,527 14,929,577 December 2015 and signed on its behalf by: The financial statements set out on pages 29 to 80 were approved by the Board of Directors on 16 December 2015 and signed on its behalf by: Dr. J.B. McFie M.K. Changwony Dr. J.B. McFie M.K. Changwony Chairman Director Chairman Director The notes set out on pages 39 to 80 form an integral part of the financial statements. The notes set out on pages 39 to 80 form an integral part of the financial statements. Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements 31 for the year ended 30th September 2015 Sasini Limited and Subsidiaries Sasini Limited and Subsidiaries for the year ended 30th September 2015 32 33 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 Biological assets Defined Total Non Share Capital Revaluation fair value benefit Retained Proposed attributable controlling capital reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings dividends to owners interest Total equity 2015: KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 At 1 October 2014 228,055 98,530 7,337,072 2,769,893 17,954 1,370,695 57,014 11,879,213 241,755 12,120,968 Total comprehensive income for the year Profit for the year 974,763 974,763 126,449 1,101,212 Other comprehensive income Fair value gain on biological assets 21,113 (21,113) Revaluation surplus gain 565,538 565,538 14,051 579,589 Deferred tax on revaluation (169,662) (169,662) ( 4,215) (173,877) Remeasurement of post employment benefits net of tax 32,566 32,566 168 32,734 Transfer on disposals of property and Equipment (10,469) (94,483) 104,952 Change in deferred tax rate on revaluation 162,595 162,595 41,104 203,699 Deferred tax on items disposed 2,900 5,558 8,458 791 9,249 Total comprehensive income for the year 550,902 (67,812) 32,566 1,058,602 1,574,258 178,348 1,752,606 Transactions with owners of the company recorded directly in equity Final 2014 dividend paid (57,014) (57,014) (57,104) Interim 2015 dividend paid (228,055) (228,055) (30,000) (258,055) Proposed final 2015 dividend (57,014) 57,014 Total distribution to owners of the company (285,069) (285,069) (30,000) (315,069) At 30 September 2015 228,055 98,530 7,887,974 2,702,081 50,520 2,144,228 57,014 13,168,402 390,103 13,558,505 The notes set out on pages 39 to 80 form an integral part of the financial statements. Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 for the year ended 30th September 2015 Sasini Limited and Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 (continued) Biological assets Defined Total Non Share Capital Revaluation fair value benefit Retained Proposed attributable controlling capital reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings dividends to owners interest Total equity 2014: KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 At 1 October 2013 228,055 98,530 1,815,574 2,831,712 1,309,162 6,283,033 99,878 6,382,911 Total comprehensive income for the year Profit for the year 23,657 23,657 21,764 45,421 Other comprehensive income Fair value gain on biological assets (61,819) 61,819 Revaluation surplus 5,955,468 5,955,468 171,682 6,127,150 Deferred tax on revaluation (401,115) (401,115) (51,505) (452,620) Remeasurement of post employment benefits net of tax 17,954 17,954 152 18,106 Excess depreciation on revaluation (46,936) 46,936 Deferred tax on revaluation 14,081 (14,081) Total comprehensive income for the year 5,521,498 (61,819) 17,954 118,331 5,595,964 142,093 5,738,057 Transactions with owners of the company recorded directly in equity Proposed final 2014 dividend (57,014) 57,014 Reclassifications to non controlling interest 216 216 (216) Total distribution to owners of the company (56,798) 57,014 216 (216) At 30 September 2014 228,055 98,530 7,337,072 2,769,893 17,954 1,370,695 57,014 11,879,213 241,755 12,120,968 The notes set out on pages 39 to 80 form an integral part of the financial statements. 34 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 for the year ended 30th September 2015 Sasini Limited and Subsidiaries COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 (continued) Biological Biological assets Defined assets Defined Share Capital Revaluation fair value benefit Retained Proposed Total Share Capital Revaluation fair value benefit Retained Proposed Total capital reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings dividends equity capital reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings dividends equity 2015: KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 2014: KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 At 1 October 2014 228,055 40,594 5,508,889 1,247,109 1,714 342,820 57,014 7,426,195 At 1 October 2013 228,055 40,594 1,109,899 981,741 348,353 2,708,642 Total comprehensive income Total comprehensive income for the year for the year Profit for the year 504,204 504,204 Profit for the year 306,181 306,181 Other comprehensive income Appropriation of fair value on Other comprehensive income biological assets (67,948) 67,948 Appropriation of fair value on net of tax biological assets Revaluation surplus 241,756 241,756 net of tax 265,368 (265,368) Deferred tax on revaluation (72,527) (72,527) Revaluation surplus 4,423,047 4,423,047 Remeasurement of post 5,346 Deferred tax on revaluation (13,389) (13,389) employmenmt benefits 5,346 Remeasurement of post Deferred tax on employmenmt benefits 2,449 2,449 remeasurement of post Deferred tax on employmenmt benefits (1,604) (1,604) remeasurement of post Total comprehensive income employmenmt benefits (735) (735) for the year 169,229 (67,948) 3,742 572,152 677,175 Excess depreciation on revaluation (15,240) 15,240 Transactions with owners Deferred tax on revaluation 4,572 (4,572) of the company recorded directly in equity Final 2014 dividend paid (57,014) (57,014) Total comprehensive income for the year 4,398,990 265,368 1,714 51,481 4,717,553 Interim 2015 dividend paid (228,055) (228,055) Proposed final 2015 dividend (57,014) (57,014) Transactions with owners of the company recorded Total distribution to owners directly in equity of equity (285,069) (285,069) Proposed final 2014 dividend (57,014) 57,014 At 30 September 2015 228,055 40,594 5,678,118 1,179,161 5,456 629,903 57,014 7,818,301 At 30 September 2014 228,055 40,594 5,508,889 1,247,109 1,714 342,820 57,014 7,426,195 The notes set out on pages 39 to 80 form an integral part of the financial statements. The notes set out on pages 39 to 80 form an integral part of the financial statements. Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements 35 for the year ended 30th September 2015 Sasini Limited and Subsidiaries Sasini Limited and Subsidiaries for the year ended 30th September 2015 36 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS COMPANY STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 2015 2014 2015 2014 Note KShs’000 KShs’000 Note KShs’000 KShs’000 Cash flows from operating activities Cash flows from operating activities Cash flows generated from operations 33 281,367 324,180 Cash flows generated from operations 33 472,554 169,537 Income taxes paid 15(b) (153,225) (9,022) Income taxes paid 15(b) (50,091) ( 5,387) Net cash from operating activities 128,142 315,158 Net cash from operating activities 422,463 164,150 Cash flows from investing activities Cash flows from investing activities Purchase of property and equipment 18 ( 21,795) (26,515) Purchase of property and equipment 18 (14,145) (17,685) Purchase of intangible assets 19 (3,434) (8,175) Purchase of intangible assets 19 (2,039) (6,458) Purchase of capital work-in-progress 18(c) (13,249) (29,982) Proceeds from sale of non-current assets 57,640 905 Proceeds from sale of non-current assets 1,061,282 905 Interest income 13 16 423 Interest income 13 44,222 1,621 Net cash from/(used in) investing activities 41,472 ( 22,815) Net cash from/(used in) investing activities 1,067,026 (62,146) Cash flows from financing activities Cash flows from financing activities Interest expense 13 (6,986) (12,933) Interest expense 13 (6,986) (12,984) Loan repayment (175,491) Loan repayment (175,491) Dividends paid on ordinary shares (285,069) Dividends paid on ordinary shares (315,069) Net cash used in financing activities (292,055) (188,424) Net cash used in financing activities ( 322,055) (188,475) Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 171,880 ( 47,089) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 873,113 64,537 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 144,813 203,695 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 325,865 275,364 Unrealised foreign exchange gain/(loss) 13 330 (11,793) Unrealised foreign exchange gain/ (loss) 13 1,536 ( 14,036) Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 27 317,023 144,813 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 27 1,200,514 325,865 The notes set out on pages 39 to 80 form an integral part of the financial statements. The notes set out on pages 39 to 80 form an integral part of the financial statements. Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements 37 for the year ended 30th September 2015 Sasini Limited and Subsidiaries Sasini Limited and Subsidiaries for the year ended 30th September 2015 38 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 (continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 (continued) 1. REPORTING ENTITY (c) Functional and presentation currency 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (b) Foreign currency transactions (a) Basis of consolidation Sasini Limited (the “Company”) is a company incorporated The financial statements are presented in Kenya (i) Subsidiaries Monetary assets and liabilities expressed in foreign in Kenya under the Kenyan Companies Act and is domiciled shillings (KShs), which is the Group’s functional currencies are translated into Kenya Shillings at in Kenya. The consolidated financial statements comprise currency. Except as otherwise indicated, financial The consolidated financial statements comprise the the rate of exchange ruling at the reporting date. the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to information presented in Kenya shillings has been financial statements of the Group and its subsidiaries Transactions during the year in foreign currencies as the “Group” and individually referred to as “Group rounded to the nearest thousand (KShs‘000). as at 30 September 2015. The subsidiaries are shown are translated at the rates ruling at the dates of entities”). in Note 23. the transactions. Gains and losses on exchange are recognised in profit or loss. The Group primarily is involved in growing and processing Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. (d) Going concern Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of of tea and coffee, commercial milling and marketing of Control exists when the Group has the power to coffee, value addition of related products, forestry, dairy govern the financial and operating policies of an historical cost in a foreign currency are translated operations and livestock. The Group’s and Company’s management has made entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. using the exchange rates as at the dates of the an assessment of the Group and Company’s ability In assessing control, potential voting rights that initial transactions. Non-monetary items measured The address of its registered office and principal place of to continue as a going concern and is satisfied presently are exercisable are taken into account. at fair value in a foreign currency are translated business is as follows: that the Group and Company has the resources to The financial statements of subsidiaries are included using the exchange rates at the date when the fair continue in business for the foreseeable future. in the consolidated financial statements from the value is determined. Furthermore, the management is not aware of date that control commences until the date that Sasini House any material uncertainties that may cast significant control ceases. The financial statements have Loita Street PO Box 30151 00100 doubt upon the Group’s ability to continue as a been prepared using uniform accounting policies (c) Revenue recognition going concern. Therefore, the financial statements for like transactions and other events in similar Nairobi have been prepared on the going concern basis. circumstances. Revenue represents the fair value of the The shares of the Company are listed on the Nairobi Losses within a subsidiary are attributed to the nonconsideration received or receivable for sales of Securities Exchange (NSE). controlling interest even if that results in a deficit goods and services, and is stated net of valueThe consolidated financial statements were authorised (e) Use of estimates and judgments added tax (VAT), rebates and discounts and after balance. A change in the ownership interest of a for issue by the Board of Directors on 16 December 2015. subsidiary, without a loss of control, is accounted eliminating sales within the Group. Revenue is For Kenyan Companies Act reporting purposes, the The preparation of financial statements in for as an equity transaction. If the Group loses recognised as follows: balance sheet is represented by the statement of financial conformity with IFRSs requires management to control over a subsidiary, it: (i) Sales of goods are recognised when significant position and the profit and loss account by the statement make judgments, estimates and assumptions that • Derecognises the assets (including goodwill) and risk and rewards of ownership have been transferred of profit or loss and other comprehensive income in these affect the application of accounting policies and liabilities of the subsidiary; to the buyer, recovery of the consideration is financial statements. reported amounts of assets and liabilities and probable, the associated costs and possible return disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the • Derecognises the carrying amount of any nonof goods can be estimated reliably and when there date of the financial statements and the reported controlling interest; is no continuing management involvement and the 2. BASIS OF PREPARATION amounts of revenues and expenses during the • Derecognises the cumulative translation amount of revenue can be measured reliably. (a) Statement of compliance reporting period. The estimates and assumptions are based on the Directors’ best knowledge of differences, recorded in equity; (ii) Sales of services are recognised in the period current events, actions, historical experience • Recognises the fair value of the consideration in which the services are rendered by reference to The financial statements are prepared in accordance and various other factors that are believed to be received; the completion of specific transactions assessed on with International Financial Reporting Standards reasonable under the circumstances, the results the basis of actual service provided as a proportion (IFRS) and in the manner required by the Kenya • Recognises the fair value of any investment of total services to be provided. Sales revenue can of which form the basis of making the judgments Companies Act. retained. Subsequently, it is accounted as an equity only be recognised when the associated costs can about the carrying values of assets and liabilities accounted investee or as an available-for-sale be estimated reliably and the amount of revenue that are not readily apparent from other sources. financial asset depending on the level of influence can be estimated reliably. Actual results may differ from these estimates. (b) Basis of measurement retained; and The estimates and underlying assumptions are • Recognises any surplus or deficit in profit or loss. reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to The financial statements are prepared under the (d) Taxation accounting estimates are recognized in the period historical cost basis of accounting except for in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects biological assets and financial instruments that only that period or in the period of the revision and (ii) Transactions eliminated on consolidation Tax expense comprises current tax and movement have been measured at fair value and certain items future periods if the revision affects both current in deferred tax. Current tax and deferred tax is property, plant and equipment that have been and future periods. Intra-group balances and transactions and any recognised in profit or loss except to the extent carried at revaluation amounts. The accounting unrealised income and expenses arising from intrathat it relates to a business combination or policies adopted are consistent with those of the In particular, information about significant areas group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the items recognised directly in equity or in other previous years. of estimation and critical judgments in applying consolidated financial statements. Unrealized losses comprehensive income. accounting policies that have the most significant are eliminated in the same way as unrealized gains, effect on the amounts recognized in the financial but only to the extent that there is no evidence of statements are described in Note 4. impairment. Annual Report and Financial Statements Annual Report and Financial Statements 39 for the year ended 30th September 2015 for the year ended 30th September 2015 40 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 (continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 (continued) 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES that it has become probable that future taxable profits will 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES In assessing impairment, the Group considers (c0ntinued) allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered. Deferred tax (c0ntinued) impairment at both individual and collective level. assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are All individually significant assets are individually (d) Taxation (c0ntinued) (e) Investments in subsidiary companies expected to apply in the year when the asset is realised assessed for impairment. Assets that are not i) Current taxation (continued) or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) individually impaired are assessed collectively. Current income tax assets and liabilities for the that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the (ii) Classification (c0ntinued) Collective assessment is carried out by grouping current and prior periods are measured at the reporting date. These are measured at amortised cost using the together assets with similar credit characteristics. amount expected to be recovered from or paid effective interest method, less any impairment Impairment loss is calculated as the difference to the taxation authorities. The tax rates and Deferred tax relating to items recognised directly in other losses. between the assets carrying amount and present tax laws used to compute the amount are those comprehensive income or equity is recognised in other value of estimated future cash flows discounted at that are enacted or substantively enacted, at the comprehensive income or equity and not in profit or loss. Available-for-sale assets original effective interest rate. reporting date. Current income tax relating to items Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset, Available-for-sale assets are the non-derivative recognised directly in other comprehensive income An impairment loss is reversed if the reversal can be if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current financial assets that are designated as available or equity is recognised in other comprehensive related objectively to an event occurring after the tax assets against current income tax liabilities and the for sale or are not classified as held for trading income or equity and not in profit or loss. impairment loss was recognised. deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the purposes, loans and receivables or held to maturity. Management periodically evaluates positions same taxation authority. taken in the tax returns with respect to situations (ii) Impairment of non-financial assets in which applicable tax regulations are subject to (iii) De-recognition interpretation and establishes provisions where (e) Investments in subsidiary companies appropriate. The carrying amounts of the Group’s assets, A financial asset is derecognised when the Group other than defined benefits asset, deferred tax, The investments in subsidiary companies are loses control over the contractual rights that biological assets and inventories, are reviewed at accounted for at cost in the Company’s statement of comprise that asset. This occurs when the rights (ii) Deferred tax financial position less any provisions for impairment each financial reporting date to determine whether are realised, expire or are surrendered. A financial there is any indication of impairment. If any such losses. Where in the opinion of the directors, there liability is derecognised when it is extinguished, indication exists then the assets’ recoverable Deferred tax is provided in respect of temporary has been an impairment of value of an investment; cancelled or expires. amount is estimated. differences at the reporting date between the tax the loss is recognised as an expense in the period in bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying which the impairment is identified. An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes. (iv) Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount. A cash-generating Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable (f) Financial instruments unit is the smallest identifiable asset group that temporary differences, except: Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the (i) Measurement and recognition generates cash inflows that largely are independent • Where the deferred tax liability arises from net amount reported on the statement of financial from other assets and groups. Impairment losses are the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset position when there is a legally enforceable right recognised in the profit or loss. Impairment losses or liability in a transaction that is not a business Financial instruments are recognised in the Group to set-off the recognised amount and there is an recognised in respect of cash-generating units are combination and, at the time of the transaction, and Company financial statements when, and only intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable when, the Group and Company become party to the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. goodwill allocated to the units and then to reduce profit or loss. contractual provisions of the instrument, the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit (group of units) on a pro-rata basis. • In respect of taxable temporary differences (v) Fair value of financial assets and liabilities associated with investments in subsidiaries (ii) Classification The recoverable amount of an asset or cashwhere the timing of the reversal of the temporary generating unit is the greater of its value in use and differences can be controlled and it is probable that Fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities is its fair value less costs to sell. In assessing value in the temporary differences will not reverse in the The Group classifies its financial assets into loans the price that would be received to sell an asset or use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted foreseeable future. and receivables and available for sale assets. paid to transfer a liability respectively in an orderly to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate Management determines the appropriate transaction between market participants at the that reflects current market assessments of the Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible classification of its financial instruments at the measurement date. time value of money and the risks specific to the temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax time of purchase and re-evaluates its portfolio on asset. credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is a regular basis to ensure that all financial assets are probable that taxable profit will be available against appropriately classified. (g) Impairment which the deductible temporary differences, and (i) Financial assets the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused Loans and receivables (h) Property, plant & equipment and depreciation tax losses can be utilised. Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that A financial asset is assessed at each reporting date to Property, plant and equipment are measured The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed determine whether there is any objective evidence are not quoted in an active market other than those at cost or revalued amounts less accumulated at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it that it is impaired. A financial asset is considered to that the Group intends to sell in the short-term or depreciation and any impairment losses. Cost is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be be impaired if objective evidence indicate that one that it has designated as at fair value through profit includes expenditures that are directly attributable available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be or more events have had a negative effect on the or loss or available for sale. Loans and receivables to the acquisition of the asset. utilised. Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed estimated future cash flows of that asset. at each reporting date and are recognised to the extent comprise trade and other receivables, cash and bank balances and balances due from group companies. Annual Report and Financial Statements Annual Report and Financial Statements 41 for the year ended 30th September 2015 for the year ended 30th September 2015 42 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 (continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 (continued) 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES methods are reviewed on an annual basis and 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (ii) Group as a lessor (c0ntinued) adjusted prospectively, if appropriate. (c0ntinued) (h) Property, plant & equipment and depreciation An item of property, plant and equipment is de(j) Biological assets (continued) Leases where the Group does not transfer (continued) recognised upon disposal or when no future All costs incurred relating to mature biological substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership economic benefits are expected to arise from the assets are recognised in profit or loss in the period of the asset are classified as operating leases. Initial Revaluation increases arising on the revaluations continued use of the asset. Any gain or loss on dein which they are incurred. Costs incurred relating direct costs incurred in negotiating an operating are recognised in other comprehensive income and recognition of the asset (calculated as the difference to immature biological assets are factored in the fair lease are added to the carrying amount of the accumulated in the revaluation reserve in equity, between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying value adjustment. leased asset and recognised over the lease term on except to the extent that it reverses a revaluation amount of the item) is included in profit or loss in the same bases as rental income. Contingent rents decrease for the same asset previously recognised the year the item is de-recognised. are recognised as revenue in the period in which as an expense, in which case the increase is credited (k) Share capital they are earned. to profit or loss to the extent of the decrease The carrying values of the property, plant and previously charged. A decrease in carrying amount equipment are assessed annually and adjusted for arising out of revaluation is charged as an expense impairment where it is considered necessary. Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Equity to the extent that it exceeds the balance, if any, instruments issued by a group entity are recognised (m) Work-in-progress held in the revaluation reserve relating to a previous at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. revaluation of that asset. (i) Intangible assets Work-in-progress represents costs incurred in An annual transfer from the asset revaluation acquisition/installation of an item of property, plant (l) Leases and equipment which is not in use. Work-in-progress reserve to retained earnings is made for the An intangible asset arises from the purchases of difference between depreciation based on the accounting software. Acquired intangible assets are is not depreciated until the assets are completed revalued amount of the asset and the original measured on initial recognition at cost. The determination of whether an arrangement is, and brought into use but tested for impairment cost. Additionally, accumulated depreciation at or contains a lease is based on the substance of the when there is an indicator for impairment. The Group recognises an intangible asset at cost if, the revaluation date is eliminated against the gross arrangement at inception date: whether fulfilment and only if, it is probable that the future economic carrying amount of the asset and the net amount is of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a benefits that are attributable to the asset will (n) Inventories restated to the revalued amount of the asset. Upon specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys flow to the Group and the cost of the asset can disposal, any surplus remaining in the revaluation a right to use the asset. be measured reliably. Following initial recognition, reserve relating to the particular asset being sold is Tea and coffee inventories are stated at the lower intangible assets are carried at cost less any transferred to retained earnings. of cost and net realisable value. Cost is determined accumulated amortisation and any accumulated Revaluations are done with sufficient regularity to impairment losses. The useful lives of intangible (i) Group as a lessee on the weighted average cost. Cost comprises ensure that the carrying amount does not differ assets are assessed to be finite. expenditure incurred in the normal course of materially from that which would be determined Finance leases, which transfer to the Group business, including direct material costs, labour The intangible assets are amortised on a straightand production overheads, where appropriate, that using fair value at the end of the reporting period. substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to line basis over their useful lives (5 years). have been incurred in bringing the stocks to their ownership of the leased item, are recognised at the Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when present location and condition. Net realisable value Amortisation method, useful lives and residual commencement of the lease at the fair value of the it is probable that the future economic benefits is the price at which the inventory can be realised values are reviewed at each reporting date. leased property or, if lower, at the present value associated with the expenditure will flow to in the normal course of business after allowing for of the minimum lease payments. Lease payments the Group. Ongoing repairs and maintenance is costs of realisation. are apportioned between finance charges and expensed as incurred. (j) Biological assets reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a Consumable stores are stated at the weighted When parts of an item of property, plant and constant rate of interest on the remaining balance average cost less provisions for obsolescence, slow equipment have different useful lives, they of the liability. Finance charges are recognised in moving and defective stocks. Biological assets are measured on initial recognition are accounted for as separate items (major profit or loss. and at each reporting date at fair value less cost Agricultural produce is measured at fair value less components) of property, plant and equipment. to sell. Costs to sell include all costs that would be Leased assets are depreciated over the useful life cost to sell at the point of harvest. Any changes No depreciation is provided on freehold land. necessary to sell the assets including transportation of the asset. However, if there is no reasonable arising on initial recognition of agricultural produce Other items of property, plant and equipment costs. Any changes to the fair value are recognised certainty that the Group will obtain ownership by at fair value less cost to sell are recognised in profit are depreciated on the straight line basis to write in profit or loss in the period in which they arise. The the end of the lease term, the asset is depreciated or loss. The cost of finished goods and work in down the cost or revalued amount of each asset to fair value net of deferred tax is reserved in equity as over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the progress comprise the fair value less cost to sell its residual value over its estimated useful life for a non-distributable reserve. asset and the lease term. of agricultural produce at the point of harvest, current and comparative periods as follows: raw materials, direct costs and related production The fair value of livestock is determined based on the Operating lease payments are recognised as an Buildings and improvements 12 – 45 years market prices of livestock of similar age, breed and expense in the statement of comprehensive income overheads (based on normal operating capacity) Plant, machinery and tools 12.5% p.a sex. Where meaningful market determined prices on a straight line basis over the lease term. but excludes borrowing costs. Rolling stock 25.0% p.a do not exist to assess the fair value of the Group’s Lease incentives received are recognised as an Farm implements and trailers 12.5% p.a other biological assets, the fair value is determined integral part of the total lease expense, over the Furniture, fittings and equipment 12.5% p.a based on the net present value of expected future lease term. Computers 33.3% p.a cash flows, discounted at appropriate pre-tax rate. Useful life, residual values and depreciation Annual Report and Financial Statements Annual Report and Financial Statements 43 for the year ended 30th September 2015 for the year ended 30th September 2015 44 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 (continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 (continued) 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (iii) Accrued annual leave 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES operating results are reviewed regularly by the (c0ntinued) (c0ntinued) Group’s Management Committee (being the chief operating decision maker) to make decisions about (o) Employee benefit The monetary liability for employees’ accrued (s) Finance income and finance costs resources allocated to each segment and assess annual leave entitlement at the reporting date is its performance, and for which discrete financial The Group operates a defined contribution recognised as an expense accrual. Finance income comprises interest income on information is available. retirement benefits scheme for its non-unionised funds invested (including available-for-sale financial employees. For the unionised employees, the Group assets), dividend income, gains on the disposal of operates a gratuity scheme. (iv) Short term employee benefits available-for-sale financial assets and changes in the (w) Comparatives fair value of financial assets at fair value through Short term employee benefits are expensed as the profit or loss. Interest income is recognised as it Where necessary, comparative figures have been (i) Defined contribution plan related service is provided. A liability is recognised accrues in profit or loss, using the effective interest method. Dividend income is recognised in profit or restated to conform to changes in presentation in for the amount expected to be paid if the Group loss on the date that the Group’s right to receive the current year. A defined contribution plan is a post-employment has present legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service provided by payment is established, which in the case of quoted benefit plan which an entity pays fixed contribution the employee and the obligation can be estimated securities is the ex-dividend date. into a separate entity and has no legal or constructive (x) New standards and interpretations not yet obligation to pay further amounts. The expense is reliably. Finance costs comprise interest expense on adopted recognised in profit or loss. borrowings, unwinding of the discount on provisions, changes in the fair value of financial Contributions from the Group, at a rate of 12.5% of (p) Provisions Standards, amendments and interpretations to assets at fair value through profit or loss, the basic salary of each employee, are expensed in existing standards that are not yet effective and impairment losses recognised on financial assets. the year the services are rendered and paid over to have not been early adopted by the Group. The A provision is recognised in the statement of Borrowing costs that are not directly attributable a separate trustee administered fund. directors are in the process of assessing the impact financial position when the Group has a legal or to the acquisition, construction or production of The Group also contributes to a statutory defined a qualifying asset are recognised in profit or loss of these standards on the Group and parent entity’s constructive obligation as a result of a past event contribution pension scheme, the National Social using the effective interest method. financial statements. and it is probable that an outflow of economic Security Fund (NSSF). Contributions are determined benefits will be required to settle the obligation. If Foreign currency gains and losses are reported on by local statute and are limited to KShs 200 per the effect is material, provisions are determined by a net basis. employee per month. The Group’s contributions to discounting the expected future cash flows at a preNew standard or amendments Effective for the above schemes are charged to profit or loss in tax rate that reflects current market assessments of annual periods the year to which they relate. the time value of money and, where appropriate, beginning on or (t) Dividends Prepaid contribution is recognised as an asset, the risks specific to the liability. The unwinding of after to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in discount is recognised as finance cost. •Sale or Contribution of Assets 1 January 2016 Dividends payable to the Company’s shareholders between an Investor and its Associate future payments is available. are recognised as a liability in the period in which or Joint Venture (Amendments to IFRS (q) Borrowing costs they are declared. Proposed dividends are disclosed 10 and IAS 28) as a separate component of equity. • Accounting for Acquisitions 1 January 2016 (ii) Gratuity of Interests in Joint Operations Borrowing costs directly attributable to the (Amendments to IFRS 11) Employee entitlement to gratuity under the acquisition, construction or production of an asset (u) Related party transactions • Agriculture Bearer Plants 1 January 2016 collective bargaining agreements with the trade that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to (Amendments to IAS16 and IAS 41) unions and long service awards are recognised get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of the respective assets. All other The Group discloses the nature, volume and • Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 – 1 January 2016 when they accrue to employees. A provision is Clarification of Acceptable Methods of borrowing costs are expensed in the period they amounts outstanding at the end of each financial made for the liability for such entitlements as a Depreciations and Amortisation occur. year from transactions with related parties, which result of services rendered by employees up to the include transactions with the directors, executive •Equity Method in Separate Financial 1 January 2016 reporting date. Statements (Amendments to IAS 27) officers and Group or related companies. The The liability recognised in the statement of financial (r) Earnings per share related party transactions are at arms length. • IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral 1 January 2016 position is the present value of the estimated Accounts future cash outflows, calculated by an independent • Investment Entities: Applying 1 January 2016 actuary using the projected unit credit method. The Basic and diluted earnings per share (EPS) data (v) Operating segments the Consolidation Exception increase or decrease in the provision is taken to for ordinary shares are presented in the financial (Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and profit or loss. statements. Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the IAS 28) profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders An operating segment is a component of the Group • Disclosure Initiative (Amendments 1 January 2016 of the Group by the weighted average number of that engages in business activities from which it to IAS 1) ordinary shares outstanding during the period. may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions • IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with 1 January 2018 Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the profit Customers or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders and with any of the Group’s other components, whose • IFRS 9 Financial Instruments (2014) 1 January 2018 the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, if any. Annual Report and Financial Statements Annual Report and Financial Statements 45 for the year ended 30th September 2015 for the year ended 30th September 2015 46 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 (continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 (continued) 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Amendments to IAS 41Bearer Plants 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The amendment to IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests (continued) (Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41) (continued) in Other Entities requires an entity that prepares financial statements in which all its subsidiaries (x) New standards and interpretations not yet (x) New standards and interpretations not yet are measured at fair value through profit or loss adopted (continued) The amendments to IAS 16 Property, Plant and adopted (continued) in accordance with IFRS 10 to make disclosures (i) New standards and interpretations not yet Equipment and IAS 41 Agriculture require a bearer required by IFRS 12 relating to investment entities. effective for the period ended 30 September plant (which is a living plant used solely to grow produce over several periods) to be accounted for Equity Method in Separate Financial The amendment to IAS 28 Investments in Associates 2015 as property, plant and equipment in accordance Statements (Amendments to IAS 27) and Joint Ventures modifies the conditions where Apart from the standards noted below, the with IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment instead (continued) an entity need not apply the equity method to its application of these amendments will have no of IAS 41 Agriculture. The produce growing on investments in associates or joint ventures to align material impact on the disclosures or on the amounts bearer plants will remain within the scope of IAS 41. The amendments apply retrospectively for annual these to the amended IFRS 10 conditions for not recognised in the Group’s financial statements. periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016 with presenting consolidated financial statements. The The application of these amendments will have early adoption permitted. amendments introduce relief when applying the a material impact on the disclosures and on the equity method which permits a non-investment amounts recognised in the Group’s financial The application of this amendment will have no Sale or Contribution of Assets between an entity investor in an associate or joint venture that is statements. The directors have not quantified the material impact on the disclosures or on the amounts Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture an investment entity to retain the fair value through impact as at 30 September 2015. recognised in the Group’s financial statements. (Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28) profit or loss measurement applied by the associate or joint venture to its subsidiaries. The amendments require the full gain to be IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts The amendments apply retrospectively for annual Clarification of Acceptable Methods of recognised when assets transferred between an periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016, with investor and its associate or joint venture meet Depreciation and Amortisation (Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38) early application permitted. The application of the definition of a ‘business’ under IFRS 3 Business IFRS 14 provides guidance on accounting for these amendments will have no material impact on Combinations. Where the assets transferred do regulatory deferral account balances by first-time the disclosures or on the amounts recognised in the not meet the definition of a business, a partial gain The amendments to IAS 16 Property, Plant and adopters of IFRS. To apply this standard, the entity Group’s financial statements. to the extent of unrelated investors’ interests in Equipment explicitly state that revenue-based has to be rate-regulated i.e. the establishment the associate or joint venture is recognised. The methods of depreciation cannot be used for of prices that can be charged to its customers for definition of a business is key to determining the property, plant and equipment. goods and services is subject to oversight and/or IFRS 9: Financial Instruments (2010) extent of the gain to be recognised approval by an authorised body. The amendments to IAS 38 Intangible Assets The amendments will be effective from annual introduce a rebuttable presumption that the use of The standard is effective for financial reporting It replaces parts of IAS 39 Financial Instruments, periods commencing on or after 1 January 2016. revenue-based amortisation methods for intangible years beginning on or after 1 January 2016 with early Recognition and Measurement that relates to assets is inappropriate. The presumption can be adoption is permitted. The application of these amendments will have classification, measurement and recognition of no material impact on the disclosures or on the overcome only when revenue and the consumption The application of this standard will have no material financial assets and financial liabilities. IFRS 9 amounts recognised in the Group’s financial of the economic benefits of the intangible asset are impact on the disclosures or on the amounts requires financial assets to be classified, at initial statements. ‘highly correlated’, or when the intangible asset is recognised in the Group’s financial statements. recognition as either measured at fair value or expressed as a measure of revenue. at amortised cost. The classification depends The amendments apply prospectively for annual on the entity’s business model for managing its Investment Entities: Applying the financial instruments and the characteristics of Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016 and Consolidation Exception (Amendments to IFRS the contractual cash flows of the instrument. For Joint Operations (Amendments to IFRS 11) early adoption is permitted. 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28) financial liabilities, the standard retains most of the The application of these amendments will have requirements of IAS 39. The main change is that, The amendments require business combination no material impact on the disclosures or on the in cases where the fair value option is applied for The amendment to IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial accounting to be applied to acquisitions of interests amounts recognised in the Group’s financial financial liabilities, the part of a fair value change Statements clarifies which subsidiaries of an in a joint operation that constitutes a business. statements. arising from a change in an entity’s own credit risk investment entity are consolidated instead of Business combination accounting also applies to being measured at fair value through profit and is recorded in other comprehensive income rather the acquisition of additional interests in a joint loss. The amendment also modifies the condition in than in the profit or loss, unless this creates an operation while the joint operator retains joint Equity Method in Separate Financial accounting mismatch. the general consolidation exemption that requires control. The additional interest acquired will be Statements (Amendments to IAS 27) an entity’s parent or ultimate parent to prepare The Group is currently evaluating the impact of the measured at fair value. The previously held interest consolidated financial statements. new standard on the financial statements. in the joint operation will not be remeasured. The amendments allow the use of the equity method in separate financial statements, and apply The amendment clarifies that this condition is also The standard is effective for periods beginning on The amendments apply prospectively for annual to the accounting not only for associates and joint met where the ultimate parent or any intermediary or after 1 January 2018. periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016 and ventures but also for subsidiaries parent of a parent entity measures subsidiaries at early adoption is permitted. fair value through profit or loss in accordance with IFRS 10 and not only where the ultimate parent or Currently the application of this amendment will intermediate parent consolidates its subsidiaries. have no material impact on the disclosures or on the amounts recognised in the Group’s financial statements. Annual Report and Financial Statements Annual Report and Financial Statements 47 for the year ended 30th September 2015 for the year ended 30th September 2015 48 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 (continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 (continued) 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (i) Biological assets 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (ii) Going concern (continued) (continued) (x) New standards and interpretations not yet In determining the fair value of biological assets, the (x) New standards and interpretations not yet The Group’s management has made an assessment adopted (continued) Group uses the present value of expected future adopted (continued) of the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern cash flows from the assets discounted at the current and is satisfied that the Group has the resources IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with market determined pre tax rate. The objective of to continue in business for the foreseeable future. calculating the present value of expected cash (iv) Post employment benefit obligation Furthermore, the management is not aware of any Customers (Effective 31 December 2017) flows is to determine the fair value of biological material uncertainties that may cast significant assets in their present location and condition. The The cost of the unfunded service gratuity is doubt upon the Group’s ability to continue as a The IFRS specifies how and when an IFRS reporter Group considers this in determining an appropriate determined using actuarial valuations. The actuarial going concern. Therefore the financial statements will recognise revenue as well as requiring such discount rate to be used and in estimating net valuation involves making assumptions about continue to be prepared on the going concern basis. entities to provide users of financial statements cash flows. Management uses historical data discount rates, expected rates of return on scheme with more informative, relevant disclosures. The relating to production and market prices of tea, assets and future salary increases. Due to the long standard provides a single, principles based fivecoffee, livestock and trees. The methodology and term nature of these plans, such estimates are 5. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES step model to be applied to all contracts with assumptions used for estimating both the amount subject to significant uncertainty. Details of post customers in recognising revenue being: identify AND POLICIES and timing of future cash flows are reviewed to employment benefits and the assumptions applied the contract(s) with a customer; identify the reduce any differences between estimates and are disclosed in Note 3(o) and Note 31. performance obligations in the contract; determine actual experience. The significant assumptions are The Group’s principal financial instruments the transaction price; allocate the transaction price set out in Note 20 to the financial statements. comprise cash and cash equivalents, investments, to the performance obligations in the contract; and (v) Allowance for impairment for accounts receivables, bank loans and payables. These recognise revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies (ii) Property, plant and equipment instruments arise directly from its operations. The receivable a performance obligation. Group does not speculate or trade in derivative The Group is currently evaluating the impact of the Directors make estimates in determining the financial instruments. depreciation rates for property, plant and equipment. The Group reviews its accounts receivables portfolio new standard on the financial statements. The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of The rates used are set out in the accounting policy regularly to assess the likelihood of impairment. This requires an estimation of the amounts that are financial risks: market risk (including foreign for property, plant and equipment. exchange risk, interest rate risk and price risk), irrecoverable. In estimating the receivable amounts Disclosure Initiative (Amendments to IAS 1) These estimates are continually evaluated and are the Group make judgement as to whether there is credit risk, liquidity risk and operational risk. The based on historical experience and other factors, observable data indicating a measurable decrease directors review and agree policies for managing including expectations of future events that are in the estimated future cash flows from a financial these risks. The amendments provide additional guidance on the application of materiality and aggregation when believed to be reasonable under the prevailing asset. Details of the allowance for impairment are The board of directors has overall responsibility preparing financial statements. circumstances. disclosed in Note 5(b) and Note 25. for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s The Group measures its property, plant and risk management framework. The Group’s overall The amendments apply for annual periods beginning equipment at revalued amounts with changes risk management programme focuses on the on or after 1 January 2016 and early application is in revaluation values being recognised in other (b) Critical accounting judgements unpredictability of financial markets and seeks permitted. comprehensive income. The Group engages to minimise potential adverse effects on its financial The Group is assessing the potential impact on its independent valuers to determine fair values of performance. In the process of applying the Group’s accounting financial statements resulting from the application property, plant and equipment. The valuation is policies, directors make certain judgements that are Risk management is carried out by management of the amendments to IAS 1. based on the prevailing market prices which are continuously assessed based on prior experience under policies approved by the board of directors. sensitive to economic conditions. The details of and other determinants including expectations of Management identifies, evaluates and manages property, plant and equipment and the assumptions future events that, under the circumstances are financial risks in close co-operation with various 4. USE OF ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS applied are disclosed in Note 3(g) and Note 18. deemed to be reasonable as described below: departmental heads. The board provides written (a) Critical accounting estimates and principles for overall risk management, as well as assumptions written policies covering specific areas, such as (iii) Income taxes and deferred tax (i) Allowance for obsolete inventories foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, In the process of applying the Group’s accounting use of non derivative financial instruments and policies, directors make certain estimates and Significant judgement is required in determining the investment of excess liquidity. Directors review the inventories on an annual assumptions about future events. In practice, the Group’s provision for deferred and income taxes. basis to assess the likelihood of obsolescence. In estimated and assumed results would differ from There are many transactions and calculations for determining whether an inventory item is obsolete, the actual results. Such estimates and assumptions, which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain directors make judgement as to whether the that have a significant risk of causing a material during the ordinary course of business. The Group inventory item can be used as an input in production adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues or is in saleable condition. and liabilities within the next financial year, are based on estimates of whether additional taxes described below: will be due. Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the current income tax and deferred income tax provisions in the year in which such determination Annual Report and Financial Statements is made. Annual Report and Financial Statements 49 for the year ended 30th September 2015 for the year ended 30th September 2015 50 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 (continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 (continued) 5. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES a) Market risk (continued) AND POLICIES (continued) (ii) Currency risk (a) Market risk The Group is exposed to currency risk on sales and purchases that are denominated in a currency other than the Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate due to changes functional currency of Group entities. The currencies in which these transactions primarily are denominated are USD in market variables such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity prices. The objective of market risk and GBP. management is to manage and control market risk exposure within acceptable levels, while optimising on the return on the risk. The Group’s policy is to record transactions in foreign currencies at the rate in effect at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange in effect at (i) Interest rate risk the reporting date. All gains or losses on changes in currency exchange rates are accounted for in profit or loss. Interest rate risk is the risk that the future profitability and/or cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in the market interest rates. The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the US dollar and Sterling Pound. The group’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the group’s long and short term obligations with floating interest rates. The Group is exposed to various risks associated with the effects of fluctuations in the prevailing levels of market The following are the exchange rates that existed at the financial year end for the following significant currencies: interest rates on its financial position and cash flows. The table below summarises the exposure to interest rate risks. Included in the table are the Group’s financial assets and liabilities at carrying amounts, categorised by 2015 2014 the earlier of contractual repricing or maturity dates. The Group exposure to interest rate risk is with regards to KShs KShs fluctuation in interest rates in the market which affects the returns on the investments held by the Group. The interest rate profile of the group’s interest bearing financial instruments as at 30 September 2015 and 2014 USD 105.29 89.28 together with the interest rates on that date was as follows: GBP 159.57 141.15 The net interest (expense) / income for the year was as follows: Group Company The Group operates in Kenya and its assets and liabilities are carried in the local currency. The Group’s exposure to 2015 2014 2015 2014 foreign currency risk was as follows: KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Interest income 44,222 1,621 16 423 All figures are in thousands of Kenya shillings (KShs‘000) Interest expense ( 6,986) (12,984) (6,986) (12,933) Group: Net interest expense 37,236 (11,363) (6,970) (12,510) 2015: USD GBP Total The following table demonstrates the effect on the group and company’s statement of comprehensive income of Assets applying a sensitivity of 10% to the interest rate prevalent during the year, with all other variables held constant. Trade and other receivables 131,034 131,034 Cash and cash equivalents 118,390 794 119,184 Group Company Change in Effect Effect on Effect Effect on At 30 September 249,424 794 250,218 currency on profit equity on profit equity rate before tax before tax Liabilities KShs’ 000 KShs’ 000 KShs’ 000 KShs’ 000 Trade and other payables 16,900 16,900 2015 10.00% (3,724) (2,607) (697) (488) At 30 September 16,900 16,900 -10.00% 3,724 2,607 697 488 Net balance sheet position 232,524 794 233,318 2014 10.00% (1,136) (795) (1,251) (876) -10.00% 1,136 795 1,251 876 Annual Report and Financial Statements Annual Report and Financial Statements 51 for the year ended 30th September 2015 for the year ended 30th September 2015 52 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 (continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 (continued) 5. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (continued) 5. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (continued) (a) Market risk (continued) (a) Market risk (continued) (ii) Currency risk continued (ii) Currency risk continued All figures are in thousands of Kenya shillings (KShs‘000) Group Company Change in Effect Effect on Effect Effect on Group: currency on profit equity on profit equity rate before tax KShs’ 000 before tax KShs’ 000 KShs’ 000 KShs’ 000 2014: USD GBP Total USD 10.00% 23,255 16,279 11,538 8,077 2015 -10.00% (23,255) (16,279) (11,538) (8,077) Assets Trade and other receivables 198,410 198,410 Cash and cash equivalents 211,038 515 211,553 2014 10.00% 38,966 27,276 20,518 14,362 -10.00% (38,966) (27,276) (20,518) (14,362) At 30 September 409,448 515 409,963 GBP 10.00% 79 55 Liabilities 2015 -10.00% (79) (55) Trade and other payables 19,790 19,790 At 30 September 19,790 19,790 2014 10.00% 52 36 -10.00% (52) (36) Net balance sheet position 389,658 515 390,173 Company: (iii) Price risk All figures are in thousands of Kenya shillings (KShs‘000) Assets Price risk arises from the fluctuation in the prices of the commodities that the Group deals in. Sale and purchase prices are determined by the market forces and other factors that are not within the control of the Group. The Group does not anticipate that tea and coffee prices will decline significantly in the foreseeable future and 2015 2014 therefore has not entered into derivative or other contracts to manage the risk of a decline in the prices. The USD USD Group reviews its outlook for tea and coffee prices regularly in considering the need for active financial risk Trade and other receivables 51,199 121,889 management. Cash and cash equivalents 78,484 100,335 The following are the annual average prices (per kg) for coffee and tea that existed at the financial year end: At 30 September 129,683 222,224 Liabilities 2014 2015 KShs KShs Trade and other payables 14,300 17,043 Coffee 435 417 At 30 September 14,300 17,043 Tea 179 158 Net balance sheet position 115,383 205,181 The following table demonstrates the effect on the group and company’s statement of comprehensive income on applying the sensitivity for a reasonable possible change in the coffee and tea prices, with all other variables held constant. The following table demonstrates the effect on the group and company’s statement of comprehensive income of applying a sensitivity for a reasonable possible change in the exchange rate of the main transaction currencies, with all other variables held constant. Annual Report and Financial Statements Annual Report and Financial Statements 53 for the year ended 30th September 2015 for the year ended 30th September 2015 54 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 (continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 (continued) 5. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (continued) 5. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (continued) (a) Market risk (continued) (c) Liquidity risk (iii) Price risk continued Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulties in meeting its obligations from its financial liabilities. The Group’s approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have Group Company sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Company’s reputation. Change in price Effect on Effect on Effect on Effect on profit before equity profit before equity tax tax Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and marketable securities, the availability of KShs’ 000 KShs’ 000 KShs’ 000 KShs’ 000 funding through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities and the ability to close out market positions. Coffee 10.00% 108,407 75,885 72,414 50,690 Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying businesses, the Group’s management maintains flexibility in funding by maintaining availability under committed credit lines. The maturity analysis of the Group’s financial liabilities 2015 -10.00% (108,407) (75,885) (72,414) (50,690) is as follows: 2014 10.00% 65,101 45,571 54,699 38,289 -10.00% ( 65,101) ( 45,571) (54,699) (38,289) Group: 0-1 month 2-3 months 4-12 months Total Tea 10.00% 159,830 111,881 2015: KShs‘000 KShs‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs‘000 2015 -10.00% (159,830) (111,881) Trade and other payables 251,844 84,590 99,479 429,139 Due to related parties 1,082 1,082 2014 -10.00% 180,701 126,491 10.00% (180,701) (126,491) 251,844 84,590 100,561 430,221 (b) Credit risk 2014: Trade and other payables 308,154 103,503 110,711 522,368 Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails Due to related companies 681 681 to meet its contractual obligations. The largest concentrations of credit exposure within the group arises from deposits held with various service providers, term deposits and cash and cash equivalents held with banks. The 308,154 104,184 110,711 523,049 group only places significant amounts of funds with recognised financial institutions with strong credit ratings and does not consider the credit risk exposure to be significant. Company: 0-1 month 2-3 months 4-12 months Total A significant proportion of the group’s trading is through established auctions for coffee and tea and a small 2015: KShs‘000 KShs‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs‘000 proportion via direct export contracts with known parties. The receivables are collected within a period of less Trade and other payables 69,912 45,352 8,598 123,862 than one month. Due to related companies 49,499 49,499 69,912 45,352 58,097 173,361 The Group’s exposure to credit risk is summarised in the table below: 2014: Group Company 2015 2014 2015 2014 Trade and other payables 140,716 101,100 22,192 264,008 KShs‘000 KShs‘000 KShs‘000 KShs‘000 Due to related companies 357,805 357,805 Available-for-sale financial asset 525 525 140,716 101,100 379,997 621,813 Trade receivables-Net 166,254 225,284 83,619 150,784 Amounts due from related companies 1,209 1,198 31,429 251,535 Cash and cash equivalents 1,200,514 325,865 317,023 144,813 1,368,502 552,872 432,071 547,132 Details of the ageing analysis and impairment of trade receivables is disclosed in Note 25. Annual Report and Financial Statements Annual Report and Financial Statements 55 for the year ended 30th September 2015 for the year ended 30th September 2015 56 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 (continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 (continued) 5. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (continued) 6. DETERMINATION OF FAIR VALUES (continued) (d) Operational risk Operational risk is the risk of direct or indirect loss agricultural conditions. The Group’s objective is to used in determining the measurements. It should be funds with fair values obtained via fund managers arising from a wide variety of causes associated achieve an efficient risk management system for noted that these disclosure only cover instruments and assets that are valued using the Group’s own with the Group processes, personnel, technology agriculture that preserves the value of agricultural measured at fair value. models whereby the majority of assumptions are and infrastructure and from external factors other outputs, strengthens the viability of farm market observable. than credit, market and liquidity risks such as those businesses, and ensures an environment which arising from legal and regulatory requirements supports and sustains continued investment in the Level 1 and generally accepted standards of corporate farming sector. Level 3 Included in level 1 category are financial assets and behaviour. Operational risks arise from all of the The Group has adopted the following strategies to liabilities that are measured in whole or in part by Financial assets and liabilities measured using inputs Group operations. mitigate agricultural risk: reference to published quotes in an active market. that are not based on observable market data are The Group objective is to manage operational risk A financial instrument is regarded as quoted in categorised as level 3. Non market observable inputs • Agricultural diversification of products and so as to balance the avoidance of financial losses an active market if quoted prices are readily and means that fair values are determined in whole or in processes and damage to the Group reputation with overall regularly available from an exchange, dealer, part using a valuation technique (model) based on cost effectiveness and to avoid control procedures • Adoption of sound agricultural practices such broker, industry group, pricing service or regulatory assumptions that are neither supported by prices that restrict initiative and creativity. as cross-breeding to attain disease and weather agency and those prices represent actual and from observable current market transactions in the resistant breed regularly occurring market transactions on an arm’s same instrument nor are they based on available The primary responsibility for the development and length basis. market data. The main asset classes in this category implementation of controls to address operational are unlisted equity investments and limited risk is assigned to management. This responsibility (f) Capital management partnerships. Valuation techniques are used to the is supported by the development of overall Group Level 2 extent that observable inputs are not available, standards for the management of operational risk thereby allowing for situations for which there is in the following areas: The primary objectives of the Group’s capital Included in level 2 category are financial assets and little, if any, market activity for the asset or liability management are to ensure that the Group complies liabilities measured using inputs other than quoted • Requirements for appropriate segregation of at the measurement date. However, the fair value with capital requirements and maintains healthy prices included within level 1 that are observable for duties, including the independent authorisation of measurement objective remains the same, that is, capital ratios in order to support its business and to the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or transactions. an exit price from the perspective of the Group. maximise shareholders’ value. indirectly (i.e. derived from prices). For example, Therefore, unobservable inputs reflect the Group’s • Requirements for the reconciliation and instruments measured using a valuation technique The Capital Management policy as approved by own assumptions about the assumptions that monitoring of transactions. based on assumptions that are supported by prices the Board of Directors (the Board) is to maintain market participants would use in pricing the asset from observable current market transactions are • Compliance with regulatory and other legal a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, or liability (including assumptions about risk). These categorised as level 2. requirements. creditor and market confidence and to sustain inputs are developed based on the best information future development of the business. The Board Financial assets and liabilities measured using a available, which might include the Group’s own • Documentation of controls and procedures. monitors the return on capital, which the Group valuation technique based on assumptions that data. However, significant portion of the unquoted • Requirements for the periodic assessment of defines as net operating income divided by total are supported by prices from observable current shares have been valued at cost and variation in operational risks faced, and the adequacy of controls shareholders’ equity. The Board also monitors the market transactions are assets and liabilities for inputs would not have significant fair value change. and procedures to address the risks identified. level of dividends to ordinary shareholders. which pricing is obtained via pricing services, but The following table shows an analysis of financial where prices have not been determined in an active • Requirement for the reporting of operational The Group manages its capital structure and makes instruments recorded at fair value by level of the market, financial assets with fair values based losses and proposed remedial action. adjustments to it, in light of changes in economic fair value hierarchy: on broker quotes, investments in private equity • Development of contingency plans. conditions. To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend • Training and professional development. payment to shareholders, return on capital to Group • Ethical and business standards. shareholders or issue new shares as circumstances Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total fair would dictate. There were no changes in the Group’s KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 value • Risk mitigation, including insurance where this is approach to capital management as regards the 2015: KShs’000 effective. objectives, policies or processes during the year. Financial assets designated at fair value through profit and loss Investment in unquoted shares 525 525 (e) Agricultural risk 6. DETERMINATION OF FAIR VALUES 2014: Agricultural risk is the risk of direct or indirect loss A number of the Group’s accounting policies and arising from adverse agricultural conditions such Financial assets designated at fair value through profit and loss disclosures require the determination of fair values, as disease outbreaks, floods, droughts and other for both financial and non-financial assets and adverse weather events caused by climatic changes. liabilities. Investment in unquoted shares 525 525 The Group’s risk management process with respect Below follows required disclosure of fair value to agricultural risk focuses on anticipating, avoiding measurements, using a three-level fair value There were no financial instruments carried at fair value at the company level. and/or reacting to shocks attributable to adverse hierarchy that reflects the significance of the inputs Annual Report and Financial Statements Annual Report and Financial Statements 57 for the year ended 30th September 2015 for the year ended 30th September 2015 58 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 (continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 (continued) 6. DETERMINATION OF FAIR VALUES (continued) 7. SEGMENT INFORMATION (continued) The following table shows an analysis of non-financial assets held at fair value as at 30 September 2015 and 2014: Tea Coffee Others Consolidated Group Company 30 September 2014: KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 2015 2014 2015 2014 Revenue KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Sales to external customers 1,807,007 651,007 304,533 2,762,547 Non-financial assets Other income 62,520 174,211 1,944 238,675 Property, plant and equipment 8,770,714 8,362,361 6,003,214 5,812,692 1,869,527 825,218 306,477 3,001,222 Biological assets 5,077,329 5,240,576 1,842,777 1,942,322 Results Operating results on operating activities 100,677 37,807 ( 955) 137,529 Total assets 13,848,043 13,602,937 7,845,991 7,755,014 Operating results on biological assets ( 683,388) 633,190 ( 50,198) On 30 September 2015, Knight Frank Valuers Limited, professionally valued the Group’s machinery, equipment and Operating results before tax ( 582,711) 670,997 ( 955) 87,331 furniture while building and freehold land were valued on 30 September 2014. The valuation was on an open market value basis. The Valuers used the Direct Capital Comparison method of valuation for valuation of land. The assumption which is that the value of the appraised property is equal to the value of a known comparable property, with due Assets and liabilities allowance being given for differences factors between the appraised property and the compared property such as Segment assets 3,392,906 10,539,667 997,004 14,929,577 the condition, location, level and amount of services provided, accessibility, plot size, planning and zoning regulations, transacting parties, motive of sale and tenure and the unexpired term. Fully developed properties; for example depots Segment liabilities 1,344,598 1,449,137 14,874 2,808,609 have been valued on the basis of sales of similar developed properties in the particular locations with due regard to their rental income potential. Buildings or any other fixture or improvement on land whose revenue contribution Other segment information cannot be assessed easily or where the structures are dilapidated, have been valued on depreciated replacement cost Capital expenditure tangible fixed assets 37,885 24,770 4,098 66,753 basis. Depreciation and amortisation of LeaseFollowing the revaluation, the movement in property plant and equipment has been disclosed in note 18. hold land and intangible assets 92,074 83,447 11,192 186,713 The fair value of the biological asset is determined based on the present value of expected net cash flows derived from Average number of employees 3,561 1,856 171 5,588 sale of agricultural produce, discounted at the pre-tax discount rate. The details of the valuation inputs of the biological assets have been disclosed in note 20. The fair value measurement of revalued items of property plant and equipment and the biological assets have been Geographical information categorized as a level 2 and 3 fair value based on the inputs to the valuation techniques. The Group’s operations are located in Bomet, Nyeri, Mombasa, Kiambu and Nairobi counties in Kenya. The Group’s tea, rental and leasing operations are located in Bomet and Mombasa counties. Coffee and dairy 7. SEGMENT INFORMATION operations are located in Nyeri and Kiambu counties. The head office is located in Nairobi County. Segment information is as presented below: Tea Coffee Others Consolidated 30 September 2015: KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Segment information Revenue Segment results include revenue and expenses directly attributable to a segment. Sales to external customers 1,598,303 1,084,069 103,754 2,786,126 Segment revenue is the revenue that is directly attributable to a segment plus the relevant portion of the Group’s Other income 17,328 943,519 1,944 962,791 revenue that can be allocated to the segment on a reasonable basis. Segment revenue excludes finance income. 1,615,631 2,027,588 105,698 3,748,917 Segment expenses are expenses resulting from the operating activities of a segment plus the relevant portion of an Results expense that can be allocated to the segment on a reasonable basis. Segment expenses exclude finance costs and Operating results on operating activities 111,645 990,853 (156,264) 946,234 income taxes. Operating results on biological assets 194,504 (176,214) 18,290 Segment assets comprise intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, inventories, accounts receivable as well as prepaid expenses and accrued income. Operating results before tax 306,149 814,639 (156,264) 964,524 Segment liabilities comprise account payables, prepaid income, accrued expenses and provisions as well as those relating to interest and taxes. Assets and liabilities Segment assets 4,861,569 11,349,850 (166,892) 16,044,527 Capital expenditure represents the total cost incurred during the year to acquire segment assets (property, plant and equipment and biological assets) that are expected to be used during more than one year. Segment liabilities 1,444,368 1,048,281 ( 6,627) 2,486,022 The Group is currently organised in three divisions; Tea, Coffee, and Others. These divisions are the basis on which the Group reports its segment information. The principal activities of these divisions are as follows: Other segment information Tea Growing and processing of tea Capital expenditure tangible fixed assets 3,680 14,145 13,598 31,423 Coffee Growing and processing of coffee Depreciation and amortisation of Lease84,896 69,426 9,036 163,358 Others Dairy operations, commercial milling and marketing of coffee, value additions of related hold land and intangible assets products, renting of growing land and the leasing of plant and machinery Average number of employees 2,781 1,118 213 4,112 Annual Report and Financial Statements Annual Report and Financial Statements 59 for the year ended 30th September 2015 for the year ended 30th September 2015 60 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 (continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 (continued) 11. ADMINISTRATION AND ESTABLISHMENT EXPENSES Group Company 8. REVENUE 2015 2014 2015 2014 Group Company (a) Administration and Establishment expenses KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 2015 2014 2015 2014 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Staff costs (Note 11(b)) 219,197 175,829 99,266 79,303 Insurance and medical costs 34,939 20,338 3,683 4,248 Tea 1,598,303 1,807,007 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 159,901 174,820 47,532 58,188 Coffee 809,871 651,007 724,143 546,985 Amortisation of intangible assets 3,251 11,651 2,514 3,693 Livestock 38,473 34,277 643 241 Amortisation of leasehold land 206 242 127 126 Dairy produce 8,942 6,594 2,597 3,218 Auditors’ remuneration 8,234 7,734 4,152 3,782 Retail and coffee lounge 208,025 175,309 108,422 76,194 Directors’ emoluments 17,933 17,252 17,933 17,252 Coffee mill 69,192 64,807 69,192 66,020 Legal and professional fees 16,529 7,894 8,982 1,890 Rent receivable 22,637 5,403 10,620 9,841 Secretarial costs 3,324 3,000 324 Marketing commission 19,181 12,399 19,181 20,933 Travelling and accommodation 4,854 4,446 3,178 3,076 Others 11,502 5,744 Coffee house overheads 30,974 34,125 2,786,126 2,762,547 934,798 723,432 Office expenses 85,134 65,791 42,067 63,698 Administration costs 130,066 229,020 116,719 151,426 9. COST OF SALES Bank charges 4,438 3,619 2,506 2,124 Group Company Other expenses 4,748 7,058 2015 2014 2015 2014 723,728 762,819 348,983 388,806 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 (b) Staff costs General charges 248,406 244,991 87,613 83,527 Estates maintenance 488,928 594,321 100,918 103,189 Salaries and wages 202,325 160,257 90,158 72,083 Production expenses 375,011 461,726 57,800 53,170 Staff leave accruals (216) (448) (574) (1,319) Green leaf purchases 328,083 405,762 Pension costs 17,088 16,020 9,682 8,539 Coffee house expenses 49,018 34,893 219,197 175,829 99,266 79,303 Coffee purchases and other charges 359,243 159,616 359,243 159,616 Livestock expenses 46,079 53,797 3,076 3,426 12. SELLING AND DISTRIBUTION EXPENSES Retail trading expenses 77,060 50,786 77,060 50,786 Coffee mill expenses 28,800 44,007 28,800 44,007 Warehousing and storage charges 26,134 23,392 Transport and insurance 33,998 47,032 Inventory adjustments 17,898 (24,397) (14,691) (20,461) 13. NET FINANCE INCOME/(COSTS) Disposable plates and cutlery 297 4,948 Group Company 2015 2014 2015 2014 2,052,821 2,077,482 699,819 477,260 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 (a) Finance income 10. OTHER INCOME Interest income 44,222 1,621 16 423 Realised foreign exchange 48,072 19,865 Net gain on disposal of property, plant and 830,700 796 32,364 796 Unrealised foreign exchange gain 1,570 578 330 578 equipment Management fees (23) 52,789 58,092 93,864 2,199 20,211 1,001 Dividend received 494,500 (b) Finance cost Other income 132,091 237,902 131,878 171,811 Interest expense ( 6,986) (12,984) ( 6,986) (12,933) 962,791 238,675 711,531 230,699 Realised foreign exchange loss (12,146) ( 139) ( 139) Unrealised foreign exchange loss ( 34) (14,614) (12,371) (19,166) (27,737) ( 6,986) (25,443) Net finance income/(costs) 74,698 (25,538) 13,225 (24,442) Annual Report and Financial Statements Annual Report and Financial Statements 61 for the year ended 30th September 2015 for the year ended 30th September 2015 62 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 (continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 (continued) 14. PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION 15. TAX (CREDIT)/EXPENSE (continued) Group Company (a) Statement of comprehensive income (continued) 2015 2014 2015 2014 Group Company KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 2015 2014 2015 2014 The profit before taxation is arrived at after KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 charging/(crediting): Reconciliation of tax (credit)/expense: Depreciation 159,901 174,820 47,532 58,188 Amortisation of intangible assets 3,251 11,651 2,514 3,693 Accounting profit before taxation 1,039,222 61,793 513,684 442,723 Amortisation of leasehold land 206 242 127 126 Directors’ emoluments: Tax applicable rate at 30% 311,767 18,538 154,105 132,817 Fees 3,600 3,600 3,600 3,600 Tax effects of items not allowed Other remuneration 14,333 13,652 14,333 13,652 for tax or tax exempt (178,548) (4,381) (138,001) 11,019 Pension costs 17,088 16,020 9,682 8,539 Excess depreciation on revaluation 14,081 4,572 Auditors’ remuneration 8,234 7,734 4,152 3,782 Effect of income taxed at Interest expense 6,986 12,984 6,986 12,933 5% (25% variance) (196,460) (7,875) Unrealised exchange losses 34 14,614 12,371 Prior year under provision: Realised foreign exchange losses 12,146 139 139 Deferred tax (11,866) (11,866) Interest income 44,222 (1,621) 16 (423) Prior year under provision: Unrealised foreign exchange gain (1,570) (578) (330) (578) Current tax 1,251 1,251 Realised foreign exchange gain (48,072) (19,865) Net gain on disposal of assets (830,700) (796) (32,364) (796) (61,990) 16,372 9,480 136,542 15. TAX (CREDIT)/EXPENSE (b) Statement of financial position Group Company 2015 2014 2015 2014 Balance brought forward (16,045) (129,991) 1,418 (48,873) (a) Statement of comprehensive income KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Charge for the year 172,691 122,968 50,076 55,678 Current tax expense Paid during the year (153,225) (9,022) (50,091) (5,387) Income tax on the taxable Profit for the year at 30% 171,440 122,968 48,825 55,678 Balance carried forward 3,421 ( 16,045) 1,403 1,418 Prior year underprovision 1,251 1,251 Presented as: Total current tax 172,691 122,968 50,076 55,678 Tax recoverable (5,474) (17,463) Tax payable 8,895 1,418 1,403 1,418 Deferred tax credit Deferred tax credit arising from operating (185,707) (79,670) (10,732) (20,999) activities 3,421 (16,045) 1,403 1,418 Deferred tax credit on biological assets fair (48,974) (15,060) (29,864) 113,729 (c) Dividend tax account value Prior year under provision (11,866) (11,866) The Group and the Company have credit balances on the dividend tax accounts of KShs 875,095,407 (2014 KShs 895,342,411) and KShs 686,051,286 (2014 KShs 547,298,273), respectively, which include tax payments Total deferred tax credit (234,681) (106,596) (40,596) 80,864 to 30 September 2015. Taxation (credit)/expense for the year ( 61,990) 16,372 9,480 136,542 Annual Report and Financial Statements Annual Report and Financial Statements 63 for the year ended 30th September 2015 for the year ended 30th September 2015 64 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 (continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 (continued) 18. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (a) Group 16. EARNINGS PER SHARE 30 September 2015: Rolling Furniture, Plant, stock computers Earnings per share is calculated by dividing profit or loss for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by Freehold Buildings and machinery and farm and the 228,055,500 (2014 228,055,500) ordinary shares outstanding during the year. Basic and diluted earnings per share are the land improvements and tools implements equipment Total same. KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 l Group Company Cost or valuation 2015 2014 2015 2014 As at October 2014 6,789,000 1,062,437 726,201 194,467 161,207 8,933,312 KShs KShs KShs KShs Equipments written back 4,951 4,951 Revaluation (12,056) 14,929 16,300 (33,227) (14,054) Earnings per share on normal operations 4.18 0.37 2.51 0.18 Additions 4,762 5,827 1,637 9,569 21,795 Earnings per share on biological assets 0.09 (0.27) (0.30) 1.16 Transfer from work in progress 300 7,985 253 1,031 9,569 Disposals (22,655) (21,460) ( 5,062) (144) (749) (50,070) Net earnings per share (KShs) 4.27 0.10 2.21 1.34 As at September 2015 6,766,345 1,033,983 754,831 212,513 137,831 8,905,503 Depreciation 17. DIVIDEND PER SHARE As at October 2014 12,163 302,288 114,988 141,512 570,951 Charge for the year 46,518 76,437 16,110 20,836 159,901 Proposed dividends are accounted for as a separate component of equity until they have been ratified at an Annual General Reversal of revaluation (12,163) (372,802) ( 49,877) (158,801) (593,643) Meeting. An Interim dividend of KShs 1.00 (100%) (2014 Nil) was declared and paid on 15th September 2015. The directors recDisposal (266) (2,052) (102) (2,420) ommended the payment of a final dividend of KShs 0.25 per share (25%) (2014 KShs 0.25 (25%)).This amounts to total dividend of KShs 1.25 Per share for the year (2014 KShs 0.25(25%)). Payment of dividends is subject to withholding tax at the rate of 5% As at September 2015 46,252 3,871 81,221 3,445 134,789 for residents, 10% for non-resident shareholders or 0% depending with the percentage shareholding. Carrying amount Group Company As at September 2015 6,766,345 987,731 750,960 131,292 134,386 8,770,714 2015 2014 2015 2014 KShs KShs KShs KShs 30 September 2014: Dividends per share (KShs) 1.25 0.25 1.25 0.25 Cost or valuation As at October 2013 1,045,474 1,082,981 702,721 187,686 154,962 3,173,824 Revaluation 5,743,526 (48,994) 5,694,532 Additions 11,692 6,781 8,042 26,515 Tranfers from work in progress 28,450 11,788 40,238 Disposals (1,797) (1,797) As at 30 September 2014 6,789,000 1,062,437 726,201 194,467 161,207 8,933,312 Depreciation As at October 2013 383,285 227,542 98,349 121,261 830,437 Charge for the year 61,496 74,746 16,639 21,939 174,820 Reversal on revaluation (432,618) ( 432,618) Disposal (1,688) (1,688) As at 30 September 2014 12,163 302,288 114,988 141,512 570,951 Carrying amount At 30 September 2014 6,789,000 1,050,274 423,913 79,479 19,695 8,362,361 Annual Report and Financial Statements Annual Report and Financial Statements 65 for the year ended 30th September 2015 for the year ended 30th September 2015 66 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 (continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 (continued) 18. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (continued) 18. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (continued) (b) Company (continued) (a) Group (continued) Rolling Furniture, Plant, stock computers The Group’s building and freehold land was revalued on 30 September 2014 by Knight Frank Valuers Limited, a firm of Freehold Buildings and machinery and farm and registered independent valuers, on the market value existing use basis. land improvements and tools implements equipment Total The Group’s plant, equipment, machinery, furniture and fittings were revalued on 30 September 2015 by Knight Frank 30 September 2014: KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Valuers Limited, registered valuers, on the market value existing use basis. Cost or valuation The carrying values of the property, plant and equipment were adjusted to the revaluations and the resultant surplus and deferred tax effect, was recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity as at that date. As at October 2013 881,582 491,085 195,038 79,401 45,054 1,692,160 Revaluation 4,378,418 (93,202) 4,285,216 Before the revaluation of property, plant and equipment at year end, assets with a gross value of KShs 101,563,608 (2014 – KShs 171,885,745) were fully depreciated but still in use. The notional depreciation charge on these assets would Additions 2,770 9,471 922 4,522 17,685 have been KShs 24,513,160 (2014 – KShs 45,117,518). Disposals (1,797) (1,797) There were no idle assets at 30 September 2015 and 2014. There was no property given as security as at 30 September 2015 and 2014. As at 30 September 2014 5,260,000 400,653 204,509 80,323 47,779 5,993,264 Depreciation (b) Company As at October 2013 114,927 72,405 48,085 26,486 261,903 Rolling Furniture, Charge for the year 22,904 20,512 3,985 10,787 58,188 Plant, stock computers Reversal on revaluation (137,831) (137,831) Freehold Buildings and machinery and farm and land improvements and tools implements equipment Total Disposal (1,688) (1,688) 30 September 2015: KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 As at 30 September 2014 92,917 52,070 35,585 180,572 Cost or valuation As at October 2014 5,260,000 400,653 204,509 80,323 47,779 5,993,264 Carrying amount Equipments written back 4,951 4,951 At 30 September 2014 5,260,000 400,653 111,592 28,253 12,194 5,812,692 Revaluation 42,063 13,541 (26,557) 29,047 Additions 3,952 5,617 1,540 3,036 14,145 Disposals (22,655) (144) (22,799) The Group’s building and freehold land was revalued on 30 September 2014 by Knight Frank Valuers Limited, a firm of registered independent valuers, on the market value existing use basis. As at 30 September 2015 5,237,345 404,605 257,140 95,260 24,258 6,018,608 The Group’s plant, equipment, machinery, furniture and fittings were revalued on 30 September 2015 by Knight Frank Valuers Limited, registered valuers, on the market value existing use basis. Depreciation The carrying values of the property, plant and equipment were adjusted to the revaluations and the resultant surplus As at October 2014 92,917 52,070 35,585 180,572 and deferred tax effect, was recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity as at that date. Charge for the year 13,349 19,197 10,713 4,273 47,532 Before revaluation of property, plant and equipment at year end, assets with a gross value of KShs 41,133,486 (2014 – Reversal on revaluation (111,465) (62,530) (38,715) (212,710) KShs 41,147,103) were fully depreciated but still in use. The notional depreciation charge on these assets would have been KShs 9,697,514 (2014 – KShs 10,886,174). As at 30 September 2015 13,349 649 253 1,143 15,394 There were no idle assets at 30 September 2015 and 2014. There was no property given as security as at 30 September 2015 and 2014. Carrying amount At 30 September 2015 5,237,345 391,356 256,491 95,007 23,115 6,003,214 Annual Report and Financial Statements Annual Report and Financial Statements 67 for the year ended 30th September 2015 for the year ended 30th September 2015 68 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 (continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 (continued) 18. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (continued) 20. BIOLOGICAL ASSETS (c) Capital work-in-progress (a) Group Group Company 2015 2014 2015 2014 Coffee trees Tea bushes Other trees Livestock Total KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 30 September 2015: KShs’000 KShs‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs‘000 KShs‘000 Balance brought forward 29,678 39,934 Carrying value as at 1 October 2014 2,548,636 2,295,075 386,943 9,922 5,240,576 Additions 13,249 29,982 Disposal in the year (179,058) (2,479) (181,537) Transfer to property, plant and equipment (9,569) (40,238) Gains due to biological transformation at fair value 22,257 (545,670) 833,913 9,931 320,431 33,358 29,678 Decreases due to harvest at fair value (110,598) (133,906) (56,237) (6,979) (307,720) Changes in immature trees/bushes 5,579 5,579 Capital work-in-progress relates to buildings and leasehold improvements under construction. (88,341) (679,576) 783,255 2,952 18,290 Carrying value as at 30 September 2,281,237 1,615,499 1,167,719 12,874 5,077,329 2015 19. INTANGIBLE ASSETS The reconciliation of fair value changes Group Company is analysed below: 2015 2014 2015 2014 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Carrying value as at 1 October 2014 2,548,636 2,295,075 386,943 9,922 5,240,576 Cost Disposal in the year (179,058) (2,479) (181,537) At 1 October 2014 and 2013 68,439 60,264 24,614 18,156 Changes due to price estimate 377,290 (102,146) 4,372 279,516 Additions 3,434 8,175 2,039 6,458 Changes due to yield estimate (465,631) (577,430) 777,676 ( 1,420) (266,805) At 30 September 71,873 68,439 26,653 24,614 Changes due to immature bushes/ Amortisation animals 5,579 5,579 At 1 October 2014 and 2013 60,229 48,578 18,284 14,591 Carrying value as at 30 September 2,281,237 1,615,499 1,167,719 12,874 5,077,329 2015 Charge for the year 3,251 11,651 2,514 3,693 At 30 September 63,480 60,229 20,798 18,284 Carrying value at 30 September 8,393 8,210 5,855 6,330 30 September 2014: Carrying value as at 1 October 2013 1,875,873 2,989,741 415,552 9,608 5,290,774 Gains due to biological transformation 1,061,673 (426,052) 24,117 41,135 700,873 Intangible assets relate to software costs. at fair value Decreases due to harvest at fair value (390,767) (268,614) (55,826) (40,821) (756,028) Changes in immature trees/bushes 1,857 3,100 4,957 672,763 (694,666) (28,609) 314 (50,198) Carrying value as at 30 September 2,548,636 2,295,075 386,943 9,922 5,240,576 2014 The reconciliation of fair value changes is analysed below: Carrying value as at 1 October 2013 1,875,873 2,989,741 415,552 9,608 5,290,774 Changes due to price estimate 435,643 (777,726) ( 22,617) ( 364,700) Changes due to yield estimate 235,263 83,060 ( 9,092) 314 309,545 Changes due to immature bushes/ 1,857 3,100 4,957 animals Carrying value as at 30 September 2,548,636 2,295,075 386,943 9,922 5,240,576 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements Annual Report and Financial Statements 69 for the year ended 30th September 2015 for the year ended 30th September 2015 70 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 (continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 (continued) 20. BIOLOGICAL ASSETS (continued) 20. BIOLOGICAL ASSETS (continued) (b) Company (continued) (a) Group (continued) Coffee trees Other trees Livestock Total 30 September 2014: KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 The Group is involved in the growing, processing and selling of coffee and tea and breeding of dairy cattle. At 30 September 2015, the Group had 118 (2014 105) cows able to produce milk, 129 (2014 199) calves that are raised to The reconciliation of fair value changes produce milk in the future, 7 (2013 3) bull calves and 784 (2014 697) sheep. The Group produced 689,150 (2014 is analysed below: 718,749) litres of milk with a fair value less cost to sell of KShs 34,457,490 (2014 KShs 35,937,465) in the year. Carrying value as at 1 October 2013 1,468,786 93,479 957 1,563,222 The Group has 775 hectares of mature coffee bushes. The Group harvested 992,519 (2014 1,153,989) Kgs of Changes due to price estimate 234,879 (11,650) 223,229 coffee with a fair value less cost to sell of KShs 287.18 million (2014 KShs 390 million). Changes due to yield estimate 173,880 (20,045) 385 154,220 Changes in immature trees/bushes 1,526 125 1,651 The Group has 1,434 (2014 1,434) hectares of mature tea bushes and 29 (2014 29) hectares of immature tea bushes. The Group harvested 18,817,071 (2014 25,633,695) Kgs of green tea leaves with a fair value less cost to Carrying value as at 30 September 2014 1,879,071 61,909 1,342 1,942,322 sell of KShs 133,906,320 million (2014 KShs 268 million). Where meaningful market-determined prices do not exist to assess the fair value of biological assets, the fair value (b) Company is determined based on the net present value of the expected future cash flows from those assets, discounted at appropriate pre-tax rates. Coffee trees Other trees Livestock Total In determining the fair value of biological assets where the discounting of expected cash flows has been used, 30 September 2015: KShs’000 KShs ‘000 KShs‘000 KShs‘000 the directors have made certain assumptions and techniques below: Carrying value as at 1 October 2014 1,879,071 61,909 1,342 1,942,322 Disposal during the year (1,908) (569) (2,477) Gains/(losses) due to biological Type Valuation technique Significant unobservable inputs Inter-relationship between key transformation at fair value 169,601 (30,422) 421 139,600 unobservable inputs and fair value measurement Decreases due to harvest at fair value (229,586) (7,851) 643 (236,794) Tea Discounted cash flows: The valuation • Estimated future green leaf The estimated fair value would Changes in immature trees/bushes 126 126 bushes model considers the present value of the price per kilogram of KShs 21.40 increase (decrease) if: (59,985) (38,147) 1,064 (97,068) (Level III) net cash flows expected to be generated (2014: KShs 23.52); • The estimated green leaf prices Carrying value as at 30 September 2015 1,817,178 23,193 2,406 1,842,777 by the plantation. The cash flow • Estimated future green leaf per kilogram were higher(lower); projections include specific estimates for costs per kilogram of KShs • The estimated harvest, replanting, 30 years. The expected net cash flows are 14.28 (2014: KShs 10.72); and weeding and transportation costs The reconciliation of fair value changes discounted using a risk-adjusted discount • Risk-adjusted annual discount were lower (higher); or is analysed below: rate. rate of 14.29% (2014: 14.35%). • The risk-adjusted discount rates were lower (higher). 30 September 2015: Coffee Discounted cash flows: The valuation • Estimated future coffee The estimated fair value would Carrying value as at 1 October 2014 1,879,071 61,909 1,342 1,942,322 bushes model considers the present value realisation price per kilogram of increase (decrease) if: Disposal during the year (1,908) (569) (2,477) (Level III) of the net cash flows expected to be KShs 392 (2014: KShs 329); • The estimated green leaf prices Changes due to price estimate 302,764 404 303,168 generated by the plantation. The cash • Risk-adjusted annual discount per kilogram were higher(lower); flow projections include specific estimates rate of 14.34 % (2014: 13.02%); • The estimated harvest, replanting, Changes due to yield estimate (362,749) (38,273) 660 (400,362) for 9 to 50 years depending on the type and weeding and transportation costs Changes in immature trees/bushes 126 126 of bush. The expected net cash flows are • Estimated future exchange rate were lower (higher); discounted using a risk-adjusted discount to the USD of KShs 95.65 (2014: • The risk-adjusted discount rates Carrying value as at 30 September 2015 1,817,178 23,193 2,406 1,842,777 rate. KShs 86.82). were lower (higher); or • The estimated exchange rates (USD/KShs) were higher (lower). Livestock Market comparison technique: • Not applicable Not applicable 30 September 2014: (Level II) The fair values are based on the market Carrying value as at 1 October 2013 1,468,786 93,479 957 1,563,222 Livestock price of livestock of similar age, weight comprises and market values. Gains/(losses) due to biological cattle and transformation at fair value 719,217 ( 24,395) 3,844 698,666 sheep Decreases due to harvest at fair value (310,457) ( 7,301) (3,459) (321,217) Trees Discounted cash flows: The valuation • Estimated future trees The estimated fair value would Changes in immature trees/bushes 1,525 126 1,651 (Level III) model considers the present value realisation price per tree of increase (decrease) if: 410,285 ( 31,570) 385 379,100 of the net cash flows expected to be KShs 1,000 to KShs 4,000 (2014: • The estimated tree prices were generated by the plantation. The cash KShs 1,000 to KShs 4,000); and higher (lower); and Carrying value as at 30 September 2014 1,879,071 61,909 1,342 1,942,322 flow projections include specific estimates • Risk-adjusted annual discount • The risk-adjusted discount rates for periods between 10 and 50 years. The rate of 14.26 to 20.69% (2014 were lower (higher). expected net cash flows are discounted 14.26 to 20.69%). using a risk-adjusted discount rate. Annual Report and Financial Statements Annual Report and Financial Statements 71 for the year ended 30th September 2015 for the year ended 30th September 2015 72 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 (continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 (continued) 21. PREPAID LEASES ON LEASEHOLD LAND 24. INVENTORIES Group Company Group Company 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Cost Made tea 97,014 131,941 Balance brought forward 23,058 23,058 9,210 9,210 Tea and tree nurseries 8,902 8,156 Disposal (1,654) Coffee 63,094 43,816 54,987 40,299 At 30 September 21,404 23,058 9,210 9,210 Estate stores 179,776 141,039 41,608 37,893 Food and beverages 1,652 2,187 Amortisation 350,438 327,139 96,595 78,192 Balance brought forward 2,984 2,742 1,450 1,324 Inventories write-offs (9,076) (9,076) Amortisation during the year 206 242 127 126 341,362 318,063 96,595 78,192 Disposal (259) At 30 September 2,931 2,984 l,577 1,450 The amount of inventories recognised as an expense is KShs 513,890,819 (2014 – KShs Carrying value at 30 September 18,473 20,074 7,633 7,760 598,472,610) which was recognised in cost of sales. 25. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES The Group’s leasehold land was revalued on 30 September 2014 by Knight Frank Valuers Limited, a Group Company firm of independent valuers, on the market value existing basis. The fair value of the land is estimated at KShs 3.60 billion (2014: KShs 3.74 billion). The revaluation has not been adopted in the financial 2015 2014 2015 2014 statements. KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Trade receivables 172,721 233,740 83,619 153,746 22. AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS Allowances for impairment (6,467) (8,456) (2,962) Group Company Net trade receivables 166,254 225,284 83,619 150,784 2015 2014 2015 2014 Other receivables and prepaid 343,852 357,210 122,325 141,641 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 expenses Trade investments: Unquoted 525 525 510,106 582,494 205,944 292,425 These relate to unquoted investments classified as available-for-sale and measured at cost. Allowances for impairment: 23. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES At beginning of the year 8,456 8,356 2,962 2,862 Company Written off (2,962) (2,962) 2015 2014 Charge for the year 973 100 100 KShs’000 KShs’000 At the end of the year 6,467 8,456 2,962 Shares in subsidiaries at cost 172,697 172,697 Age analysis of trade receivables: Less than 30 days 124,622 204,753 39,041 134,619 The details of subsidiary companies which are all incorporated in Kenya are as follows: 31 to 90 days 40,592 14,344 40,592 9,497 Over 90 days (past due but not 7,507 11,354 3,986 8,923 Name of subsidiary Percentage of equity held impaired) Over 90 days (past due and impaired) 3,289 707 Kipkebe Limited 100 172,721 233,740 83,619 153,746 Keritor Limited 100 (100% held by Kipkebe Limited) Kipkebe Estates Limited 100 (100% held by Kipkebe Limited) Mweiga Estate Limited 85 Wahenya Limited 85 (100% held by Mweiga Estate Limited) Aristocrats Tea & Coffee Exporters Limited 100 Sasini Coffee House Limited 60 Consolidated financial statements have been prepared incorporating the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries made up to 30 September 2015 and 2014. Annual Report and Financial Statements Annual Report and Financial Statements 73 for the year ended 30th September 2015 for the year ended 30th September 2015 74 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 (continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 (continued) 29. RESERVES 26. RELATED COMPANIES BALANCES Group Company Group Company 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Non-distributable reserves: Amount due from related companies: Revaluation reserve 7,887,974 7,337,072 5,678,118 5,508,889 Mweiga Estates Limited 224,398 Capital reserve 98,530 98,530 40,594 40,594 Wahenya Limited 12,230 13,326 Defined benefit reserve 50,520 17,954 5,456 1,714 Aristocrats Tea & Coffee Exporters Limited 3,584 429 Biological assets fair value reserve 2,702,081 2,769,893 1,179,161 1,247,109 Sasini Coffee House Limited 15,523 13,290 10,739,105 10,223,449 6,903,329 6,798,306 Sameer Agriculture and livestock limited 1,000 1,000 Distributable reserves: Sameer investments Limited 209 198 92 92 Retained earnings 2,144,228 1,370,695 629,903 342,820 1,209 1,198 31,429 251,535 Proposed dividends 57,014 57,014 57,014 57,014 Amount due to related companies: 2,201,242 1,427,709 686,917 399,834 Sameer investments Limited 11 681 Non-controlling interest 390,103 241,755 Sameer Agriculture and livestock limited 1,071 Revaluation reserve Mweiga Estate Limited 7,720 The revaluation reserve relates to increases in the fair value of property, plant and equipment and decreases to Kipkebe Limited 41,779 357,805 the extent that such decrease relates to an increase on the same asset previously recognised in equity. 1,082 681 49,499 357,805 Defined benefit reserve Defined benefit reserve relates to remeasurement of post-employment benefits at the reporting date. The 27. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS remeasurements comprise of actuarial gains and losses on valuation of the gratuity scheme. Group Company Biological assets fair value 2015 2014 2015 2014 The biological assets fair value relates to increases in the fair value of biological assets and decreases to the extent that such decrease relate to an increase on the same asset previously recognised in equity. The fair value KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 movements are recognised in profit and loss but for purposes of monitoring the distribution of these reserves, Cash and cash equivalents 399,348 304,303 217,023 144,813 the directors have transferred the amounts from retained earnings to equity. Short term deposit 801,166 21,562 100,000 1,200,514 325,865 317,023 144,813 30. DEFERRED TAX ASSET/LIABILITY Deferred tax liabilities and assets during the year arose from the following: Short term deposits relate to deposits with banks with maturities of three (3) months. Change in rate Through Through other Group Balance at through OCI profit or comprehensive Balance at 2015: 1 October KShs ‘000 loss income 30 September 28. SHARE CAPITAL KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Authorised: Property, plant and equipment (18,178) (484,524) (502,702) At 1 October and 30 September: Revaluation gain 675,957 (203,699) 324,548 168,598 965,404 300,000,000 ordinary shares of KShs 1 Other temporary differences (135,754) (30,722) 14,029 (152,447) each 300,000 300,000 300,000 300,000 Biological assets 1,572,173 (48,974) 1,523,199 Issued and fully paid: Tax losses (114,019) 4,991 ( 109,028) At 1 October and 30 September: 1,980,179 (203,699) (234,681) 182,627 1,724,426 228,055,500 ordinary shares of KShs 1 each 228,055 228,055 228,055 228,055 Prior year under/ Through Through other All shares rank equally with regard to the company’s residual assets. The holders of ordinary shares are entitled Balance at (over) provision profit or comprehensive Balance at to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the 2014: 1 October through profit or loss income 30 September company. KShs ‘000 loss KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Property, plant and equipment 22,975 (11,866) (29,287) (18,178) Revaluation gain 223,337 452,620 675,957 Other temporary differences (103,219) (41,024) 8,489 (135,754) Biological assets 1,587,233 (15,060) 1,572,173 Tax losses (104,660) (9,359) (114,019) 1,625,666 (11,866) (94,730) 461,109 1,980,179 Annual Report and Financial Statements Annual Report and Financial Statements 75 for the year ended 30th September 2015 for the year ended 30th September 2015 76 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 (continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 (continued) 30. DEFERRED TAX ASSET/LIABILITY (Continued) Presented in the statement of financial position as below: 31. POST EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS Group Company Group Company 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Balance brought forward 280,893 280,911 21,094 19,465 Entities with net deferred tax asset (77,070) (23,070) Paid during the year (33,509) (24,879) (1,104) (1,551) Entities with net deferred tax liability 1,801,496 2,003,249 671,781 638,246 Charge for the year 44,789 50,728 3,677 5,629 1,724,426 1,980,179 671,781 638,246 Remeasurements (46,763) (25,867) (5,346) (2,449) Balance carried forward 245,410 280,893 18,321 21,094 The tax losses expire within 10 years under the current tax laws. The ageing of tax losses for the Group is as below: Non-current portion 216,814 270,520 15,113 21,094 Amounts Current portion 28,596 10,373 3,208 Year of origin KShs ‘000 Year of expiry 245,410 280,893 18,321 21,094 2011 119,090,241 2021 2012 84,088,978 2022 This relates to provision for staff gratuity. The Company has entered into collective bargaining agreements with trade unions representing its employees that provide for gratuity payments 2013 113,261,320 2023 on age and ill-health, retirement, withdrawal, resignation and death in-service of an employee. 2014 34,374,190 2024 The gratuity arrangements are unfunded. 2015 12,612,170 2025 An actuarial valuation was carried out by The Actuarial Services Company Limited, registered Total 363,426,899 actuaries, as at 30 September 2014 and 2015. The principle assumptions used were as follows: Prior year Through Balance at under/ Through other comBalance at 2015 2014 Company 1 October (over) profit or prehensive 30 Septem2015: 2014 provision loss income ber 2015 Discount rate 14.55% 12.37% KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Future salary increases 10.00% 12.00% Property, plant and equipment (25,703) (4,390) (30,093) Revaluation gain 105,281 72,527 177,808 Other temporary differences (24,029) (6,342) 1,604 (28,767) 32. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES Biological assets 582,697 (29,864) 552,833 Group Company 638,246 (40,596) 74,131 671,781 2015 2014 2015 2014 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Prior year Through Trade payables 132,248 176,613 69,891 115,300 Balance at under/ Through other comBalance at Other payables 296,891 345,755 53,971 148,708 2014: 1 October (over) profit or prehensive 30 Septem429,139 522,368 123,862 264,008 2014 provision loss income ber 2015 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Property, plant and equipment (6,056) (11,866) (7,781) ( 25,703) Revaluation gain 91,892 13,389 105,281 Other temporary differences (11,545) (13,219) 735 (24,029) Biological assets 468,967 113,730 582,697 543,258 (11,866) 92,730 14,124 638,246 Annual Report and Financial Statements Annual Report and Financial Statements 77 for the year ended 30th September 2015 for the year ended 30th September 2015 78 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 (continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 (continued) 33. CASH FLOWS GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS Reconciliation of profit before tax to cash generated from operations: 34. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (continued) Group Company (c) Director’s emoluments 2015 2014 2015 2014 Group Company KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Profit before tax 1,039,222 61,793 513,684 442,723 2015 2014 2015 2014 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Adjustments for: Fees 3,600 3,600 3,600 3,600 Depreciation and amortisation 163,358 186,713 50,173 62,007 Other remuneration 14,333 13,652 14,333 13,652 Unrealised foreign exchange (gain)/loss (1,536) 14,036 (330) 11,793 17,933 17,252 17,933 17,252 Interest income (Note 13) (44,222) (1,621) (16) (423) Interest cost (Note 13) 6,986 12,984 6,986 12,933 Other details in relation to related party balances are disclosed in Note 26. Gain on disposal of fixed assets (830,700) ( 796) (32,364) (796) Equipments written back (4,951) (4,951) Fair value changes on biological assets 35. CAPITAL COMMITMENTS (Note 20(a)) (18,290) 50,198 97,068 (379,098) Group Company Operating profit before working capital 2015 2014 2015 2014 changes 309,867 323,307 630,250 149,139 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Working capital changes: Authorised and contracted for 58,689 945 647 304 Inventories (23,299) 52,201 (18,403) (29,072) Trade and other receivables 72,388 ( 64,160) 86,481 (57,884) Related party balances 390 575 (88,200) 82,336 36. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES There are certain pending legal claims brought against the Group at 30 September 2015 and 2014. Trade and other payables (93,229) (14,320) (140,146) 20,942 In the opinion of the directors and after taking appropriate legal advice the outcome of the legal Post-employment obligations 15,250 26,577 2,572 4,076 claims will not give rise to any significant loss beyond the amounts provided for in these financial Cash flows generated from operations 281,367 324,180 472,554 169,537 statements. 34. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS The Group shares common directors with some of its subsidiary companies and suppliers, to 37. OPERATING LEASE RENTALS and from whom goods and services were supplied during the year under review. The following (a) Lessor transactions were entered into with these related parties: The group has leased out office space to third parties. Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are received as follows: (a) Purchase of goods and services Group Company Group Company 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Ryce East Africa Limited 2,129 1011 1,378 1011 Less than one year 5,748 5,559 11,135 10,782 Ryce Engineering Limited 62 20 62 One year to five years 22,478 23,718 38,098 44,724 Sameer Investments Limited 157 157 Over five years 3,268 5,823 3,268 5,823 Sameer Management Limited 3,435 3,070 104 70 31,494 35,100 52,501 61,329 Airtel Kenya Limited 1,008 955 809 670 Sameer Agriculture Limited 9,071 6,125 158 During the year, rental income of KShs. 5,435,920 (2014: 4,892,328) was recognised in the profit Sameer Business Park Limited 3,204 or loss. Yana Tyre Centre 1,237 1,447 933 1,241 (b) Lessee Liquid Telecom Limited 2,974 4,705 1,580 1,653 The group has leased out office space from third parties. Non-cancellable operating lease rentals 23,277 17,333 5,023 4,803 are payable as follows: Group Company The Company also shares common directors with one of its bankers, who provided a range of banking services to the Company during the year under review. All the transactions entered into 2015 2014 2015 2014 with the bank were in normal course of business and at arm’s length. KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Less than one year 4,770 5,777 5,777 (b) Key management compensation One year to five years 11,938 21,547 21,547 Group Company Over five years 959 959 2015 2014 2015 2014 16,708 28,283 28,283 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Short term employee benefits 50,433 40,046 32,466 29,588 Post-employment benefits 4,928 4,165 3,337 2,855 During the year KShs 6,013,489 (2014: 6,239,511) lease rentals was expensed in the profit or loss. 55,361 44,211 35,803 32,443 Annual Report and Financial Statements Annual Report and Financial Statements 79 for the year ended 30th September 2015 for the year ended 30th September 2015 80 FIVE YEAR COMPARATIVE STATEMENTS FIVE YEAR COMPARATIVE STATEMENTS (Continued) SASINI LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES SASINI LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 CAPITAL EMPLOYED 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 PRODUCTION AND SALES STATISTICS KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 TEA Area – Hectares 1,463 1,465 1,465 1,465 1,437 Property, plant and equipment 8,770,714 8,362,361 2,343,387 2,411,972 2,402,791 Production – Tonnes 8,578 11,564 11,061 8,826 9,042 Intangible assets 8,393 8,210 11,686 19,887 29,758 Sales – Tonnes 8,967 11,495 11,064 8,877 8,761 Biological assets 5,077,329 5,240,576 5,290,774 5,322,292 5,743,278 Sales proceeds KShs/Kg 179 158 190 192 189 Prepaid leases leasehold land 18,473 20,074 20,316 20,556 20,797 Capital work-in-progress 33,358 29,678 39,934 37,877 21,645 COFFEE Other investments 525 525 525 525 525 Area – Hectares 775 912 912 912 912 Deferred tax asset 77,070 23,070 52,699 Production – Tonnes 993 1,153 1,201 980 863 Sales – Tonnes 993 1,209 1,169 1,008 908 Net current assets 1,590,953 710,243 563,796 524,243 659,798 Sales proceeds KShs’000/tonne 435 417 339 698 618 15,576,815 14,394,737 8,323,117 8,337,352 8,878,592 FINANCED BY RESULTS KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Share capital 228,055 228,055 228,055 228,055 228,055 Reserves 12,883,333 11,594,144 6,054,978 6,008,602 6,230,971 Turnover 2,786,126 2,762,547 2,816,834 2,820,737 2,665,877 Non-controlling interests 390,103 241,755 99,878 133,131 189,118 (Losses)/gains arising from changes in fair Proposed dividend 57,014 57,014 57,014 114,028 value less costs to sell 18,290 (50,198) (31,518) ( 420,986) ( 416,043) Equity 13,558,505 12,120,968 6,382,911 6,426,802 6,762,172 Profit /(loss) before taxation and non-conNon-current liabilities 2,018,310 2,273,769 1,940,206 1,910,550 2,116,420 trolling interest 1,039,222 61,793 158,407 (85,225) 1,014,139 15,576,815 14,394,737 8,323,117 8,337,352 8,878,592 Taxation credit/(charge) 61,990 (16,372) (66,718) (38,888) (563,792) RATIOS Earnings per share on operating Profit (loss) after taxation before non-conactivities (KShs) 4.18 0.37 0.56 0.82 1.69 trolling interests 1,101,212 45,421 91,689 ( 124,113) 450,347 Earnings/(loss) per share on biological Made up as shown below: assets (KShs) 0.09 (0.27) (0.02) (1.12) 0.03 Profit arising from operating activities 953,650 85,476 126,832 186,857 384,664 Dividend per share (KShs) 1.25 0.25 0.25 0.75 1.00 (Loss)/profit arising from changes in fair Dividend cover (times covered) 3.34 1.48 2.24 1.09 1.69 value less costs to sell after tax 21,113 (61,819) (4,128) (254,650) 6,569 Capital employed per share 68.30 63.12 36.50 36.56 38.93 Non-controlling interest 126,449 21,764 (31,015) (56,320) 59,114 1,101,212 45,421 91,689 (124,113) 450,347 Dividends ( 285,069) (57,014) (57,014) (171,042) (228,055) Annual Report and Financial Statements Annual Report and Financial Statements 81 for the year ended 30th September 2015 for the year ended 30th September 2015 82 insert/ images Annual Report and Financial Statements 83 for the year ended 30th September 2015 FORM OF PROXY/ FOMU YA UWAKILISHI FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 I / We........................................................................................................................... Mimi/Sisi ................................................................................................................ .... Of................................................................................................................................. Wa.................................................................................................................... being a member/members of Sasini Limited, do hereby appoint ............................ Nikiwa/tukiwa mwanachama/wanachama wa Sasini Limited, namchagua/ ..................................................................................................................................... twamchagua au akikosa yeye .......................................................................... ............................................................................................................................ or failing him/her ....................................................................................................... Mwenyekiti aliyechaguliwa wa mkutano kuwa kama mwakilishi wangu/wetu, kupiga kura kwa niaba yangu/yetu kwenye mkutano mkuu wa mwaka wa the duly appointed Chairman of the meeting to be my/ our proxy, to vote for me/ Kampuni utakaofanyika katika shamba la Kamundu, Kiambu, Kenya, siku ya us at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held at Kamundu Estate, Ijumaa tarehe 4 Machi 2016 na kwenye uahirishwaji wake wowote. Kiambu, Kenya on Friday 4th March, 2016 and at any adjournment thereof. Kama ushahidi wangu/wetu hii siku ya ............................................................. Mwezi wa ................................................................... 2016 As witness my/our hand(s) this day of .............................................................. 2016 Sahihi .................................................................................... Signature .................................................................................................................... Maelezo: Notes: • To be valid, this proxy must be deposited at the Registered Office of the • Ili kuwa halali, fomu hii ya uakilishi lazima ifikishwe kwenye afisi ilioandikishwa Company not less than 48hours before the time appointed for holding the ya Kampuni kwa muda usiopungua masaa arobaini na nane kabla ya wakati meeting. uliochaguliwa wa kufanya mkutano. • If the appointer is a corporation, the proxy must be executed under its common • Ikiwa mwanachama ni shirika, uwakilishi uwe kwenye muhuri wa kawaida au Seal or under the hand of an officer or attorney duly authorized in writing. kwa idhini ya afisaa au mwanasheria aliyeidhinishwa kwa maandishi. Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 for the year ended 30th September 2015 Sasini Limited and Subsidiaries NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 (continued) FOLD 2 Affix Stamp Here The Company Secretary Sasini Limited P.O. BOX 30151 FOLD 1 00100 GPO Nairobi Kenya FOLD 3 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2015 88 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 (continued) Sasini House, Loita Street P.O. Box 30151-00100 Nairobi Telephone: (+254-020) 3342166 / 71 / 72 Mobile: (+254) 722 200706, 734 200, 705200706, 733 200706 E-mail: info@sasini.co.ke | Web: www.sasini.co.ke Annual Report and Financial Statements A MEMBER OF THE SAMEER GROUP 89 for the year ended 30th September 2015
