Wernerfelt COP 2015-2016 Statement of continued support by the chief executive officer To our stakeholders I am pleased to confirm that Wernerfelt A/S reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. During 2015-2016, Wernerfelt has continued to integrate the Global Compact ten principles in our daily operations both in our internal operations and our supply chain. We have adopted the 12th sustainable development goal of responsible consumption and production. In the coming year we will continue to work with the ten principles throughout our value chain. Sincerely yours Lars Lauridsen Managing Director Human Rights and anti-corruption Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Policy, goals and assessment Wernefelt human rights policy clearly states that compliance with the universal declaration of human rights is a must throughout all of our operations. Our ant-corruption policy states clearly that corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery is not tolerated. We make it also clear that will not trade with suppliers that break the corruption principles and with any suppliers that do not comply with the universal declaration of human rights. Assessment and Implementation Overall assessment procedure: Our assessment procedures are the same as the last period, I.E. Evaluation of assessment results Assessment for Agreement with supplies on an action plan -how companies in high to proceed with CSR First contact risk countries: issues Assessment Use of third party audits, certifications, standards •Questionnaire, Code of conduct, Environmental to assess the company requirements are sent out to Visit and assess first suppliers hand •Suppliers read and fill out the questionnire We assess our suppliers through the “suppliers human rights and anti-corruption” questionnaire we have prepared. The questionnaire is sent to suppliers and it must be filled in and signed. Regarding new suppliers, we discuss human rights and anti-corruption issues and go through our questionnaire with them so that we are sure that they understand it before signing compliance. We visit our established suppliers periodically to assess the conditions first hand. We also inform our suppliers of the articles included in the universal declaration of human rights and the core conventions of the ILO concerning the rights of workers and children. Part of our implementation procedure is a yearly evaluation of our supplier’s situation regarding human rights and anti-corruption and according to the results, we revert with input in any areas that we deem to be unacceptable. We are asking all our suppliers to undergo a third party audit that includes human rights and anticorruption issues. Business partners and our employees are informed of the importance of Wernefelt’s stand on Human rights and anti-corruption. Moreover, all elements of Wernefelt’s activities are completely transparent which reduces the element of corruption greatly. We have also developed rules regarding gifts and responsible business behaviour. We inform our employees and our business partners of their rights and have a procedure in place to handle any grievances and or input. Measurement of outcomes Specific work outcomes in the areas of Human rights and anti-corruption include: 1. Human rights and anti-corruption have become a standard discussion topic with our business partners and our employees. 2. We have gathered and update regularly, compliance documentation regarding the UNGC 10 principles from third party accredited standards, certifications, tests and audits. 3. There have not been any reports of any human rights or anti-corruption violations 4. The third party audits have not pointed out any crucial violations and our suppliers are working with the improvements needed as pointed by the various audits We have applied for the Nordic Swan ecolabel which sets ethical requirements that cover the basic principles and rights relating to working conditions such as the ILO’s core conventions We continue to hold a short meeting every morning where employees have the opportunity to discuss all relevant topics freely as well as management meetings with each employee at least once a year to discuss various workers conditions including salary negotiation. Locally, Wernerfelt is actively engaged in the local community by supporting the handicap sport association, by cooperating to provide practical experience for unemployed people and by providing various textiles to a project involving school children that learn sewing. Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Policy and goals Our goal is to provide a pleasant work environment and proper work conditions, which take into account both the physical and psychological needs of for our employees. We expect that our suppliers work with labour issues as specified in our code of conduct. We expect as a minimum that they uphold the country’s rules and legislation covering labour issues. Assessment and Implementation Our assessment procedures are the same as the last period, I.E. The assessment of labour issues takes place at the same time and in the same way as the assessment for human rights, anti-corruption and environments. We visit our suppliers regularly where we discuss CSR issues as a standard part of the agenda. The main area is the use of third party certification, standards and audits and the results from these. In Denmark, Wernerfelt conducts a yearly work environment evaluation and prepares an annual report upon which the responsible persons together with management draft the measures needed for the following year in order to improve the working environment both physically and psychologically. Measurement of outcomes A number of our suppliers are holding various certifications, standards and audit results such as SA 8000 and work environment system OHSAS 8001. All of our suppliers are working with improvements needed. We have introduced many different measures throughout our offices and storage facilities, such ergonomic desks and chairs, machines for lifting, flexible time schedules and facilities for relaxing and eating. Our APV – Work environment evaluation yearly report provides us with input that is essential to our work regarding our work environment. Environment Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Policy and goals Our aim is to reduce environmental damage resulting from our operations. This includes our internal operations that are mainly administrative as well as our supply chain, which includes the production of raw materials and fabrics. Our responsible buying policy includes the requirement that all suppliers must to adhere to laws and regulations as a minimum. It also describes Wernerfelt’s specific requirements and expectations above regulations Assessment and Implementation Our assessment procedures are the same as the last period, I.E. Assessment is carried out through our questionnaire that is accompanied by our environmental requirements document. Suppliers are asked to read the requirements that cover issues such as chemical use, wastewater treatment as well as other areas of concern and consequently answer our questionnaire. We visit our suppliers regularly and discuss environmental matters concerning the production processes and minimisation of impacts. When we started working with environmental issues, our basic requirement was that all our suppliers must comply to applicable laws and regulations. This is still stated in our environmental policy, but our work and cooperation with our suppliers since has progressed and we are now looking and focussing on third party credible certifications. We inform our suppliers about the benefits of third party certifications such as the marketing possibilities. We also continue to inform our suppliers of legal compliance EU and Danish legislation regarding prohibited substances, heavy metals and so on. Regarding environmental issues at our premises, we monitor the market for innovative sustainable solutions suite to our operations and consider options that can save energy, waste and reduce environmental impacts in packaging and transport. Measurement of outcomes Internally: We have procedures in place for waste. We are monitoring and implementing energy efficiency solutions for our heat and light supply such as LEDs as well as Ecolabel product use. Supply chain: We have and update the environmental profile of our suppliers on a regular basis. Products: We are very proud to report that we have now completed applied for the Nordic Swan Ecolabel for 11 of our qualities and we expect to have the licence by the end of this year. The Nordic Swan is an ISO type I Ecolabel and is based on a LCA approach which sets criteria throughout the life cycle of our products. The criteria include: a) Environmental requirements b) Quality and functionality requirements c) Ethical requirements d) Quality and regulatory requirements Certified products stand for reduced environmental impacts in the areas of:  Fibre and textile production  Chemicals use  Finishing and mounting  Emissions  Energy and water consumption  Packaging, storage and transport Communication It is important for us that our business partners are aware of our policies, our initiatives and our way of working. We are of “the old school” and prefer to communicate our CSR work directly to our business partners. We therefore use time in scheduled one-to-one meetings where we cover CSR issues. All our business partners are well aware of our CSR strategies and goals and the associated environmental and financial benefits. We also use our web site to inform generally of our CSR work.
