CONTENTS letter of the president of the management board · 03 1. organizational profile · 06 About the company · 06 Atlantic Grupa’s supply chain · 19 Managing sustainability risks · 20 Commitments to external initiatives · 22 How we support UN Global Compact principles · 22 2. about this report · 27 Report parameters · 27 Materiality · 29 Stakeholder engagement · 30 3. corporate management · 32 Governance structure of the organization · 34 Remuneration policy for management board members · 36 Ethics and integrity · 38 4. economic impacts · 41 5. product responsibility · 44 Integrated certification · 45 Product health and safety · 48 Product and service labelling · 50 6. workplace responsibility · 63 Employment · 66 Occupational health and safety · 70 Training and education · 71 7. environmental responsibility · 75 Energy consumption within the organization · 77 Biodiversity · 79 Waste · 80 8. community engagement · 84 Sports · 85 Culture and knowledge · 85 Socially vulnerable groups · 85 Value day · 86 9. gri index · 87 atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 LE TTER OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE MA NA GEMENT BOA RD LETTER OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD In 2015, Atlantic Grupa has set the main direction of the company’s further development in line with its strategic focus on intensive internationalization of operations, primarily directed towards Western Europe, but also towards Eastern European countries. The region of Southeast Europe is in no way affected by this as we continue the intensive development of our own portfolio and expansion of distribution activities in this area, but the goal of the internationalization strategy is to significantly increase the share of total sales outside the regional market with limited growth opportunities. We plan to achieve this goal through the expansion of our distribution network to new markets, which is on the level of internal organization reflected in establishing two distribution zones: Zone East and Zone West. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 3 LE T T E R O F T HE PRE S I DE N T O F T HE MAN AG E ME N T BOARD Among key business developments in 2015, in addition to the reorganization of distribution operations and the establishment of distribution companies in the markets of Germany and Austria, we should also point out further expansion of the distribution portfolio in the region. Further, less than one year since the start of construction works, the newly built plant for production of energy bars from the sports and functional food product range in Nova Gradiška started its operations. Finally, the last acquisition of Atlantic Grupa, the company Foodland d.o.o., was successfully and fully integrated into the business system of Atlantic Grupa and today, with its brand Bakina Tajna (Granny’s Secret), operates under the new business unit Gourmet. We are particularly pleased that our business model has proven stable in a difficult economic environment, as confirmed by reported results and launching of new investments. Despite the challenges, we are continuously successful in generating growth in an environment of general decline or stagnation, which also includes the region, while by the results achieved in key European markets we confirm this company’s orientation towards internationalization as our strategic focus. The main levers of this process are our brands with the highest development and expansion potential in international markets – Granny’s Secret, Argeta, Donat Mg, Multipower, Bebi and Cedevita. In addition to the strong supatlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 4 port of our own distribution system and cooperation with LE T T E R O F T HE PRE S I DE N T O F T HE MAN AG E ME N T BOARD renowned distribution partners in the markets where we do not have own companies yet, smooth implementation of this strategic direction is also enabled by exceptional quality of the allocation of production capacities. As the company whose shares have been quoted on the official market of the Zagreb Stock Exchange for 36 consecutive quarters, we realize the results we announce, on the basis of which the capital market as well as our shareholders consider us to be a transparent, responsible and perspective company. In addition to constantly working on building and developing quality working conditions and distinguishable corporate culture, we have placed additional focus on strengthening our management team and developing capacities. At the same time, the company is continually dedicated to risk management, liquidity maintenance and debt management. Due to all these factors, Atlantic Grupa, according to the latest survey of Euromoney, the leading global financial magazine, was awarded as the best-managed company in Croatia and the best-managed company in the food and beverages sector in Central and Eastern Europe in 2015. Emil Tedeschi, President of the Management Board atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 5 o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e 1. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE about the company Atlantic Grupa is a vertically integrated multinational company whose business activities incorporate research and development, production and distribution of fast moving consumer goods in Southeast Europe, the West European markets and Russia and Commonwealth of Independent States. Since the company’s inception in early 1990’s, Atlantic Grupa pursued a growth strategy based on combination of organic growth and mergers and acquisitions activities that culminated with the company’s largest acquisition ever –acquisition of Droga Kolinska in 2010. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 6 o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e PHARMA & BEVERAGES COFFEE SNACKS PERSONAL CARE atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 7 o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e SPORTS AND FUNCTIONAL FOOD SAVOURY SPREADS GOURMET BABY FOOD Atlantic Grupa stands out today as one of the ments and OTC drugs as well as the leading leading food and beverage manufacturers pharmacy chain in Croatia under Farmacia in Southeast Europe with prominent coffee brand. Furthermore, Atlantic Grupa manufacbrands Grand Kafa and Barcaffè, range of bevtures and distributes the leading European erage brands Cockta, Donat Mg, Cedevita, Kala brand in the sports nutrition – Multipower and and Kalnička, portfolio of sweet and salted has a strong foothold on the Russian and CIS snacks brands Smoki, Najlepše Želje and markets with its baby food portfolio under Bananica, savoury spread brands as Argeta, Bebi brand. With its own distribution network and Granny’s Secret as new BU Gourmet. Adin Croatia, Slovenia, Serbia and Macedonia, the ditionally, Atlantic Grupa has a wide personal company also distributes a range of products care product portfolio, owns the leading Croafrom external partners. tian producer of vitamins, minerals, suppleatlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 8 leading distributor of multinational brands o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e ATLANTIC GRUPA is one of the leading distributors (both own and principal brands) high-quality FMCG brands in SEE whose brands are regional and global leaders. Our Strategic Distribution Units and Distribution Units have a highly developed know-how in the fields of key client management, product category management, supply chain management, trade marketing and sales improvement, which is continuously adapted to market trends. The primary activity of the Strategic Distribution Units and Distribution Units is distribution of the entire product range from Atlantic’s own production and the portfolio of external principals. leading distributor of multinational brands atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 9 representative offices and companies in 12 countries OFFICE + OFFICE o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e FACTORY — — Croatia Austria Bosnia & Great Britain Herzegovina Italy Germany Montenegro Macedonia Russia Serbia Spain Slovenia TODAY, ATLANTIC GRUPA IS A COMPANY WITH: → HRK 5.4 billion in sales revenues, Atlantic Grupa has a → modern production network (in Croatia, well-balanced presence in Slovenia, Germany, Serbia, Bosnia and Southeast Europe accountHerzegovina and Macedonia), ing for 78.2% of total sales, → regional distribution infrastructure and while 21.8% refers to the → 11 brands with sales above company’s presence in West HRK 120 million, high market shares Europe and CIS countries. and consumer recognisability. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 10 company history o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e NATI O N A L CO MPA N Y 1991 Incorporation of Atlantic Trade and the development of consumer goods distribution Establishing cooperation with the company Wrigley 1992 Opening of the distribution centre Split 1994 Opening of distribution centres Osijek and Rijeka 1996 Cooperation with Procter & Gamble 1997 Investment in the Ataco distribution system in Bosnia&Herzegovina 1998 Launch of Montana, the first Croatian ready-made sandwich for broad distribution 1999 Establishing cooperation with Johnson & Johnson RE G I O N A L CO MPA N Y 2001 Establishing a representative office in Bosnia & Herzegovina Start up of a distribution company Atlantic Trade d.o.o.* Serbia Acquisition of Cedevita d.o.o. Establishing cooperation with Ferrero 2002 Incorporation of Atlantic Grupa d.o.o. 2003 Acquisition of Neva d.o.o. Start up of a distribution company Atlantic Trade Skopje d.o.o. 2004 Start up of a distribution company Atlantic Trade d.o.o. Ljubljana Acquisition of the brand Melem atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 11 E URO P E A N CO MPA N Y o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e 2005 Acquisition of a German sports food producer Multipower 2006 Establishing a representative office in Moscow Transformation of Atlantic Grupa into a joint-stock company 2007 Acquisition of Fidifarm d.o.o. Acquisition of Multivita d.o.o. Listing of Atlantic Grupa d.d. **shares on the official market of the Zagreb Stock Exchange 2008 Acquisition of pharmacies and forming of the pharmacy chain Farmacia 2010 Acquisition of Droga Kolinska d.d. Acquisition of Kalničke vode Bio Natura d.d. 2013 Establishing cooperation with Unilever 2015 Finalization of acquistion, Granny's Secret portfolio and operations formed as a single Business Unit Gourmet as of 1st September * d.o.o. Croatian abbreviation for “limited liability company” (Ltd) ** d.d. Croatian abbreviation for “joint-stock company” (Inc.) organisational structure From 2014 the company’s business operations East and Zone West, allowing the company to are organised in six Strategic Business Units manage its sales and distribution operations (SBU), one Business Unit (BU), five Strategic more effectively. Distribution Units (SDU) and two Distribution Units (DU), while in late 2015 another business The business organisation of Atlantic Grupa unit was added and distribution operations comprises two basic segments: were organised through two main zones: Zone • Business Operations and • Corporate Support Functions atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 12 o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e ATLANTI C G RU PA BUSINESS OPERATIONS CORPORATE SUPPORT FUNCTIONS BUSINESS UNITS DISTRIBUTION UNITS FINANCE CORPORATE ACTIVITIES sbu coffee — sbu sports and functional food ZONE EAST ZONE WEST — sbu beverages sdu croatia sdr dach — — & benelux sbu snacks sdu serbia — — — dr mediterranean sbu pharma and du slovenia & africa personal care — — — du macedonia dr northwest sbu savoury spreads — europe & australia — sdr horeca — bu gourmet — pdr central europe — sdr baltic & cis and overseas bu baby food — pdr kosovo, bulgaria, romania Business operations of Atlantic Grupa in 2015 Each business unit has its own internal ormay be followed through business activities ganisational structure which is, depending on of special business units related to individual its activity and business volume, composed of product type, and special sales units which organisational areas: business units, organisacover all major markets as well as strategic tional units and departments. sales channels, namely: • Six Strategic Business Units (SBUs) – CofAlong with Strategic Business Units, Business fee, Snacks, Beverages, Savoury Spreads, Units, Strategic Distribution Units and DistriPharma and Personal Care, and Sports and bution Units, the Business Operations segment Functional Food; of the company also includes the functions of • Business Unit (BU) Baby Food; Central Purchasing, Central Marketing and • Five Strategic Distribution Units (SDUs) Corporate Quality Management, established – Croatia, Serbia, International markets, in order to take advantage of all synergies HoReCa and the Commonwealth of Indewithin the system and to ensure efficient coorpendent States (CIS); and dination of purchasing, marketing and quality • Two Distribution Units (DUs) – Slovenia and assurance tasks as well as to establish uniform Macedonia. standards on the entire Group’s level. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 13 o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e CHANGES IN THE ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE In line with Atlantic Grupa’s strategic focus on the internationalisation of operations, the last quarter of 2015 was, in terms of the organisational structure, marked by the decision on implementing certain changes in the structure of its business operations, with the aim to manage particular distribution markets and business segments as effectively as possible. The new organisational structure is based on the division of the company’s distribution operations into two main zones: ZONE EAST and ZONE WEST, where the Zone East includes Southeast Europe, the Baltics and the CIS region, and the Zone West includes Central and Southwest Europe, the Nordic countries and all overseas markets. At the same time, the process of intensive internationalisation demanded a stronger focus on particular areas with global potentials, such as the production of the brand Granny’s Secret which is, in the context of plans for its strengthening on the markets outside the region of Southeast Europe, was removed from the Strategic Business Unit Savoury Spreads and established as a separate area organised within the Business Unit Gourmet. The process of applying the listed organisational changes was implemented by the end of 2015 in order to ensure quality preparations for starting business operations based on the new organisational structure and adjusted financial reporting in 2016. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 14 Corporate support functions ensure the impleing and Consolidation, Corporate Controlo r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e mentation of uniform corporate standards and ling, Corporate Tax, Corporate Treasury and more transparent and efficient business operaInvestor Relations. tions at the company level. Corporate support functions are centrally organised and, dependThe organisational structure includes the newly ing on their respective functional area, provide established Department for Business Develsupport to the development and management opment, Strategy and Information Technolof the entire Atlantic Grupa. ogy responsible for providing support to the Company’s Management Board in the segment These corporate support functions are of identifying strategic initiatives, implementdivided into: ing the long-term development strategy and • Corporate Activities; and business development activities with a focus • Finances. on M&A and strategic partnerships, and for managing Information Communication TechThe strategic corporate function Corporate nology functions required for maintaining and Activities includes the following departments: improving Atlantic Grupa’s operations, level of Human Resources, Corporate Communicaservice and competitiveness. tions, Legal Affairs, Investments and Asset In addition to the above, the organisational Management, and Corporate Security. structure also includes the support function of Internal Audit, which operates as an independThe strategic corporate function Finance inent function that reports to the Supervisory cludes the following units: Corporate ReportBoard of Atlantic Grupa. ownership structure on 31/12/2015 Atlantic Grupa has a stable ownership strucsold its remaining ownership share of Atlantic ture: 50.2% of the company is owned by Emil Grupa by transaction on the Zagreb Stock ExTedeschi, 6.0% by the European Bank for Rechange. This transaction significantly expanded construction and Development, 5.8% by Lada the free float to 38.0%, which places the AtlanTedeschi Fiorio, and 25.2% of Atlantic Grupa is tic Grupa’s share in the seventh place in terms owned by pension funds. In November 2015, the of the free float market capitalisation among German development finance institution – DEG the components of the CROBEX10 stock index. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 15 ownership structure on 31/12/2015 o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e 50.2% EMIL TEDESCHI 25.2% 11.7% CROATIAN PENSION FUNDS OTHERS 6.0% 5.8% 1.1% EBRD LADA TEDESCHI FIORIO MANAGEMENT overview of top 10 shareholders of atlantic grupa d.d. on dec 31st 2015 shareholder no. of shares % ownership emil tedeschi 1,673,819 50.2 % raiffeisen obligatory pension fund, category b 322,494 9.7 % european bank for reconstruction and development – ebrd 199,301 6.0 % erste plavi obligatory pension fund, category b 196,462 5.9 % lada tedeschi fiorio 193,156 5.8 % az obligatory pension fund, category b 130,439 3.9 % pbz co obligatory pension fund, category b 98,146 2.9 % raiffeisen voluntary pension fund 48,298 1.5 % pbz d.d. / joint custodial account 42,364 1.3 % zagrebačka banka d.d. / joint custodial account 34,825 1.0 % for unicredit ba atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 16 According to the decision of the Company’s amount of HRK 12.00 per share, i.e. a total of o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e General Assembly held on 18 June 2015, the HRK 40 million. The dividend was distributed in dividend distribution was approved in the July 2015. PERFORMANCE ON CAPITAL MARKET The average price of an Atlantic Grupa’s share in 2015 amounted to HRK 880.1, while the average regular daily turnover amounted to HRK 380.1 thousand, which is a 26.9% increase compared to the previous year. With the average market capitalisation of HRK 2,934.6 million, Atlantic Grupa takes the significant fourth place among the components of the CROBEX10 stock index. Moreover, according to the total turnover in 2015, the Atlantic Grupa’s share holds the sixth place compared to all the shares quoted on the Zagreb Stock Exchange. INVESTOR RELATIONS IN 2015 In 2015, Atlantic Grupa won the third prize for best relations with investors, an award given by Poslovni dnevnik as the investment community’s recognition of companies who have fair and transparent relations with investors. The award has been given for six years in a row now, out of which Atlantic Grupa has five times been the winner of one of the top three awards. Moreover, in 2015 Atlantic Grupa participated in various investor conferences across Europe, and held numerous meetings with domestic and foreign investors. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 17 workforce o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e in 2015 In 2015. Atlantic Grupa continued its intensive in Croatia (37,1%), Serbia (36,9) and Slovenia and dynamic business growth and develop(13,5%). In 2015, 9,54% were part-time and ment, which was reflected in the number and 90,46% were full-time employees. In the same structure of our employees. The company has period, 5.93% of employees had short-term 4766 employees* out of which 51,8% are contracts, while 94.07% had long-term conwomen. The majority of our employees work tracts. Region No. of Age group Age group% % M F M% F% (market) employees < 30 30 – 50 > 50 < 30 30 – 50 > 50 AT 4 0,1% 3 1 75,0% 25,0% 1 2 1 25,0% 50,0% 25,0% BA 149 3,1% 108 41 72,5% 27,5% 13 107 29 8,7% 71,8% 19,5% DE 196 4,1% 108 88 55,1% 44,9% 27 117 52 13,8% 59,7% 26,5% ES 7 0,1% 4 3 57,1% 42,9% 7 0,0% 100,0% 0,0% HR 1,768 37,1% 741 1,027 41,9% 58,1% 377 1,108 283 21,3% 62,7% 16,0% IT 8 0,2% 3 5 37,5% 62,5% 7 1 0,0% 87,5% 12,5% ME 2 0,0% 1 1 50,0% 50,0% 2 0,0% 100,0% 0,0% MK 159 3,3% 102 57 64,2% 35,8% 28 112 19 17,6% 70,4% 11,9% RS 1,759 36,9% 858 901 48,8% 51,2% 169 1,250 340 9,6% 71,1% 19,3% RU 60 1,3% 27 33 45,0% 55,0% 15 34 11 25,0% 56,7% 18,3% SI 642 13,5% 335 307 52,2% 47,8% 97 364 181 15,1% 56,7% 28,2% UK 12 0,3% 6 6 50,0% 50,0% 2 5 5 16,7% 41,7% 41,7% Total* 4,766 100% 2,296 2,470 48,2% 51,8% 729 3,115 922 15,3% 65,4% 19,3% * Without freelancers Atlantic Grupa strongly supports the right of of Croatia and union's statute. The union may its employees to participate in decisions conwork according to company union regulacerning their economic and social rights, and tions. In 2015, 58,9% of our employees were interests in accordance with the Labour Law. covered with collective agreements, comparAs a responsible employer, we have a tradiing to 90,0% in 2014 (in 2015 not signed a tion of joining workers that are promoting the collective agreement for trading). Out of this interests of the worker to the employer, either number, 78,15% of employees have their own through a union or work council. Union allicompany's collective agreements and 21,85% ance of Atlantic Grupa is in accordance with are covered with industrial or federal collective international conventions, laws of the Republic agreements. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 18 atlantic grupa ’ s including laws related to discrimination, employo r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e supply chain ment, health, safety and environment. Therefore, we actively seek such suppliers who share our values and business principles, and promote the application of high standards within their Atlantic Grupa offers many opportunities and business environment. These standards include: possibilities for cooperation to its suppliers. From our suppliers we procure all the raw ma• compliance with the laws, including the terials for our products, packaging, machines prohibition of giving or receiving bribe or for producing and finishing the products, other personal payment equipment and technical devices, as well as • respecting human rights and employees’ other services that are necessary support to our rights processes. Our supply chain consists of both • health protection and work safety laws and large multinational business corporations and standards compliance local suppliers. From some of the suppliers we • prohibition of child work as well as bonded procure products and services in significant labour amounts, while with others we cooperate on an • prohibition of workers abuse, discrimination occasional basis. In 2015, Atlantic Grupa coopor harassment erated with more than 2500 suppliers. • obeying applicable environmental laws, rules and regulations and demonstrated commitThe strategy of the purchasing organization of ment to preserving the environment Atlantic Grupa is based on a careful selection of adequate suppliers capable to supply the The purchasing organization of Atlantic Grupa company with goods and services of requested is committed to select only such suppliers that quality. Atlantic Grupa constantly encourages comply with these standards for conducting suppliers to improve their own efficiency and to the business with our company. Monitoring develop innovative products and technologies. standards and performance of our suppliers is challenging but crucial to protect our business Basic principles for procurement and relations and our company’s reputation, and most imwith suppliers are defined in the Purchasing portantly our consumers who use our products. Guidelines, the fundamental document of the The common model for monitoring the Atlantic purchasing organization of Atlantic Grupa, Grupa’s suppliers was defined and established which is followed by the procedures, manuals in 2014. The system includes unique criteria for and instructions describing in detail the specific approval, evaluation and auditing of suppliers, areas of purchasing activities in Atlantic Grupa's while intensive work was performed on the data operating companies. The Guidelines foresee collection and processing system as well as on that Atlantic Grupa’s purchasing organization the evaluation and monitoring model based on takes only such actions and practices that enthe risk management model. sure sustainable sourcing and procuring by helping reducing waste, improving environmental Evaluation of suppliers is conducted once a impact and protecting human and labour rights. year, and is generally based on two main criBesides the criteria regarding quality and comteria: quality and commercial terms and condimercial terms and conditions, we require from tions. Evaluation based on quality of delivered all our suppliers to act with integrity, to commaterials and suppliers’ quality systems is ply with all applicable laws of their countries, performed in Quality assurance department. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 19 Supplier proves his quality system with certificates o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e Other certificate: ISO 26000 Social FSSC 22000/ HACCP responsibility; ISO ISO 9001 ISO 14001 IFS/ BRC or or GMP 50001 Energy certificate certificate adequate certificate management; OHSAS certificate 18001; Information security ISO 27001… Each evaluated supplier is assigned with and services which Atlantic Grupa is procuring, one of the evaluation ratings: A – excellent, selection and awarding contracts procedures B – good, or C – conditionally acceptable/not etc. In addition, the portal provides the suppliacceptable. Aimed at improving two-way comers the opportunity to share their suggestions munication, Atlantic Grupa encourages the exfor improving the relationship with Atlantic isting and potential suppliers to use the online Grupa, quality and functionality of products supplier portal available at the company’s weband services, and other aspects of cooperation. site. The portal contains information on goods managing we are operating in ways that generate shared sustainability risks value for the community and help protect the environment for future generations. The corporate culture that Atlantic Grupa In addition to macroeconomic conditions that nurtures is reflected in our Quality Policy, conlargely dictate the trends in the consumption firming our commitment to the principles of goods industry, in particular personal consumpsustainable development, economic efficiency, tion as a component of the GDP, our company environmental responsibility and social responmust consider major global risks such as the sibility. This means that, beyond complying ongoing financial crisis causing the recession with national laws and international standards, in Europe as well as in the region. While cliwe are developing internal procedures and mate change and resource scarcity increasingpolicies concerning the most material issues ly affect our business and social environment, for our company as well as for our stakeholdwe made a big step toward sustainability by ers, as we take into account local and global expanding our concern for the environment sustainability trends. Having high quality from a local approach to the corporate level standards as our fundamental commitment, within a consistent Environmental Manageatlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 20 ment System (EMS) based on three main pillars: environment and o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e energy efficiency, people and society, and governance. With the consumers’ expectations constantly growing, the development of the consumer goods industry is also largely influenced by the ability of companies to adapt to consumer needs and market trends, which in turn requires investments in research and development, innovation and technology. Finally, as a company, we are best positioned to create shared value by promoting healthy lifestyles to our consumers and the community in which we operate. In response to the main challenges, our sustainability commitments are deeply implemented in our core business: • Risk control is implemented in the process of designing and developing or improving product when it comes to the use of raw materials, components or substances that may jeopardize or jeopardize human health. In Atlantic Grupa, procedures with the purpose to assure safety and conformity of any new or improved product are in place. There are many internal demands that must be followed in terms of legal and sustainable aspects in order to assure the production of safe foods. Furthermore, we are committed to developing new product recipes in order to improve our products and support healthy eating habits of our consumers. • When conceptualising, planning and designing new products, in addition to the aforementioned, the environmental aspect and the sustainable development aspect also have to be taken into account. Through the careful selection of raw materials and packaging materials, we can reduce environmental impacts throughout the entire life cycle of the product – from raw materials to final disposal of the waste packaging after the use of the product. • The extension of the principle of sustainable development is reflected in the relationship with our suppliers. By including environmental criteria in the process of selecting suppliers, we have expanded environmental care along our supply chain. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 21 commitements to this world’s largest corporate responsibility o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e external initiatives platform. Atlantic Grupa in Serbia is one of the founding members of the Responsible Business Forum – the first and only network of companies in SerIn 2007, Atlantic Grupa joined the United Nabia dedicated to social responsibility – whose tions Global Compact by committing to support activities contribute to further development the ten universally accepted principles with of socially responsible projects and exchange respect to human rights, labour, environment of experience on the current practice. In the and anti-corruption. The UN Global Compact period 2013–2015, a representative of Atlantic and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) signed an Grupa held a position in the Governing Board agreement in May 2010 to align their work in of this network. In Croatia, Atlantic Grupa is advancing corporate responsibility and transa member of The Croatian Business Council parency. According to this agreement, GRI is for Sustainable Development (HR BCSD) since developing its reporting guidelines to integrate 2005. This business association gathers comUNGC issue areas, while the UNGC adopts panies in a joint mission of seeking solutions GRI Guidelines as the recommended reporting for growth, by balancing business success, framework for the businesses that have joined social well-being and environmental protection. how we support un global compact principles human rights The company's policies and procedures concerning human rights, equal opportuniPrinciple 1 Businesses should support ties, safe and healthy working conditions. and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and Ethical code of the purchasing organization applying, among others, the criteria Principle 2 Businesses should make of sustainable purchasing: when making sure that they are not complicit in husourcing and purchasing decisions, Atlantic man rights abuses. Grupa’s purchasing organization is committed to consider both environmental and social factors aiming at minimizing the environmental and social impact that the items we purchase have. Purchasing business must be conducted in such a way to respect social, ethnic, cultural, sexual and racial diversity, and business decisions must not be directed in a way that favours any of the categories of ethnic, sexual or racial criteria. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 22 o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e A number of humanitarian actions supporting vulnerable social groups: blind and visually impaired persons, children without parental care, children with special needs etc. labor Atlantic Grupa strongly supports the right of association of its employees and the Principle 3 – Businesses should uphold work of its Union alliance. In 2015, 58,9% the freedom of association and the of our employees were covered with coleffective recognition of the right to collective agreements. lective bargaining. The company's policies and procedures Principle 4 – Businesses should uphold concerning human rights, equal opportunithe elimination of all forms of forced ties, safe and healthy working conditions and compulsory labor. are available on the company's intranet and on all of our bulletin boards. Principle 5 – Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. Atlantic Grupa works in a way that respects all positive regulations which Principle 6 – Businesses should uphold forbid child labour, forced or obligatory the elimination of discrimination in rework that protects the employees’ dignity spect of employment and occupation. in a way that the employee is protected from mobbing or sexual harassment from their employers, superiors, associates and others with whom they may work. Our corporate culture respects any type of individual diversity and fosters cooperation. Each tender stresses gender equality when hiring. 51.8% of our employees are women. All of our employees, regardless of the contract they have, are guaranteed equal rights and opportunities to develop and grow. Employee engagement ratio in 2015 increased to 3,47:1compared to 2014 when it was 3.18:1 (engaged vs. not engaged employees). atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 23 o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e Purchasing Guidelines require from all suppliers to protect their employees’ rights (prohibition of child work as well as bonded labour, prohibition of workers abuse, discrimination or harassment) and ensure health protection and safety at work. environment Fully Integrated Environmental Management System (EMS) based on wellPrinciple 7 – Businesses should support considered and economical use of natural a precautionary approach to environsources, using environmental friendly mental challenges. technologies in our production, reduction of waste and lower consumption of energy Principle 8 – Businesses should underand water take initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. The environmental aspect and the sustainable development aspect also have to be Principle 9 – Businesses should encourtaken into account when designing new age the development and diffusion of products. Through the careful selection environmentally friendly technologies. of raw materials and packaging materials we can reduce environmental impacts throughout the entire life cycle of the product – from raw materials to final disposal of the waste packaging after the use of the product. The principle of maintaining biodiversity also has to be considered in this process. Purchasing Guidelines requiring from all suppliers to obey applicable environmental laws, rules and regulations and demonstrate commitment to preserving the environment. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 24 anti-Corruption o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e Since its foundation and listing on the Zagreb Stock Exchange (ZSE), Atlantic Principle 10 – Businesses should work Grupa bases its business activities on its against corruption in all its forms, inown Code of Corporate Governance of cluding extortion and bribery. Atlantic Grupa whereby the standards of business transparency are aligned with Croatian and EU legislation. The Code defines the procedures for the functioning of the Supervisory Board, Management Board and other bodies and structures responsible for decision-making, ensuring the avoidance of conflicts of interest, efficient internal control and an effective responsibility system. Moreover, considering the fact that Atlantic Grupa is company publicly listed on the Zagreb Stock Exchange, the Company also applies the Code of Corporate Governance issued by the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency (HANFA) and the ZSE. Based on the principles set therein, the Company announces the Statement of its application for each business year, confirming its actions and development in accordance with the good corporate governance practice in all business segments. The Statement can be found on the Company’s website (www.atlanticgrupa.com ) as well as on the official website of the ZSE (www.zse.hr). In addition to the above, Atlantic Grupa acceded to the Code of Ethics in Business issued by the Croatian Chamber of Economy. The Code lays down guidelines for ethical behaviour of business subjects in the Croatian economy, contributing to more transparent and efficient business operations and high quality relations between economic operators in Croatia and the business environment in which they operate. By adjoining the Code, parties are atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 25 anti-Corruption o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e obliged to responsible and ethical behavior towards the other companies on the Principle 10 – Businesses should work market as well as the development of high against corruption in all its forms, inquality relations and loyal competition. cluding extortion and bribery. Supporting the application of the principles of the good corporate governance practice, Atlantic Grupa adopted its own Whistleblowing Procedure Rules, prescribing the reporting procedure, rights as well as duties of each and all employees of Atlantic Grupa who in his/her work observes or becomes aware of either an actual or a potentially illegal action or potential violation of the accepted rules of business conduct in the Company carried out by another employee(s). By application of the Ethical code of the purchasing organization the Company supports conduct of a fair market competition among potential suppliers, prohibiting any conflict of interest (personal interest in the process of selection, receiving gifts and money from the potential suppliers etc.). Also, implementing the provisions of the Purchasing Guidelines the Company requires from all suppliers to act with integrity, to comply with all applicable laws of their countries including the prohibition of giving or receiving bribe or personal payment. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 26 ABO U T T HI S RE PO RT 2. ABOUT THIS REPORT report parameters As a company committed to transparency and responsible business operations, in 2013 we decided to improve our reporting practices and to start annual reporting about our economic, social and environmental performance following for the first time GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. This report is a logical continuation in sustainability reporting standards, started two years ago, providing a transparent overview of the Group’s performance and progress in social responsibility for 2015. Our intention is to share our successes and challenges even more transparently with all stakeholders. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 27 Our responsibility with regard to all stakeholdfourth generation of guidelines from GRI, at a ABO U T T HI S RE PO RT ers has been an integral part of the company’s core application level. Atlantic Grupa reports development strategy, while business growth against nine performance indicators for which and expansion have at the same time extended we believe can help us significantly improve the range of responsibility towards our interthe ability to participate in competitive marnal and external surroundings and raised the kets. Unless otherwise stated, all information awareness about the possibilities and the need mentioned in the report is for the year 2015. to have own influence on improving the general conditions around us. With the intention of providing a comprehensive and balanced account of the important In these areas in recent years, we significantly non-financial aspects of our operations, this enhanced our contribution to sustainable report covers the entire Atlantic Grupa and development, and our previous reports were its strategic business units, referring to all based on ten principles of the United Nation’s companies falling within the scope of ConsoliGlobal Compact with respect to human rights, dated audited financial results for FY 2015. labour, environment and anti-corruption. We Full information about financial results and have supported the UN Global Compact since risk management practices can be found in our 2007 and have reported on our progress reguAnnual report 2015 and Financial report 2015: larly, except for the year 2010: http://www.atlantic.hr/en/media/publications/ annual-reports • Report on progress 2008-2009 Atlantic Grupa management is responsible for http://unglobalcompact.undp.hr/show. all aspects of this report. jsp?page=111580 If you have any feedback or questions on this • Sustainability report, please contact: Report on progress 2011-2012 http://www.atlantic.hr/en/social-responsibility/ towards-environment/ • Sustainability reports 2013 and 2014 Ivan Mišetić http://www.atlantic.hr/en/media/publications/ Secretary General gri-report ivan.misetic@atlanticgrupa.com Sustainability report 2015 is prepared, as Atlantic Grupa both previous reports, in accordance with the Miramarska 23 G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, the 10000 Zagreb, Hrvatska atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 28 materiality ABO U T T HI S RE PO RT To determine the content of the report, we have LIST OF PRIMARY TOPICS : followed a systematic and rigorous materiality assessment process, guided by the criteria deECONOMIC IMPACTS fined by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI-G4). ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE The sustainability issues have been analyzed ENVIRONMENT RESPONSIBILITY on the basis of an initial broad list of topics ASPECT: ENERGY that may affect our business or be of concern ASPECT: BIODIVERSITY to our stakeholders. Sources for this list include ASPECT: WASTE relevant issues addressed by media, industry and sector benchmarks, matters raised by WORKPLACE RESPONSIBILITY stakeholders in public debate, internal docuASPECT: EMPLOYMENT ments and business strategy. Considering the ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY significance of our economic, environmental and ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION social impacts helped us focus on aspects that deliver the greatest value to our business and PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY stakeholders, within four major areas: economic ASPECT: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY performance, product responsibility, workplace ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING responsibility and environment responsibility. In this Report, only material topics identified by The company’s senior decision-makers are acinternal and external stakeholders as signifitively involved in this process, as the results of cantly important will be reported on. In terms the analysis were reviewed and approved by the of the extent of the impact, all aspects that the Social Responsibility Committee. analysis showed to be material have impacts within the organization as a whole. Furthermore, the aspects analyzed have impacts outside the company in geographical areas where Atlantic Grupa conducts its operations and for all the stakeholder categories identified. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 29 stakeholder We know that we create value through our reABO U T T HI S RE PO RT engagement lationships. Building and maintaining our stakeholder relationships is therefore fully embedded in the way we do business. Everywhere we operate, we actively participate in forums, industry Our ability to generate value through business platforms and collaborative programmes. We choices also depends on listening and recognizcreate value for our stakeholders which, in turn, ing the needs and expectations of those stakebuild value for our business over time. holders who, directly or indirectly, affect the activities of Atlantic Grupa or are influenced by The Management Board is responsible for the them. As a multinational company, we have an transparent and quality relationships of Atlantic impact on the decisions of a large number of Grupa and its stakeholders, being bound to take stakeholder categories, both internal and excare that the company respects all rights of ternal, as our results and activities depend in a stakeholders based on the law and good busicertain degree on the fulfillment of stakeholder ness customs. Furthermore, going beyond legal needs. requirements, acting responsibly for us means engaging in an ongoing dialogue, both locally According to the Atlantic Grupa Code of Corpoand internationally, with the main stakeholders, rate Governance, stakeholders are considered to in order to understand their different motives be the persons who take over certain direct or and concerns, as well as global trends that are indirect risks in relation to our company. Aside important to them. Stakeholder consultations from shareholders, the stakeholders, among are carried out regularly through many chanothers, are: employees, customers and users of nels. Topics of interest for our stakeholders are the company services, suppliers, creditors, local addressed in various sections of this report. community and public authority bodies. Key stakeholders Communication channels Areas of interest Mutual benefits Occupational health Skilled and motivated Regular employee and safety workforce, ensured through engagement survey Employees Equal opportunities providing equal opportuniCorporate interactive Talent development ties, training, development intranet Community engagement and rewarding schemes Products’ health and safety Meeting consumer needs Accessible nutritional inforCustomers and users of Regional contact center by offering them choice mation company services Brands’ Facebook pages and quality Packaging waste management Achieving highest responsible and sustainable Economic impacts procurement standards, Suppliers Supplier portal Sustainable procurement with support in developBusiness ethics ing innovative and efficient products and services atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 30 Key stakeholders Communication channels Areas of interest Mutual benefits ABO U T T HI S RE PO RT Economic impacts Delivering strong sustainaGeneral Assembly Transparent governance ble earnings and dividends, Shareholders Corporate web page Sustainable procurement thus establishing supportDevelopment strategies ive shareholder base Economic impacts Transparent governance Ensuring fruitful long term Sustainable procurement Creditors Corporate web page partnership, by excelling in Development strategies all areas of business Environmental impacts Business ethics Regional contact center Donations and sponsorships procedure Establishing trust and long Community engagement Communities and Direct cooperation with local term relationship by imEnvironmental impacts environment community representatives proving quality of lives and meetings and consultations preserving the environment open calls for donations Brands’ Facebook pages Economic impacts Transparent governance Accessible nutritional Collaboration on contributPublic authority bodies Meetings and consultations information ing to public good Environmental impacts Development strategies atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 31 C O RP O RAT E MAN AG E ME N T 3. CORPORATE MANAGEMENT Atlantic Grupa's corporate management structure is based on a dual system consisting of the Company’s Supervisory Board and Management Board. Together with the General Assembly, they represent the three principal bodies of the Company under the Articles of Associations and the Companies Act. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 32 Since its foundation and listing on the ZaIn addition to the above, Atlantic Grupa is a C O RP O RAT E MAN AG E ME N T greb Stock Exchange, Atlantic Grupa based its signatory of the Code of Ethics in Business business activities on the Code of Corporate initiated by the Croatian Chamber of EconoGovernance of Atlantic Grupa with which the my. The listed Code lays down guidelines for standards of business transparency are aligned ethical behaviour of business subjects in the with Croatian and EU legislation. With the Croatian economy. Such definition of ethical given Code, Atlantic Grupa defined the procecriteria contributes to more transparent and dures for the functioning of the Supervisory efficient business operations and high qualBoard, Management Board and other bodies ity relations between economic operators in and structures responsible for decision-making, Croatia and the business environment in which thus ensuring the avoidance of conflicts of they operate. By signing the Code of Ethics, its interest, efficient internal control and an efparties are obliged to responsible and ethical fective responsibility system. The Code also behaviour towards the other companies on prescribes the obligation of publishing data the market as well as the development of high belonging to categories of price-sensitive quality relations and loyal competition. information, all in an effort to ensure equal treatment of shareholders and information transparency for present and future investors. In line with consistent implementation of the Code’s principles, Atlantic Grupa develops and operates in accordance with the good corporate governance practice and strives to contribute with its business strategy, business policy, key internal acts and business practice to transparent and efficient business operations and quality relations with the business environment in which it operates. Considering that the shares of Atlantic Grupa d.d. are quoted on the Zagreb Stock Exchange, Atlantic Grupa applies the valid Code of Corporate Governance of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency (HANFA) and the Zagreb Stock Exchange. In accordance with relevant regulations, Atlantic Grupa in 2015 issued a Statement of Application of the Code of Corporate Governance, thereby confirming its actions and development in accordance with the good corporate governance practice in all business segments. The Statement of Application of the Code of Corporate Governance has been published on the Company’s website (www.atlanticgrupa.com) as well as on the official website of the Zagreb Stock Exchange (www.zse.hr). atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 33 governance structure Franz-Josef Flosbach/Member C O RP O RAT E MAN AG E ME N T of the organization Aleksandar Pekeč/Member Vedrana Jelušić-Kašić/Member Lars Peter Elam Håkansson/Member The members of the Supervisory Board have GENERAL ASSEMBLY been remunerated for their work and have the right to remuneration which is appropriate for The General Assembly is a body in which the tasks performed as well as the Company’s shareholders accomplish their rights in Comsituation and business performance. In 2015, pany matters. In order to decide on issues premembers of the Supervisory Board of Atlantic scribed by law and the Company’s Articles of Grupa d.d. on the said grounds received comAssociation, the regular General Assembly of pensation in the total gross amount of HRK Atlantic Grupa d.d. was held on 18 June 2015. 1,292,262.18. The following decisions were made at that Assembly: issuing the note of release to the SUPERVISORY BOARD COMMITTEES members of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board, paying a dividend to the Three Committees function within the SuperCompany shareholders in the amount of HRK visory Board with the purpose of assisting the 12.00 per share, in proportion to the number of operation and functioning of the Supervisory shares held by each shareholder, amendments Board: Audit Committee, Nomination and Reof Atlantic Grupa’s Articles of Association and muneration Committee and Corporate Governappointment of an independent Auditor of the ance Committee. Each of these Committees Company for the year 2015. All decisions from consists of three members, of which two are the held General Assembly were made in line appointed from the ranks of the Supervisory with legal regulations and are available on web Board members, while one member is appointpages of Atlantic Grupa (www.atlanticgrupa. ed from the ranks of top experts in the subject com) and the Zagreb Stock Exchange (www. area. zse.hr). The Corporate Governance Committee deSUPERVISORY BOARD OF ATLANTIC GRUPA fines a system of mechanisms for ensuring a balance between the rights of shareholders The joint stock company Atlantic Grupa has a and the needs of management to direct and Supervisory Board consisting of seven memmanage the company’s operations. It provides bers. In 2015, the Supervisory Board held four a framework to establish the company’s objecsessions in accordance with the previously tives and define the funds required announced Schedule posted on web pages of to achieve those objectives as well as to monithe Company (www.atlanticgrupa.com) and the tor the implementation and efficacy of those Zagreb Stock Exchange (www.zse.hr). objectives. The Committee is chaired by Siniša Petrović, Vedrana Jelušić-Kašić was appointed The members of the Supervisory Board are: as a member from the ranks of the Supervisory Board and Nina Tepeš as a member from the Zdenko Adrović/President ranks of external experts. Lada Tedeschi Fiorio/Vice President . Siniša Petrović/Member atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 34 The Nomination and Remuneration Comdents. Eighteen sessions of the Management C O RP O RAT E MAN AG E ME N T mittee proposes candidates for the ManageBoard were held in 2015. ment Board, Supervisory Board and senior management personnel as well as contents The Management Board of Atlantic Grupa opof contracts with the members of Manageerates in the following composition: ment Board, structure of their compensation and compensation of the Supervisory Board’s Emil Tedeschi members. The Committee is chaired by Alek/ President of the Management Board sandar Pekeč, Lars Peter Elam Håkansson Mladen Veber was appointed as a member from the ranks of / Senior Group Vice President for the Supervisory Board and Zoran Sušanj as a Business Operations member from the ranks of external experts. Neven Vranković / Group Vice President for Corporate Activities The Audit Committeeanalyses in detail the Zoran Stanković financial reports, provides support to the com/ Vice President for Finance pany’s accounting and establishes good and quality internal control within the Company. It STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT COUNCIL monitors the integrity of financial information of the company, particularly the accuracy and Since its establishment in early 2012, the consistency of accounting methods used by Strategic Management Council operates as the Company and the group to which it bea multifunctional body that discusses vital longs, including the criteria for consolidation of strategic and operational corporate issues, financial reports of the companies that belong business analysis, priority definition, supervito the Group. Also, the Committee assess the sion of strategic plans, coordination between quality of the internal control and risk manageorganizational units and key decision making. ment system, with the aim of properly idenThe Council includes the following members: tifying, publicizing and managing the major President of the Management Board, Senior risks to which the company is exposed to. The Group Vice President for Business Operations, Committee is chaired by Lada Tedeschi Fiorio, Group Vice President for Finance, Group Vice Franz-Josef Flosbach was appointed as a memPresident for CorporateActivities, directors ber from the ranks of the Supervisory Board of Zone West, Zone East, Strategic Business and Marko Lesić as a member from the ranks Units, Strategic Distribution Units and the of external experts. Business Unit Gourmet, Senior Executive Director of Corporate Legal Affairs, Investments and The members of the said Committees who are Asset Management, Senior Executive Director not members of the Supervisory Board have of Business Development, Strategy and Inforreceived remuneration for their work and conmation Technology, Senior Executive Director tribution to the functioning of the Supervisory of Corporate Key Accounts Management, SecBoard of Atlantic Grupa in 2015 in the total retary General, Executive Directors of Central gross amount of HRK 56,113.49. Purchasing, Corporate Human Resources, Corporate Controlling , Corporate Information and MANAGEMENT BOARD OF ATLANTIC GRUPA Communication Technologies and the Head of the Investment Committee. The Management Board of Atlantic Grupa consists of the President and Group Vice Presiatlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 35 BUSINESS COMMITTEES The Social Responsibility Committee conC O RP O RAT E MAN AG E ME N T tributes to the implementation of principles The Investment Committee assists the Manof sustainable development in the company’s agement Board by providing expert analyses everyday operations, monitors its status and and opinions on strategic decisions regarding starts initiatives for the improvement of sothe acquisition of companies, brands, busicially responsible business conduct. The Social nesses, or the sale of existing organisational Responsibility Committee is headed by the business parts and on all individual investment Company’s Secretary General, while its memprojects exceeding EUR 2 million. The Investbers are the Executive Director of Corporate ment Committee is headed by the ManageHuman Resources, the Director of Corporate ment Board Advisor, and its members are the Communications and the Director of Corporate Director of Internal Audit and the Director of Quality Assurance. Corporate Treasury. remuneration policy for contractual criteria were satisfied, board management board members members are paid the amount of realised bonus remuneration through the Stock Option Programme by acquiring own shares of Atlantic Grupa. For the President of the The contract on performing activities of a Management Board, the whole bonus remember of the Management Board i.e. the muneration amount is paid in cash. employment contract for board members who • Life insurance policy for the members of are employed at Atlantic Grupa lays down the Management Board contracted by the rights and obligations of board members Atlantic Grupa at the reputable insurance based on their function as the Management companies in Croatia, with the annual preBoard members, as follows: mium of HRK 8,250.00. • Personal accident insurance policy with the • Monthly salary for board members, set in annual premium of HRK 8,300.00. the gross amount. • Voluntary health insurance policy that • Annual bonus (bonus remuneration) per includes the Management Board members, year of contract duration, set in the dewith which Atlantic Grupa, as the insurance fined percentage of the realised principal contractor, with an annual premium of HRK annual gross salary and remuneration on 7,500 per person, provides a quality health the grounds of membership in supervisory treatment through an annual comprehenboards of associated companies. The paysive health examination, any required spement of the annual bonus is conditioned cialist medical tests with the application of upon the realisation of planned business most contemporary and efficient medical results in the ratio of at least 95% of the devices and equipment in specialised polyEBIT plan for the consolidated Atlantic clinics with the best health experts. Grupa’s business year. Provided that all atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 36 • Right to use an official vehicle, right to allowed pursuant to the prior approval of C O RP O RAT E MAN AG E ME N T compensation of all costs incurred by the the Management Board of Atlantic Grupa. Management Board member while per• Employment, contract duration and termiforming his/her functions. nation periods – board members are employed for an indefinite period in Atlantic All Management Board members have manGrupa or its associated companies, and the ager contracts which include a whole set of contract on performing the function of a binding provisions as well as incentive ones, as board member is concluded for the period follows: of 3 years, with the possibility of termination in accordance with the periods pre• Confidentiality clause – board members are scribed by law. obliged to keep confidential the Company’s • Severance pay – severance pay is contractbusiness secrets during and after their ed in the amount of six average monthly employment, regardless of the reasons for gross salaries of the board member and employment termination. The obligation of gross remunerations based on the memconfidentiality extends to business secrets bership in supervisory boards of associated of AG’s associated companies as well. companies paid to that board member in • No-competition clause – binds a board the period of three months prior to conmember to a period of one year from the tract termination. The obligation of severdate of receiving severance pay, if he/she is ance payment occurs in a case of contract entitled to it. termination by Atlantic Grupa in the period • Contract penalty – in case of breaking the of its duration, unless the contract is termino-competition clause, any board member nated due to reasons caused by the fault of shall be liable to pay the contract penalty in the board member. the amount of twelve average net monthly salaries paid to that board member in the In 2015, members of the Management Board period of three months before contract of Atlantic Grupa d.d., on the grounds of saltermination. ary and remuneration for supervisory board • Prohibition of participation of any board membership in operating companies and anmember in the ownership and/or managenual bonus received a gross amount of HRK ment structure, whether directly or indi17,905,535.23. From that amount, on the rectly, in any company which is in market basis of salary, remuneration for supervisory competition with Atlantic Grupa and asboard membership in operating companies and sociated companies, or in a company with annual bonus, President of the Management which Atlantic Grupa and associated comBoard Emil Tedeschi in 2015 received a gross panies have business cooperation, as well amount of HRK 4,133,088.07. as to act as an advisor or consultant in such companies, regardless of being paid or not for such activities. • Performance of other activities as a board member, except those performed for Atlantic Grupa’s associated companies, regardless of being paid or not for such activities, including the membership in supervisory boards, advisory bodies, etc. shall only be atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 37 ethics and work observes or becomes aware of either an C O RP O RAT E MAN AG E ME N T integrity actual or a potential illegal action or potential violation of the accepted rules of business conduct in the Company carried out by another employee(s). By such Rules, illegal action or Atlantic Grupa consistently incorporates the violation of the accepted business conduct highest standards of corporate governance (Misconduct) are defined as any conduct ininto its business activities and resolved to cluding (but not limited to): regulate its actions, both in regard of the other entities it enters into business relations with • committing a criminal act pursuant to posiand in regard of its own employees. Basic tive legal regulations principles of the Corporate Governance Code • violation of the Company’s internal acts of Atlantic Grupa are: • conduct that represents a serious risk to human health and property • transparency of business activity • clearly elaborated procedures for the opAn employee who in his/her work observes or eration of the Supervisory Board, Managebecomes aware of Misconduct has the right ment Board and other bodies and strucas well as the duty to report it immediately in tures making important decisions writing to the Head of Corporate Security of • avoiding conflicts of interest Atlantic Grupa and the member of the Man• efficient internal control agement Board of Atlantic Grupa competent • efficient responsibility system. for Corporate Affairs. Immediately after receiving the report, they issue a certificate indicatIn addition, as described above, due to the fact ing the date of receipt of the report to the that Atlantic Grupa is company publicly listed employee and, without delay, notify the followon the Zagreb Stock Exchange, the Company ing, as applicable: also applies the Code of Corporate Governance issued by the Croatian Financial Services • Head of Department in which the employee Supervisory Agency (HANFA) and the Zagreb who committed the potential Misconduct is Stock Exchange. Furthermore, as also deworking, except in a case where the poscribed, Atlantic Grupa acceded to the Code tential Misconduct relates to the Head of of Ethics in Business issued by the Croatian Department, or Chamber of Economy. • The President of the Management Board – in a case where the potential Misconduct WHISTLEBLOWING PROCEDURE relates to actions of a member of the Management Board, or Given that the Company wishes to provide • The President of the Supervisory Board of its employees the right to an honest, responAtlantic Grupa in a case where the potensible, transparent and ethical work i.e. worktial Misconduct relates to actions of the ing environment in which the main principles President of the Management Board. of business conduct are respected, Atlantic Grupa adopted the Whistleblowing Procedure In a case where the potential Misconduct reRules which prescribes the reporting procelates to joint actions of the Head of Corporate dure, rights as well as duties of each and all Security of Atlantic Grupa and the member of employees of Atlantic Grupa who in his/her the Management Board competent for Corpoatlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 38 rate Affairs, an employee who in his/her work submit an anonymous report on the potential C O RP O RAT E MAN AG E ME N T observes or becomes aware of Misconduct of Misconduct, without providing information on the persons listed has the right as well as the his/her identity. duty to immediately report it in writing to the President of the Management Board of AtAn action of an employee who knowingly lantic Grupa. In such a case, the President of reports a potential Misconduct of another the Management Board is obliged to issue a employee without any grounds and with a mocertificate indicating the date of receipt of the tive to cause any harm to him/her or to gain report to the employee and carry out further any benefit for oneself or for other person is procedure in accordance with the provisions of considered a violation of the Company’s interthe Rules. nal acts. In this respect, in 2014. there were no recorded complaints from our employees. Within the period of 4 weeks after receiving a report on the potential Misconduct, the Head of Corporate Security of Atlantic Grupa is ETICAL CODE OF PURCHASING obliged to inform the employee who submitORGANIZATION ted the report on the outcome of the process. By way of derogation, if the process requires a Ethical code of the purchasing organization is period of time longer than the one prescribed, a set of values, standards, principles and rules, the Head of Corporate Security of Atlantic which all the staff of the Atlantic Grupa’s purGrupa is obliged, within the given period, to chasing organization, responsible for procureinform him/her of the actions taken in the proment in the company, has to respect in percess and, immediately after the conclusion of forming their business activities. The Ethical the process, on its outcome. Code covers the following areas: In case that it has been identified that the • Legal compliance The purchasers are employee has undoubtedly committed the Misobliged to inform themselves on any law conduct, with respect to all the circumstances and regulation change pertaining to purof the case, the Company is obliged to take all chasing and apply them in their business. reasonable measures against that employee In addition to various national and interpursuant to the provisions of the Labour Act, national laws and regulations of a general the Company’s internal acts, as well as submit character, the purchasers have to follow necessary notifications to the competent state and apply all other laws and regulations authorities. that are related to trade, industry, protection of patents and copyrights, environThe employee who submitted a report on the mental protection, work safety, labour law potential Misconduct in accordance with the etc. Rules is guaranteed with full confidentiality of any information regarding his/her identity and • Applying the criteria of sustainable purthe content of the report with which he/she chasing When making sourcing and purreported the potential Misconduct. chasing decisions, Atlantic Grupa’s purchasing organization is committed to consider Besides, any employee who in his/her work obboth environmental and social factors aimserves or becomes aware of Misconduct shall ing at minimizing the environmental and have the right, at his/her own discretion, to social impact that the items we purchase atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 39 have. Purchasing business must be contheir selective use, which also applies to all C O RP O RAT E MAN AG E ME N T ducted in such a way to respect social, ethconfidential information that is obtained nic, cultural, sexual and racial diversity, and from suppliers during the competition for business decisions must not be directed in goods and services supply, as well as offers a way that favours any of the categories of or business reports. This information may ethnic, sexual or racial criteria. not, without the consent of the party that placed this information at the disposal, be • Fair treatment of suppliers The purchasmade available to third parties. ing organization and the purchasing staff have to enable and support fair market • Respect to the purchasing profession competition among potential suppliers The purchasing staff has to develop and who are interested in entering into a busimaintain their professional competences, ness relationship with Atlantic Grupa. This which means that they are obliged to means that the supplier selection process continuously develop and improve their has to be always defined and conducted in professional value both in terms of spesuch a way to prioritize the suppliers that cific skills and knowledge in the purchasing are capable to provide quality products area (technical knowledge, knowledge of or services at competitive prices, or that commerce, trade, laws and regulations), have visible and proven advantages to the and in terms of communication and other business of Atlantic Grupa, compared to „soft” skills. For achieving this, the purchasother suppliers. While selecting the suppliers should be open to communicate with ers or later when the cooperation with the other purchasing professionals outside the suppliers is already established, any influcompany and with purchasing associations ence which is not of a business nature, or and institutions, in order to exchange and which is affected by a personal interest of share experiences and opinions. As the the purchasing staff is not allowed. In this representatives of the purchasing profesregards, the purchasers have no right to sion, the purchasers of Atlantic Grupa have ask or to receive money, favours or gifts to act in such a way to maintain dignity of from suppliers or potential suppliers. Exthe purchasing profession, and at the same ceptionally, only business gifts that are of time to ensure that the others who are in symbolic value could be accepted as an contact with the purchasers also recognize expression of common business practice or the dignity of the purchasing profession. business partner's courtesy, but their giving or accepting in no way should influence • Loyalty towards the employer The purthe decision making process, supplier's chasing staff has to show loyalty towards selection, negotiations or agreements with the employer, in whose interest they work. suppliers. The manners of dealing with This loyalty is expressed through acting in suppliers, regardless of their negotiataccordance with the general policy and the ing position and power of the purchasing strategy of Atlantic Grupa, with the direcdepartment, must be civilized and fair, and tives and instructions received from the the purchasing staff is bound to respect company's management, and in accordance all agreed terms with suppliers, providing with the authorization of the purchasing that the other side respects its obligations department and the purchasers, given by too. The purchasing staff also commits to the company's management. keeping secrets and professional data, and atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 40 4. ECONOMIC eco no mi c i mpact s IMPACTS Every year Atlantic Grupa‘s successful business performance confirms its status of the leading regional distributor and one of the leading producers of consumer goods in Southeast Europe. Business operations in 2015 were marked by significant revenues and profitability growth, signing of new distribution agreements and reorganization of distribution operations. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 41 Atlantic Grupa ended the year 2015 with We expect that currency pressures will coneco no mi c i mpact s strong revenues and net profitability growth, tinue in 2016 and plan to mitigate them by thus achieving the announced expectations for continuous monitoring of operating costs, eight years in a row. Despite challenging macmanagement of financial and operating risks, roeconomic conditions, reflected in a slower liquidity management and, where applicable, economic activity, lower personal consumption, active hedging. depreciation of the Russian rouble and Serbian dinar, and negative movements in some of the In 2015, Atlantic Grupa recorded sales of HRK main categories for Atlantic Grupa’s products, 5.4 billion, which is a 5.6% growth compared we recorded growth in categories of both own to the previous year. The growth was mainly and principal brands. This confirms our focus result of the growth in sales in the Strategic on continuous deleveraging, which is reflected Distribution Units Croatia and Serbia, Strain a 16% decrease in interest expense and a tegic Business Unit Coffee, Strategic Busilower net debt to EBITDA ratio of 3.0 at the ness Unit Savoury Spreads (due to organic end of 2015. It is worth noting a strong cash growth, but also to consolidated results of the flow from operating activities, which is 5.6% acquired company Foodland d.o.o.) and the higher than in the previous year. Distribution Unit Slovenia. Atlantic Grupa Consolidated Change 2013 2014 2015 ‘000 HRK 2015/ 2014 DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED 5.022.170 5.133.874 5.423.295 5,6% REVENUES 5.022.170 5.133.874 5.423.295 5,6% ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED1 4.746.641 4.937.969 5.165.029 4,6% Operating costs -incl. Education & 3.732.190 3.826.707 4.089.317 6,9% Freelancers Employee wages and benefits -excl. 619.772 651.778 713.075 9,4% Education, freelancers2 Payments to providers of capital3 189.273 160.871 145.673 -9,4% Payments to Government4 57.838 61.390 65.165 6,1% Community investments 50.635 47.323 36.266 -23,4% CAPEX 96.933 189.900 115.534 -39,2% ECONOMIC VALUE RETAINED 275.529 195.905 258.266 31,8% 1 Excluding provisions (bad debts, inventories, employee future 3 Interest expense (P&L item) and dividend paid commitments as per IAS 19) 4 Refer to P&L items (corporate income tax, other 2 Including taxes and contributions on salaries taxes and contributions not related to result) atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 42 In 2015 increase of Economic value retained Payments to providers of capital – As a eco no mi c i mpact s primarily came on the back of significantly consequence of continuous repayment of lower capex (due to finished construction on enlong-term borrowings, payments to providers ergy bars production facility in Nova Gradiška of capital, i.e. interest payments, were lower – Atlantic Grupa’s largest capital investment in 2015. This was to some extent offset by in the history) and lower interest expense and dividend payment of HRK 35 million (HRK 10.50 community investments. per share) in 2014 and HRK 40 million (HRK 12.00 per share) in 2015. Revenues – In 2015, Atlantic Grupa recorded higher sales, mainly as a result of the growth in Payments to Government – Increase in paysales in the Strategic Distribution Units Croaments to government reflected higher corpotia and Serbia, Strategic Business Unit Coffee, rate income tax as well as higher other taxes Strategic Business Unit Savoury Spreads (due and contributions not related to result. to organic growth, but also to consolidated results of the acquired company Foodland d.o.o.) Community investments – Atlantic Grupa is a and the Distribution Unit Slovenia. Analysing by major sponsor focused primarily on the promomarkets, the largest growth has been achieved tion of sports where most funds and involvein the markets of Croatia and Serbia. ment are dedicated to supporting projects such as the basketball club Cedevita. Atlantic Grupa Operating costs -incl. Education & Freelancis also an active participant and organiser of a ers – Looking closely at 2015, costs of goods number of humanitarian actions and it systemsold increased as a result of the change in atically supports a whole series of organisathe sales mix (increase of principal's brand tions and associations involved in protecting share). Production material expenses in 2015 and helping vulnerable social groups. In 2015, increased due to higher prices of raw coffee, Multipower, among others, sponsored sports but also due to higher sales. Atlantic Grupa such as cycling, triathlon, running, as well used available hedging instruments to reduce as adrenaline sports. A strong presence was the effects of higher prices of raw coffee on its achieved by sponsoring the race Giro d'Italia, purchase price and in that way largely avoided while last year Multipower was also a proud the negative effect of higher prices of raw sponsor of Spanish triathletes Eneko Llanosa coffee in the global commodity markets on and Saleta Castro. In the culture and knowledge its results. Costs of services grew as a consesegment, Atlantic Grupa has again in 2015 quence of higher IT investments (licence lease, supported the 21st Sarajevo Film Festival as a maintenance), the SAP system implementation central cultural manifestation in the region. and the SALMEX project development. Marketing expenses increased insignificantly. Capex – In 2015 the amount of the company’s capital expenditure reduced significantly comEmployee wages and benefits -excl. Educapared to the previous year due to the finalized tion, freelancers Employee wages and benconstruction of the production plant for the efits grew in 2015 primarily due to a higher production of energy bars in Nova Gradiška. number of employees as a result of increased Additionally, the company's capital expenditures business volume, acquisition of company Foodwere also aimed at SBU Beverages, SBU Cofland and deployment of new factory in Nova fee, SBU Snacks as well as corporate projects Gradiška. including upgrade of SAP and finishing of the SALMEX project. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 43 pr o d uct r es po ns i bi l i t y 5. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY In our business environment, we nurture a corporate culture that represents a framework for our Quality policy. We are dedicated to following new scientific achievements and creatively integrating them into our products and services, as well as to raising the quality of life and business of our loyal consumers in an inspiring and innovative way. The satisfaction of customers and consumers is the daily mission we share. For that reason, we manage our safety policy in accordance with consumer and market demands, as well as respecting local and European legal regulations. We ensure product safety through a series of control activities aimed at hazard management in all links of the chain, from the supplier to the consumer. We are also strongly dedicated to informing our consumers clearly about the products helping them make informed and healthy dietary choices throughout the day. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 44 pr o d uct r es po ns i bi l i t y The year 2012 was the first year of operation • implementation of the process approach in of the integrated process management system new processes and companies of quality, environmental and food safety man• integration of the “risk approach” philosoagement that was introduced at the corporate phy into the process approach, both on the level of Atlantic Grupa i.e. in all operating comcorporate (Enterprise Risk Management) panies within the Group. and individual process level • improvement of the process performance In 2015, Atlantic Grupa’s activities in this segcontrol, new form of reporting on the key ment were directed at integrating new comprocess level, monitoring frequency, redepanies into the process management system fining key performance indicators (KPI) and reviewing the system’s efficiency after • service supplier management (requirethree years of implementing the integrated ments, contracting, supervision, reporting) approach. Improvements were focused on the • improvement of non-conformity managefollowing areas: ment processes • improvement of competences and skills • integration of new companies into the • analysis of the three-year cycle of intequality management system grated certification and improvement goals in the following cycle. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 45 The following improvement goals were identiers. The system was further improved in 2015 pr o d uct r es po ns i bi l i t y fied as most significant: by clearly defining input data for service specification, method of contracting, supervision, 1. Implementation of the process approach audit and criteria for evaluating service suppliin new processes (Logistics) ers. The food safety management system was implemented in the new factory for energy bars 4. Improvement of non-conformity manageAtlantic Multipower in Nova Gradiška in 2014, ment processes while in February 2015, when the company The non-conformity management project was was successfully certified according to the defined at the level of Atlantic Grupa and its standard IFS Food, its integration into the proimplementation initiated in the last quarter cess approach at the Group level was continof 2015, while full implementation is planned ued and preparations for certification accordin January 2016. The project’s aim is to creing to standards ISO 9001 and 14001, which ate a common management tool for the entire will be implemented in 2016, were started. Group in order to ensure: • process standardisation In the last acquired company, Foodland d.o.o. • risk reduction in Serbia, along with redefining processes • efficiency enhancement and supporting documentation, the focus of • transparent analytics and reporting. relevant activities in 2015 was on implementing standards related to product safety FSSC 5. Improvement of competences and skills 22000, while the integration into the process Atlantic Grupa in 2015 held several conferapproach will continue at the Group level in ences aimed at improving different segments 2016. of its operations: • Atlantic Grupa ‘s Process Management In addition to the above, even before new ver• Quality Conference sions of standards ISO 9001:2015 and ISO • Environmental Management 14001:2015 based on ISO/FDIS were pub• Distribution Quality lished, we started a gap analysis of compliance • Conference of Atlantic Grupa’s Internal with new requirements. Auditors. 2. Monitoring of key process performance parameters In 2015, key performance indicators were redefined, including the frequency of their monitoring and reporting method, resulting in a new form of reporting which allows for historical performance monitoring of each particular process as well as trends. 3. Integrated AG supplier monitoring system The common model for monitoring Atlantic Grupa’s suppliers was defined and established in 2014 – the system includes common criteria for approval, evaluation and control of suppliatlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 46 ANALYSIS OF THE THREE-YEAR CYCLE pr o d uct r es po ns i bi l i t y OF INTEGRATED CERTIFICATION The project of implementing the integrated vative approach to certification and implemenquality and environmental management systation of the so called “multi-site” certification tem was initiated at the end of 2012, aimed at model for Atlantic Grupa, which was in March integrated certification of all members of At2015, after three years of intensive work, suclantic Grupa. The project involved a new innocessfully implemented. The Atlantic Grupa certificate family comprises: *New standards implemented in the last three years are highlighted in red atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 47 product health pr o d uct r es po ns i bi l i t y and safety From the beginning of developing a new prodordinated involvement of experts from the prouct and during the improvement of an existing cesses of new product development, procureone, we endeavour to achieve a standard high ment, legal affairs and quality assurance. The quality of Atlantic Grupa’s products which is following factors have an important role in the recognisable to customers. production of health-safe products: selection of source materials (non-toxic, allergen-free, For five consecutive years Atlantic Grupa has GMO-free, aligned with the REACH regulabeen working on the organisation of qualtion, etc.), quality control of all input materials ity control in order to balance the goals and and ingredients, monitoring of all production results of business units and maximise the and distribution phases, quality assurance of satisfaction of consumers of our products. The finished products and monitoring customer processes of quality control in Atlantic Grupa satisfaction. are organised through independent quality assurance departments within the company’s In 2015, our experts shared their experiences operating structure, and directed according to in an internal professional conference that covbalanced goals from the corporate level. ered the following topics: • new risks related to falsification of food Such organisational structure enables the folraw materials (food fraud) lowing: • new microbiological risks (viruses) and their • coordinated monitoring of legislation control • implementation of best practices • new knowledge in the field of micotoxins • optimal improvement and use of expert • argument-based risk assessment and conknowledge in the field of microbiological, trol measures chemical and other hazards • service quality management, which directly • centralised supplier management in view of affects the product quality (transport, hythe quality of input materials giene services). • good and coordinated cooperation with other business processes In addition, several trainings were organised • specialisation of the quality assurance within the internal programme for improving system according to specific issues of functional knowledge in the field of quality and individual Strategic Business Units in the product safety management systems, with a product segments of beverages, savoury primary focus on service quality management. spreads, sweet and salty snacks, children’s and sports food, cosmetics and medicines The efficiency of the quality assurance process • traceability and maintenance of a high is assessed on the basis of achieving target quality level in transport, storage and disvalues for key indicators: the number of contribution to customers. sumer complaints and the number of product recalls. The achievement of complex goals in the field of quality control requires a proactive and coatlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 48 pr o d uct r es po ns i bi l i t y Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and PR2 voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes 2013 2014 2015 WITDRAWALS (preventive actions due to 3 2 4 potential health and safety impacts) RECALLS 0 0 0 (health and safety impact) *Direct financial consequences in all cases of withdrawals Foodland) were integrated into AG quality system. In both were minor no fine or penalty paid, small series (small “new” plants we implemented the same level of rigorous quantities of products destroyed after withdrawal and seresponse to any quality deviation observed on the market. lection). Indirect financial consequences were not observed. Data in the table are for AG own brands. In year 2015 there The total number of withdrawals in 2015 was higher than were no withdrawals for distribution. We have no direct inin 2014 and 2013, but one should be aware that two new fluence on number of withdrawal/recall for the distribution. production plants (Atlanic Multipower Nova Gradiška and The results of key performance indicators for • only three justified complaints for products 2015 at the level of entire Atlantic Grupa show: manufactured in the plant of Atlantic Multi• decrease in the total number of complaints power Croatia in relation to 2014 by more than 6% • decrease in the total number of complaints • decrease in the number of justified comconcerning the brand Multipower from 5.4 plaints in relation to 2014 by more than ppm* (2014) to 4.3 ppm* (2015) (*ppm = 15% complaints per 1,000,000 units sold) • stable results as regards the aspect of • efficient management of occasional nonproduct conformity, expressed in the numconformities of products under brands ber of preventive product recalls or nonGranny’s Secret and Amfissa with controlled conformities identified in inspections. and quick market response that ensured complete health safety of all products on all In 2015, our primary focus was on improving target markets. quality control processes within new companies Atlantic Multipower Croatia and Foodland. We Pleased with the results, we will continue continued to upgrade the competence of loimprovements in 2016 with a primary focus cal teams by regular focused trainings, using on Foodland’s factory with the goal of further knowledge and experience of corporate experts, investments into control equipment and expert colleagues from the business segment of saknowledge. Significant support for these exvoury spreads and from the plant in Bleckede, cellent results was provided by the prevention Germany. programme for control of food hazards, which is managed at the Group level in order to sumThe results demonstrate the successful performarize all experiences of the expert team. mance of these activities in 2015: Monitoring is focused on input materials and atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 49 adjusted to the supplier’s risk assessment – it ance are supported by advanced IT solutions: pr o d uct r es po ns i bi l i t y implies the control of pesticide residues, heavy the SAP QM module was implemented in the metals, allergens, microtoxins, alkaloids, PAHs Slovenian market and in some legal entities and dioxins, nitrates, pharmacologically active in Croatia, while other locations use internal substances and contamination by migration IT solutions on similar platforms according of substances from primary packaging. As a to the same model. Further progress in 2015 novelty, in 2015 we tested fatty acid ester conwas made in the fields of safety management tent in high-fat products. Laboratory testing of and product quality in food-related distribution input materials, semi-finished products and finoperations, where at the end of the year we ished products are carried out in three central started to implement the good practices allaboratories specialised for chemical, sensory ready present in our established markets within and microbiological tests with state-of-thethe Zone East (such as the defined quality of art measurement equipment. The accuracy of storage services, transparent and strictly demeasurement results is regularly verified by the fined procedures for managing complaints and method of international interlaboratory testing. crisis situations, etc.) into business processes in Depending on the type of contaminants, such new markets and distribution centres within the tests are outsourced to accredited and specialZone West. ised laboratories. The activities in the field of quality assurproduct and service labelling Responsibility for the production of safe foods is calcium, nutritional fibres, antioxidants, products Atlantic Groupa's fundamental commitment, and without trans-fatty acids or wellness products is systematically implemented on a daily basis in etc. the scope of the quality system. Furthermore, our company is constantly aware that the consumer Secondly, we recognize our responsibility to preexpects ever more in this regard, that healthy sent transparent and truthful information about eating habits are of increasing importance in our product to our consumers. In accordance a world of rapid technological innovations and with internal procedures that stand in line with global trade, and so the company undoubtedly local and EU legislation, we provide information assumes its share of responsibility in this reabout the sourcing of components, content, safe spect. use and disposal of the product. Motivated by our consumers’ suggestions, and as part of our Firstly, we follow internal guidelines for product broader efforts to contribute to health and wellimprovements regarding new recipes including ness of our consumers, we also make nutritional the use of additives, non-genetically modified information accessible, promoting active and organisms, gluten, and development of products balanced lifestyle and building trust within the rich in positive nutrients, such as magnesium, community where we operate. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 50 pr o d uct r es po ns i bi l i t y % of products in brand portfolio of significant product COFFEE INFORMATION category in compliance with the requirement described NOTE next % in % in % in % in KPI % in KPI 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015 2016 The sourcing of compoOnly 1 BIO product in nents (raw materials, Organic product 0% 1% 1% 1% 1% 1% 1% the assortiment packaging) GDA information on the label 30% 34% 36% 38% 38% 38% 40% Only decaffeinated Content of the product Decaffeinated product 2% 3% 3% 3% 3% 3% 3% products all carring (recipe) the information Added caffeine 1% 1% 1% 1% 0% 0% 0% Added caffeine Not adequate to diabetics, pregnant 1% 1% 1% 1% 0% 0% 0% women, children and people sensitive to caffeine Safe use of the product Store in a cool and dry place 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Add cold water 2% 4% 5% 5% 5% 5% 6% For freeze cappuccino Add hot but not boiling 28% 30% 31% 32% 32% 32% 35% For instant coffee water Signs for appropriate recyDisposal of the product 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% cling product packaging atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 51 pr o d uct r es po ns i bi l i t y % of products in brand portfolio of significant product SNACKS INFORMATION category in compliance with the requirement described NOTE next % in % in % in % in KPI % in KPI 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015 2016 The sourcing of components (raw materals, packaging) Nutrional information GDA information on the label 100% 24% 100% 0% 0% 100% 100% (GDA is not requiered -11/69 EU legislation) natural vanilla 0% 5% 5% 5% 5% 5% 5% For chocolate for kids rich in Calcium 0% 5% 5% 5% 5% 5% 5% For chocolate for kids Chocolate ( NZ, chocolate with high cooca 6% Menaz), Countlines contenet Content of the product (Bananica, Citro) (recipe) Integrino wholegrain high in fiber 0% 5% 3% 5% 5% 5% 6% biscuits and breakfast cereals rich in vitamins and minerals 0% 1% 1% 0% 0% 0% 0% Biscuits for kids Breakfast cereals, no artificial flavors 0% 0% 0% 1% 1% 1% 9% Smoki, Prima no artificial colourings 0% 0% 0% 3% 3% 3% 3% Bananica, dragees mix of 8 grains 2% 2% 3% 0% 0% 0% 0% snack for kids no added sugar 1% Biscuits (Betis) without additives 5% Flips without gluten 5% Flips Store in cool and dry place 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% laxative effects of exessive Safe use of the product 1% Biscuits (Betis) consumption extended shelf life with packaging in control atmos15% Chips phere chocolates in flexible Easy open Cold seal flexible packaging 0% 0% 0% 5% 5% 13% 14% foil all signs for appropriate Disposal of the product 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% recycling product packaging atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 52 pr o d uct r es po ns i bi l i t y MEAT AND FISH PATE — % of products in brand portfolio of significant product INFORMATION category in compliance with the requirement described NOTE MONTANA next SANWICHIES % in % in % in % in KPI % in KPI 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015 2016 MSC Tuna Pate 0% 0% 0% <1% 1% 1% 1% In plan for 2014 all fat, generated The sourcing of compochicken fat in recipies 80% 80% 90% 95% 95% 95% 95% when cooking meat, is nents (raw materials, used in recipes packaging) buillon, generated bouillon in recipies 50% 50% 50% 60% 60% 60% 60% when cooking meat, is used in recipies nutritional information on 70% 70% 70% 99% 100% 100% 100% the label on 1 product Sardina source of omega -3 claim 1% Content of the product Adriatica (recipe) on 95g pate; no space for communication on gluten free claim 50% 50% single portion pates; Montana and argeta snack contain gluten. junior and Delight subno additives 10% 31% 31% 40% 45% 45% 60% brands; in 2016 plan in DACH region Refrigerate after opening no need for single por52% 55% 55% 55% 70% 70% 70% info tion products Do not use if the product is Safe use of the product 0% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% inflated (ARGETA) Do not use if the product is 0% 0% 0% 50% 70% 50% 50% inflated (MONTANA) all signs for appropriate Disposal of the product 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% recycling product packaging atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 53 pr o d uct r es po ns i bi l i t y % of products in brand portfolio of significant product BABY DRY CEREALS INFORMATION category in compliance with the requirement described NOTE next % in % in % in % in KPI % in KPI 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015 2016 The sourcing of compothe products are made nents (raw materials, na na na na na na na of the ingredients of packaging) Baby Food quality enriched with vitamins and 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% minerals Content of the product without additives and 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% (recipe) preservatives % are falling due to without gluten 41% 38% 35% na 30% 36% 36% wider assortiment impossible due to with no added sugar 13% 8% 8% na 10% 9% 9% technological process after opening the product should be stored in a dry and Safe use of the product 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% cool place (not in fridge) not more than 3 weeks all signs for appropriate Disposal of the product 100% recycling product packaging % of products in brand portfolio of significant product CARBONATED INFORMATION category in compliance with the requirement described NOTE SOFT DRINKS next % in % in % in % in KPI % in KPI 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015 2016 The sourcing of components (raw materials, na packaging) end og 2014 new GDA information on the label 9% 90% 95% 100% 100% na legislation GDA is not declared more Content of the product DR (daily reference) informa(recipe) 90% na tion on the label caffeine and orthophosphoric 71% 76% 70% 64% 60% 62% na acids free with sweeteners, sugar-free 9% 10% 6% 6% 6% 5% na with fruit juice 17% 10% 17% 35% 35% 33% na Safe use of the product serve cool 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% na all signs for appropriate Cockta classic use 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% na recycling product packaging recycled PET Disposal of the product sign of dispose carefully 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% na atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 54 pr o d uct r es po ns i bi l i t y NATURAL % of products in brand portfolio of significant product MINERAL WATERS INFORMATION category in compliance with the requirement described NOTE BOTTLED IN RV next % in % in % in % in KPI % in KPI 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015 2016 The sourcing of components (raw materials, natural sources of water 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% na packaging) rich in minerals, contains hydrogen Content of the product carbonate, sulphate, sodium, magne100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% na (recipe) sium, calcium It is not recommended to consume water by patients with acute renal failure and hyper volumetric state, 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% na with disturbances in acid-base equilibrium. Safe use of the product Drinking in huge quantities could cause diarrhoea, which ends, if you 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% na stop drinking or respect recommended intake. after opening, store in refrigerator 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% na all signs for appropriate recycling 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% na product packaging Disposal of the product sign of dispose carefully 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% na % of products in brand portfolio of significant product VIN INFORMATION category in compliance with the requirement described NOTE next % in % in % in % in KPI % in KPI 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015 2016 Granules for Vitamin Beverages The sourcing of compo100% 100% 100% 100% 100% na na preparation nents (raw materials, packaging) natural flavour 98% 97% 100% 100% 100% na na GDA information on the label 53% 100% 100% 8% 8% na na 9 vitamins 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% na na Content of the product EFSA Health claims 100% na na (recipe) with sweeteners, sugar-free 3% 3% 3% 3% 3% na na with calcium 4% 8% 9% 9% 9% na na always use a dry spoon 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% na na after use, close the packaging tightly 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% na na Safe use of the product store in dry place out of reach small 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% na na children all signs for appropriate recycling Disposal of the product 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% na na product packaging atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 55 pr o d uct r es po ns i bi l i t y % of products in brand portfolio of significant product CANDIES INFORMATION category in compliance with the requirement described NOTE next % in % in % in % in KPI % in KPI 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015 2016 Multivitamin candies 65% 62% 76% 76% 68% na na The sourcing of components (raw materials, Pressed candies with sweetener 17% 15% 6% 6% 0% na na packaging) Pressed candies with vitamin C 17% 23% 18% 18% 32% na na 9 vitamins 100% 100% 100% 100% 68% na na with vitamin C 100% 100% 100% 100% 32% na na Only for products Content of the product with calcium 7% 13% 15% 15% 7% na na with added (recipe) calcium with sweeteners, sugar-free 100% 100% 100% 100% 0% na na for fresh breath 100% 100% 100% 100% 0% na na store in cold and dry place 100% 100% 100% 100% 0% na na Safe use of the product excessive consumption may have 100% 100% 100% 100% 0% na na a laxative effect all signs for appropriate recycling Disposal of the product 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% na na product packaging % of products in brand portfolio of significant product CEDEVITA GO INFORMATION category in compliance with the requirement described NOTE next % in % in % in % in KPI % in KPI 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015 2016 Multivitamin Beverage 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% na na The sourcing of components (raw materials, natural flavour 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% na na packaging) natural spring water 0% 100% 100% 100% 100% na na 9 vitamins 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% na na EFSA Health claims 100% na na Content of the product (recipe) With sweeteners, sugar free 6% na na with calcium 0% 0% 6% 6% 5% na na Screw the cup of. Cedevita granules will fall into the water. Screw the cup 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% na na on and shake the bottle. Safe use of the product store in dry place below the 25°C out 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% na na of reach for small children all signs for appropriate recycling Disposal of the product 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% na na product packaging atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 56 pr o d uct r es po ns i bi l i t y % of products in brand portfolio of significant product TEAS INFORMATION category in compliance with the requirement described NOTE next % in % in % in % in KPI % in KPI 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015 2016 The sourcing of components (raw materials, na na na packaging) obligated text of herbs by 0% 0% 73% 73% 100% na na Content of the product legislation (recipe) with sweeteners 38% 25% 18% 18% 10% na na store in dry place 0% 100% 100% 100% 100% na na store in dark and dry place and 100% 0% 0% 0% 0% na na below 25°C picture of tea preparation 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% na na Safe use of the product refreshing non-carbonated % fall due soft drink from plant extracts 33% 0% 0% 0% 0% na na changes in the enriched with vitamin C assortiment % fall due refreshing non-carbonated soft 67% 0% 0% 0% 0% na na changes in the drink from plant extracts assortiment all signs for appropriate recycling Disposal of the product 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% na na product packaging story about tea which begins: Other 100% 100% 0% 0% 0% na na Dear lovers of cedevita teas.... NATURAL % of products in brand portfolio of significant product MINERAL WATERS INFORMATION category in compliance with the requirement described NOTE BOTTLED IN PK next % in % in % in % in KPI % in KPI 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015 2016 natural sources of water 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% na na The sourcing of components (raw materials, natural spring water 67% 59% 67% 67% 54% na na packaging) carbonated natural mineral water 33% 41% 33% 33% 46% na na Content of the product contains hydrogen carbonate, sodium, 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% na na (recipe) magnesium store in dark place and below the 25°C 100% 100% 0% 0% 0% na na Keep away from heat sources and protectSafe use of the product ed from direct sunlight. It is recommended 0% 0% 100% 100% 100% na na to store in a cold place. after opening, store in refrigerator 100% 100% 100% 100% 0% na na all signs for appropriate recycling product 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% na na packaging Disposal of the product sign of dispose carefully 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% na na story about spring water from Kalnik 67% 59% 67% 67% 0% na na Other story about mineral water from Kalnik 33% 41% 33% 33% 0% na na atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 57 pr o d uct r es po ns i bi l i t y % of products in brand portfolio of significant product SPORTS AND INFORMATION category in compliance with the requirement described NOTE FUNCTIONAL FOOD next % in % in % in % in KPI % in KPI 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015 2016 The sourcing of compoDesignation of packaging matenents (raw materials, na na na na 100% 100% 100% rial for tubs packaging) Natural flavors na na na na na 5% 10% Doping Free according to WADA 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% list Content of the product (recipe) Certified Ingredients such we use certified as palm oil from sustainable na na na na 1% 1% 1% palm fat sources EFSA approved claims Safe use of the product – claims Safe use of the product na na na na 100% 100% 100% for supplements Disposal of the product Deposit na na na na 100% 100% 100% all RTDs % of products in brand portfolio of significant product GOURMET INFORMATION category in compliance with the requirement described NOTE next % in % in % in % in KPI % in KPI 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015 2016 The sourcing of compousage of fruit which is not nents (raw materials, treated with pesticide (wild 7% packaging) fruit) without preservatives and for the whole 100% coloring assortment Content of the product no sugar added 18% for juices only (recipe) low calories light 5% for light jams only fructose instead of sugar 5% for light jams only store in dark place and for the whole a 100% below the 25°C ssortment Safe use of the product keep refrigerated after for the whole a 100% opening ssortment all signs for appropriate for the whole Disposal of the product 100% recycling product packaging assortment atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 58 pr o d uct r es po ns i bi l i t y % of products in brand portfolio of significant product PERSONA L CA RE INFORMATION category in compliance with the requirement described NOTE category: LIP CARE next % in % in % in % in KPI % in KPI 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015 2016 The sourcing of components (raw materials, Natural 59% 93% 93% 93% na na packaging) List of ingredients using the International Nomenclature of 100% 100% 100% 100% na na Cosmetics Ingredients (INCI) Content of the product Paraben free 0% 14% 27% 27% na na (recipe) Mineral oil free 0% 14% 27% 27% na na UVA and UVB protection 100% 100% 100% 100% na na Safe use of the product Dermatologically tested 100% 100% 100% 100% na na Designation of packaging Disposal of the product 100% 100% 100% 100% na na materials PERSONA L CA RE % of products in brand portfolio of significant product category: SKIN INFORMATION category in compliance with the requirement described NOTE CARE next % in % in % in % in KPI % in KPI 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015 2016 The sourcing of components (raw materials, Natural 6% 6% 8% 8% na na packaging) List of ingredients using the International Nomenclature of 100% 100% 100% 100% na na Content of the product Cosmetics Ingredients (INCI) (recipe) Paraben free 0% 0% 23% 23% na na UVA and UVB protection 26% 26% 31% 31% na na Safe use of the product Dermatologically tested 100% 100% 100% 100% na na Designation of packaging Disposal of the product 100% 100% 100% 100% na na materials atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 59 pr o d uct r es po ns i bi l i t y PERSONA L CA RE % of products in brand portfolio of significant product category: ORAL INFORMATION category in compliance with the requirement described NOTE CARE next % in % in % in % in KPI % in KPI 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015 2016 The sourcing of components (raw materials, na na na packaging) List of ingredients using the International Nomenclature of 100% 100% 100% 100% na na Cosmetics Ingredients (INCI) all toothpastes containing sodium fluoride must Contains Sodium Fluoride 88% 86% 86% 86% na na Content of the product be labelled with this (recipe) wording all toothpastes containing sodium monofluoContains Sodium Monofluoro12% 14% 14% 14% na na rophosphate must phosphate be labelled with this wording For any toothpaste ‘Children of 6 years and containing 0,1 to 0,15 younger: Use a pea sized % fluoride unless it amount for supervised brushis already labelled as Safe use of the product ing to minimize swallowing. 94% 93% 93% 93% na na contra-indicated for In case of intake of fluoride children (e.g. ‘for adult from other sources consult a use only’) this informadentist or doctor’ tion is obligatory Designation of packaging Disposal of the product 100% 100% 100% 100% na na materials PERSONA L CA RE % of products in brand portfolio of significant product category: HAIR INFORMATION category in compliance with the requirement described NOTE CARE next % in % in % in % in KPI % in KPI 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015 2016 The sourcing of components (raw materials, na na na packaging) List of ingredients using the Content of the product International Nomenclature of 100% 100% 100% 100% na na (recipe) Cosmetics Ingredients (INCI) Safe use of the product Dermatologically tested 100% 100% 100% 100% na na Designation of packaging Disposal of the product 100% 100% 100% 100% na na materials atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 60 pr o d uct r es po ns i bi l i t y PERSONA L CA RE % of products in brand portfolio of significant product category: MAN INFORMATION category in compliance with the requirement described NOTE CARE next % in % in % in % in KPI % in KPI 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015 2016 The sourcing of components (raw materials, na na na packaging) List of ingredients using the Content of the International Nomenclature of 100% 100% 100% 100% na na product (recipe) Cosmetics Ingredients (INCI) Safe use of the product Dermatologically tested 100% 100% 100% 100% na na Designation of packaging Disposal of the product 100% 100% 100% 100% na na materials PERSONA L CA RE category: % of products in brand portfolio of significant product INFORMATION category in compliance with the requirement described NOTE INSECTICIDES & next REPELLENTS % in % in % in % in KPI % in KPI 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015 2016 The sourcing of components (raw materials, na na na packaging) List of ingredients using the Content of the applies only on products International Nomenclature of 31% 31% 31% 31% na na product (recipe) with skin application Cosmetics Ingredients (INCI) applies only on products Dermatologically tested 31% 31% 31% 31% na na with skin application in line with EU directive Risk statements 88% 88% 88% 88% na na relating labelling of dangerous substances Safe use of the product in line with EU directive Safety statements 94% 94% 94% 94% na na relating labelling of dangerous substances in line with EU directive Chemical hazard symbols 77% 77% 77% 77% na na relating labelling of dangerous substances Designation of packaging Disposal of the product 100% 100% 100% 100% na na materials atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 61 pr o d uct r es po ns i bi l i t y FOOD % of products in brand portfolio of significant product catINFORMATION NOTE SUPLEMENTS egory in compliance with the requirement described next % in 2011 % in 2012 % in 2013 % in 2014 % in 2015 KPI 2016 The sourcing of components (raw materials, na na na packaging) Nutritional information on 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% the label Content of the product (recipe) Natural colours 60% 65% 70% 74% 75% Natural aroma 63% 68% 72% 76% 78% Risk statements 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% in line with EU Safe use of the product Safety statements 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% regulation Dosage 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Disposal of the product Packaging without leaflets 5% 80% 95% 95% 95% atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 62 wo r kpl ace r es po ns i bi l i t y 6. WORKPLACE RESPONSIBILITY In Atlantic Grupa special attention is paid to building a unique corporate culture that respects any type of individual diversity and fosters cooperation and synergies between the different segments of production, innovations, marketing and sales. Employee protection is our priority guaranteed by our work regulation, collective agreement and Labour Law. By creating a healthy and encouraging working environment, we try to provide our employees with more than just a job – many programmes developed within the system are aimed at developing human resources and careers within the company as well as at performance management and appropriate rewarding of excellent results. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 63 All processes connected with management in kick-off of 14 Atlantic teams was held in wo r kpl ace r es po ns i bi l i t y human resources are annually certified by an 2015, and the second Atlantic’s sports weekindependent certificate (www.PoslodavacPartend was organised in November with over ner.org). This certificate is awarded to organiza600 participants from 7 markets. tions that fulfil the highest standards in man• The fourth in a row Atlantic Grupa’s Value aging people in the following fields: strategy, Day, that has once again exceeded all exrecruiting and selection; work, motivation and pectations and showed that hardworking rewards; specialization and development; relaAtlantic employees can, with their teamtionship with employees. Near the end of 2014 work, limitless positive energy, humanitarian we started the recertification process and in efforts and great will, leave a positive trace 2015 confirmed the status of Employer Partner and live their corporate values. More than with high scores in all evaluation segments. 1,500 Atlantic employees participated in over 60 different activities in 7 countries. In 2015 we have continued the processes initi• The programme INNOWAVE, merging the ated and implemented in 2014. We ended the words “innovation” and “wave” in its title, year with 5,387 employees in 12 markets. symbolizes one of our core corporate values – creativity. The large letter A symbolises AtOur most important initiatives in 2015 were: lantic, something that holds us all together. • Successfull continuation of the project At the time of economic crisis when best Corporate Culture at the Group level. The companies are recognized by their ability to programme “Value a Colleague” was started find new approaches to production, distribuwithin this project, in which all employees tion and end consumers, Atlantic Grupa has may nominate a colleague and/or team for promoted the programme aimed at promotwhom they think that he/she best repreing the idea that each individual employed in sents the company’s corporate values. The our company can with his/her unique insight programme proved to be very successful contribute to the growth and development and will continue to be implemented on an of the company. During 2015 we continued annual basis. to improve the processes by awarding good • Continued project “Share a Smile” (former ideas and establishing a system for their Naturally Caring ) at the Group level, whose evaluation, and the employees’ response aim was to raise awareness about the atto participating in this programme is very tachment that connects us with our work good. colleagues. • The performance management process (U3) • Near the end of 2014 we launched a new continues for a fifth consecutive year and in project called “Body and Mind – Opportunity 2015 the HRnet performance management to be fit”, with the principal aim to allow modules were redesigned and new funcour employees to apply a healthy lifestyle tionalities were added in order to facilitate throughout the day. This may relate to what the use of the system for end-users. In the they eat during lunch-break, how they get to field of headcount planning and employee work, adjustments of work places, organised costs, great steps forward were made by activities with colleagues interested in the creating a new HrNet-based tool designed same sports, forming of sports clubs, annual to standardise processes, regulate the data sports games and a series of actions aimed collection system, communicate with other to promote activity, sports and health in our departments involved in the process and in immediate work surroundings. The official costs monitoring and reporting. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 64 wo r kpl ace r es po ns i bi l i t y HRIS – HRNET The HRnet system essentially includes all personnel administration, annual leave and business travel management as well as all advanced processes like performance management, employee development management, recruitment and selection management, talent and career management, etc. The launching of this software solution integrated in one place all important human resource processes available through a simple application to more than 5,000 users. During 2015, the existing functionalities were improved and redesigned (reporting, employment module, performance management module, development module) in order to increase the efficiency and usability of our processes. Between the many benefits included in this new HRnet system are reduced administration and increased engagement of employees in key HRM processes. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 65 employment wo r kpl ace r es po ns i bi l i t y In the field of managing human resources, we yond as well, as a business entity in countries pay special attention to respecting the prinwe are active in since, by its nature, it extends ciples of emancipation and equal criteria. Our to other similar corporate areas. Until now, the company’s politics and procedures concerning second demanding phase of collecting inforhuman rights forbid discrimination, while at mation on how we perceive ourselves and how the same time protecting the employees’ digwe are perceived by others was carried out, nity and assuring transparency in the process and the results were used as a starting point of hiring or recruiting. Each tender stresses for defining Atlantic Grupa’s employer brand. gender equality when hiring. One person from As a result of research and focus groups, it each member company of Atlantic Grupa is emerged that the company profile is that of a responsible for receiving complaints connected creator and entrepreneur. with any violation of an employee's rights, dignity and/or life and health. We can proudly According to the results of research and our say that in this respect up until now we haven't aspirations, Atlantic Grupa is defined as an inreceived a single complaint from our employspirational company which attracts people who ees. operate and love to work in an inspirational environment. Open, inquisitive and motivated, We work hard to create opportunities for emAtlantic offers present and new colleagues, ployees to develop and grow, as we promote partners and investors an endless ocean of the career concept that unites individual and growth and development opportunities. Toorganizational interests and needs. We regether we wish to create a vision and provide ward our employees fairly and attractively, in long term well-being, always keeping our line with the prevailing conditions on the local fundamental corporate values in mind: CREAmarket. Rewarding is not influenced by gender, TIVITY, symbolized by a wave, PASSION, symrace or any other personal characteristic. bolized by the sun, and GROWTH, symbolised by a mountain. Over time these values were In mid-2014, a comprehensive project “Emdeveloped because, after all, they also have to ployer Branding” under the working title “Imagrow with us. gen Atlantic” was initiated. A series of external and internal research of our company’s percepThe market research in the initial project tion and months of dedicated work resulted phase included Croatia, Serbia, Slovenia and in a slogan that was adopted by consensus Germany – where we have the most extensive – “Atlantic Grupa, Ocean of Opportunities”. business activities and the largest number of This slogan is the basis for a wider concept of employees, while the entire project is related “Employer Branding” and a series of activities to all markets of Atlantic Grupa. and projects to be implemented. The aim of the entire project is primarily to be “Employer Branding” is a project dedicated to seen and recognised as a desirable employer the targeted and structured building of Atlantic on all markets. This applies to internal comGrupa’s image as an employer. It extends bemunity – our employees, through continuous atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 66 development and maintaining a high level of books and calendars that will be used in 2016. wo r kpl ace r es po ns i bi l i t y engagement, as well as to external commuThe seas will surely not be calm, but we at nity – potential employees, partners, investors. Atlantic always knew how to seize the opporThe “Ocean of Opportunities” is a framework tunities carried by waves. At the end of 2015 from which all human resources activities will we initiated the action “Atlantic’s Reflections” be developed, including different projects in by organising a contest for all our employees this field. Moreover, the project has an obvious to submit and share their stories with us and effect on Atlantic Grupa’s overall image, hence use this opportunity to become a reflection of the ocean tide will pull with it other related arAtlantic Grupa in new employment ads which eas of corporate identity and promotional acwill be used to search for new colleagues, contivities. A kind of launching into the “Ocean of sidering that Atlantic employees represent the Opportunities”, which as a project will actively true image of Atlantic Grupa and their stories sail from the beginning of 2015, are schedule and actions are what makes this company. total number and rates of new employee hires and G4 LA1 employee turnover by age group, gender und region Workforce in 2015 Region No. of Age group Age group % % M F M% F% (market) employees < 30 30 – 50 > 50 < 30 30 – 50 > 50 AT 4 0,1% 3 1 75,0% 25,0% 1 2 1 25,0% 50,0% 25,0% BA 149 3,1% 108 41 72,5% 27,5% 13 107 29 8,7% 71,8% 19,5% DE 196 4,1% 108 88 55,1% 44,9% 27 117 52 13,8% 59,7% 26,5% ES 7 0,1% 4 3 57,1% 42,9% 7 0,0% 100,0% 0,0% HR 1,768 37,1% 741 1,027 41,9% 58,1% 377 1,108 283 21,3% 62,7% 16,0% IT 8 0,2% 3 5 37,5% 62,5% 7 1 0,0% 87,5% 12,5% ME 2 0,0% 1 1 50,0% 50,0% 2 0,0% 100,0% 0,0% MK 159 3,3% 102 57 64,2% 35,8% 28 112 19 17,6% 70,4% 11,9% RS 1,759 36,9% 858 901 48,8% 51,2% 169 1,250 340 9,6% 71,1% 19,3% RU 60 1,3% 27 33 45,0% 55,0% 15 34 11 25,0% 56,7% 18,3% SI 642 13,5% 335 307 52,2% 47,8% 97 364 181 15,1% 56,7% 28,2% UK 12 0,3% 6 6 50,0% 50,0% 2 5 5 16,7% 41,7% 41,7% Total 4,766 100% 2,296 2,470 48,2% 51,8% 729 3,115 922 15,3% 65,4% 19,3% The majority of our employees work in Croatia (37,1%), Serbia (36,9%) and Slovenia (13,5%). atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 67 New employees in 2015 wo r kpl ace r es po ns i bi l i t y Age group in NUMBER Age group in % Gender in No. of Gender in % Region Number new % (market) <30 30-50 >50 <30 30-50 >50 employees 25,0% F M F BiH 4 0,60% 1 2 1 25,0% 50,0% 25,0% 3 1 75,0% 25,0% Croatia 3 0,45% 2 1 66,7% 33,3% 0,0% 1 2 33,3% 66,7% Germany 26 3,92% 10 16 38,5% 61,5% 0,0% 15 11 57,7% 42,3% Italy 1 0,15% 1 0,0% 100,0% 0,0% 1 0,0% 100,0% Macedonia 342 51,58% 168 147 27 49,1% 43,0% 7,9% 172 170 50,3% 49,7% Montenegro 2 0,30% 2 0,0% 100,0% 0,0% 2 0,0% 100,0% Russia 11 1,66% 3 8 27,3% 72,7% 0,0% 5 6 45,5% 54,5% Serbia 204 30,77% 99 104 1 48,5% 51,0% 0,5% 127 77 62,3% 37,7% Slovenia 21 3,17% 6 14 1 28,6% 66,7% 4,8% 15 6 71,4% 28,6% Spain 48 7,24% 18 28 2 37,5% 58,3% 4,2% 25 23 52,1% 47,9% UK 1 0,15% 1 100,0% 0,0% 0,0% 1 100,0% 0,0% Total 663 100,00% 308 323 32 46,5% 48,7% 4,8% 364 299 54,9% 45,1% In 2015 we employed a total of 663 people, representing an increase in total headcount number of 1,86 % comparing 2014. 2013 2014 2015 Number of new employee 331 537 663 % of new employee out 7,82 12,05 13,91 of total headcount atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 68 Employee turnover wo r kpl ace r es po ns i bi l i t y No. of Turnover % Age in % Gender in % Fluctuation % Region new VolunInvolun(market) Total < 30 30 – 50 > 50 M F Regretted Unregretted employees tary tary BiH 6 0,12% 0,08% 0,04% 17% 66% 17% 66,67% 33,33% 3,30% 0,66% Croatia 169 3,50% 1,66% 1,89% 31% 55% 14% 61,69% 38,31% 1,60% 7,95% Germany 18 0,38% 0,17% 0,21 38% 41% 21% 54,17% 45,83% 0,51% 8,64% Italy 2 0% 0,04% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0,00% 0,00% 35,15% 0,00% Macedonia 10 0,21% 0,13% 0,08% 33% 67% 0% 83,33% 16,67% 0,63% 5,70% Montenegro 0 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% Russia 31 0,65% 0,65% 0,00% 47% 53% 0% 65% 35% 0,00% 47,65% Serbia 98 2,06% 1,30% 0,76% 7% 54% 39% 57,75% 42,25% 0,81% 4,89% Slovenia 31 0,65% 0,55% 0,10% 19% 50% 31% 52,78% 47,22% 0,83% 4,34% Spain 1 0,00% 0,02% 0% 0% 100% 0% 50,00% 50,00% 14,81% 0,00% UK 1 0,00% 0,02% 0% 0% 0% 100% 100,00% 0,00% 0,00% 9,77% Total 367 7,71% 4,62% 3,08% 25% 53% 21% 59,94% 40,06% 1,22% 6,61% 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Voluntary turnover/ No record No record 6,66% 6,35% 4,62 % all employees in % Involuntary turnover/ No record No record 0,67% 0,69% 3,08 % all employees in % Total % 14,44% 4,67% 7,33% 7,04% 7,7 % We started to keep track of voluntary/involuntary turnover from 2013. Over the past couple of years we have placed a strong focus on increasing our investment in our people and improving employee engagement. It has been positive to see this reflected in a significant reduction in employee turnover, which has reduced by 50% since 2011. Turnover for the 2015 financial year was 7,7 % including involuntary turnover which is 3,08 %. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 69 occupational health • External independent institutions evaluate wo r kpl ace r es po ns i bi l i t y and safety the level of risk for all work processes • All conditions for offering emergency aid and other types of medical protection are secured: the services of an occupational Atlantic Grupa systematically takes care of its physician, periodical medical check-ups for employees’ safety and health respecting legal the workers working under special condiordinances: internal acts, collective agreetions, periodical check-ups concerning ments on occupational safety, occupational sanitary hygiene, employers decision for safety regulations, by being a responsible each employee to have a medical check-up employer. Managing our employees’ safety and regardless of their status, actively proprotection is under the jurisdiction of the Corgrammed medical vacation in specialized porate safety division. This division is responmedical centres sible for coordinating all activities connected • Employees are trained in a safe and secure to occupational safety, protection, training in a way safe and secure way, and occupational medi• Expert training for specific work processes cine. The system is based upon the principle is provided of respect and coordination between social • Jobs with specific working conditions are partners: employer, occupational safety experts defined and workers. • A warm meal for all employees is provided. Respecting European Union guidelines, positive By educating our employees, and developing legal regulations of the Republic of Croatia and adapting our technological processes, we (Occupational safety law), and Atlantic Grupa's are trying to prevent any accidents by creatinternal acts, all workers are ensured the right ing safe working conditions. Nevertheless, it is to be protected and the right to health, which impossible to eliminate all risks and exclude all is a result of work itself: dangers. Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, G4 LA6 lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work related fatalities, by region and by gender Injury Rate (IR)** Lost Day Rate (LDR)*** Absentee Rate (AS)**** Injuries Illnesses* 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 B&H 0,00 0,00 0,63 0,00 0,00 17,07 0,00 0,00 4996,56 Croatia 0,92 1,34 0,63 31,84 77,20 13,78 6266,43 13258,05 12550,23 Germany 5,49 5,28 2,15 79,55 44,05 67,31 14697,94 23372,42 25258,49 Macedonia 0,59 0,58 0,63 6,54 14,00 28,80 794,46 16791,97 5270,37 Russia 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 Serbia 1,92 1,50 2,28 59,65 64,98 56,93 10897,06 12259,87 10675,47 Slovenia 1,13 0,31 0,77 17,30 14,92 8,35 9743,23 13179,38 17046,83 * we had no fatal injuries in the last three years (2015, 2014, 2013) ** we had no occupational diseases in the last three years (2015, 2014, 2013) atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 70 When it comes to programmes related to operations, various programmes are in place wo r kpl ace r es po ns i bi l i t y assisting workforce members and their fami– such as workshops on most common health lies regarding serious diseases, our practices issues, in-site first aid station, regular physical include financial support as well as education examinations, additional health insurance, paid and training, counseling, prevention and risk leave and financial aid. control measures. Depending on the country of training and education Acquisition of new knowledge and skills the permanent education and improvement of through the professional and personal develour employees, as we develop and implement opment of employees is a prerequisite and a specialized programs and training on all emguarantee of employee satisfaction and moployment levels. tivation, and consequently of business success. Our interest is ensuring and enabling The educational content and programs we our employees the opportunity to receive, prepare and offer include seminars and courses refresh and expand their knowledge and skills realized by our experts for our employees, as in compliance with the company’s needs and well as outside institutions through programs development. Thus, we pay special attention to “tailored” to meet our needs. Average hours of training per year G4 LA9 per employee by gender and by employee category Average hours of training per year per employee by gender: Average training hours / person 2013 2014 2015 M** 11 11 10 F 10 11 10 Total* 21 22 20 * average training hours per employee=total number of training hours provided to employees/total number of employees ** total number of training hours provided to male employee/total number of male employee atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 71 Average training hours per employee category and function wo r kpl ace r es po ns i bi l i t y Level* 2013 2014 2015 Senior Management 216 200 189 Middle Management 88 95 102 Other 10 11 9 * level such as senior management, middle management Function* 2013 2014 2015 Product Execution 45 45 46 Product Placement 45 47 44 Internal Perspective 162 160 165 * function such as technical, administrative, production atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 72 wo r kpl ace r es po ns i bi l i t y LEARN DEVELOPMENT@AG ing and Key Account Management (KAM). The areas of Quality, Safety and Pharma are under Development in Atlantic Grupa is defined and the organisation and control of the business realised in four development LABS: LEADER units that manage them, while Marketing and LAB, FUNCTION LAB, TALENT LAB, MY LAB. KAM are realised as the joint project of Central Marketing, that is, KAM/Sales Department The task of LEADER LAB is primarily to deand the Corporate Talent&Development Team. velop LEARN leadership competencies for all TALENT LAB covers programmes defined Atlantic Grupa leaders. By concept, it conon the corporate level, corresponding to the sists of two parts: Basic Leadership Skills and development needs resulting from the talent Leadership in Action. The Basic Leadership management process, while MY LAB covers all Skills programme is designed for newly hired forms of individual development. TALENT LAB or newly promoted leaders and it is realised has launched some of its projects in 2015, of through a set of development activities intendwhich the most significant is the young talent ed to develop basic leadership skills, while the identification programme. Leadership in Action is a concept that supports active involvement of leaders in rethinking and In addition to the above, each Atlantic Grupa maintaining the desired leadership culture. In employee through his/her individual develop2015, under the programme Leadership ment plan available via the information sysin Action, 30 teams composed of over 200 tem, during the entire 2015 had access to the managers proposed 30 projects – proposals catalogue of development activities according for improvement related to business processes, to defined competencies as well as the option awarding and communications, whose impleof applying for activities which are not part of mentation will be actively continued in 2016. the standard catalogue of trainings. FUNCTION LAB is focused on the development of functional competencies for the following areas: Quality, Safety, Pharma, Marketatlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 73 TALENT MANAGEMENT EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT wo r kpl ace r es po ns i bi l i t y Talent management in Atlantic Grupa repreAt the end of 2015, the employee engagement sents a form of human capital management survey was carried out for a fourth consecu– a longterm, comprehensive and integrated tive year. It included all employees of Atlantic approach for support and strengthening of the Grupa in all markets, while the analysis of company’s core competencies. The general aim results and reports was prepared by an exterof this project is to introduce a structured pronal consulting firm. The implemented actions cess of identification, selection, development plans based on the 2014 results effectively led and retention of talents/successors for preto positive changes recorded in 2015. . Emsent and future needs of Atlantic Grupa. After ployee engagement ratio in 2015 increased to the model was established at the level of the 3,47:1 compared to 2014 when it was 3,18:1 entire employee population, it is expected to (engaged vs. not engaged employees).The Enensure a highly flexible and agile organisation gagement Index serves as an integral part of through the creation of a sustainable succesthe annual performance evaluation for managsion of management personnel at all levels. ers and as such serve as indicators of successful people management. We plan to carry out Key benefits: such research once a year in order to be able • ensuring business continuity through sucto monitor the results of our targeted actions cession management; and to ensure that all employees give their • recognition, motivation and retention of opinion about working in the company. the best people; • platform for strategic decision-making in human resource management. In this process each participant (sponsor, supervising manager, employee and HRM) has its role and responsibility and active engagement is expected from all participants in order to ensure successful implementation. The central event of the project “Organisation & People” is a panel designed to assess employees in view of the quality of performance and the level of potential for assuming positions with more complex responsibilities. The Talent Management process in 2015 included close to 200 employees. This process is repeated every two years with the same group of employees. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 74 envi r o nmental r es po ns i bi l i t y 7. ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY In respect to environmental protection, we can say that, within a consistent Environmental Management System (EMS), it has expanded from a local approach to the corporate level with the key focus on sustainability and protecting the future. The sustainable environmental management system is based on a well-considered and economical use of natural sources, using environmental friendly technologies in our production, reduction of waste and lower consumption of energy and water. The international ISO 14001 environmental management system certificate shows that our Environmental Management System complies with the best practice standards, while the reports issued in 2013 and 2014 in accordance with the GRI 4.0 guidelines show that we are a steadily progressive regional company in respect of the criterion of transparency. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 75 Environmental management has a long tradiOur sustainable environmental management envi r o nmental r es po ns i bi l i t y tion in individual facilities of Atlantic Grupa. system is based on well-considered and ecoSome production facilities have been awarded nomical use of natural sources, using environthe ISO 14001 environmental management mental friendly technologies in our production, system certificate more than 10 years ago. reduction of waste and lower consumption of In terms of scope, the major milestone of the energy and water. Concern for the environment environmental management system developis an integral part of all Atlantic Grupa’s operament was in 2014, when the system was tions. The extension of principles related to the implemented to the distribution and to entire environment is implemented in three areas – Atlantic Grupa. among employees, in business processes and with external stakeholders, including consumers. resources efficiency The activities focused on improving the comand efforts to allow for the use of waste vapany’s energy efficiency and integrating the pour formed in the production process to heat related good practices have become more sanitary water at the site. intensive in Atlantic Grupa. In 2015, the project of switching the existing lighting to LED bulbs In addition to the above, internal trainings in all company office locations was performed were organised at the Group level on the as well as a series of activities aimed at reducsubject of potential savings of electricity in ing energy and water consumption. the manufacturing process for the purpose of improving the ecological efficiency of facilities Cedevita’s plant in Zagreb is saving significant in the future, while in Serbia both Belgradeamounts of water and vapour due to installbased facilities implemented solutions that ing a water meter and due to remote control significantly reduced their energy consumption. of vapour consumption, which are the result of On account of its activities in this segment, own knowledge and efforts. At the Droga Kolinour operating company in Skopje received the ska’s plant in Izola, we used our own knowledge certificate “Socially Responsible Company”. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 76 Energy consumption within the organization envi r o nmental r es po ns i bi l i t y G4 EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 2013 2014 2015 SLOVENIA 30.469 29.092 28.319 CROATIA 18.348 16.562 21.194 SERBIA 55.814 53.140 58.020 BiH 9.666 10.882 11.705 MACEDONIA 2.212 2.079 1.893 GERMANY 1.768 1.549 1.697 TOTAL MWh 118.278 113.305 122.611 Energy consumption MWh SLOVENIA CROATIA SERBIA B&H MACEDONIA GERMANY TOTAL MWH 2013 Electricity Kwh 9.144 8.643 21.835 2.738 641 43.814 813 LPG 9.476 1.461 11.256 319 Natural gas 3.580 1.703 17.253 5.603 28.139 CNG 13.052 13.052 PROPAN 355 30 385 Fuel oil 1.878 3.674 1.295 111 636 7.594 Mazut 5.830 5.830 Steam 2.084 6.124 8.208 Total MWh 30.469 18.348 55.814 9.666 2.212 1.768 118.278 atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 77 Energy consumption MWh envi r o nmental r es po ns i bi l i t y SLOVENIA CROATIA SERBIA B&H MACEDONIA GERMANY TOTAL MWH 2014 Electricity 9,266 8,158 21,096 3.109 631 801 43,061 LPG 9,134 1,354 285 10,772 Natural gas 3,019 1,119 17,119 6,532 27,789 CNG 11,268 11,268 PROPAN 190 8 30 7 235 Fuel oil 1,601 3,649 1,211 94 457 7,012 Mazut 5,841 5,841 Steam 1,642 5,685 7,327 Total MWh 29,092 16,562 53,140 10,882 2,079 1,549 113,305 In 2015 AG expanded for two companies: Atlantic Multipower in Croatia and Foodland in Serbia. Both of them have consumed 8.159 MWh of energy. In case we would not include the new companies in the Report, the annual consumption of energy sources would be 114.669 MWh what represents an increase in consumption for 1.364 MWh mostly due to increase production. Energy consumption MWh SLOVENIA CROATIA SERBIA B&H MACEDONIA GERMANY TOTAL MWH 2015 Electricity 8.816 10.631 23.191 3.208 605 819 47.270 LPG 11.226 1.125 343 12.694 Natural gas 2.979 1.590 17.231 7.046 28.846 CNG 1.106 9.329 10.435 PROPAN 186 4.688 31 18 4.923 Fuel oil 1.528 3.581 1.420 163 517 7.209 Mazut 3.064 3.064 Steam 2.048 6.122 8.170 Total MWh 28.319 20.977 58.020 11.705 1.893 1.697 122.611 atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 78 biodiversity envi r o nmental r es po ns i bi l i t y Within the process of risk control in designing possible raw materials that meet the requireand developing a new or existing product, bioments of ecological and sustainable aspects. diversity is defined as an environmental aspect Particular attention has to be paid to threatwith respect to the selection of raw materials ened plant and animal species (ref. document: that may have or have bad effects on human IUCN Red List). Number of IUCN Red list spehealth. cies and national conservation list species with During the phase of selecting the raw materihabitats in areas affected by operations by als for a new product, the principle of mainlevel of extinction list is also one of the informtaining biodiversity has to be taken into acative KPI’s of the Central Purchasing monitored count. The development technologist selects on a monthly, quarterly or annual basis. Total number of IUCN red list species and national conservation list G4 EN14 species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk Number of raw materials used from the category 2013 2014 2015 Critically endangered 0 0 0 Endangered 0 0 0 Vulnerable 1 1 1 Near threatened 1 1 1 Least concern 0 1 1 Among our eight business units producing In 2017, we expect to no longer use Bigeye food, food supplements and personal care tuna in our production. End of use was postproducts: Beverages, Coffee, Snacks, Savoury poned from 2015 to 2017. spreads, Sport and functional food, Pharma, Baby Food and Gourmet, only Savoury spreads Justification: operations are using raw materials from IUSN Bigeye tuna Thunnus Obesus is important Red List. in commercial fisheries around the world. It is being effectively managed throughout the For the production of Argeta Tuna pate, we majority of its range, with the exception of the use only in a small part Bigeye tuna Thunnus Western and Central Pacific stock. With the Obesus (approx. 20 %) which is classified as a exception of the Western Pacific population, vulnerable. For the rest of the necessary quanall other stocks are being fished below current tity we use not endangered species, and these maximum sustainable yield (MSY). are Yellowfin tuna -Thunnus albacares (NT) and Skipjack tuna Katsuwonus pelamis (LC). atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 79 waste envi r o nmental r es po ns i bi l i t y In addition to reducing waste quantities, our which reduces the annual consumption of the main goal is to increase the separately colprimary source of packaging material (virgin lected waste on all production locations. Within PET) by 365 tonnes. Argeta products are packthe improvement of business processes, we aged in aluminium packaging in Slovenia since would like to point out as a good example the 2009, and in 2015 we transferred this good process of developing new products, where practice to Argeta’s plant in BiH. Unlike classpecial attention is given to the possibility of sic packaging, aluminium packaging and the using more environmentally acceptable packnew easy peel mechanism have a lower carbon aging, reducing the weight or amount of packfootprint, while it also has an additional adaging and the selection of partially recycled vantage of being lighter, on the basis of which packaging materials. Argeta reduced its annual quantities of waste The philosophy of sustainable development in packaging by 1,600 tonnes. In addition to the Atlantic Grupa is one of the cornerstones in listed “environmentally oriented” brands, the the design of products and business processes, packaging of Barcaffé BIO coffee was develand it is also interwoven with brand developoped in a new, “environmentally aware” design ment. For example, Cockta products are filled which allows recycling of waste packaging. into bottles made of 50% recycled plastics, Total weight of waste by type and disposal method G4 EN23 Nonhazardous waste (t/year)1 2015 RECYCLING BURNING REUSE RECOVER COMPOST LANDFILL TOTAL SLOVENIA 741,68 24,29 529,56 258,03 41,08 57,15 1651,79 CROATIA 819,69 6,92 2,41 195 56,66 109,65 1190,33 CROATIA* 732,23 6,92 2,41 195 56,66 109,65 1102,87 SERBIA 1011,503 0 499,18 0 0 2429,858 3940,541 SERBIA** 967,202 0 499,18 0 0 1280,478 2746,86 BiH 136,48 40,35 0 0 0 1481,12 1657,95 MACEDONIA 32,38 0 0 0 0 75,79 108,17 GERMANY 212,11 0 0 0 32,1 126,45 370,66 Total 2953,84 71,56 1031,15 453,03 129,84 4280,02 8919,44 Total *** 2822,08 71,56 1031,15 453,03 129,84 3130,64 7638,30 *companies inCroatia without Multipower; **companies in SERBIA without Foodland; *** same scope as in 2014 1 In Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia and Macedonia the method for collecting municipal waste (landfill) is based on two month measurements. The billing system for the municipal waste removal is defined per square meter of the site and does not provide the weight of the removed waste. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 80 envi r o nmental r es po ns i bi l i t y Hazardous waste (t/year) 2015 RECYCLING BURNING REUSE RECOVER COMPOST LANDFILL TOTAL SLOVENIA 0,05 30,94 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 30,99 CROATIA 18,83 5,09 0,01 0.00 0.00 0.00 23,93 SERBIA 5,30 0 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 5,30 BiH 0,07 0,15 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 0,22 MACEDONIA 0,20 0 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 0,20 GERMANY 0,53 0 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 0,53 TOTAL 24,98 36,18 0,01 0.00 0.00 0.00 61,17 Non-hazardous waste (t/year) 2013 2014 2015* 2015 other LANDFILL waste 2061,07 2241,17 2799,86 3955,52 municipal waste 1252,29 1266,26 1119,82 2275,47 RECYCLING 2359,00 2548,73 2631,56 2763,32 BURNING 90,66 96,22 71,56 71,56 REUSE 1173,41 1059,85 1031,15 1031,15 RECOVERY 624,16 686,61 453,03 453,03 COMPOSTING 65,70 101,85 129,84 129,84 Total 4312,93 6734,42 7648,67 8936,08 2015* (Same scope as in 2014) The waste that ended on the landfill is divided quantities of municipal waste have decreased to municipal waste and waste that was sepafor 13% in the last year. The separation of rately collected but the infrastructure on the waste has improved for 4,3% in the last year. market does not provide any alternative. In 2015 Atlantic Grupa expanded for two comThe total amount of non – hazardous waste panies (Multipower Nova Gradiška in Croatien has increased for 13% in the last year. Main and Foodland in Serbia). Considering the same reason was a large quantity of products with scope of the company (excluding Multipower expired dates in Atlantic Brands and Atlantic and Foodland) and taking in account the muTrade and moving a warehouse to a new locanicipal waste the data are showing that the tion (Atlantic Trade). atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 81 envi r o nmental r es po ns i bi l i t y Hazardous waste (t/year) 2013 2014 2015 RECYCLING 7,87 7,04 25,06 BURNING 4,24 4,60 36,18 REUSE 0,16 0,05 0,01 RECOVERY 0,00 0,00 0,00 COMPOSTING 0,00 0,00 0,00 LANDFILL 0,00 0,00 0,00 Total 12,27 11,69 61,25 The quantities of hazardous waste have increased due to: • improved separation (Serbia) • fuel change (from fuel oil to LNG in Mirna) • replacement of obsolete electrical and electronic equipment (Cedevita Zagreb) • emergency situations caused by the spillage (Cedevita Apatovec). atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 82 RAISING THE ENVIRONMENTAL AWAREenvi r o nmental r es po ns i bi l i t y NESS OF EMPLOYEES In 2015 we continued our way towards inteoxides, no hard particles in the air, does not gration of environmental values into existing produce waste oil, contaminated filters, or projects under the title Atlantic Green – Oppordiscarded electrical plugs, lower total cost tunity to grow in harmony with nature. per kilometre. • On Value Day, more than 1,500 Atlantic The following activities were carried out under employees in 7 countries participated in the project Atlantic Green: various activities. • Greeninowave -upgrading the internal 1. Ecological islands Starting with Izola in programme for promoting creativity and Slovenia, the so called ecological islands innovative ideas Innowave, in order to for separate collection of waste by employseparately collect ideas on environmental ees have been installed at over 30 locaprotection, green innovations and economic tions in seven countries. This creates yet use of natural resources. another opportunity to protect the environ• The project Naturally Fit was launched, foment from municipal waste that burdens it cusing on promoting the campaign Cycle to and to reuse recycled materials, this givWork, which reduces greenhouse gas emising them a new life. Hit the right basket, sions and consumption of energy associa challenge provided by the programme ated with coming to work. Atlantic Green which will be implemented in all Atlantic’s locations. Around 4,500 tonnes Soko Štark and Grand Prom, companies operof separated waste are collected annually, ating within Atlantic Grupa, in 2015 received a which is almost 70% of total waste in the CO2 certificate by SEKOPAK for the company's yards of our companies. Over 94% of waste achievements in reducing CO2 emissions in is collected separately in seven out of the the atmosphere, based on the placement and total of seventeen locations. quantity of the recycled packaging waste in 2. Marking the environmental protection day 2014. by releasing the video clip Atlantic Green. • Publishing a series of articles related to environmental protection on the intranet and in internal magazine Atlantic News. • Planting trees at production facilities in Nova Gradiška, Rogaški Vrelci, Mirna and Izola. • Ecological car in the vehicle fleet In 2015, Atlantic started to upgrade its vehicle fleet with environmentally friendly vehicles. Renault Zoe is one of the first such vehicles to be purchased and it is marked accordingly. Benefits of the eco car are: noise reduction, no CO2 emissions, no harmful nitrogen atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 83 co mmuni t y engagement 8. COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT As a part of a broader community in which it functions, Atlantic Grupa is aware of the importance and need for making its own impact on improving general social conditions, promoting correct values and, ultimately, the need to invest a part of its own profits back into the community. In addition to its wide range of charitable projects, Atlantic Grupa is also a major sponsor focused primarily on the promotion of sports where most funds and involvement are dedicated to supporting projects such as the basketball club Cedevita. In addition to a wide range of donor projects, our sponsorship activities are also notable, especially when it comes to the promotion of sports and healthy lifestyle for youth and adults. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 84 The largest sustained, structured and compreJump, Giro d’Italia, Basket Tour (street basket), co mmuni t y engagement hensive arrangement in this sense we invested Croatian Olympic Committee, Slovenian Ski in supporting projects such as the Basketball Federation, Beo Basket. Club Cedevita where, other than being the main sponsor, through the club’s basketball CULTURE AND KNOWLEDGE academy attended by over one thousand children and youth, we are trying to promote Atlantic Grupa has again in 2015 supported correct values among the new generations. the 21st Sarajevo Film Festival (SFF) as a central cultural manifestation in the region, Atlantic Grupa is also an active participant and once more not only as a Festival sponsor, but organiser of a number of humanitarian actions also as the main partner of the special festival and it systematically supports a whole series project Sarajevo grad filma (“Sarajevo Film of organisations and associations involved City”). It is a project that gives an opportunity in protecting and helping vulnerable social to young film professionals from the widely groups. interpreted region to work in professional conditions. On one hand, the project is concerned SPORTS with the future of young professionals, on the other, the future of the regional film industry The basketball club Cedevita continues to and, finally, the future of the festival. In the last be the flagship of all Atlantic’s sponsorships. year Atlantic also signed a golden partnership Atlantic Grupa is actively involved in the proagreement with Croatian Innovation Institute motion of basketball as a sport of national for 2015. In addition to supporting the Instiimportance by attracting increasingly better tute’s work, the cooperation also includes a players and trainers as well as in the promoseries of trainings for Atlantic employees. With tion of the brand Cedevita, to which the club the brand Plidenta, Atlantic also supported the was renamed. What is particularly important work of the Croatian Chamber of Dental Mediand upon which the success of this project cine. lies is Atlantic Grupa’s dedicated support in financing, organising, and managing the club’s Other supported initiatives include: Nišville Basketball Academy with over 1,000 children. Jazz Festival, High Five – Teen Days, Film – You The Club and the Academy actively work in Carry Me, and Špancirfest. 24 basketball schools organised in Zagreb’s elementary schools, thus ensuring both the SOCIALLY VULNERABLE GROUPS future of this sport and the option of a healthy and useful free time activity. Owing to Atlantic Atlantic Grupa has in 2015 made a donation Grupa’s sponsorship, as well as the efforts put to the Children’s Home Zagreb in Nazorova in getting additional sponsors for the BC CedeStreet, which was used to purchase furniture vita, the club is now one of the most promising for its little beneficiaries. At the Centre for the teams in Croatia and regional leagues which Protection of Toddlers, Children and Youth in is also successful in Euroleague, primarily by Belgrade, Atlantic Grupa’s actions were also entering the TOP 16. directed towards improving the living conditions of children deprived of parental care. Support to other sports include cycling, triathThe humanitarian organisation Reto – ima lon, running, and adrenaline sports, through nade (there is hope) accepted a donation of various competitions and teams: Planica Ski products aimed at improving the living condiatlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 85 tions of their beneficiaries – drug and alcohol In view of the biggest migrant crisis in recent co mmuni t y engagement addicts. The Croatian Association of Leukaehistory, Atlantic Grupa recognised the tragmia and Lymphoma Patients continues to edy that leaves people helpless and tried to implement the project “Plastic Bottle Caps for help them in their need. The first activities Expensive Medicines” aimed at collecting and were started in the territory of the Republic of recycling plastic bottle caps, whereas the funds Serbia, by donating aid packages which, in adraised in this way will be used to co-finance dition to products from Atlantic Grupa’s portfoexpensive medicines for the treatment of the lio, also included products from its distribution Association’s members. The Atlantic’s Follow portfolio. Other than sweets and coffee, this Me Team supported this project in Atlantic’s humanitarian package contained natural water locations in Zagreb and other cities and invited and diapers in order to meet the most basic all colleagues to participate in this humanitarneeds of mothers with small children. In Croaian and environmental initiative. tia, the company was in direct contact with the Crisis Headquarters and the Croatian Red Cross in an effort to, in line with its capacities, provide the best possible help in improving the conditions in refugee reception centres. VALUE DAY and responsibly assisted their local communities and each other through different forms The fourth in a row Atlantic Grupa’s Value Day of help: cleaning their work spaces and the has once again exceeded all expectations and environment, gardening, painting, cleaning and showed that hardworking Atlantic employees by donating blood. This year’s Value Day was can, with their teamwork, limitless positive marked by as much as 28 “green” activities unenergy, humanitarian efforts and great will, der the project Atlantic Green – Opportunity to leave a positive trace and live their corporate grow in harmony with nature, where more than values. More than 1,500 Atlantic employees 600 Atlantic employees chose to participate in participated in over 60 different activities in 7 one of the activities aimed at environmental countries where they passionately, creatively protection. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 86 gr i i nd ex 9. GRI INDEX GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES PAGE STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4 -1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization 3-5 G4 -2 Sustainability trends, key impacts, risks, and opportunities 20-21 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of the organization 6 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services 7-9 G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters 6 G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates 6, 10 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 15-17 G4-8 Markets served 6 G4-9 Scale of the organization 10 G4-10 Employment profile 18, 67 G4 -11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 18 G4-12 Description of supply chain 19-20 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, G4-13 12 structure, ownership, or its supply chain COMMITMENTS TO EXTERNAL INITIATIVES G4-14 Precautionary approach or principle 20-21 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or G4-15 22-26 other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses Active memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national G4-16 22 or international advocacy organizations atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 87 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES gr i i nd ex G4-17 Entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements 28 G4-18 Defining the report content and boundaries 28-29 G4-19 Material aspects identified 29 G4-20 Boundary within the organization for each material aspect 29 G4-21 Boundary outside the organization for each material aspect 29 G4-22 Restatements of reported information 79 G4-23 Significant changes in the scope and aspect boundaries / STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 List of stakeholders 30-31 G4-25 Identification and selection of stakeholders 30 G4-26 Stakeholder engagement 30-31 G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement 30-31 REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period 28 G4-29 Previous report 28 G4-30 Reporting cycle 28 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 28 G4-32 GRI INDEX 87-90 G4-33 External assurance / GOVERNANCE Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest G4-34 32, 34-36 governance body G4-35 Process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics 34-36 Executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, environmenG4-36 34-36 tal and social topics Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body G4-37 30-31, 34 on economic, environmental and social topics Composition of the highest governance body and its committees by: executive or non-executive, independence, tenure on the governance body, number of each individual’s other significant positions and commitments, and the nature of the G4-38 34-36 commitments, gender, membership of under-represented social groups, competences relating to economic, environmental and social impacts, stakeholder representation Function of the chair of the highest governance body, whether the chair of the G4-39 35 highest governance body is also an executive officer Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its comG4-40 34-36 mittees Processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are G4-41 38 avoided atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 88 Roles of the highest governance body and senior executives in the development, gr i i nd ex approval, and updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, G4-42 30, 33 strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives and G4-51 how performance criteria in the remuneration policy relate to their economic, 36-37 environmental and social objectives G4-52 Process for determining remuneration 36-37 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes G4-56 33, 38-40 of conduct and codes of ethics G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about integrity 38-39 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES PAGE CATEGORY ECONOMIC ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE – DISCLOSURES ASPECT 42 ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH G4 -EC 1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 42-43 CATEGORY ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECT ENERGY DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH 75-76 G4-EN 3 Energy consumption within the organization 77-78 ASPECT BIODIVERSITY DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH 79 Total number of IUCN red list species and national conservation list species with G4-EN 14 79 habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk ASPECT WASTE DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH 76,80 G4-EN 23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 80-82 CATEGORY SOCIAL SUB-CATEGORY LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK ASPECT EMPLOYMENT DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH 66-67 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age G4-LA 1 67-69 group, gender and region OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY ASPECT 70-71 DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeG4-LA 6 70 ism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 89 TRAINING AND EDUCATION ASPECT 71 gr i i nd ex DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee G4-LA 9 71-72 category SUB-CATEGORY PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY ASPECT 44, 48 DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes G4-PR 2 concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life 49 cycle, by type of outcomes PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELLING ASPECT 44, 50 DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and service information and labeling, and percentage of G4-PR 3 51-62 significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements G4-2, G4-35 through G4-55, G4-57, G4-58 are not mandatory in accordance with ''Core''. Nevertheless, some information is reported ''comprehensively'': G4-2, G4-35 through G4-42, G4-51, G4-52, G4-58. No external assurance included. No omissions regarding the reported information. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2015 90
