UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 JANUARY STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT I am pleased to confirm that Mater reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Henrik Marstrand CEO & Founder, Mater Design Mater At Mater Design, we hold ourselves to the highest set of standards set by the United Nations, and will remain committed to share our information and policies with all of our stakeholders. Our previous Communication on Progress reports and contributions to the UN can be found on the UN Global Compact website, where our constant development and progress is reported and is displaying our commitment to the initiative. Every stakeholder is welcome to review and provide feedback for further considerations and share best practice for learning experiences and the process of implementing the Ten Principles. In Mater we treat our employees, customers and suppliers with respect, humility and dignity. In collaboration with our supply chain we try to develop more sustainable, safe and secure methods in the production. Through our way of thinking we enforce production of recycling materials and believe that value lies within the story and history of our products. It is our mission that every single product at Mater meets the requirements of sustainable production. HUMAN & LABOUR RIGHTS Vision Mater is not just about great designs and products. It is also about caring for people. We respect human rights as absolute, and strive to ensure all humans in our determination to provide all humans the rights and freedoms they wish to enjoy. It is Mater’s policy to support people and local craft traditions, which underline our commitment to conduct all of our business in a legal and ethical manner. We are driven by our values supporting transparency and do not wish to engage in any form of human rights violations. Our Human Rights policy remains constantly under review together with our business procedures. We endorse and are fully committed the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and its nine conventions including the European Human Rights declaration as described in the EU charter. Mater fully complies with Danish legislation regarding Human Rights and employees of Mater also plays a significantly role in ensuring adherence to the Ten Principles. Our activities with regards to labour is to promote a healthy and safe workplace for our employees and push responsibility through our value chain by setting requirements to our suppliers and partners to adopt responsible labour practices. This is an ongoing process that will never change. We believe that a healthy and inspiring environment is the reason for our architectural design collection. Progress Violations of Human Rights will never be accepted in Mater and we do not hesitate to take proper action if prominent projects in countries and local regions seems questionable in terms of attitude towards Human Rights. In Mater we believe that Human Rights are indisputable universal truths and are determent to uphold the freedoms and rights of all. We have chosen to continue our close relationship with BRICpro hence our shared believe in sustainable production. They have the knowledge and power to influence the production facilities in a way that corresponds to our needs – in an ethical and environmental way. BRICpro address human and labour rights through a specially developed dialogue tool which focuses on health and safety. They enter into dialogue with the factory about the importance of CSR and helps to find ways to make improvements. All factories has been through an initial assessment and dialogue, and it is standard practice to follow up on potential improvements at the factories. We encourage our remaining manufacturers to support the principles of the 'UN Global Compact' within they possible reach and we are still experiencing continuous improvements. Our collaboration with our suppliers, and continued support for their ethical and environmental improvements, has proven to be of great importance to the local community and we strive to improve working conditions according to the principles of the UN Global Compact at the production sites. We try to keep the suppliers we have had long lasting association with by allowing them to produce the designs we sell in smaller quantities. We want to treat everyone with respect, humility and dignity and we take pride in preserving this by commissioning designers of both Danish and International talent. Results Since the beginning of 2006 Mater Design has emphasized the philosophy of creativity, curiosity and exploring the company’s strong vision to create timeless and beautiful designs. Through strong collaboration we have engaged in numerous projects underlining our business strategy following ethical and sustainable products. In order to ensure adherence to Mater’s ethical standards, we have in collaboration with Pandora conducted an audit with a factory unit in Slovenia. Some few findings were found that did not live up to our standards and expectations but none were major issues and national law required – none the less still important in our continuous progress to become even more sustainable and responsible. The factory has initiated necessary corrective action with regards to the findings with a completion date. Some of the issues arisen related to checking of student workers age, policy availability for leaving after hour and performing fire drills yearly etc. Corrective action is in progress and concludes that changing procedures, policies and behavior are improving. This is a display of the benefits of mutual collaboration and auditing setting higher standards for a strong commitment in corporate social responsibility. Our collaboration with our suppliers, and continued support for their ethical and environmental improvements, has proven to be of great importance to our local community and we always strive to improve working conditions according to the principles of the UN Global Compact at the production sites. We still experience continuous improvements and thrive on creating a better environment for all parties involved. In 2016 we have initiated our first employee satisfaction survey and we look forward to showing you the results in our next communication on progress. INFO CARPETS This production is holds an surprising information to the organic pattern developed. The badge following the carpet leaves discrete information that we, as people, need to focus on the pollution, mass production, overexploitation and destruction we create. This by showing the inspirational picture that the pattern was derived from. That picture inform visually about certain issues we face on earth. Our ambition was to motivate change, and these carpets underlines that important message. Each carpet is a portrait of the footprint we leave on nature and a message that we can create something beautiful out of undyed materials. We need to find ways to get the full potential out of our surroundings and our nature. Each of the carpets are put together from undyed yarns in different selections. ENVIRONMENT Vision Sustainability is a core element in every aspect of our production processes combining working methods that support people, local craft traditions and the environment. Our business strategy supports the precautionary approach to the challenges “mother earth” faces underlining the seventh principle of the UN Global Compact. At Mater we only engage in CSR activities that we believe we can influence and affect. This is how we believe we can create real value for our employees, designers, stakeholders, our products and the societies and local communities we operate in. By our ethical choice of material use such as renewable or certified wood, recycled materials and low energy light sources we use and encourage the diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies and techniques in our design collection. A design collection that are used for both commercial and residential purposes. We want to inspire people to engage in sustainability thinking and lessening the stimuli of unethical consumption behaviour taking environmental considerations into the equation. Progress By Danish law we are required to manage our waste in a sound manner. Recycling is a core principle and beneficial for the environment and our business. We live by this standard and so far, this process has successfully been adopted by our employees to avoid unnecessary waste. We continually monitor and seek to improve our performance both locally, abroad and on-site locations by regularly focusing on recycling, water efficiency, pollution prevention and energy savings. These thoughts is not only adopted in our behavior and h abits but also promoted to our suppliers were no such rules applies. In our approach to sustainable and innovative products and designs we use CE approved LED lighting as a sources for energy savings in our lamps. The bulbs in our designs are only compatible with the energy class A, A+, A++ and support our environmentally friendly technology approach. Furthermore, Mater actively supports the international non-profit organization FSC. Reproduced wood is an essential part of many of our designs. The Forest Stewardship Council seeks to avoid the exploitation of the nature and these are the challenges Mater also cares about. A properly certified organization that secure our belief in reproduced materials that wood also can be and the concerns for the environmental consequences if our planet is stripped of its resources. Results We will continue to work with our partners in a constant progress towards the most beneficial environmental products and service. Our ambition towards environmental concerns will lead us in the direction of further tangible measureable results decreasing our environmental impact. Our approach is a constantly evolving process and we will undertake initiatives that can support our business strategy. We will in the future set specific targets so we can manage, track and reduce our energy consumption and emission by statistical analysis that can help us reducing environmental impact and contribute to our vision. The aim will always be to minimizing the environmental impact and to participate in the development of environmentally friendly processes, designs and technologies. We are proud that all of our wooden products are made with FSC certified wood. SELECT PRODUCTS EAT DINNING TABLE Eat is a result of simplified and solid craftsmanship, designed by Nis Fischer Christensen. This premium timber with a natural soaped finish, is of cause FSC certified wood from European sources. The surface is 2.5 mm Forbo Marmolem linolium. A long-lasting and sustainable material derived from 97 % renewable and recycled material. The primary raw material is linseed oil derived from flax seed, resin and wood flour from recycled scrap wood from the timber industry. The finish is Topshield2 making the surface durable, bacteriostatic and easy to clean. THE SHELL LOUNGE CHAIR The leather stitched seat is inspired by traditional craft practices in North India, particularly saddle making. The Shell family is attempting to revitalise this skilled trade by providing leather-stitching artisans with a global market for their craft, thus encouraging them to pass it on to younger generations. The frame is crafted in solid FSC certified oak with a choice of three different water-based stains and two different quality leather tops. ANTI-CORRUPTION Vision Mater has a zero-tolerance policy in regards to bribery and corruption. Our dedication to addressing and advancing anti-corruption and uphold our business integrity aspect is embedded in Maters values, code of conduct and policies. As a principle in our policy facing unethical conduct we feel obligated to lead an investigation if any suspicion towards corruption is detected. This course of action will guide us in communion to protect the company against risks in relation to fraud, bribery, extortion, corruption or other forms of unethical misconduct. Mater will always undertake and participate in the progress towards eliminating and abolish corruption in our business, from our engagement with local communities to our global supply chain. Progress On the subject of transparency Mater encourage an open environment where employees and business associates can air their concerns without repercussions. Tacit agreements concerning our strategies, marketing solutions and distribution channels is a part of our operational activities, but does not include any form of obtaining, accepting or receiving a bribe of any kind or engage in other forms of unethical and unacceptable agreements. We believe in the principle of due diligence regarding all partners, suppliers, contractors and employees and are committed to this point of view. Every employee in Mater will always raise attention of irregularities, raise questions or drawing attention to observations which may reflect inappropriate behaviour. We recognise the risks of corruption in our supply chain, and as a consequence of this, we continue to work closely with our suppliers in India and China to eliminate any form of misconduct, including extortion and bribery. Mater will constantly adjust our behaviour to comply and obey all laws, rules and regulations that concerns anti-corruption and anti-bribery to guarantee and ensure that our business do not suffer any damages or harms related to our brand and business wherever we operate. Results We have, to our knowledge, not had any incidents to report, and we continue to show a zerotolerance.
