U N I T E D N AT I O N S G L O B A L C O M PA C T COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015/2016 REPORT company name APCO WORLDWIDE address 1 2 9 9 P E N N S Y LVA N I A AV E N U E , N W WASHINGTON, D.C. 20004 UNGC membership country SINCE JUNE 1, 2010 U N I T E D S TAT E S O F A M E R I C A contact name full time employees at December 31, 2015 K E L LY K O L K E R 680 position sector DIRECTOR, OFFICE OF THE P R O F E S S I O N A L S E R V I C E S / C O N S U LT I N G EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN website contact W W W. A P C O W O R L D W I D E . C O M +1.202.778.1000 JOINT STATEMENT FROM THE EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN & CEO We are pleased to present our sixth annual report on progress as a signatory of the UN Global Compact. This has been a year of great political and social consequence that continues to change governments and global alliances, as well as religious and civil society institutions. Turmoil, terrorism, the refugee crisis, economic challenges and civil unrest have permeated our daily lives, making progress on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) more important than ever. We also believe this has been a year of great determination, as we witnessed individuals and organizations around the world step forward to accept the challenges of meeting the SDGs and come together to advance its objectives, including the historic Paris Agreement on Climate. It is clear that there needs to be greater unity and commitment between and among government, business and citizen groups to cooperate in finding sustainable solutions for the future of the planet. We play a small role in responding to that global call, not only by how we run our own operations but also through the counsel we provide our clients and the innovative projects that we create. As noted in past reports, the areas where we believe we have the biggest impact are in advancing the principles addressing anti-corruption and human rights issues through economic empowerment for women and global health and nutrition. As the largest majority women-owned company in our field, we feel a special responsibility to address these issues and opportunities that impact women across the globe. Our work on anti-corruption, through our engagement with business, academics and global enterprises, aims at rebuilding trust in public institutions and supporting those who are committed to fighting the forces of corruption. We engaged with the World Economic Forum on a special initiative geared at giving young people a voice and a means to be mobilized on this issue. Regarding our human rights efforts, we started a new program to support relief efforts to aid refugees and continued our long-standing commitment to advancing economic and social opportunities for women around the world, including a new initiative on Women Advancing Africa with the Graça Machel Trust. We strongly believe that engagements with initiatives like these strengthen our bonds with our communities, our employees and partnerships with like-minded organizations, including the International Crisis Group, World Economic Forum, Jesuit Relief Services, the Clinton Global Initiative and the Graça Machel Trust. APCO is committed to continuing to support the SDGs and its Principles through our own policies and practices, as well as our work with clients. We are proud to share some of these activities in this report and, as always, welcome your feedback on this report or any of our initiatives. Sincerely, M A R G E RY K R A U S B R A D S TA P L E S Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer 2015-2016 UN Global Compact Report | APCO Worldwide 2 COMMUNICATING OUR PROGRESS APCO Worldwide Inc. joined the UNGC in June 2010. This report is our sixth Communication on Progress (COP). All data contained in this document relates to the calendar year January – December 2015. In addition, some initiatives mentioned refer to the first quarter of 2016. This report is in two parts: PA R T 1 Provides a short overview about APCO, including our 2015 organizational profile and our approach to governance, responsible business and citizenship. PA R T 2 Covers our policies, programs and actions to promote the UNGC’s 10 Principles on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. This section uses the “basic COP” template provided by the UNGC. A global cross-functional team was responsible for developing this report which was reviewed and approved by the Chair of APCO’s Responsible Business Committee and by our Executive Chairman and CEO. 2015-2016 UN Global Compact Report | APCO Worldwide 3 PART 1: ABOUT APCO A P C O I S O N E O F T H E L A R G E S T P R I VAT E LY O W N E D communication, stakeholder engagement and business strategy firms in the world. APCO has the distinction of being both majority employee-owned and certified by the Women’s Business Enterprise National Council, in partnership with the Women Presidents’ Educational Organization, as a women-owned business. To this accord, APCO is committed to serving our employee-owners and the communities in which they thrive. F O U N D E D I N 1 9 8 4 , APCO is the only major consultancy of its kind headquartered in Washington, D.C. We have offices in more than 30 major business, government and media capitals around the world. Our 680 permanent employees (as of December 31, 2015) comprise more than 40 nationalities and come from diverse backgrounds, including: former elected leaders; ambassadors; journalists; business and nonprofit executives; government officials; market researchers; as well as communication, corporate affairs and online experts. A P C O ’ S G R O W T H W A S M O S T LY O R G A N I C during its 31 years of operation. In 2015, our Global Leadership Team assessed and revitalized APCO’s mission statement to encapsulate our values, which have remained constant since APCO’s incorporation, and drive our firm forward in an exceedingly globalized society. We truly operate as a unified global firm, without barriers to collaboration. We celebrate diversity—of background, thought, culture and opinion. It is at the core of who we are and how we provide meaningful services to our clients. O U R P U B L I C A F FA I R S M I N D S E T helps ambitious organizations thrive. By amalgamating our issue expertise, lens for advocacy and aptitude for finding creative solutions, we enable innovative businesses, facing complex problems, to thrive in an ever-changing global landscape. ABOUT APCO MISSION AND VALUES In 2015, our Global Leadership Team met to discuss our company’s mission and corporate values. In the first quarter of 2016, senior leadership relaunched our company’s revitalized mission and reconfirmed values across the company. Through a series of discussions, our employees gained a new perspective on the importance of APCO’s mission and the values that we adhere to in order to achieve our goals. OUR MISSION Enable clients to achieve their objectives through insightful counsel, authentic advocacy and creative communications. Counsel clients on the opportunities and challenges of a global marketplace and engaged stakeholders in times of transformational change. Partner with clients to add value to their enterprises and benefit society. ACCOMPLISHING OUR MISSION We accomplish our mission by fostering a culture of critical and unconventional thinking, which is made possible because of our commitment to hiring, growing and retaining exceptional people from diverse backgrounds. We achieve results through a strategic understanding of our clients’ objectives and deep insights into their political, economic and social environments. While we operate as one integrated company with offices around the world, we secure our clients’ license to operate and grow by delivering results that are locally relevant but globally impactful. A P C O VA L U E S »» Make client success our measurement of achievement »» Empower people to do great work »» Nurture an organization where everyone is valued »» Rely on one another to achieve personal potential »» Build relationships to build business »» Tell the truth »» Push the boundaries with innovative technology and solutions »» Provide global service culture by culture 2015-2016 UN Global Compact Report | APCO Worldwide 5 ABOUT APCO APCO OFFICES AMERICAS EMEA ASIA »» Chicago »» Abu Dhabi »» Bangkok »» New York »» Berlin »» Beijing »» Raleigh-Durham »» Brussels »» Hanoi »» Sacramento »» Doha »» Hong Kong »» Seattle »» Dubai »» Jakarta »» Washington, D.C. »» Istanbul »» Kuala Lumpur »» London »» Mumbai »» Lyon »» New Delhi »» Moscow »» Shanghai »» Paris »» Singapore »» Rome »» Tokyo »» Tel Aviv »» Warsaw 2015-2016 UN Global Compact Report | APCO Worldwide 6 ABOUT APCO AWARDS AND RECOGNITION Platinum PR Awards 2015 EMEA PR Consultancies of the Year Awards 2016 Public Affairs Campaign French PR Consultancy of the Year IKEA’s Wind Farm Announcement The Holmes Report PR News EMEA SABRE Awards 2016 Golden Trumpet Awards 2015 Government Agencies Silver Trumpet Securing a Historic Debt Restructuring Deal for Ukraine Issues Management Ukraine’s Ministry of Finance with APCO Worldwide Take 2…Tell 2 For Stroke Campaign The Holmes Report Publicity Club of Chicago EMEA SABRE Awards 2016 EMEA Best Consultancies to Work For Awards 2015 Animal Care Best EMEA Network to Work For Modernizing the Legal Status of Animals in France: The Holmes Report A Major Breakthrough in French Law The Fondation 30 d’ Amis with APCO Worldwide CSR Awards 2015 The Holmes Report Agency CSR A-List PR News CSR Awards 2016 Agency CSR A-List Middle East PR Awards 2015 PR News Financial PR Middle East Public Relations Association PRWeek UK Power Book 2016 Luminary Awards 2015 Brad Staples & James Acheson-Gray Entrepreneurial Champion PRWeek Margery Kraus Committee of 200 Gold Awards 2015 Awareness Campaign Video Power List 2015 Take 2…Tell 2 for Stroke video Margery Kraus MarCom Awards PRWeek Platinum Awards 2015 Hall of Fame 2015 Special Event Margery Kraus Take 2…Tell 2 for Stroke campaign PR News MarCom Awards Top Women-Owned Businesses 2015 Top Places to Work in PR Awards 2015 Washington Business Journal PR News 2015-2016 UN Global Compact Report | APCO Worldwide 7 ABOUT APCO GOVERNANCE AND RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE GLOBAL LEADERSHIP TEAM MEMBERS APCO Worldwide Inc. is governed by a board of directors, which has the legal and fiduciary duties to oversee the »» Margery Kraus company’s activities, management practices and financial »» Brad Staples performance. The five-member board has a unitary structure. Two of the board members (Margery Kraus and »» James Acheson-Gray Neal Cohen) are APCO executives; one board member »» Claire Boussagol (David Greenberg) is independent; and two (Ron Boschetto and Neil Wiesenberg) are outside investors in the company. »» Nicolas Bouvier Three of the five members are non-executive members. »» Karen Buerkle The chair of the board is Margery Kraus, our founder and executive chairman. The board meets at least quarterly. »» Alicia Peterson Clark »» Neal M. Cohen At the start of 2015, we had a significant transition to the next generation of leadership at the firm with the following »» Nelson Fernandez appointments: »» Mara Hedgecoth »» Margery Kraus as executive chairman »» Evan Kraus »» Brad Staples as global CEO »» Kathryn Medina »» Evan Kraus as president and managing director of »» Lisa Osborne Ross operations »» Mamoon Sbeih »» Neal Cohen as president of global client strategy and »» Denise Teeling vice chair of the board of directors »» Nicolas Bouvier as chairman, Europe »» Martina Tydecks »» Nelson Fernandez as chairman, North America At the same time, APCO formed a Global Leadership Team (GLT) consisting of senior leaders that represent each of APCO’s geographical regions to oversee the company’s operations and progress of the business against its annual plan. The GLT meets each month and the membership is reviewed on an annual basis. This new leadership reflects the diversity of our organization and reinforces the company’s commitment to the changing global nature of business and communications and a shift in corporate interests to new, international markets. It also empowers the next generation of leaders at the company. 2015-2016 UN Global Compact Report | APCO Worldwide 8 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS As we conduct our work across the globe, we strive to be a responsible company in everything we do. CODES OF CONDUCT Our commitment to conducting our business at the highest level of ethics and integrity is derived from the core values APCO has endorsed and adheres to the that have guided us since our founding. This commitment following codes of conduct in all our activities: is embodied in our Code of Conduct, which sets forth the fundamental ethical principles that govern how we »» Association Française des Conseils en do business. Lobbying (AFCL) (France) Code of Ethics Our commitment to operating responsibly includes acting with strong ethics and integrity; adhering to »» Association of Professional Political Consultants (UK) standards of good governance and financial stewardship; Code of Conduct supporting our local communities; and managing our environmental footprint. We comply with the local laws »» Confederation of Indian Industry (India) of every market in which we operate, adhere to industry Code of Business Ethics codes of conduct to which we are a signatory and strive to meet stakeholder expectations. »» Council of Public Relations Firms (U.S.) Code of Ethics In 2008, we established APCO’s Responsible Business »» Council of Public Relations Firms in Hong Committee (RBC) to provide oversight for management of Kong (Hong Kong) APCO’s Code of Conduct and responsible business policies Code of Ethics and systems, including compliance and ethics training. »» Degepol (Germany) Code of Conduct APCO’s RBC is the steward of APCO’s commitment to »» European Public Affairs Consultancies ethical and responsible business conduct. In addition to Association (EPACA) (Europe) regularly reviewing and updating our Code of Conduct, the Code of Conduct RBC corroborates staff members are provided training on ethical conduct and compliance with laws and works with »» Independent Commission Against Corruption (ICAC) (Hong Kong) senior management to help identify and resolve potential Prevention of Bribery Ordinance (POBO) conflicts of interest with client work or APCO’s values. The RBC guides APCO’s Global Leadership Team on ethical »» International Association of Business matters and provides insights and information that Communicators (International) helps inform decisions made by leadership around the Code of Conduct firm. The RBC serves as a resource for employees who have questions, concerns or personal conflicts with the »» Public Relations Consultancies Association (PRCA) (UK) assignments we accept or how we operate. The RBC also Code of Conduct works to help APCO adopt industry best practices in all areas of ethics, integrity and accountability. »» Public Relations Society of America (U.S.) Member Code of Ethics »» World Economic Forum Partnership Against Corruption Initiative Code of Conduct OUR COMMITMENT TO CONDUCTING OUR B U S I N E S S AT T H E H I G H E S T LEVEL OF ETHICS AND INTEGRITY IS DERIVED F R O M T H E C O R E VA L U E S T H AT H AV E G U I D E D U S SINCE OUR FOUNDING. 2015-2016 UN Global Compact Report | APCO Worldwide 9 ABOUT APCO EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT Investing in staff’s learning and development remains a top priority for APCO. We believe that continuous learning and increasing skills are important components of an employee’s professional development and contribute to our success as a firm. In 2015, we conducted a comprehensive assessment and revision of our training program in order to ensure it addresses our business competencies, reflects the needs of the organization, enhances client relationships and supports professional development. Our goal is for 100 percent participation so that all employees continuously ARC Training for APCO Employees enhance their business competencies and grow as professionals. »» Alternatives to Traditional Training: In an effort to create a culture around learning and not An example of our new training initiative that better rely only on formalized training programs, we have reflects critical competencies is our focus on digital made a coordinated effort to teach our colleagues capability which is a key component for APCO achieving its around the globe about alternative approaches to business goals. This particular competency focuses on learning and development. an employee’s ability to become immersed in digital communications and apply those experiences We are proud to have won a number of industry awards to client work. that recognize our strength as an employer, including being named the “Best Large Agency to Work For” by The To complement our new training program, we built a stateHolmes Report for the second year in a row at the North of-the-art digital learning platform. This platform serves as America SABRE Awards. a central hub for all things learning and development. Core skill gaps related to technology, project management or budgeting can be addressed at a much quicker pace and reach more offices through online courses. OUR FOCUS IN 2015 INCLUDED: »» APCO’s Talent Network: The Talent Network is an internal bureau of our subject matter experts that work closely to develop training with our head of learning and development. Pairing their expertise with multiple methods of delivery allows for more training to occur in many of our offices around the world. »» ARC: APCO’s First Digital Learning Platform: ARC hosts our centralized global learning and development calendar. Any training happening anywhere in the world is easy for our employees to find and join. It is a hub for all of our online courses and modules. And, it is designed to promote more best practice sharing and knowledge transfer within the company. 2015-2016 UN Global Compact Report | APCO Worldwide 10 ABOUT APCO EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT IN 2015, OUR EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT MEMBERSHIPS PROGRAM INCLUDED: »» Gallup Q12 Employee Engagement Survey: APCO is proud to be a member partner of the In 2015, APCO assessed employee engagement following organizations: by administering the Gallup Q12 Employee Engagement Survey. The highly accredited survey »» Arthur W. Page Society queried research-based questions that measure the »» Boston College Center for Corporate most important elements of employee engagement. Citizenship »» Recognizing Employee Milestones and Anniversaries: »» Business and Society, Belgium APCO celebrates our employees by recognizing their anniversary of joining the company. Our executive »» Business in the Community (BiTC) chairman, Margery Kraus, handwrites personalized »» Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) anniversary cards for all employees across the globe. »» Clinton Global Initiative (CGI) »» Global Exchange Program: »» ColorComm To foster integration, share best practices and enhance cultural understanding, each year 15 employees are »» Institute for Public Relations selected to spend time working in another APCO office around the world. Scholarships are awarded »» International Crisis Group annually and those individuals selected are expected to »» LAGRANT Foundation contribute to the host office by sharing best practices, reviewing client engagements, experiencing the local »» PR Council culture and then returning to their home office to share »» Public Affairs Council their learnings and experiences with colleagues. »» Women Presidents’ Organization »» Myriam Ugeux-Gerault Fellowship: »» World Economic Forum Gender Parity In an effort to promote creativity, build exposure to new ideas and encourage collaboration across APCO’s »» World Economic Forum Global Agenda global network, APCO’s talent management team, Council on Anti-Corruption & Transparency in partnership with our Paris office, established the Myriam Ugeux-Gerault Fellowship. The fellowship is »» World Economic Forum Partnership Against Corruption Initiative (PACI) in honor of Myriam Ugeux-Gerault, a former APCO employee in the Paris office who passed away in 2009. APCO refined the application requirements for the experience. To ensure that opportunities for global fellowship in early 2016 to align more closely with our mobility is at the cornerstone of our global offering to company’s values. As of this year, one APCO employee existing and potential employees, our global mobility has the opportunity to attend a conference to build specialist is dedicated to managing a database his or her expertise in strategic communications, of employee skill sets that complement various corporate social responsibility, innovation or digital international assignments. communication. In addition, the employee has the opportunity to spend one week in our Paris office to learn and share best practices that promote creative communication strategies and responsible business behavior/sustainability. »» International Assignments and Global Mobility: To provide the best level of client service, employees are regularly offered the opportunity to work in another country or at a client location to become an integrated part of a specific client’s team. This provides the client with an extremely high level of service and the employee with a unique professional development 2015-2016 UN Global Compact Report | APCO Worldwide 11 ABOUT APCO CITIZENSHIP AND COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT The APCO Gives Back program empowers employees to in the annual strategy and planning meeting for CGI. contribute to their communities through volunteerism with APCO’s team handles press outreach before and support from APCO—in the form of both time and financial during CGI’s Annual Meeting, including manning the resources. APCO Gives Back is a worldwide program, press office of more than 1,000 journalists, as well as providing all APCO employees with the offering media and communication training to CGI following opportunities: member organizations. In the past few years, APCO has significantly increased its pro bono support for GROUP AND INDIVIDUAL VOLUNTEERISM CGI and now manages all the press around CGI’s All APCO offices are encouraged to nominate an America meeting, its Middle East and Africa meeting in APCO Gives Back coordinator or committee to arrange Marrakesh, as well as its annual meeting in New York. and manage group volunteer activities for employee APCO has helped generate many millions of media participation in hands-on projects (e.g., planting trees, impressions and hundreds of articles in leading news serving meals, mentoring youth). In addition to group media, and our partnership with CGI has resulted in volunteering activities, APCO provides each employee with new levels of visibility for the tremendous work of its an opportunity to spend up to eight working hours each members and commitment-makers around the world. year volunteering with a charity or cause of their choice. The pro bono partnership with CGI is a global effort, including colleagues from many APCO offices around C O R P O R AT E G I V I N G A N D the world. C H A R I T Y M AT C H I N G In 2015, APCO’s U.S. operations donated more than $200,000 to community causes, including foundations and nonprofit sponsorships, corporate matching of employee donations for major disaster relief efforts and other employee donations to nonprofit and charitable causes. PRO BONO SERVICES APCO makes significant contributions to our local communities and to global causes via pro bono work, contributing more than $1 million in pro bono services across the globe. We support a wide range of nonprofit organizations around the world. Below is a small selection Clinton Global Initiative of our global pro bono activity; other examples are included throughout Part II of this report: »» B U S I N E S S IN THE COMMUNITY (BITC): »» T H E C L I N T O N G L O B A L I N I T I AT I V E : APCO continues to provide pro bono support to APCO is proud to provide pro bono communication BITC, a business-led charity with a core membership and strategic counsel support to the Clinton Global of more than 800 organizations, ranging from small Initiative (CGI). CGI’s mission is to inspire, connect and enterprises to global corporations, working together empower a community of global leaders to take action to create a fairer society and more sustainable future. on the world’s most pressing challenges. CGI catalyzes In addition to APCO’s Brad Staples providing strategic its members—leaders from multinational corporations, counsel through his role on BITC’s International social enterprises, governments and nonprofits—to Leadership Board, the APCO team provides varied maximize their efforts to alleviate poverty, create a communications advice. cleaner environment and increase access to health care and education. CGI members have to date made more than 3,200 commitments, which have already improved the lives of nearly 430 million people in more than 180 countries. APCO helps CGI members gain interest in the causes they are addressing, demonstrate their successes and highlight the wide-ranging achievements of CGI as a whole. APCO’s Margery Kraus participates 2015-2016 UN Global Compact Report | APCO Worldwide 12 »» L I T E R AT U R E FOR ALL OF US: Literature for All of Us (LFAOU), a Chicago organization that enables individuals to realize the transformative power of their voices in the face of social and economic inequity by growing communities of readers and writers, asked APCO for counsel related to refreshing its branding and design as well as a review of its communications strategy to help raise the organization’s profile among key audiences including donors, the media and the local community. APCO evaluated the organization’s logo and provided guidance for developing a new design that would better align with LFAOU’s mission. We also reviewed their communications materials and provided branding and positioning counsel related to the organization’s mission statement, annual program report, fundraising activities and videos, redesigned website (to be launched in 2016), social media channels, media relations efforts and more. As LFAOU approaches its 20th anniversary later this year, the organization is working to implement our recommendations. They are in the process of updating their logo, the new mission statement we helped develop will soon be approved, and the report we delivered containing actionable recommendations related to communications and fundraising serves as a guidebook for staff. Literature for All of Us »» T H E N I G H T M I N I S T R Y: The Night Ministry is a Chicago-based organization that offers housing, health care and human connection to members of the local community struggling with poverty or homelessness. They asked APCO to review their communications program and offer counsel on ways they could more effectively reach target audiences. In order to get a better sense of the organization, we interviewed senior leaders at The Night Ministry including the CEO and Director of Communications, held a focus group with the organization’s younger leaders to gather their insights and gathered input from staff and volunteers. We also reviewed the organization’s communications plan and other materials. APCO developed a strategy to help The Night Ministry streamline its communication efforts, effectively reach target audiences, increase awareness of the organization and drive involvement. Recommendations included ways to improve the organization’s storytelling, news dissemination, annual report and logo. We also provided guidance related to social media, thought leadership, visibility, partnerships, marketing materials and earned media. »» L A N D M A R K GROUP: APCO’s UAE client, Landmark Group, aimed to initiate a campaign addressing diabetes—where it is estimated that one out of five people in the UAE live with the disease. Together, they launched a Beat Diabetes Walk. The walk kicked off in Dubai in 2009 and APCO has supported the cause ever since. Leading into 2015, APCO worked with Beat Diabetes team on extending the initiative to seven countries— Bahrain, Oman, UAE, India, Kuwait, Qatar and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The last Beat Diabetes Walk, in November 2015, had 17,000 participants in the UAE alone. Throughout the rest of the year, APCO engaged Landmark Group in various awareness drives, including community outreach initiatives and media engagement. Landmark 2015-2016 UN Global Compact Report | APCO Worldwide 13 Group’s 500+ stores across the UAE raised more than H U M A N I TA R I A N E M E R G E N C Y AED350,000 from the walk last year. These funds were AND DISASTER RESPONSE earmarked to the Al Jalila Foundation to further the APCO provides opportunities for employees to support cause of diabetic research. people impacted by humanitarian emergencies and disasters around the world by matching employee »» S T R E E T G A M E S : donations up to US$10,000. APCO worked with StreetGames to advise on how best to promote their doorstep sports among a COMMITMENT TO LEADERSHIP corporate audience. StreetGames provides sporting DEVELOPMENT AND CIVIC SERVICES opportunities for disadvantaged youth in an effort to In addition to the activities above, members of APCO’s change lives, sports and communities. They partnered senior management team serve in leadership positions with APCO on a pro bono basis to attract new via important civic and educational organizations, sponsors and benefactors. APCO devised Pinstripe including university trustees, educational foundations, civic Ping Pong, a corporate ping pong competition for organizations, community foundations, industry companies to come together, presenting teams to oversight bodies and professional societies. compete at an annual fundraising event. The event engaged companies in an intra-firm competition in an unconventional and enjoyable approach to offices’ sports participation. APCO organized and hosted the EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP inaugural event, gathering key stakeholders at BOARD MEMBERSHIPS Bounce in Farringdon. APCO and StreetGames solicited prizes and donations through their respective »» American University professional networks which were auctioned off by a Wimbledon star. »» Close Up Foundation »» French Lobbying Association Ethics Committee »» Gideon’s Promise »» Institute for Public Relations APCO provides more than »» Kellogg School $1,000,000 in pro bono services across the globe. »» Women Presidents’ Organization »» I N T E R N AT I O N A L H E A LT H PA R T N E R S : APCO works for Health Distribution Association UK (HDA) which partners with International Health Partners, a charity that helps to provide medicine for those in need. It is Europe’s largest coordinator of donated medicines. HDA UK is a supporter of the IHP and offers its office space and its members support to IHP. »» U N A P E I : Our Paris office signed a partnership with the UNAPEI, the French Union of the Associations of Relatives and Friends of People with Mental Disabilities. Through two strategic workshops, APCO provided pro bono support, ideas and counsel for a UNAPEI campaign to promote reforms in favor of the mentally disabled regarding anticipated French policy changes in 2017. APCO also held a two-day training session to help UNAPEI define and implement its social media strategy in the context of the organization’s repositioning. 2015-2016 UN Global Compact Report | APCO Worldwide 14 ABOUT APCO CHALLENGES AND OPPORTUNITIES Each year, we assess the issues that have a material impact on our business. As noted in previous reports, these issues—trust, transparency and talent—do not change from year to year as they are core to our ongoing success and growth across all of our markets. »» T R U S T: Societies around the world have languished in a decade of eroding levels of public trust in all types of organizations—including our own industry. We work every day to build trust with our clients, their stakeholders, our colleagues and communities. We have in place strict policies and protocols that apply to everyone in the company that aim to preclude potential conflicts among existing clients and also with APCO’s mission and values as a global company. »» T R A N S PA R E N C Y: The only way we can build trust with our clients and their stakeholders, our employees and the public is to be transparent about who we are, what we believe and do and how we conduct our business. It is an essential part of building and growing a successful enterprise. »» TA L E N T: Our business will only succeed if we have the right employees in place with the right skills and expertise to meet our clients’ needs. We work to attract and retain a diverse, creative and knowledgeable group of people who want to work across borders, issues and platforms to solve problems and advance goals while building their careers at APCO. Working with senior leadership, we seek to ensure that the issues are adequately and clearly addressed through our corporate policies and practices and the industry codes of conduct and ethics to which we all adhere. T R U S T, T R A N S PA R E N C Y A N D TA L E N T A R E C O R E TO OUR ONGOING SUCCESS AND GROWTH 2015-2016 UN Global Compact Report | APCO Worldwide 15 ABOUT APCO CHAMPIONING WOMEN & GIRLS FOR SUSTAINABLE GROWTH A CERTIFIED MAJORITY WOMEN-OWNED BUSINESS: APCO is certified by the Women’s Business Enterprise National Council, in partnership with the Women Presidents’ Educational Organization, as a women-owned business. As the largest certified majority women-owned global business in our industry, our passion for women and girls is part of our DNA as a firm and reflected in our offices across more than 20 countries. Blog posts on APCO Forum I N V E S T I N G I N W O M E N is not only the right thing to do, but it is also critical to the success of businesses, »» Future of Jobs and its Impact on Gender Parity governments and organizations. We believe that by by Anna Tunkel investing in and advocating for women—whether internally at APCO, as part of our extensive client and pro bono »» Celebrating Mentors and Role Models by Becky Boles and Laura van Drie work in this space or through the active external leadership of our employees—we can help strengthen business »» Balancing Successful Career and Parenthood outcomes and create benefits for families, communities by Flora Monsaingeon-Lavuri and countries. Our multifaceted commitment to women, through our work in all these areas, underscores APCO’s »» The Value of Mentorship by Ashley Knapp commitment to a wide range of UNGC principles, including those focused on labor and human rights. »» If Money Wasn’t an Issue, What Would You be Doing with Your Life Today? March 8 marks International Women’s Day and this year, by Natasha Gray APCO celebrated across all of its offices. We are proud that our senior management is composed equally of »» Do Rankings of the “Best Places to Work for Women” miss the point? women and men and that our Global Leadership Team by Abisola Adekoya has women in the majority. Our Executive Chairman and Founder Margery Kraus has been a determined and consistent advocate for women in business, a mentor and role model to many women in the company and beyond. Adding to thought leadership on this topic, a number of APCO’s colleagues wrote blog posts on issues related to women’s empowerment. At APCO, women account for: »» 50% of leadership positions in geographic and global operations »» 50% of global accounts leads 2015-2016 UN Global Compact Report | APCO Worldwide 16 ABOUT APCO CHAMPIONING WOMEN & GIRLS FOR SUSTAINABLE GROWTH: PRO BONO WORK In the last year, we saw heightened levels of activity and engagement by businesses, governments and community organizations alike. There is now widespread understanding that investing in women and girls is a wise use of resources. As a result, we are seeing our clients shift their focus beyond simply making the case for investment in this space, to trying to better understand how best to enhance their impact. Actors in this area are digging deeper, tackling bigger challenges and paving the way for a more prosperous future. Here are just a few examples: WeConnect International Motion Graphic Championing the progress of women featured prominently on the WEConnect International and girls globally is part of our DNA and website. WEConnect International uses the video has been for 31 years. as a recruitment tool, helping them engage new corporations and women-owned businesses worldwide. »» W O M A N I T Y: The Womanity Foundation was established by Swiss entrepreneur Yann Borgestedt, following research which »» W E C O N N E C T I N T E R N AT I O N A L : found that empowering women creates sustainable WEConnect International is a global nonprofit that change for whole communities; as when women helps women-owned businesses succeed in global value succeed, they reinvest their wealth into families and chains. It identifies, educates, registers and certifies wider society. APCO has supported the Womanity businesses that are owned and managed by women, Foundation by promoting its various projects, including and connects them with multinational corporate ‘Girls Can Code’ which is expanding career prospects buyers. WEConnect International approached APCO for girls by teaching them to code, and ‘Worth 100 to help tell the organization’s story and communicate Men’ a radio fiction series broadcast throughout the the value of its program to both corporate funders Arab region. The series provides a platform for women and women business owners. In order to get a better to discuss social issues such as their role in society, their sense of the organization, we first interviewed senior rights and responsibilities and the problems they face in leaders at WEConnect International and reviewed the private and in public. organization’s communications strategy and materials. WEConnect International possessed a strong track record and solid data to support its program, but was looking to communicate its work to new funders THERE IS NOW and business owners in a simple, more relatable way. APCO worked closely with WEConnect International to WIDESPREAD unpack its organizational model and help crystalize its mission into a set of simple, straightforward messages U N D E R S TA N D I N G that could resonate with both corporate funders and women business owners. Taking those messages, T H AT I N V E S T I N G I N APCO developed a two-minute animated video to help bring WEConnect International’s mission and model WOMEN AND GIRLS to life. The video featured colorful custom animation, designed to communicate the human impact and the IS A WISE USE OF global reach of the organization and its work. The video received immediate positive feedback from RESOURCES. WEConnect International’s top donors and is currently 2015-2016 UN Global Compact Report | APCO Worldwide 17 PART 2: UNGC PRINCIPLES In the pages that follow, we provide a summary of APCO’s internal policies and practices aligned to support the UNGC Principles. We also included examples of how we apply the principles to our work with clients around the world. Many of the examples of our client work that are cited align with multiple principles, particularly our work focused on human rights and labor practices. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and PRINCIPLE 2 Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 2015-2016 UN Global Compact Report | APCO Worldwide 19 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES APCO’S POLICIES, OPERATIONS AND GOALS Support and respect for human rights is an integral part of APCO’s values. These values transcend geographic boundaries and are embraced in every APCO office. In addition, at the core of APCO’s governance are two essential policies with which all employees of APCO and its subsidiaries are required to comply—APCO’s Code of Conduct and APCO’s Anti-Discrimination and Equal Employment Opportunity Policy. A P C O ’ S C O D E O F C O N D U C T details the high standards of behavior expected of all APCO employees in their interactions with each other, vendors, clients, prospective clients, government officials, etc. Underlying the Code of Conduct is a belief in treating others with respect and acting in good faith and with transparency in all transactions. A P C O ’ S A N T I D I S C R I M I N AT I O N A N D E Q U A L EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY POLICY prohibits APCO employees from engaging in or supporting discrimination. Specifically, it is APCO’s policy to: (i) recruit, hire and promote the most qualified staff for all jobs; and (ii) ensure that all staff actions (including, but not limited to, recruitment, hiring, compensation, benefits, transfers, layoffs and all company-sponsored training, social and recreational programs) are administered in a non-discriminatory way without regard to an applicant’s or employee’s race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, personal appearance, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, family responsibility, disability, veteran status, education, political affiliation, genetic information or any other classification protected by applicable law. As a global organization, other APCO regions such as Greater China, Europe and Southeast Asia have also enforced equal employment policies. Such policies protect employees from discrimination based on their sex, marital status, disability or pregnancy. These policies set in place A P C O ’ S VA L U E S allow all individuals to receive the same opportunities with regard to recruitment, hiring, promotion and TRANSCEND compensation. GEOGRAPHICAL In addition, some of APCO’s offices have contributed to fundraising and other initiatives supporting BOUNDARIES AND anti-discrimination causes. ARE EMBRACED IN EVERY OFFICE. 2015-2016 UN Global Compact Report | APCO Worldwide 20 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES APPLICATIONS IN EXTERNAL WORK In addition to respecting human rights in our own operations, we contribute to promoting awareness and respect for international human rights through pro bono and client assignments, including: »» C H O B A N I : Chobani’s Founder Hamdi Ulukaya, a Turkish-American entrepreneur and immigrant, recently established the Tent Foundation, an organization seeking to improve the lives for refugees around the world.The Tent Foundation desired to highlight their bold commitment to unlocking new solutions regarding the global refugee situation at the World Economic Forum’s Annual Meeting in Davos. They tasked APCO with helping to establish a presence at Davos and unveil a new initiative encouraging the private sector to take action in support of refugees. APCO also activated groundbreaking research regarding public opinion toward refugees across 10 countries and launched a grant contest aimed at resolving the refugee situation. Utilizing our colleagues across the globe, APCO assembled a team to gain coverage in top-tier international and national news media across six markets and in five languages. GAIN #FutureFortified The team successfully set the tone for dialogue and commentary at Davos. APCO also developed a comprehensive database of more than 300 leading European civil society organizations with an interest in refugees and migration issues. »» G L O B A L ALLIANCE FOR IMPROVED NUTRITION: Today, nearly 2 billion people around the world suffer from “hidden hunger” or the lack of access to essential micronutrients, causing high rates of infant mortality, physical and mental disabilities and stunted economic potential. The Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition (GAIN) sought to raise awareness and move BBC Coverage of GAIN the international community into action during its Food Fortification summit in Tanzania. APCO led a Thunderclap campaign to engage the general public the development and delivery of a #FutureFortified in the issue of food fortification. As a result of these campaign to renew interest in food fortification as online advocacy efforts, we amplified the key messages a global development tool. Supporting GAIN in of GAIN online and facilitated 28.2 million digital three time zones, APCO provided creative strategy impressions. APCO also garnered substantial, high assistance, identified and engaged key stakeholders profile media interest around GAIN’s Arusha summit and developed a robust online advocacy campaign. and advocacy for food fortification, securing coverage APCO also provided messaging support and worked in the New York Times, Al Jazeera America, BBC, The with key journalists to elevate GAIN’s advocacy. Financial Times, Forbes, National Geographic and other APCO developed and managed a digital campaign— publications. #FutureFortified—which it used to engage key stakeholders and the general public in the issue of food fortification. Our activities here included engaging development, food and ‘mom’ bloggers with content about food fortification, developing a partnership with Devex which we used to co-host Twitter parties and Twitter Q&A’s in the run up to the Summit, and running 2015-2016 UN Global Compact Report | APCO Worldwide 21 »» W H I R L P O O L : Typically, most questions or concerns about following a Our Rome office is an ongoing supporter of Whirlpool specific business practice or the use of a reporting tool and the Italian Red Cross’ initiative to help refugees in are handled by members of the Responsible Business the region. Whirlpool provided equipment for Italian Committee. Claims that are more serious in nature or have Red Cross reception centers in Rome, Milan-Bresso a personnel implication are handled by the office of the and Ventimiglia. APCO’s team assisted with media general counsel and the senior human resources executive relations and public engagement for its client on the collaboratively. Significant issues, if any, are brought to the CSR initiative. attention of the Global Leadership Team. Annually, a report is prepared for the company’s Global Leadership Team on Throughout our client assignments, we strive to provide usage of the compliance line and trends. guidance on adherence to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other international instruments, In 2015, there were no calls received by the global including providing specific recommendations to promote compliance line. and respect human rights and the rule of law in certain countries in Africa, Eastern Europe and Southeast Asia. MEASUREMENT OF EMPLOYEE I N T E R N A L I M P L E M E N TAT I O N ETHICS TRAINING In order to keep our values at the forefront of what we do, APCO takes several concrete actions to ensure 2015 Performance: In 2015, APCO created employees understand the importance of our values, a new anti-corruption training program. The the spirit we intend by living its values, and that its training was implemented by our General actions match its words. It starts at the very beginning Counsel and Human Resources, who met of the employee life cycle. consecutively for eight months to ensure immediate improvement of the training, as BEFORE JOINING THE FIRM well as its attendance. As a result, our new During the hiring process, candidates are interviewed anti-corruption training is now an interactive not only by the hiring manager, but also by their potential module that is easily accessible on APCO’s peers. This is to ensure that the candidates understand internal portal. In addition, the new training is the importance of integration and respecting diverse also mandatory and requires the completion of viewpoints as a core value of the firm. Regular interview a rigorous exam that all new hires must pass in skills training is provided to employees to ensure order to be considered ethically compliant with candidates are treated fairly and have a positive the business. interview experience. N E W E M P L O Y E E O R I E N TAT I O N During the first few days of joining APCO, the firm’s values, as well as APCO’s Code of Conduct and our Anti-Discrimination and Equal Employment Opportunity Policy, are reviewed with all employees as part of the standard Global Orientation Program. This underscores the importance of following and abiding by these principles in employees’ interactions from the very start of their employment. ETHICS COMPLIANCE LINE APCO has a global compliance line that provides employees with an additional avenue to raise questions or file complaints about unethical or illegal conduct. This line is monitored daily and was implemented in 2009. When concerns are raised, whether it be through direct-line management or via another reporting channel (Human Resources, General Counsel, Responsible Business Committee, etc.), we determine the appropriate course of inquiry and party best suited to pursue follow-up action. 2015-2016 UN Global Compact Report | APCO Worldwide 22 LABOR PRINCIPLES PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; PRINCIPLE 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; PRINCIPLE 5 The effective abolition of child labor; and PRINCIPLE 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 2015-2016 UN Global Compact Report | APCO Worldwide 23 LABOR PRINCIPLES APCO POLICY AND GOALS We adhere to the employment laws in each of the countries distance to meet U.S. fire standards, we are diligent in our we operate to ensure that individuals meet country and practices to create a healthy and safe work environment local employment eligibility standards, such as regulations for APCO employees around the world. In fact, we governing age, among other things. Furthermore, APCO’s installed new ergonomic work stations and standing desks equal opportunity policy, mentioned above, provides the for all employees in our new headquarters’ office space. framework for non-discriminatory actions affecting labor. Throughout different offices we encourage our employees to lead a healthy lifestyle. Examples of this include some APCO does not prevent employees from joining trade offices organizing fun and healthy competitions for losing unions. Our approach to human resources is to foster and weight, playing on organized sports teams, etc. Our maintain an open and transparent work environment to wellness program also provides the opportunity to receive address any issues raised by employees in accordance with rewards for demonstrating healthy behaviors. applicable law and with our values and policies. In addition to our formal procedures and directed We do not promote, engage or employ child labor opportunities, we built the firm on a spirit of mutual in any of the countries in which we operate, and our respect, which is an essential part of how we collaborate anti-discrimination policy clearly defines the company’s so well together across projects and continents. position on employment practices that may harm communities or individuals on a broad range of I M P L E M E N TAT I O N personal characteristics. N O N D I S C R I M I N AT I O N , C H I L D A N D We implemented a Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) Program FORCED LABOR: in 2009 and clearly stated our D&I goals to be the We take a number of actions to ensure a work environment employer of choice in our industry for diverse talent. free of discriminatory practices and do not allow or We have a long-term goal to be recognized as condone the engagement of child or forced labor. the undisputed, most diverse agency by 2020. We Employees of APCO’s worldwide offices enter willingly firmly believe the very best solutions, products and into employment contracts (if required by law) reflective of contributions come from the diversity of our people the laws of the country in which they work and reside, and and their backgrounds and experiences, and APCO has we follow market standard practices with regard to notice a competitive distinction when we fully embrace and period requirements. leverage this belief. The global compliance line (referenced previously) is In 2015, we continued our focus on education, supporting promoted throughout APCO’s offices (through posters, educational efforts of women and minorities, educating brochures, wallet cards and information on APCO’s ourselves and educating others. intranet) as one mechanism for reporting issues or concerns about inappropriate or disrespectful behavior. APCO is committed to a healthy and safe work This compliance line is monitored by the senior human environment for all our employees and we take pride in resources executive for follow-up and action, as necessary. creating environments that are not only compliant with various country regulatory standards in this respect, but H E A LT H A N D S A F E T Y: are also pleasant environments for our employees to work. During our standard orientation program, all new hires are We have a number of policies and procedures in place to provided with information on health and safety practices address healthand safety-related issues. Whether it is for their local office, including: fire evacuation routes, complying with Belgian standards of ensuring access to alarm testing procedures, leave reporting procedures for natural light into employee work spaces, or confirming employees to follow in the event of national emergencies, that hallways and furniture are laid out with adequate inclement weather procedures and policies prohibiting drug use at work. W E B U I LT T H E F I R M We take steps to abide by health and safety requirements on an ongoing basis including, but not limited to, ON A SPIRIT OF participation in emergency drills, confirming the ban of any weapons or dangerous instruments on work grounds, MUTUAL RESPECT ensuring smoke-free work environments in all countries 2015-2016 UN Global Compact Report | APCO Worldwide 24 where smoking in buildings is banned, and checking that we met with the main client to discuss the purpose of all building dimensions continue to meet the building the motion graphic and where it would be used. We code standards for emergency evacuation, as well as then wrote a script that detailed the exact language accommodating individuals with mobility impairments. that would be used throughout the 2–3 minute video. The video is a motion graphic so each frame is an D I V E R S I T Y: illustration done by our design team. The KickStart To ensure the spirit of the employment (labor) policies International team was extremely happy with the and practices are maintained, our human resources team outcome of the video. They praised it by saying reviews progress against the stated D&I goals, as well they had never seen anything like this for their as performing market-based pay survey research in the organization and it was going to change the way majority of the countries in which APCO operates. In they shared their messaging. doing so, we ensure sound practices and are able to continue to offer competitive wages without any adverse or unintentional pay discrimination practices. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Given the shortage of diverse talent expressing interest in pursuing careers in our industry, we have taken a long-term Focus Area: Diversity and Non-Discrimination strategic focus on education and it is quickly becoming one of the cornerstones of the D&I program. We have learned »» 30.9% of our U.S. team was classified as minority in 2015, according to EEOC that through educational outreach, we can make great designated ethnic categories. strides in reaching a key constituency of future potential candidates and creating a greater awareness of diversity »» Health and Safety: in 2015, we had no in our industry. serious incidences or work-related injuries reported. Striking the right balance and diversification is something we are committed to today and in the long term. We are proud of our accomplishments to date in working towards creating a diverse and inspired workforce and know there is always more work to be done. LABOR PRINCIPLES APPLIED TO EXTERNAL WORK »» K I C K S TA R T I N T E R N AT I O N A L : KickStart International is designed to lift millions of people in Africa out of poverty quickly, cost-effectively and sustainably. KickStart succeeds by designing, promoting and mass-marketing simple money-making tools that farmers buy and use to start highly profitable family enterprises. KickStart International approached APCO to help tell the organization’s story through a motion graphic video that would accompany the launch of their new website. In order to get a sense of the organization, its mission and values and its overall goal, Kickstart Motion Graphic 2015-2016 UN Global Compact Report | APCO Worldwide 25 ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES PRINCIPLE 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; PRINCIPLE 8 Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and PRINCIPLE 9 Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 2015-2016 UN Global Compact Report | APCO Worldwide 26 E N V I R O N M E N TA L P R I N C I P L E S APCO POLICIES AND GOALS Our environmental footprint arises primarily from our office operations and business travel. Accordingly, our global policy is based on adhering to all applicable environmental laws and regulations, while at the same time applying the principles of reduce, reuse and recycle in the workplace, using a Green Office checklist covering office and IT energy efficiency, office supplies and recycling, travel preferences and large company meetings. A pilot program conducted with several of our mid-sized offices showed that office energy usage, business air travel and paper usage constitute the main elements of our carbon footprint (scope 2 and 3 emissions). While we have not yet developed the capacity for a consistent internal environmental data collection system, individual offices have taken steps to decrease air travel and paper use. We work with landlords and property owners to address office energy use. For instance: »» APCO’s global headquarters moved to a new building in the first quarter of 2016. In an effort to minimize the amount of material disposed in landfills, our chief information officer launched a “TRASHED” campaign, in which all recyclables and e-waste were properly disposed of. »» APCO’s Paris team provides all employees with recycling-only bins, trains cleaning staff on waste sorting and provides information on recycling to all French employees. Used IT devices are now donated to Emmaus, one of the leading French nonprofit organizations, which employs marginalized workers to refurbish IT devices and resell them at low prices—also contributing to the fight against unemployment. The team is now focusing on further reducing waste generation and energy consumption in Paris— notably by optimizing our electricity usage and reducing the amount of packaging in the food and beverages offered to employees and visitors to our office. GLOBAL HEADQUARTERS OFFICE MOVE: With the relocation of our global headquarters’ office space in Washington, D.C., APCO seized the opportunity to transition from an on-premise IT service to a cloud-based service. With this transition, we eliminated the need for large, energy-consuming hardware appliances in our server room and, in result, reduced our company’s global footprint. Additionally, we configured a more efficient workspace, reducing our overall office footprint by 20,500 square feet. BUSINESS AIR MILES: In 2015, APCO’s business air miles totaled 6,296,604; this is an increase from 2014’s business air miles, which totaled 5,388,327. The nature of our business as a global consultancy firm requires us to appear onsite with our clients. We would not be able to be impactful, nor effective in performing the work that we do without sending our people on business travel. However, we have attempted to minimize our business air miles for internal meetings by installing advanced teleconference technology in our conference rooms across the company—including our new global headquarters office in Washington, D.C. We are committed to utilizing our resources to the fullest extent and reducing our footprint for internal collaboration moving forward. We also took several steps to decrease our use of energy globally, including: »» Creating a nearly 100 percent laptop work environment across all offices. »» Centralizing our server/IT network by collapsing our regional infrastructures into one worldwide shared facilities location. »» Consolidating our server through virtualization—moving from physical boxes to virtual machines, resulting in substantially lower power consumption. 2015-2016 UN Global Compact Report | APCO Worldwide 27 E N V I R O N M E N TA L P R I N C I P L E S APPLICATIONS IN EXTERNAL WORK In addition to focusing on our own operations, we contribute to promoting environmental responsibility and greener technology through pro bono and client assignments, which in 2015 and early 2016 included: »» E W A S T E MANAGEMENT IN INDIA: The Indian Government and the industry were unanimous on the view that waste needs to be efficiently managed from a social and environmental standpoint. However, there still was a need for them to mutually arrive at a consensus by understanding the practical and cultural realities on the ground. The government came up with rules and guidelines to address the issue of e-waste management, but on-the-ground implementation of the rules was a major challenge for most companies. This was largely because of the existence of the informal sector which even now continues to manage over 90 percent of India’s waste in an unscientific manner, causing serious damage to health and the environment. APCO prepared a comprehensive position paper which covered the entire eco-system and attempted to bridge the gap between the government’s intent and industry’s commitment to reach a practical solution required to make India environmentally safe of all risks from waste. The position paper was widely circulated within various ministries and departments such as the Prime Minister’s Office, Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change, Department of Information and Technology, Ministry of Commerce and industry organizations. Several recommendations and concepts proposed in the paper were incorporated while drafting the new Waste Management Rules 2016. »» E L A N C O : APCO’s Chicago office helps their client, Elanco, with their One Health program. Animal health, human health and the environment are all interconnected. Elanco is bringing together key stakeholders (i.e. livestock companies, meat processors) to address new ways to ensure all are working for One Health. We continue to support both programs. EXPANDING OUR OFFERINGS, INCREASING OUR SUPPORT growing our business, to support yours At Elanco, we embrace the responsibility to help our partners address the global challenges we all face. Our recent combination with Lohmann Animal Health and Novartis Animal Health further expands the comprehensive set of products and knowledge services we offer; increases our investment in new product development; and expands the global footprint of our field team. These advancements enable us to better serve as your partner in solving your greatest business challenges, and in advancing a vision of food and companionship enriching life. GMAFCANON00069 Elanco Advertisement 2015-2016 UN Global Compact Report | APCO Worldwide 28 »» R O C K E F E L L E R F O U N D AT I O N : APCO provides support to the Rockefeller Foundation’s 100 Resilient Cities initiative in Asia, Europe and the ACCCRN Middle East, providing strategic communications support for their program dedicated to helping cities APCO has supported the Rockefeller infuse resilience into their planning and public services. Foundation’s Asian Cities Climate Change Climate change and natural disasters are a major Resilience Network (ACCCRN) for the past component of this initiative as cities around the world six years by helping raise awareness of look to mitigate against critical environmental and ACCCRN and its commitment to developing weather-related risks. We have helped 100 Resilient and implementing effective methods of Cities across our three regions to help explain why responding to changing climatic conditions. resilience is an important issue for policy makers (often The APCO team provides a full suite of alongside city halls and mayors’ offices) and the public, media relations, stakeholder engagement and help communicate these challenges and the and online communications services in the recommended solutions. six countries where ACCCRN operates: »» E I L ATE I L O T RENEWABLE Bangladesh, India, Indonesia, the Philippines, E N E R G Y I N I T I AT I V E : Thailand and Vietnam. APCO’s Tel Aviv office provided pro bono advisory services to this nonprofit and nongovernmental organization which promotes the development and proliferation of renewable and clean energy as a means to increase energy independence and as a catalyst for regional development. The initiative capitalizes on the area’s natural resources and abundance of sunlight and open spaces to power over 70 percent of the region’s daytime energy with solar. To this end, APCO advised on the promotion of the Eilat-Eilot Initiative among local and international stakeholders to enhance awareness, attract investment and place renewable energy development as a critical imperative to ensuring a cleaner and brighter future for Israel. APCO continues to provide pro bono support for the initiatives’ bi-annual conference and strives to help place the development of off-grid/micro grid systems— for domestic use and for export—a national imperative. 2015-2016 UN Global Compact Report | APCO Worldwide 29 ANTI-CORRPUTION PRINCIPLES PRINCIPLE 10 Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. As indicated earlier in this document, APCO has focused a great deal of our time and attention on anti-corruption efforts. The reality is that society as a whole will not be able to address the critical social issues facing the world today—poverty, global health, universal education, economic opportunity—unless we are able to continuously decrease levels of corruption, extortion and bribery in both the public and private sectors around the world. 2015-2016 UN Global Compact Report | APCO Worldwide 30 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES APCO POLICY AND GOALS As a professional services company with subsidiaries around the world, APCO’s legal team undertakes ongoing risk assessments, paying heightened attention APCO has procedures in place in those countries where APCO does business and, in to ensure compliance with the particular, where there is an overlap with Transparency requirements of the UK Bribery International’s Corruption Perception Index which shows Act and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt a culture of corruption. APCO considers the totality of the Practices Act. circumstances in managing bribery risk. Factors taken into consideration in deciding the amount and kind of risk assessment needed include the sector in which APCO is providing services, the value and duration of I M P L E M E N TAT I O N the project, the economic structure of the engagement, and whether third-party consultants, agents and/or Anti-corruption is embedded in APCO’s culture. affiliates are being engaged. Its compliance program takes many forms including: APCO has zero tolerance for corruption, bribery and »» Formation in 2008 of the Responsible Business Committee—see page 9. extortion. This is clear in our Code of Conduct and policies dealing with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act »» Regular executive memos to all staff on APCO’s and the UK Bribery Act which clearly state that a breach commitment to ethics, integrity and social responsibility. of their anti-corruption, bribery and extortion standards is grounds for immediate termination. APCO is also a »» Revised and relaunched ethics and compliance training that includes APCO’s Code of Conduct, Foreign signatory to several industry codes (see sidebar on page 9) Corrupt Practices Act and UK Bribery Act policies. that have provisions relevant to anti-corruption, i.e., the World Economic Forum’s Partnering Against »» Extra training attention given to those offices in Corruption Initiative (PACI) supporting the PACI Principles countries where there is a known culture of corruption. for Countering Bribery, the UK Association of Professional Political Consultants Code of Conduct, the International »» Legal alerts written by APCO’s legal team and sent to all staff reminding staff of anti-corruption requirements. Association of Business Communicators (IABC) Code of Ethics for Professional Communicators and the »» Memos from APCO’s founder and executive chairman Confederation of Indian Industry Code of Business Ethics. on the use of the Compliance Line, along with additional training on reporting alleged misconduct either through the Compliance Line or directly with management as part of APCO’s Ethics & Compliance training. APCO has zero tolerance for »» Procedures for evaluating entertainment, hospitality corruption, bribery and extortion. and gift expenses for clients to distinguish between reasonable expenses and lavish expenditure that could be considered a bribe. Responsibility for anti-corruption implementation within APCO rests with the Responsible Business Committee and the office of the General Counsel. However, each individual at APCO is responsible for abiding by APCO’s anti-corruption policies, its Code of Conduct and the law, and for reporting any perceived misconduct. 2015-2016 UN Global Compact Report | APCO Worldwide 31 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES APPLICATIONS IN EXTERNAL WORK APCO requires its business partners to adhere to MEASUREMENT anti-corruption principles and has instituted procedures to implement compliance. APCO’s policy is to conduct APCO believes that its extensive compliance due diligence on third-party consultants, agents and training program, which includes training on affiliates/strategic partners. APCO also requires its the Compliance Line, has been successful. No affiliates/strategic partners to sign onto its Charter for incidents of corruption have been reported and Professional Ethics & Conduct for Strategic Partnerships, there have not been any legal cases, rulings or which includes anti-corruption requirements, and to fines assessed on APCO related to corruption. contractually represent and warrant that they will not APCO’s external auditors conduct audits of the participate in corrupt acts. company each year and have not uncovered any incidents of corruption. APCO’s executive chairman participated in the Pearl Initiative Regional Forum on Raising Anti-Corruption Standards in the Gulf Region. Leaders from across the globe gathered together to discuss and share ideas that organizations can implement to improve anti-corruption across the Gulf. APCO continued its involvement and commitment to upholding global anti-corruption standards through the World Economic Forum (WEF) several initiatives of: Partnership Against Corruption (PACI) and its Vanguard group of global CEOs and WEF’s Global Agenda Council on Anti-Corruption & Transparency. APCO’s Executive Chairman Margery Kraus continued serving as an anti-corruption champion in numerous WEF meetings including the Global Agenda Council in UAE and Annual Meeting in Davos. Ms. Kraus also continued to contribute to strategic thought leadership on this topic: in the run-up to the Summit, Ms. Kraus and World Bank Vice President of the Integrity Department Leonard McCarthy co-authored an article that ran in the UAE’s National and on World Economic Forum’s blog. APCO, jointly with the World Bank Integrity Department, co-hosted a two-day World Economic Forum’s Annual Partnership Against Corruption Initiative Meeting in May 2016. A number of the world’s leading experts and organizations who are engaged activists for anti-corruption and transparency attended the first day sessions, including Transparency International, Basel Institute, Citibank, Siemens, Deloitte, among many others. The second day of the Summit was held at the World Bank and brought together a broader group of stakeholders such as Google, Microsoft, MasterCard, Vestas, Thompson Reuters, as well as Columbia University and Georgetown University. Margery Kraus participated in a session entitled “Rebuilding Trust and Integrity in Business Institutions” and New York’s Anna Tunkel moderated a session on “Youth Mobilization on Anti-Corruption.” 2015-2016 UN Global Compact Report | APCO Worldwide 32 In addition to focusing on our own operations, we contribute to promoting anti-corruption through pro bono and client assignments. Examples of this include: »» T H E PHILIPPINE CENTRAL BANK: APCO has been working with the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, the Philippine Central Bank, to communicate the country’s economic story. By emphasizing the Philippine government’s good governance reforms and sound economic management to key opinion leaders (investor community, ratings agencies and top-tier business media), APCO has helped draw attention to the positive reforms put in place and raised the profile of the government on the international stage. Recently the Philippines’ credit rating has been continuously upgraded and they have achieved a dramatic improvement in key international rankings on transparency, competitiveness and ease of doing business. »» E L E P H A N T I V O RY T R A F F I C K I N G P R E V E N T I O N : APCO works for two nonprofit organizations—the World Wildlife Fund for Nature and The Nature Conservancy—to help them communicate and amplify their campaigns to prevent illegal ivory trade in Thailand and China respectively with key policy makers, the media and other stakeholders. »» W O R L D E C O N O M I C F O R U M ’ S PA R T N E R I N G A G A I N S T C O R R U P T I O N I N I T I AT I V E : APCO is a member of the World Economic Forum’s Partnering Against Corruption Initiative supporting the PACI Principles for Countering Bribery, and a member of the Global Agenda Council on Anti-Corruption and Transparency. Our founder and executive chairman, Margery Kraus, serves as vice-chair of the Forum’s Global Agenda Council on Anti-Corruption and Transparency. This initiative promotes robust anti-corruption efforts globally with like-minded corporations, organizations and governments. By signing the PACI Principles, we have committed to having a zero tolerance policy towards bribery and to developing, implementing or maintaining a broad-based, anti-corruption program to guide the behavior of our employees. These principles also apply to key business relationships with controlled subsidiaries, joint ventures, agents and other intermediaries, as well as contractors and suppliers. As part of APCO’s contribution to the PACI agenda, we were instrumental in developing the idea for, and analyzing the results of, a World Economic Forum survey on the impact of corruption, specifically seeking perspectives from the millennial generation (people aged 18 to 34). The WEF survey was undertaken in conjunction with the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, with support from Transparency International and other organizations. The findings suggested that the two issues regarded as most important by millennials are the impact corruption will have on growth and what other impacts it will have on the future, including voting and the public sector as a career choice. As the generation that will live with the consequences of today’s corruption the longest, it is important that the voice of the millennials is heard, and its concerns acted on. The survey was published around the annual Davos Forum in early 2015 and helped raise public awareness of the impact corruption today has on the future of our society. In addition, it will help more millennials understand the scale of the problem and encourage them to play a role in helping create an environment where corruption cannot flourish. World Economic Forum Survey 2015-2016 UN Global Compact Report | APCO Worldwide 33 MOVING FORWARD We hope this summary of our work to date provides both the sense of how important the UNGC principles are to us as a firm and the full range of things we do to support these goals as part of our DNA. We look forward to sharing our continued progress to be world class—not only in what we do, but in how we do it.
