COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 2015 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 3 UN GLOBAL COMPACT A new ground-breaking COWI report commissioned by the Danish Environmental Protection Agency shows that microplastics are everywhere. When we go for a run, paint our house or take a trip in the car we leave a trace of tiny particles in our wake – so-called microplastics which can be damaging to organisms and ecosystems. An unknown amount of these environmentally harmful plastic particles ends up in the sea having passed through wastewater treatment plants. The report provides an overview of the sources of pollution and a catalogue of ideas of areas which need further investigation. 04 COMMITMENT FROM OUR CEO 12 ENVIRONMENT 06 SUSTAINABILITY AND CSR IN COWI 14 GREEN ACCOUNTS 08 HUMAN RIGHTS 16 ANTI-CORRUPTION 10 LABOUR RIGHTS 18 ABOUT GLOBAL COMPACT COWI is a leading consulting PUBLISHED BY COVER ILLUSTRATION PHOTOS AND ILLUSTRATIONS EDITORIAL INPUT ENDED group that creates value for COWI Holding A/S COWI is assisting the EU to meet its Jens Markus Lindhe February 2016. customers, people and society Parallelvej 2 ambitious targets for 2020. By then 20% of Andrik Mols through our unique 360° 2800 Kongens Lyngby the EU’s energy consumption should stem Nils Kristensen approach. Based on our worldDenmark from renewable sources. Meeting this target Nicky Bonne class competencies within Tel 56 40 00 00 while at the same time ensuring a reliable Scanpix engineering, economics and Fax 56 40 99 99 energy supply and securing competitiveness iStock environmental science, we tackle www.cowi.dk poses a huge challenge. Together with challenges from many vantage www.cowi.com partners all over Europe, COWI is helping points to create coherent solutions www.cowiholding.com the EU in its processes by carrying out for our customers − and thereby numerous pre-studies to support the sustainable and coherent societies production and promotion of energy from in the world. renewable sources. COMMITMENT FROM OUR CEO Each year, more than 6,000 highly opportunities for COWI. At the same time We are fully and continuously committed competent COWI employees are new legislation and emerging voluntary to the United Nations Global Compact involved in approximately 13,000 standards are entering into force which and this Communication on Progress projects. They deliver engineering, may limit market access for companies report is produced with reference to economic and environmental services that do not offer sustainable products the ten principles of the Sustainability to customers around the world. or operate in a responsible manner. Reporting Guidelines. As we deliver these services, we are Sustainability is integrated into our continuously aware that environmental business activities by using and developand social responsibility has become a ing methods and technologies that facilihigh priority field for our customers. With tate more efficient use of limited natural the establishment of the UN Sustainable resources. Our work to ensure that we Development Goals in September 2015 do not have an adverse impact on human and the Paris Agreement on climate rights continues, while a conscious change reached in December 2015, focus on diversity in the workplace with it is our opinion this focus is likely to opportunities for all increases the value grow in the future. This provides market of our employer brand. Lars-Peter Søbye, President, CEO COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 5 UN GLOBAL COMPACT SUSTAINABILITY AND CSR IN COWI OUR APPROACH COWI wants and needs to be among INTEGRATION INTO BUSINESS Through our services, we contribute to the most attractive employers for PROCESSES sustainable development. professionals looking for a career within To mitigate risk, we apply, as an the consulting industry. To this end, we integrated part of our quality system, a COWI’s approach to corporate social promote diversity and cultivate an ethical project screening tool in which we take responsibility (CSR) and sustainability is to culture, both critical in our efforts to into account health and safety, as well strive for benefits for our customers, key attract talented candidates. as security, environmental, social and stakeholders, the company and society. community outcomes for projects in As needs and expectations progress, Denmark and our Bridge, Tunnel and we pursue new ways of dealing with the COHERENT SOLUTIONS TO MEET Marine Structures organisation. opportunities and dilemmas faced by GLOBAL CHALLENGES society and the company. COWI delivers solutions, knowledge and Furthermore, to ensure that COWI’s ideas for the development of the modern extensive knowledge is implemented We work through a three-pronged world and the challenges it faces – across the business, technologies and approach where we integrate CSR and among these, balancing sustainable methods used and developed in one sustainability into: growth and preserving efficiencies. project are gathered for application in ›› Business conduct: The way we carry Sustainability is ingrained in our DNA other projects. out our own activities. and a key competitive factor for COWI. ›› Employee behaviour: The way we THIS REPORT behave at the workplace and our One set of challenges is related to high We have developed a number of policies obligation to act. urbanisation rates across the world, with and guidelines on sustainability and CSR, ›› Business deliverables: The way we ensuing pressure on infrastructure, water which set out the overall framework for ensure that the solutions we design for and energy. Solutions to these challenges how we work on a daily basis. These customers consider environmental and are being developed by COWI in a range policies and guidelines are described community impacts. of railway projects in Scandinavia as in this report, and underpin the strong well as a large-scale urban development correlation that exists between our values COWI’s potential for reducing project in Mecca, Saudi Arabia. and our business practices. environmental impacts lies in our service delivery and in the solutions we develop Further challenges are climate change The report serves as the required annual with and for our customers. As such, and environmental degradation, which Communication of Progress for the this is where we direct most of our constitute threats that need to be United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). efforts. However, we also focus on the overcome by, for example, low-energy As such, its content is structured around sustainable operation of our own facilities. buildings, security measures against the ten principles of the UNGC. adverse weather and recovery of Our commitment to sustainability and contaminated land. Moreover, the report serves to fulfil corporate social responsibility is an the requirements of Danish law, and extension of our fundamental values, Together with our customers, COWI’s contains the green accounts of our and builds on our vision and mission. specialist competencies are part of the Denmark-based activities. It describes This commitment is also reflected in process of invention and innovation our activities within the environment, our memberships of the UN Global that is needed to meet these global human rights and social responsibility. Compact and the UN Caring for Climate challenges. This is at the core of our initiative, as well as our support to the services and our business model, and it International Federation of Consulting is where we have the greatest impact on Engineers’ (FIDIC) Code of Ethics. sustainability. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 7 UN GLOBAL COMPACT AT THE END OF 2015, COWI HAD POLICIES COVERING THE FOLLOWING AREAS: Sustainable development Transparency and anti-corruption Sustainable supply chain COWI Whistleblower hotline Business integrity Diversity and inclusion Health and safety (HSE) All policies are available at: www.cowi.com/sustainability and www.cowi.com/policies PRODEM is a municipal development programme which will improve climate change resilience and solid waste management in 26 municipalities in the northern part of Mozambique. COWI was contracted to manage the programme and the funds made available by four European governments (145 million DKK). COWI identified capacity development, citizen engagement and social accountability as key drivers of the change towards improved municipal management and governance. Local presence of more than 25 years and a highly competent team of 26 local experts gives COWI a solid platform for assisting the municipalities in improving their citizens’ quality of life. HUMAN RIGHTS 01 02 PRINCIPLE: PRINCIPLE: Businesses should support Businesses should make sure and respect the protection that they are not complicit in of internationally proclaimed human rights abuses. human rights. WORKING WITH HUMAN RIGHTS DEALING WITH HUMAN RIGHTS ›› Chemical and biological conditions We believe that the support of human ON PROJECTS (gases, particles, fibres, dust, liquids) rights is rooted in COWI’s culture and Adequate employee conditions and ›› Risk of accidents reflected in one of our five guiding compliance with human rights are ›› Safety coordination during design and values, ‘respect’, which states: important to COWI. To ensure that we execution (responsibilities and roles) do not have adverse impacts on human ›› Damage to third parties (mechanical, “We respect those we work with, rights through projects in which we are electrical, thermal, noise etc.) nature and society. We respect involved, we operate according to three ›› Migration, relocation/rehousing of each other in decision-making and procedures: Due diligence, Supervision residents implementation. We respect friendship and Obligation to act, described on the ›› Impact on local community (neighbours across the organisation, independent following page. and indigenous groups) of the hierarchy.” ›› Social and environmental risks in the All new employees are introduced supply chain (including human rights Through our policy on sustainable to these three procedures as part of violations, employee rights and forced development, we integrate human COWI’s onboarding programme, and the child labour). rights in our business. In the policy, procedures are included in our training, we commit ourselves to taking social amongst other in COWI´s award winning KEY ACTIVITIES AND OUTCOMES aspects into consideration when project management academy. Since 2012, COWI has had a carrying out projects, and to enhancing sustainable procurement system, our employees’ attention to and DUE DILIGENCE WHEN which is now used in Denmark, Sweden knowledge of social conditions. PREPARING PROPOSALS and Norway. Through the system, we As part of COWI A/S’s quality assess suppliers on human and labour This policy is integrated into our risk management system, our project rights, ethical standards, social and assessment and training systems. managers screen for risks of human rights environmental policies, health and safety, Through these we continue to raise violation before bidding for a project. diversity and anti-corruption. We store all awareness of the importance of COWI information concerning each supplier in not contributing negatively to human In our line of business we screen our system, which means that the entire rights in our external activities, including systematically for: organisation has access to all relevant the work we do for customers, our ›› Physical conditions and indoor supplier information. procurement practices and our partners. climate (temperature, air quality, noise, Internally, our main focus is on the right degassing etc.) In 2015, another 55 suppliers were to a safe workplace, with our health and ›› Ergonomics (work posture, heavy assessed, approved and included in the safety policy as the overall guide. lifting) system. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 9 UN GLOBAL COMPACT POLICY/GUIDELINE: POLICIES: DUE DILIGENCE HEALTH AND SAFETY Employee conditions and compliance COWI strives for a healthy and safe with human rights are important to working environment, both in COWI. To ensure that we detect any our own operations and in our human rights violations on projects assignment-related activities. in which we are involved, we operate according to three procedures: To meet our objectives, we will: ›› Due diligence: COWI performs a ›› ensure that a safe working screening to uncover human rights HEALTH AND SAFETY WORK environment is not compromised risks before entering into a project. The work on health and safety in 2015 for economic or productivity The process helps identify violations continued to focus on the psychosocial reasons. of human rights on a specific working environment and the prevention ›› ensure that project managers project, allowing us to exit in time. of work-related stress as well as instruct their teams on specific ›› Health and safety supervision: supervisory work on construction sites. project-related health and safety COWI seeks to increase our The risk of physical work injuries is very risks and necessary preventive influence on project sites by measures. This includes the use of low in our operations. In 2015, 10 injuries offering supervision of safety and personal protective equipment. with absence from work were reported. health conditions. This allows us to ›› provide employees with an ensure that internationally accepted opportunity to influence their own While we have no data on the standards are enforced on a working environment in dialogue occurrence of absences due to workproject. with management. related stress, we are aware that with ›› Obligation to act: Employees at ›› comply with relevant health and a highly committed work force this is COWI have the so-called obligation safety legislation and standards. a risk of which we have to be aware. to act, meaning that everyone is ›› inform our customers and business Further-more, we have designed and obliged to act if they see human partners if we find violations of implemented a solid programme to rights being violated on a project. health and safety standards, labour prevent stress or bring people back rights, human rights or unnecessary to their jobs in cases of debilitating The three procedures are included in or illegal environmental degradation temporary stress. our project management training and on projects in which we are COWI’s on-boarding programme. involved. In 2015, COWI conducted a global employee engagement survey which also related to the work environment in COWI. This shows an POLICIES AND PRINCIPLES RELATING TO HUMAN RIGHTS engaged workforce with pride in our achievements and reputation. COWI’s value on respect FIDIC Code of Ethics, adopted by COWI Policy on health and safety Policy on sustainable development All policies are available at www.cowi.com/sustainability and www.cowi.com/policies LABOUR RIGHTS 03 05 PRINCIPLE: PRINCIPLE: Businesses should uphold the Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and elimination of all forms of effective recognition of the right forced and compulsory labour. to collective bargaining. 04 06 PRINCIPLE: PRINCIPLE: Businesses should uphold Businesses should uphold the the effective abolition of elimination of discrimination child labour. in respect of employment and occupation. WORKING WITH LABOUR RIGHTS building site and are therefore unaware is optimised. Our aim is that any given The more than 6,000 people working for of the human rights and/or labour rights management forum shall reflect the COWI have working conditions in line standards practised. The obligation to diversity of the underlying organisation. In with international labour rights. act described in the human rights section 2013, COWI set the target that by 2017 also applies here. a minimum of two out of six of COWI’s We support and practise diversity and board members should be women. equal opportunities, our employees are The COWI Whistleblower system is free to organise themselves and bargain available for reporting observations or In 2015, one of the six board members collectively as they wish, and they are all suspicion of discrimination. elected at the annual general meeting was paid a fair wage. COWI dissociates itself a woman. The share of women in mana­ from all kinds of child labour. DIVERSITY IS MORE gement is 22 per cent* compared to 30 THAN A RIGHT per cent of all employees being women. The main challenge for COWI in terms of COWI is an international company with labour rights is that potential violations projects all over the world. We need a In 2015, COWI started implementing of these often take place outside our diverse work force to develop the best standard COWI-wide talent management sphere of influence, often concerning and best priced solutions. We believe processes to improve focus on diversity. migrant labour in the construction that embracing diversity is one way We have also piloted a People Review industry. We attempt to meet this of sustaining our position as a market process in several business lines in challenge by working according to leader in our fields. order to strengthen our talent pool, the following guidelines: development and diversity. COWI views diversity as a competitive When COWI has the management advantage that helps us achieve the best We continue to be engaged in a responsibility of the construction results. It is our standpoint that equal number of mentor programmes with phase of a project, we are able to opportunities should be given to everyone, universities. To increase the number of influence labour rights conditions at the regardless of gender, age, race, religion, women in management and broaden construction site and act, if they are not nationality, ethnic and social origin, the perspective on diversity, COWI will aligned with national and international disability, political and sexual orientation. develop a revised diversity policy in the ratified legislation. If we are not in charge first half of 2016. of the supervision of the project, we To that end, we want to ensure that our do not necessarily have access to the pipeline of diverse leadership talents *Based on data on 88% of the employees COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 11 UN GLOBAL COMPACT KEY ACTIVITIES AND OUTCOMES operational costs of training 120 youths. POLICY: During 2015, we continued our activities COWI’s relationship with NDS began in DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION to ensure that COWI employees have 2013, when special photogrammetry COWI views diversity as a state-of-the-art skills and competencies, training was carried out for five competitive advantage that helps ensuring not only their performance students from NDS, one of whom is us achieve the best results for our on COWI projects, but also their still employed by COWI’s mapping customers. marketability outside COWI. company in India. A new training programme for four more students was To meet our objectives, we will: We enhance skills and competencies completed in 2015, all of whom are ›› aim to have a diverse workforce through the COWI Project Management now employed by COWI. that mirrors the diversity in our Academy and a broad range of training business and markets. programmes and courses on other ›› give equal opportunities to EMPLOYEES IN THE COWI GROUP everyone, regardless of gender, subjects. Business ethics are taught 2014-2015 age, race, religion, nationality, ethnic and debated as part of the project management academy, ensuring 2014 2015 and social origin, disability, political awareness as well as knowledge of the Employees 6,258 6,364 and sexual orientation. ›› ensure that our employment and whistleblower system. Average age, years 42.0 41.5 recruitment practices adhere to Women 29% 30% local legislation, wherever we work PARTNERING FOR TRAINING Men 71% 70% in the world. OF DEAF PEOPLE IN INDIA Women in management* 22% 22% ›› continuously improve equal Indian law requires a mandatory spend * Based on data on 85 and 88 per cent of the opportunities in our employment of two per cent of net profits on CSR employees, respectively. and recruitment practices. initiatives. To fulfil this obligation, COWI ›› work towards creating a culture India Private Ltd. (CIL) partners with of tolerance and appreciation of the Noida Deaf Society (NDS), a nonPOLICIES, PRINCIPLES AND TOOLS difference. profit organisation bringing education RELATING TO LABOUR RIGHTS and training to hearing impaired in India. For deaf people in India, access COWI’s value on respect COWI Whistleblower to both education and work is quite Policy on sustainable development limited. Through CIL, we are able to Policy on diversity and inclusion contribute relevant education and Policy on health and safety FIDIC Code of employment opportunities. Ethics, adopted by COWI Our contribution supports the NDS All policies are available at www.cowi.com/ school and directly supports the sustainability and www.cowi.com/policies ENVIRONMENT 07 09 PRINCIPLE: PRINCIPLE: Businesses should support Businesses should encourage a precautionary approach to the development and diffusion environmental challenges of environmentally friendly technologies. 08 PRINCIPLE: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. WORKING WITH CLIMATE Finally, we promote the voluntary The three projects were: CHANGE AND THE ENVIRONMENT participation of employees in ›› Overcoming barriers for climateThe area of environmental protection is environmental initiatives and locally run resilient building practices (with where COWI has the greatest potential campaigns to increase the awareness Rockwool, Velux and the Technical for impact through its activities. of resource-conscious behaviour. University of Denmark), aiming to identify the barriers and challenges We focus our business development on KEY ACTIVITIES AND OUTCOMES related to building near-zero energy being a leading consultant developing A large proportion of our projects carry buildings in Europe. COWI’s role in the future climate-change mitigation some element of climate-conscious project was related to the performance measures and adaption solutions in technologies. Below is a selection of and potential in single-family houses sectors and business lines where we such projects from 2015. built according to the current standards have a strong foothold. In line with our and building practices. Results climate-change strategy, we contribute CLIMATE KIC NORDIC from the project can be used by actively to evaluating the potential for As the only Danish consulting company, construction businesses to determine climate solutions and argue for their COWI is a partner in the Nordic branch potential improvements in their implementation, in partnership with our of Climate KIC. This is the EU’s largest housing products, and for technology customers. We continue to upgrade and public-private innovation partnership developers to identify markets for their develop our skills in this area to be able to on climate change. It consists of products. propose new and more environmentally companies, academic institutions and friendly solutions to our customers. the public sector, and aims to transform ›› Unlocking market demands for micro knowledge and ideas into economically energy production in water utilities We will seek to reduce our own impacts viable products or services that help to (with Grundfos), i.e. investigating through carbon-conscious policies and mitigate and adapt to climate change. whether there is a market for micro initiatives in respect of the efficiency hydro turbines for energy production needs of our customers and our In 2015, COWI finalised the three in Denmark. The project concluded organisation. The data to document our projects in which we were involved. that at this point in time, the water progress in this area is only available for New project opportunities are currently utilities companies in Denmark do not our Denmark-based activities, and are being investigated. represent such an opportunity and described as part of the green accounts that it would be difficult to establish a on the following pages. commercially viable strategy. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 13 UN GLOBAL COMPACT ›› bKafka – a climate adjustment project Denmark is working to develop and fishing port to one of the fastest growfor cities (with a range of European demonstrate an alternative approach ing capitals in the world. Sand has been partners) in which methods for to Natural Capital Accounting, i.e., converted into paved impermeable improving decision-making capabilities how to estimate, in monetary terms, surfaces increasing the runoff during in cities were investigated to increase environmental costs. The project rain. Adequate drainage has been the quality of solution design for focused on the construction of an oil unable to follow the pace of the urban resilience projects which in turn and gas drill in the North Sea, and development causing traffic problems can provide financial benefits and the Natural Capital Account included during heavy rainfall. Due to climate improved opportunities for attracting impacts on the environment in the full changes rainfall intensity of extreme investments. value chain following emission to air rainfall is likely to increase further. The and water related to the production, study will provide the state with a new READY – SMART CITIES transport, usage and final disposal standard constituting an improved basis COWI’s business line Denmark was of the materials steel, chemicals for future drainage design. instrumental in securing EUR 20 and fuels. The project provided million from the EU to fund the project valuable information on the division “Ready – Smart Cities”. COWI designed of environmental costs in tiers in the the project in collaboration with the value chain, usable for both operational POLICIES, PRINCIPLES AND TOOLS RELATED TO ENVIRONMENTAL City of Aarhus, Växsjö Municipality in and strategic decision-making in the PROTECTION Sweden and the municipality of Kaunas companies. The project was funded in Lithuania. The project runs from 2014in part by the Danish Environmental 2019. It studies a wide range of ideas Protection Agency. COWI’s value on respect such as heat recycling from wastewater COWI Whistleblower and the use of recycled batteries for The Ministry of Municipalities and Urban Policy on sustainable development storing solar energy, in collaboration with Planning in the State of Qatar awarded Policy on diversity and inclusion research and industry partners. COWI a contract to study rainfall. Policy on health and safety Despite hot temperatures and bountiNATURAL CAPITAL ACCOUNTING ful sun, the desert country of Qatar FIDIC Code of Ethics, adopted by COWI In collaboration with Maersk Drilling and sometimes experiences extreme rainfall. the Danish energy supply company Doha, Qatar’s capital, has undergone All policies are available at www.cowi.com/ sustainability and www.cowi.com/policies DONG Energy, COWI’s business line a major transition from a sleeping pearl GREEN ACCOUNTS 2015 GREEN ACCOUNTS These results are due to our CLIMATE IMPACT DISTRIBUTED ON As part of our reporting on the procurement principles and our CATEGORIES, TONNES CO2 EQ Communication on Progress, COWI permanent awareness of possibilities Denmark publishes our carbon footprint for energy savings. 8,500 for a given year and the trend for the past 5 years. Data covers all activities in Air travel, as always, accounts for a Denmark, including corporate functions large part of our climate impact: 57 7,500 and the Danish part of our major per cent in 2014. The impact per business line, Bridge, Tunnels and employee in 2015 is 1.4 tonnes CO2 Marine Structures. compared to 1.8 tonnes in 2011. In 6,500 these figures, the impact of lower In 2015, we continued the positive emissions per travelled kilometre due trend of reducing our environmental to better airplanes has not been taken 5,500 footprint as shown in the graphs to the into account. The decrease is therefore right. The numbers displayed are CO2 solely due to a higher awareness equivalents, thus encompassing all regarding responsible use of air travel. 4,500 greenhouse gases. Since 2011, we have decreased our CLIMATE IMPACT PER EMPLOYEE 3,500 CO2 emissions per employee by app. IN DENMARK, TONNES CO2 EQ 30%. The decreasing emission factors for electricity in Denmark and the 5.0 2,500 renewal of the car pool contribute to 4,5 4.5 3,9 this positive development. 4.0 3,6 3.5 3,3 3,0 1,500 3.0 2,7 In 2015, we have used less heat and 2.5 2,4 2,5 water per employee than the previous 2.0 year. Emissions per employee from 1.5 500 1.0 road transport have remained stable, 0.5 even though the overall amount of 0.0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 road travel has increased. This is -500 due to introduction of more hybrid 2015 2014 Heating, natural gas District heating and electrical vehicles in our fleet. 2013 Electricity Water usage Our paper usage has declined even 2012 Paper usage Mail further, and we now almost solely use 2011 Transport total Transport by train environmentally certified paper. Finally the reuse of waste lead to CO2 savings 2010 Transport by air Recycling of 70 tonnes in 2015. 2009 Incineration Landfill 2008 Hazardous waste COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 15 UN GLOBAL COMPACT GUIDELINE: SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN COWI procures goods and services at the best terms, assessing total costs, quality and sustainability. To meet our objective, we will: ›› integrate sustainability requirements in our supplier and sub-consultant approval process. ›› give preference to water and energy-efficient products to reduce consumption rates. ›› give preference to environmentally friendly products and recyclable products. ›› avoid products containing hazardous substances. ›› consider the emissions of CO2 when booking business trips. ›› consider whether a business trip can be replaced by a video conference or other information and communication technology. Green Solution House is a hotel with a positive footprint and a holistic approach to sustainable design. The hotel, built in the 1960s, underwent extensive renovation in 2015 with COWI as client consultant. Driven by a green agenda the renovated and extended building aims at demonstrating innovative and rege­nerative solutions in the built environment, including a healthy indoor climate, renewable energy sources, sustainable materials, circular economy and recyclability. A focal point was to integrate the surroundings with the building to create an inviting landscape based on sustainable parameters. ANTI-CORRUPTION 10 PRINCIPLE: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. AGAINST ALL FORMS COWI’s Whistleblower system enables as high-risk areas in terms of concerns OF CORRUPTION employees and external stakeholders related to personal security or business We believe that the ultimate winners to report anonymously any violations of climate. We apply enhanced risk will be companies that do not accept our principles on business integrity and management, if, exceptionally, a project or engage in corruption. We have a sustainable development. It is important is carried out in one of those places. In business integrity policy to support this that our employees have a joint 2015, 27 countries were on the list. belief, which states: understanding of our business integrity policy and are familiar with the COWI WHISTLEBLOWER USE “We will not in our services or in any Whistleblower system, which can help Three cases were reported into our other activity, directly or indirectly, accept the business and prevent future offences whistleblower hotline in 2015. These bribery, extortion, fraud, collusion or any and unethical behaviour. were all reported to the Board of other undue business activity.” Directors, investigated at corporate KEY ACTIVITIES AND OUTCOMES level or passed on to local management Each member of the COWI Group is In 2015, COWI continued the for follow-up. required to implement business integrity development of a business integrity management. This must be done compliance project, which will improve in accordance with the FIDIC Code due diligence of business partners POLICIES, PRINCIPLES AND TOOLS of Ethics, COWI’s business integrity in relation to anti-corruption. When RELATING TO ANTI-CORRUPTION policies and guidelines, and with the completed, we will through e-learning laws applicable in the company’s home improve the training of our employees Business integrity policy country and the countries of operation. across the Group in performing due COWI‘s value on integrity diligence processes. COWI Whistleblower In COWI, we believe that the adoption FIDIC Code of Ethics, adopted by COWI of good governance, transparency and As part of our risk management system, accountability into day-to-day business COWI reviews twice a year an internal list All policies are available at www.cowi.com/ is the best prevention against corruption. of countries that our business lines define sustainability and www.cowi.com/policies COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 17 UN GLOBAL COMPACT GUIDELINE: COWI WHISTLEBLOWER POLICY: BUSINESS INTEGRITY COWI wishes to maintain a high standard COWI wishes to maintain its impartiality of business ethics and encourages anyone and independence, and contribute to talk to their line manager about concerns globally to a fair conduct of business, regarding business ethics. If they feel avoiding extraneous influence on uncomfortable doing so, they can use the selection, execution or compensation COWI Whistleblower system. procedures. We will not in our services or in any other activities, directly or To meet our objectives, we will: indirectly, accept bribery, extortion, ›› ensure that any concerns raised through fraud, collusion or any other undue the Whistleblower are investigated, and business activity. appropriate action taken. ›› allow everyone, including employees, To meet our objectives, we will: former employees, sub-contractors, ›› continuously train our employees in the agency staff and business partners, to area of business integrity. use the Whistleblower. ›› continuously develop and maintain ›› allow whistleblower notifications within: proper tools to help and guide our ›› violation of legislation, regulations and employees. internal policies. ›› misbehaviour with regard to accounting and auditing. ›› fraud, theft and conflicts of interest. ›› improper giving or receiving of gifts. ›› discrimination and harassment. ›› violation of environmental protection, health and safety legislation. ›› make the Whistleblower publicly available via www.cowi.com. ›› continuously train our employees to maintain our culture of integrity and honesty and inform them of the Whistleblower system. ABOUT GLOBAL COMPACT Global Compact is an initiative launched in January 1999 by former UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan. It is a call to businesses worldwide to help build social and environmental frameworks that ensure open and free markets and help people everywhere secure a chance to share the benefits of the new global economy. The Global Compact encompasses ten principles spanning everything from international declarations on human rights and labour rights to environmental and corruption issues. egecarpets a/s, a visionary Danish carpet producer with sustainability in their DNA, asked COWI to perform a Natural Capital Account (NCA). An NCA is an assessment of the societal costs related to the environmental impacts of a product. egecarpets a/s’ NCA comprises: production and transportation of raw materials, production of the carpets on the premises of egecarpets, transportation to customers, use and final disposal of the carpets. Generally, NCAs are relevant in operational and strategic decision processes, as the monetary values allow comparison with e.g. investments and operational costs. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 19 UN GLOBAL COMPACT ADDRESS Parallelvej 2 2800 Kongens Lyngby Denmark PHONE +45 56 40 00 00 EMAIL cowi@cowi.com WWW www.cowi.com
