CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY FY15 Citizenship report CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY FY15 Citizenship report Welcome to our fifth annual citizenship report. As we have 01 From Our CEO learned through our global citizenship program, corporate social responsibility is a journey with an ever-evolving 02 From Our Corporate Responsibility Director landscape. Fiscal year 2015 marked an important point in 04 Fiscal Year 2015 Citizenship Performance our journey of Changing Tomorrow’s Story by focusing on citizenship issues across our key stakeholders. 06 Our People About Edelman 13 Our Communities Edelman is a leading global communications marketing firm, with more than 5,500 employees in 65 cities world27 Our Clients wide. Edelman partners with many of the world’s largest 31 Living Our Values and emerging businesses and organizations, helping them evolve, promote and protect their brands and reputations. 32 Engaging our Stakeholder 33 Material Aspects 34 Appendix A: GRI G4 Content Index About this report We are a registered Organizational Stakeholder of GRI and support the mission of GRI to empower decision makers everywhere, through 43  Appendix B: GHG Emissions Reporting Methodology our sustainability standards and multi-stakeholder network, to take & Environmental Metrics action towards a more sustainable economy and world. 45 Appendix C: Global Emissions & Carbon Intensity 46 Appendix D: Stakeholder Engagement All amounts in this report are expressed in US Dollars. EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY Table of Contents From Our CEO GRI DISCLOSURE COVERED: G4-1 WHAT DOES IT TAKE TO CHANGE AN ORGANIZATION? We are pleased to share our progress by Dan’s founding principles, including against our citizenship goals. Over the past entrepreneurship, independence and that year we have introduced some new ideas everyone is an account executive. which we believe help evolve our firm and Our values are at the center of our culture. reinforce our commitment to citizenship. They act as principles for evaluating These include introducing a new C-score as a course of action to reach a desired a way to track and measure the individual outcome. Over the past 12 months, we have Citizenship achievements of each office, and undergone a process to review our current launching new employee networking groups values to ensure that they are relevant to as part of our diversity strategy. our future direction, create a client-centric Richard Edelman The world is vastly different today than it culture and inspire great client work. As a President and CEO of Edelman was when my father, Dan Edelman, founded result we captured our existing six values this company in 1952. In today’s world into three, easy to remember dynamic of unprecedented complexity, a business statements centered on excellence, cannot stay successful simply by doing curiosity and courage. things the same way. As a result, we are I am proud to lead a firm that has a continued changing our own story by evolving our commitment to citizenship and would like to “Edelman has been a firm and the category in which we operate thank all our employees for their passion in participant in the from public relations to Communications ensuring that Edelman can remain to be a United Edelman has Nations Global in been a participant Marketing. We believe that in today’s force for good in the community. Compact since March the United Nations Global 2001. Comenvironment, companies and their brands I am pact proud since Marchto pledge 2001. I am proud must earn, not demand, the attention of their to Edelman’s continued pledge Edelman’s continued audiences and that top-down, image-drive support to the Compact support to the Compact and its marketing must move to a model that is led and its principles.” principles. by the earned mindset of communications. Richard Edelman I am proud to lead Richard Edelman Part of our evolution is a continued a firm that has a commitment to citizenship, which remains continued commitment core to our culture as a firm. Over the to citizenship. more than 60-year history of the firm, our culture has evolved but we are still driven EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY From Our CEO 1 From Our Corporate Responsibility Director GRI DISCLOSURE COVERED: G4-1 WELCOME TO EDELMAN’S FIFTH GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT We have embedded citizenship in our culture since my father founded the firm in 1952. Five years ago, we committed to take an even more robust citizenship journey. We formed a dedicated citizenship team, set aspirational goals and began the ongoing work of engaging our stakeholders in the journey. Along the way, our approach has evolved. We’ve refined our strategies in response to stakeholder input, in keeping with the results of our annual Global Trust Barometer and in step with the general expectations of society. Today, I’m pleased to report that global citizenship is becoming increasingly aligned with our 8.2 GLOBAL C-SCORE corporate strategy. We’ve achieved several key milestones, and we’re integrating a citizenship mindset into everything we do. This has been an important goal since we began this work. I’m proud of everything Edelman individuals and teams have done around the world to get us to this EXCEEDING OUR GOAL OF REACHING 8.0 John Edelman point. They truly are helping us change tomorrow’s story. Managing Director, Global Engagement & Corporate Responsibility A few highlights from fiscal year 2015 (FY15): METRICS AND RECOGNITION C-Score CDP Ecovadis Every Edelman office contributed to a global We completed our first CDP (formerly Carbon Edelman earned a silver designation in this Citizenship Score, or C-Score, of 8.2 of a Disclosure Project) response in FY15 and external measurement of our citizenship possible 10, above and beyond our goal of submitted it in July 2015, providing three approach and performance. reaching 8.0 in the first full year of the scoring years of carbon data from Edelman’s hub Carbon Trust Standard process. By operationalizing citizenship offices which comprise nearly two-thirds of Our London office was among the first through this tool, our offices are empowered our emissions. businesses in the U.K. to get certified to to establish local goals, set priorities and this voluntary standard, which recognizes monitor progress. performance and commitment to reducing our carbon footprint. EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY From Our Corporate Responsibility Director 2 From Our Corporate Responsibility Director ENGAGING OUR PEOPLE RESPONDING TO STAKEHOLDER INPUT LOOKING TOWARD TOMORROW Pro Bono Sustainable Office Operations Since assuming this role five years ago, it has Building on our FY14 policy of providing paid Our annual global citizenship survey revealed become even more apparent that citizenship time off for pro bono and volunteer service, that half of our employees felt the company is a must-do, not a nice-to-do. Back in 2010, 85% of our offices developed plans for local was not doing enough to operate our offices the market was just beginning to signal that engagement in FY15, committing to 75 pro sustainably. We convened an environmental citizenship is an essential function. Today, it is bono projects overall. working group that is developing and piloting core to our clients—and to our own business. >32,000 HOURS VOLUNTEERED Community Service Employees donated more than 32,000 hours recommendations related to employee commuting, recycling and green meetings, among others, in 24 offices. Even so, we’ve learned that citizenship is about evolution, not revolution. We are most successful when we focus on a few priority to professional and general volunteer service. initiatives, monitor them closely and report our While this fell short of our ambitious goal to Health and Well-Being progress transparently. provide 40,000 hours, it represents a 41% Employees told us that health and well-being increase over last year. is a priority, so we began a global initiative Moving forward, we want to build on our to determine which programs already exist momentum. We will continue communicating Training across our network and make global policy with our offices around the world and Employees recorded over 157,000 hours of recommendations for employee well-being. collaborating with Edelman’s human online and in-person training in FY15 – nearly >157,000 resources, finance, information technology 29 hours of training per employee. Sustainable Purchasing and health & well-being teams to drive further Feedback from our clients and other Networking Groups performance. Our progress is incremental, and HOURS OF ONLINE AND stakeholders has highlighted the importance We launched a new affinity group, Edelman while we have begun changing tomorrow’s IN-PERSON TRAINING of developing a sustainable purchasing Equal, focused on LGBT employees and story with all we have accomplished to date, strategy and supplier diversity policy. In FY14, their allies, and committed to three more we still have much more to do. I hope you will we formed a working group to investigate groups for FY16: African-American, Hispanic continue to be part of our journey. options for addressing these issues. In FY15 and veterans. we started to develop an action plan with a clear scope, objectives, requirements and potential solutions. We expect to start developing Phase 1 in the second half of FY16, with an initial focus on supplier diversity in the U.S. John Edelman is managing director of global engagement and corporate responsibility EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY From Our Corporate Responsibility Director 3 Fiscal Year 2015 Citizenship Performance GRI DISCLOSURE COVERED: G4-2 C-SCORE KPIS ASSESSMENT ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Overall Citizenship Score 8.2/10 Some variation exists between the indicators tracked on our Citizenship Dashboard (and reflected in our global C-Score), and Edelman’s global goals. These are slight differences, but where they exist, they are noted in the report. Our People Diversity and Inclusion At least 50% of leadership positions (GCRMs, Global Practice Leaders and 44% of leadership positions globally held by women at close of FY15. An 11% increase since members of the Global Management Team and Executive Committee) are compared to the base year 2011 (33%). held by women by 2016. Learning and Development At least 24 hours of training completed per full-time employee. On average, Edelman recorded 29 learning hours per employee in FY15. Our Communities Pro Bono and Volunteerism Pro bono and volunteerism plans submitted for each office. 85% of offices (55/65) offices submitted an official written plan for pro bono and general volunteer projects for FY15 to the Global Citizenship team. At least 8 hours of pro bono or general volunteerism completed per A total of 32,013.4 hours were recorded in FY15, shy of the goal of 40,000 hours. full-time employee. 5.8 hours of pro bono or general volunteerism were recorded per full-time employee in FY15. Over 80% of employees participate in volunteerism. 63% of employees participated in volunteer activities in FY15. On-time regular reporting of volunteerism, updated quarterly. 77% of offices reported volunteer hours regularly and on time. Meeting Target Partially Meeting Target Not Meeting Target EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY FY Citiznehsip Performance 4 Fiscal Year 2015 Citizenship Performance C-SCORE KPIS ASSESSMENT ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Environmental On-time regular reporting of GHG data, updated quarterly. 70% of offices provided timely GHG data. Responding to CDP on our carbon data Completed CDP response for first time. In addition, Edelman London earned Carbon Trust Standard certification in the U.K. All regular paper purchases, (A4 or Letter) are of at least 50% 91% of offices purchase paper that is at least 50% recycled content. recycled content. All network printers are set to double-sided printing default. 93% of offices have set printers to double-sided printing default. E-waste is recycled through CloudBlue. All offices have accounts with CloudBlue. 82% recycled e-waste in FY15. Average monthly video conference usage rate equals at least 10% of total Only 12% (3/24) of offices with PolyCom video conferencing software met this target, yet we office hours (where PolyCom video conferencing software is available). know that virtual meetings are happening much more frequently than this data suggests. We are reevaluating the best way to measure and track virtual meetings. Energy efficiency improvement in offices where electricity bills 72% (29/40) of offices where electricity bills are reported achieved an increase in energy effiare reported. ciency in FY15. Our Clients Business Ethics Training At least 85% of FTE have completed Introduction to Compliance and 92% of employees completed the Introduction to Compliance and Ethics training module. Ethics. 85% of employees level 4+ and all levels of finance staff trained on 93% of required employees completed the Anti-Corruption training module. Anti-Corruption. Meeting Target Partially Meeting Target Not Meeting Target EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY FY Citiznehsip Performance 5 Our People As a communications marketing leader, we tell stories for our clients. Stories that help our clients engage their stakeholders. Make complex data more digestible. Shine a light on good works. Throughout Edelman, our greatest story is our people—all 5,604 talented employees in offices large and small, across six continents. Every day, they help us change tomorrow’s story through the innovative ideas they share, the work they do and the leadership they show. In turn, we help them change theirs. GRI DISCLOSURE COVERED: G4-10 GRI ASPECTS COVERED: G4-LA9, G4-LA10, G4-LA12 EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY Our People 6 We provide the learning and development opportunities OUR APPROACH (G4-DMA) our employees require to be their best in an ever-changing Supporting Our People market. This creates a truly inclusive work culture that Across our global business, we work celebrates the contributions of all. By supporting employee continuously to create a more diverse, inclusive environment that supports well-being, we provide rich opportunities for our people to employee development, health & wellgrow and make our company and the industry even better. being, and work-life balance. MATERIAL ASPECTS Learning and Development • Providing employees with opportunities for training that enable career growth. Diversity and Opportunity • Fostering employee diversity and Nearly 4 in 5 employees say volunteerism inclusion in the workplace. and global citizenship are important factors in Health and Well-Being choosing to work at Edelman. Throughout the • Supporting the health and holistic year, we stepped up internal communications well-being of Edelman people around to let employees know the many ways they can the world. get more involved in our citizenship work. OUR GOALS • Achieve at least 50% of senior Why We leadership positions held by women. Work at • Complete at least 24 hours of training Edelman per full-time employee. EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY Our People 7 Learning and Development Globally, we maintain a state-of-the-art OUR APPROACH (G4-DMA) learning management system and develop new online and in-class training modules Learning and Development regularly. We encourage employees to Learning and development is dedicated attend outside seminars. We bring in guest to building knowledge and skills that speakers. And we have well-established drive growth for our employees and global mobility and leadership and deliver results for our clients. rewards programs. These formal learning programs are extremely valuable. But • Edelman Learning Institute: it’s the daily, on-the-job experiences that addresses personal and professional really make Edelman special. In fact, we growth through a robust, global estimate that around 70% of what Edelman training and development learning employees learn is on the job. That’s why management system that supports career development at Edelman is a rich lifelong learning and builds combination of formal training and unique meaningful careers. professional experiences. • Client Leadership Academy: offers select client leaders globally the The Inaugural Client Leadership Academy unique opportunity to participate in an intensive educational three-day New Paths to Growth Formal Training Hours Client Leadership Academy Evolves program conducted by experts from As we transition globally to being a leading Employees completed an average of 29 Edelman’s longstanding Leadership both within and outside Edelman. communications marketing firm, we’re able hours of training per employee in FY15. Academy has been updated to be even more • Global Fellows: allows highto offer an even wider array of learning This surpasses our goal of 24 hours per client-centric than before. Participants now potential talent 12-month options and career paths. New learning employee, and includes any learning that represent those who are client-facing and assignments to experience working modules have been developed to give takes place outside the Edelman Learning need specialized training and development in different markets and cultures. employees the resources they need to Institute and the learning management to excel in global client relationship • Onboarding: strategically thrive in our evolving organization. In FY15, system, such as classroom training and management. This year, 67 of Edelman’s top assimilates colleagues over the we launched 24 new practice modules external seminars. client leaders from around the globe, nine course of a year. as well as videos and other tools. A job newly appointed Global Fellows, 35 highly rotation program introduced for juniorcredible faculty members and several • Performance Assessments: level employees during the year gives them senior clients assembled to focus on this Evaluates skills, provides strategic broader exposure to the many functions year’s theme of delivering an exceptional goal development and career and specialties that comprise Edelman, client experience and developing the best planning opportunities. preparing our newest generation to make client leaders in the industry. • Mentor Programs: Offer traditional informed career path choices. Those career partners, reverse mentors, executive paths will enable growth for our employees peer and new parent pairings. and a broader offering to our clients. 29 AVG HOURS TRANING PER EMPLOYEE COMPARED TO THE GOAL OF 24 PER FTE EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY Our People 8 Global Fellows Reach Emerging Markets Every year, selected employees work abroad for up to 12 months as In FY15, over 200 employees relocated for career Global Fellows, expanding their knowledge of different markets and development opportunities. At any given time, Edelman is cultures. In FY15, fellows worked in Beijing, London, UAE, Chicago, working with approximately 35 employees to help them New York, San Francisco, Sao Paulo, Singapore, Mumbai, Frankfurt with global mobility. This international program provides and Tokyo. At the beginning of FY16, the new group of Fellows were clients with a more holistic perspective while expanding invited to attend Client Leadership Academy in August, and are being our employees’ horizons. deployed to Stockholm, Paris, and Chicago and the Bay Area in the U.S., as well as to Shanghai, Johannesburg, Mumbai, and Sao Paulo— in keeping with our goal to include more developing and emerging 200+ EMPLOYEES RELOCATED For more, see the EdelmanNEXT career markets, drive global mobility and foster cross-cultural learning. For FOR CAREER DEVELOPMENT pathing model more, Follow the Fellows on their travels. OPPORTUNITES 9% > 6% CANADA 22% > 25% EUROPE UNITED STATES 31% > 29% LATIN AMERICA The FY15 Global Fellows with Richard Edelman 3% > 2% APAC MEA 36% > 38% % PLACED INDIVIDUAL HOME REGIONS % PLACE INDIVIDUALS HOST REGIONS EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY Our People 9 Diversity Makes Us Stronger OUR APPROACH (G4-DMA) Diversity • Create and maintain an inclusive work environment that embraces diversity at every level of the organization, worldwide through: u Employee networks u Diversity and inclusion training and awareness raising that embeds diversity throughout our culture u Strong infrastructure, including a new diversity leadership and resource structure • Use measurable goals and tracking At Edelman, diversity in the workplace is more than race, gender, age, Diversity and Inclusion Strategy and other familiar attributes. It’s diversity of thought, perspective and background. It includes the personal and professional experiences our employees bring to the job, the types of clients they have served, 1 2 the places they have worked or traveled. Establish a culturally With this in mind, we re-evaluated and refocused our approach to Create a diverse, inclusive workplace that diversity and inclusion in FY15, starting with our U.S. operations—the inclusive, culturally allows employees to share company’s largest—and then expanding our efforts more globally. We aware environment that their understanding and began by benchmarking our diversity progress, reviewing metrics, strengthens our business ideas, enhancing our and developing a Diversity Leadership Team representing many through diverse talent. knowledge transfer and offices, backgrounds, and levels. The group serves as a sounding thought leadership. board and partner in executing the diversity and inclusion plan. We also refined our diversity and inclusion strategy and made sure it’s directly tied to our business strategy. In FY16, we plan to set aspirational goals related to hiring and retention. EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY Our People 10 Empowering Employees for Business Success Global employee affinity groups make the large Edelman world just a bit smaller. They bring Edelman Equal together employees who share certain characteristics or perspectives for their own continued In FY15, we began Edelman Equal, a global employee affinity group that advocates on behalf of empowerment as well as for the benefit of our business. Going forward, some or all of these lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) employees, supports business objectives of our networks could also provide focus groups and expert advice for client work as well. clients and builds community throughout our organization. Equal is another step in formalizing our commitment to inclusion in the workplace and moving our organization forward with a diverse and empowered employee base. The group is active in the U.K., U.S., Australia and Ireland and we Global Women Executive Network (GWEN) International Women’s Forum (IWF) expect to expand it to more countries this year. Read what CEO Richard Edelman had to say about With more than 800 members globally, Rewards Program our new affinity group. GWEN is an engaged group of employees In FY15, Edelman introduced its partnership who are committed to networking, mentowith IWF, an organization that has more than Edelman’s African-American employee network will launch later in FY16, followed by two ring, recruiting, collaborating and career 6,000 members across six continents and additional affinity groups, one for Hispanic employees and one for veterans. planning for women at Edelman. First represents 35 nations, and is committed formed in FY12, GWEN was established to to advancing female leadership globally. Breakdown of Employees per Region help the firm increase the number of women To align with Richard Edelman’s goal to in the senior most leadership positions by increase executive women leadership within Female Male Total creating a business environment and culture the firm to 50% by 2016, Edelman has APACMEA 881 459 1340 in which women are encouraged to lead committed to serve as the Premier Sponsor and succeed. By changing policy, conducting for IWF’s World Conferences. Through the Canada 176 78 254 outreach and raising awareness, GWEN has partnership, Edelman encourages its rising Europe & CIS 739 358 1097 helped the firm increase women in senior talent to become engaged with the IWF leadership roles globally from 33 percent in training programs and conferences and has LatAm 218 93 311 FY12 to 44 percent in FY15. invited international delegates representing U.S. 1803 799 2602 the five regions to participate. Total 3817 1787 5604 Breakdown of Employees per Age Group Silent Boomer Gen X Millennial Gen Z Total (Born be(1946(1966(1980-1995) (Born fore 1946) 1965) 1979) after1995) APACMEA 0 48 244 1047 1 1340 Women’s Leadership Canada 0 14 75 165 0 254 Globally, 11% more women hold senior Europe & CIS 1 61 283 752 0 1097 leadership positions (GCRMs, Global Practice Leaders and members of the Global Management Team and Executive 44% LatAm 0 14 59 236 2 311 WOMEN HOLD SENIOR U.S. 6 182 688 1726 0 2602 Committee) at Edelman in FY15 (44%) than LEADERSHIP POSITIONS in FY12 (33%), our baseline year for Total 7 319 1349 3926 3 5604 tracking this growth. EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY Our People 11 Health and Well-Being Global Corporate Challenge OUR APPROACH (G4-DMA) In the U.K. and Italy, we piloted working with the Global Corporate Challenge. Eighteen teams (14 in the U.K. and 4 in Italy) of 7 Health and Well-Being employees each participated in a 100-day journey in which they • Create and maintain a work are rewarded for their activity, their healthy choices, their spirit and environment that values and promotes collaboration. Feedback from the winning teams (‘The Eye’ in the health and well-being through: U.K. and ‘The Italian Rockets’ in Italy) included: “We have all definitely become more conscious about our lifestyle and throughout these u Safe workplace practices 100 days, we have started to adapt new healthier and more active u Financial support for physical and behaviors that we are determined to keep.” We are looking into the emotional health possibility to include more markets in the new fiscal year. u Flexible work schedules Shaping Our Culture Together u Edelman Escape, family leave, and In FY15 we continued to build our global culture working group that sabbaticals comprises 40 employees at various levels and a broad spectrum u Other locally relevant programs of roles from across 30 of our offices. The group contributed to the Life is stressful. Many people today need additional support to direction of the firm as we moved toward communications marketmaintain a healthy work/life balance and lifestyle. In fact, 69% of ing by engaging in a process to refresh our company values and Edelman employees globally ranked health and well-being as a the associated behaviors we expect from one another. The goal: to priority for the company. Already, a number of Edelman programs ensure our culture and strategy are clearly aligned. This effort built support health and well-being – from our global programs for on our rich heritage and resulted in refreshing and paring our values tobacco cessation and cancer prevention to local initiatives such from six to three. Please see the Our Clients section for more detail as discounted gym memberships and rewarding volunteering on the refreshed values. opportunities. We also conducted our second global culture awards, which sought In FY15, we took a further step. Edelman’s global citizenship group to celebrate our employees’ endeavors as they collaborate with began collaborating with global human resources, the U.S. benefits one another across the firm to the benefit of our clients. Again, our and wellness group and other Edelman teams to evaluate how the culture working group played an integral role by acting as judges, company can best support employee well-being around the globe. In reviewing the entries from around the world and deciding the FY16, we will be: winner, announced on Edelman Founders Day, October 1. • Surveying Edelman benefits and wellness specialists globally to get a sense of what is already in place around the world. Global Citizenship Employee Survey • Working with Edelman’s wellness program supplier in the U.S. to Global US Canada Europe LATAM APAC/MEA assess the feasibility of expanding this program globally. • Recommending a global policy for implementation during the Health & Well Being 69% 70% 71% 71% 59% 71% next fiscal year. Training & Development 51% 48% 58% 60% 55% 44% • Developing recommendations for next steps in employee health Community Engagement 42% 42% 40% 35% 39% 49% and well-being. Which of the following citizenship issues do you think are most important for Edelman to address this year? (Edelman Citizenship Survey 2015, n=1,177) EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY Our People 12 Our Communities Giving back is part of our culture—and always will be. For more than 60 years, Edelman has helped employees make the most of opportunities to strengthen the communities where they live and work. Through service and donations, our generous employees are helping to change tomorrow’s story in local communities around the globe. At the same time, they support our environmental commitments, key to Edelman being a good neighbor in the markets where we do business, and globally. GRI DISCLOSURES COVERED: G4-15, G4-16 EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY Our Communities 13 Volunteerism Pro Bono Support Hands-On Volunteerism OUR GOALS Drawing on our professional expertise, Whether serving food, building homes, Edelman individuals and teams help digging wells, or tutoring children, Edelman • Provide 8 hours of paid time per nonprofits with engagement strategies, employees actively support people and employee per year for pro bono and websites, media relations and a host of communities in need. volunteerism service. other communications marketing needs. We encourage employees to devote about 70% Board Engagement • Have more than 80% of employees of their volunteer time to pro bono support Edelman employees participate on boards participate in volunteerism. because it can deliver such lasting benefits and leadership committees for a variety of • Deliver 40,000 hours of pro bono and to people and communities. nonprofit organizations, including charitable general volunteerism to worthy causes. entities and professional associations. • Submittal of pro bono and volunteerism plans by 100% of offices. Philanthropy • Achieve on-time quarterly reporting of volunteerism in our offices. Financial Donations Cash donations from individual employees and the company allow organizations to direct funds where they need them most. After earthquakes hit the country of Goods Nepal, Edelman employees raised Many Edelman offices hold drives to collect $25,000 through a microsite for the books, toys, household goods, school supWorld Food Program USA – a donation plies, clothing, and other donations. that was matched dollar-for-dollar by the Daniel J. Edelman Family Foundation. A Volunteer Culture 70% of employees agree Edelman has created a culture where volunteerism and global citizenship are valued. EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY Our Communities 14 Better Tracking and Reporting Volunteer time has traditionally been difficult to track, so we’re MATERIAL ASPECTS addressing the problem in two ways: Community Engagement 1. We set up codes in our global billing system so employees can • Helping employees make the most conveniently record pro bono time, volunteer hours, and board of opportunities to give back to the service as part of their regular weekly timesheets. The system communities where they live and work, allows us to easily query the records to track progress against through hands-on service and pro bono our goal of 40,000 hours annually. In FY15, 65% of employees professional support indicated they were aware they could track their volunteerism, an increase of 38% over FY14. 2. We are developing templates our offices can use to build their pro bono and volunteerism plans. Professional Volunteerism in FY15 Committing to Pro Bono Service Employees provided 25,477 hours of 85% of offices participated in our pro bono 8 HRS professional volunteerism (a 93% increase policy in FY15, developing plans to support from FY14) valued at $3,057,336.* These 75 pro bono projects, collectively, in FY15. hours were provided through local office FOR EACH EMPLOYEE pro bono projects and participation on Edelman’s pro bono/volunteerism policy nonprofit boards by individual employees. allows each employee 8 hours of paid time off per year to provide pro bono or volunteering services in their community. General Volunteerism in FY15 85% of offices Employees provided more than 6,500 participated in our hours of general volunteerism valued at pro bono policy $150,875.** While this represents a 31% in FY15. decrease in general volunteerism hours 41% from FY14, it aligns with our focus on increasing collective impact by emphasizing MORE TOTAL VOLUNTEERISM IN FY15 professional volunteerism where employees Nearly 80% of total volunteer hours were use their expertise to make a difference for professional volunteerism, reflecting our nonprofit organizations. emphasis on committing 70% of volunteer hours on professional volunteerism and 30% on general volunteerism. * The valuation of pro bono volunteerism is based on the Pro Bono **The valuation of general volunteerism is based on the 2014 Standards and Valuation Guidelines provided by Taproot Foundation. Bureau of Labor Statistics data which values each hour of These guidelines value each hour of pro bono volunteerism as $120. general volunteerism at $23.07. EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY Our Communities 15 Service on Nonprofit Boards 0 10 20 30 40 50 Total Giving 14% Serve On Boards Youth Education/Opportunity 42% Youth Education/Opportunity 38% $150,875 Health & Social Causes 31% 32% Health & Social Causes General Volunteerism Professional Associations 19% Professional Associations 16% $787,646 Hunger/Poverty 18% Hunger/Poverty Sponsorships & 17% Contributions 11% 5% The Arts 7% The Arts Environment 10% Environment 7 8% 4% Political Parties & Campaigns 4% Political Parties & Campaigns 5% 1% 4% $3,057,336 Animal Welfare 1% 2% Animal Welfare 0% 5% Pro Bono Volunteerism $3,995,957 Other 22% 31% Other Total FY15 FY14 Service on Nonprofit Boards 4% serve on an auxiliary or young leaders board 14% of employees served on a nonprofit board of directors in FY15 EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY Our Communities 16 Giving Back through Professional Volunteerism In FY15 Edelman offices around the world contributed to their local communities through various professional volunteer projects, including: APACMEA: EUROPE: Special Olympics / Edelman Shanghai War Child / Edelman London In June 2015, Edelman Shanghai partnered with Special Olympics War Child provides life-changing support to the most vulnerable East Asia to provide pro bono PR services for its annual Unity Gala, children whose families, communities and schools have been torn Play Unified Sports event, and the 2015 Los Angeles Summer Games, apart by war. For its recent War Child Help Campaign, Edelman UK thereby enhancing the reputation and impact of the Special Olympics led the media outreach, amplifying a digital film designed to drive in China and abroad. The Edelman team invited and managed 220 signatures to a petition designed to drive change to the current reporters from over 100 media outlets and arranged over 50 interapproach to humanitarian aid at the Humanitarian Summit in May views to cover these events, resulting in 60+ TV & video clips, 2000+ 2016. The Edelman UK team has also carried out media training and searchable online coverage, and 300 million+ social impressions. is hosting a Prism session, providing strategic consultancy support First Lady Michelle Obama officially opened the Special Olympics covering audience analysis, messaging house development, as well World Summer Games in Los Angeles, welcoming 6500 athletes as brand personality and tone definition. representing 165 countries, including a 94-athlete China delegation. She praised the athletes for their courage and determination, noting they were an example to the millions of people watching the Opening Ceremony in their living rooms. EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY Our Communities 17 Giving Back through Professional Volunteerism CANADA: Calgary Edelman Calgary volunteered with the Calgary Drop-In & Rehab Centre (DI) – an organization committed to meeting the needs of homeless or at-risk individuals in a safe and respectful way. Over the span of 48 hours, the Edelman team learned about the DI and supported its communication needs. Beginning by touring the facility, sorting clothing, serving an Edelman-sponsored lunch and meeting with DI employees, the team then generated impactful and insightful communication recommendations, revamped the Drop-In Centre’s newsletter and created a social media strategy for the organization. Vancouver The Little Give // Edelman Canada The Vancouver office split into three teams, and each spent 48 hours The Little Give dedicates a little bit of seed money and a whole lot of working with a selected nonprofit organization. Team GiveZilla – time and energy to non-profit organizations across the community. “Giving the city by storm” – landscaped, painted, power washed, In FY15, Edelman’s four Canadian offices participated in the Little planted an herb garden, and painted a beautiful mural for the West Give in the following ways: Side Family Place. Team Givvy Up – “Turning houses into homes” – worked with HomeStart Foundation to sort furniture and make home Toronto: deliveries to local families, in addition to designing and producing Edelman Toronto employees spent 48+ hours working with six new decals for the organization’s delivery trucks. Team Natural Born charities on various projects, including: creating marketing and Givers ensured “Full stomachs and inspiring art” at the Neighbourcommunication materials to raise awareness for Voices of Inspired hood Housing Society where they spruced up the stairways with Children Engaging Society, painting the entry steps and creating a a fresh coat of paint, created a courtyard ‘oasis’ for residents and private phone booth for kids at Youth Without Shelter, revamping the built new resident “starter kits” containing cookware, dishes, and sponsorship strategy and coordinating meetings with major book cleaning supplies. publishers for Story Planet, creating integrated marketing materials Montreal: and a content toolkit for Drum Artz, and securing $15K in in-kind Edelman Montreal employees split into two teams to support local donations for the Toronto Symphony Orchestra for the Toronto nonprofit organizations over the span of 48 hours. One team worked Children’s Concert Choir & Performing Arts Company. with Sentier Urbain – a nonprofit that encourages the community to take action for a greener community – to work in the organization’s gardens and provide communications marketing counsel. The second team worked as cooks and waiters at Robin de Bois – a local nonprofit restaurant run by volunteers that donates profits to local charities. EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY Our Communities 18 Giving Back through Professional Volunteerism LATAM: U.S.: Edelman+ // Edelman Latin America Change Direction // Edelman Chicago, Edelman Washington, D.C. Employees from Edelman’s five Latin American offices are working Teams from Edelman Chicago and Edelman Washington, D.C. to improve education in Latin America through Edelman+ an initiapartnered with pro bono client, Give an Hour, as the communications tive that integrates Edelman’s Citizenship efforts and the ability of partner for The Campaign to Change Direction – a national awareness Edelman employees to address the specific needs of its communities campaign aimed at changing the story about mental health in America through branding projects, visual identity development, communicaby encouraging routine, well-rounded care for mental wellbeing and tion plans, fundraising plans, media relations, media trainings, digital familiarizing Americans with the five signs of emotional suffering consultancy and more. Through Edelman+, seven education nonprofit which include: withdrawal, agitation, hopelessness, decline in personal organizations will be supported over three years, including: CTC care, and change in personality. Digital, Enseña por Argentina, Enseña por Colombia, Enseña por The Edelman team provided pro bono support for brand and Mexico, Pro Educacion, Teach for All, and US Mexico Foundation. In messaging development, communications strategy, media relations, FY15, a total of 2,381 pro bono volunteer hours were dedicated to and event support for a campaign launch that was attended by top these organizations by 53 Edelman employees. government, business and nonprofit leaders and featured a keynote address by First Lady Michelle Obama. Through the campaign, individuals can pledge their commitments to changing the story about mental health in their own communities and contribute to the campaign’s goal of reaching more than 30 million Americans over the next five years. EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY Our Communities 19 Community Investment Grant Program, FY11 to FY1 Fiscal Year Donations Organizations 2011 $146,900 61 2012 $143,650 64 2013 $146,250 117 2014 $148,250 121 2015 $150,000 158 Total $735,050 521 Community Investment Grant Program Grants for Community Investment Grants 158 4% Volunteering isn’t the only way Edelman gives back to local Organizations 5% Animal Welfare 1% Culture & Arts Environment communities. Since FY11, our Community Investment Grant program has helped employees support the organizations they 9% 25% care about most. Edelman employees can get donations up to Education Hunger & Poverty US$2,500 for organizations they support through their board During FY15, the Community Investment service or other volunteerism. 17% Grant program grew by Social Services 19% 30%. & Youth Health Empowerment Animal Health and Welfare 17% Community Development Community Cultural/Arts Development Community Investment Grants by Region Community Social Services Investment Grants Education 3% and Youth Support 8% LATAM Nonprofits in: Europe & CIS 11% Hunger and APACMEA Environment Povery Health 12% 66% Canada United States EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY Our Communities 20 Changing Tomorrow’s Story, One Community at a Time Being a Good Neighbor Enhancing Our Environmental Policies and Practices OUR GOALS With more than 5,500 employees in 65 cities, we are proud to be one In this fifth year of our citizenship journey, we can report on real of the largest communications marketing firms in the world. With progress toward our environmental goals: • Reduce hub office* annual greenhouse our size comes opportunity, but also responsibility. Responsibility • All of Edelman offices participate in responsible e-waste recycling, gas (GHG) emissions per employee to drive down our carbon footprint. To make smart decisions about with the help of CloudBlue, which is now available globally. (full-time equivalent, or FTE) by 5% travel. Office space. Lighting. Technology. Even office supplies • Over 90% of our offices are aligned with our policies on double-sided by end of FY15 against FY11 levels. and furnishings. It would be convenient to point out that we’re a professional services firm, not a manufacturer. That we don’t make copying and 50% recycled content paper. • Achieve on-time, quarterly reporting of products with environmental impacts. But our operations do have • 24 offices are involved in a pilot program to apply environmental GHG data from offices. impacts—and we believe in being a good neighbor—so we’ll continue recommendations that can be rolled out across our organization in • Set all network printers to doublereducing them as much as possible. FY16 and beyond. sided default in all offices. Our climate change position and environmental statement guide • Several offices including Seattle have composting initiatives and • Purchase regular paper (A4 or Letter) our environmental approach. To ensure our environmental policies our hub office in Chicago has launched a composting pilot for food with at least 50% recycled content. and practices continue to reflect our commitments, we’re taking a products, along with recycling for glass and plastic bottles and • Increase average monthly closer look at what’s working and what else we can do. We anticipate aluminum and tin cans. videoconferencing usage rate to 10% focusing on business travel and employee commuting, making our of office hours, and encourage office kitchen practices more sustainable and developing a green conference calls instead of business meeting policy for all offices. travel, when possible. 24 • Collect and responsibly dispose of offices in electronic waste globally through environmental 90% + pilot program CloudBlue. 5,604 50% recycled • Build more robust green teams in each office. employees content paper 65 • Improve lighting energy efficiency and cities 90% + conduct lighting audits in the 10 offices double-sided with the highest GHG emissions. copying * Our hub offices are Chicago, New York, Washington, D.C., London, San Francisco and Silicon Valley EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY Our Communities 21 Making Our Offices More Sustainable Environmental Working Group Recommendations include 1. Develop and implement a global 2. Standardize employee 3. Install energy efficient lighting, 4. Standardize purchasing of 5. Create a Green Meetings policy recycling program commuting benefits globally where possible recycled/reusable materials for all offices (e.g. use of globally reusable plates, compostable plates, etc.) Edelman has created a culture... Doing Our Part to Address Climate Change We have voluntarily tracked and reported our carbon footprint since FY12. 20,0 72% This report includes our FY14 (July 1, 2013 – June 30, 2014) carbon inventory and material 12,884 68% use data. There is a one-year delay for environmental data reporting due to the timing of our 11,823 publication and our fiscal year. Edelman works with several third parties for carbon data collection 55% 53% 53% and management—ResetCarbon, Envizi Software, and CloudBlue. GHG Emissions (tCO2e) 10,0 20% 17% 15% 2,966 2,482 2,729 2,577 11% 6% 163 269 99 155 Where volunteerism That is sensitive Where global Where people care That promotes US EMEA Asia Pacific Canada Latin America is valued to its citizenship is about issues health living within environmental valued within partaining to the company impacts the company sustainability and the environment FY13/14 FY12/13 T2B B2B Half of the employees who completed the most recent citizenship survey indicated we need to do more to operate our offices sustainably. We assembled an internal environmental working group to assess existing policies and practices and identify improvement priorities. See also Appendix B for more information on our GHG Emissions Metrics EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY Our Communities 22 A Holistic Approach While there is one more year until our hub The absolute emissions decrease was largely offices reach their carbon reduction target, due to a reduction of 9% in business air travel we continue to work toward a systematic emissions compared year over year. The management of the company’s environmental emissions trend has been driven in part by Improving lighting energy impact as a whole. The current greenhouse our corporate air travel policy, which includes efficiency and conducting lighting gas (GHG) inventory accounts for the GHG replacing short-haul flights with more audits in the ten offices with the emissions of Edelman’s global operations environmentally friendly modes of transport. highest GHG emissions. This has been completed in for FY14. Edelman’s global GHG emissions in Efforts were also made globally to decrease the Chicago office. FY14 were 17,533 mtCO2e, accounting for paper use and adopt office paper with higher the GHG emissions of 51 offices in five recycled content. This resulted in a 45% A Holistic Approach operating regions. absolute emission decrease compared to the same source in our base year FY11. Implementing our Setting all network As shown in the charts below, our FY14 travel policy printers to duplex footprint follows a similar emissions profile This is the third year in a row that our carbon printing as previous fiscal years, with emissions intensity per full-time equivalent (FTE) from business air travel accounting for employee has decreased, achieving a 10% the most significant proportion (72%) of reduction from FY13 and 17% reduction from Advising all offices to Edelman’s global carbon impact, typical of an the base year. These efforts can be attributed purchase copy paper international professional services firm. to reduction achievements to date at Edelman, containing 50% or higher including: recycled content Total GHG Emission (tCO2e) and Carbon Intensity (mtCO2e/FTE) Trend Emissions by Region (FY13/14 compared to FY12/13) 20,000 4.00 72% 4.04 12,884 3.94 68% 3.74 11,823 3.37 3.00 Gross GHG emissions (mtCO2e) 55% 53% 53% GHG Emissions (tCO2e) 2.00 10,000 1.00 20% 17% 15% 2,966 2,482 2,729 2,577 11% 6% 0.50 99 155 163 269 99 155 Latin America Where volunteerism That is sensitive Where FY10/11 global FY11/12 Where people care That FY12/13 promotes FY13/14 US EMEA Asia Pacific Canada Latin America is valued to its citizenship is about issues health living within environmental valued within partaining to the company impacts the company sustainability and Office copy paper use the environment Stationary fuel combustion FY13/14 FY12/13 T2B B2B Staff business air travel Mobile fuel combustion Purchased elecricity Carbon intensity per consumption Full-time Equivalent (FTE) See also Appendix C for more information on our Global Emissions & Carbon Intensity EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY Our Communities 23 Progress Toward Our Targets Encouraging Virtual Meetings Responsibly Disposing of Electronics By the end of FY14, four of the six hub To support Edelman’s five global During FY14, CloudBlue collected 5,059 offices—Washington D.C., London, New York, environmental goals and reduce electronic items weighing nearly 37 metric and Chicago, had already exceeded their 5% business air travel emissions, a 10% ton (37,678 pounds). The items recovered reduction targets*. These and other offices videoconferencing usage rate was were worth an estimated U.S. $35,808. are working to identify target areas and introduced to all offices equipped with highTheir recovery delivered energy savings create reduction plans related to business definition Polycom videoconferencing units. sufficient to power 333 households for air travel emissions, as well as electricity This has increased video conferencing a year, according to U.S. Environmental and paper consumption. Global policies also usage for four of the hub offices. We aim Protection Agency estimates. support emissions reduction. For instance, to further engage our other hub offices to Edelman’s global travel policy requires encourage even more virtual meetings. employees to use more environmentally friendly modes of transport (than air travel) As reported by offices in the FY15 when going to a destination that would take Citizenship Score: less than three hours by train or car. 70% OF ALL OFFICES REPORT THEIR ENVIRONMENTAL DATA ON TIME In FY15, 91% OF ALL OFFICES MET THE TARGETS In FY15, we completed our OF PURCHASING OFFICE PAPER WITH first response to CDP Employees to use more AT LEAST 50% POST-CONSUMER environmentally friendly (formerly Carbon Disclosure RECYCLED CONTENTS modes of transport Project). We expect to receive our rating from CDP in the first half of FY16. Environmental Summary 82% OF ALL OFFICES HAVE SAFELY 10% FY15 50% DISPOSED OF ELECTRONIC Videoconferencing Post-consumer DEVICES THROUGH THE usage rate recycled office CLOUDBLUE E-STEWARDS® paper used CERTIFIED RECYCLING SERVICE 5,059 Electronic items were responsibly disposed * A target has been set for the six hub offices to reduce their annual greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions per employee (full-time equivalent, or FTE) by 5% by end of FY15 compared to FY11. EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY Our Communities 24 Edelman London Earns Carbon Trust Standard In FY15, Edelman London became the first Edelman office worldwide—and one of the first qualifying U.K. businesses—to be awarded the Carbon Trust Standard. The recognition reflects real progress on climate change through reduced carbon emissions and a commitment to keep reducing emissions and recertify every 2 years. The London office uses fob-controlled printing and energy efficient lighting, and powers off monitors overnight. The Green Team continues to champion energy reduction and waste elimination, and is looking for new ways to further lower the office footprint. Edelman U.K. also became one of the earliest qualifying businesses to submit their Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme (ESOS) audit to the Environment Agency—in compliance with Article 8 of the European Commission’s Energy Efficiency Directive. The aim is to cut carbon emissions by Responsible Partnerships requiring large businesses to identify energy reduction measures and make By working together we can accomplish more than we can by working alone. Some of the energy savings. Edelman U.K. undertook the organization we are working with to change tomorrow’s story include: survey during FY15 with the Carbon Trust, • Clinton Global Initiative • UN Food Security and Sustainable identifying energy-saving opportunities to Agriculture • Committee Encouraging Corporate further reduce environment impacts. Philanthropy • United Nations World Food Programme • Global Reporting Initiative • Illinois Joining Forces • International Integrated Reporting Council • The Bunker • Partnering Against Corruption Initiative • NSF International • Points of Light (corporate service council) • International Women’s Forum • Boston College Center for Corporate Citizenship • Sustainable Purchasing Leadership Council (SPLC) EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY Our Communities 25 Our Clients Our citizenship direction is clear: keep our own values at the center of everything we do to meet societal needs and the expectations of our clients. We know that our clients value citizenship in their own operations and among their suppliers. We’re happy to share our progress. GRI DISCLOSURES COVERED: G4-12,G4-56 GRI ASPECTS COVERED: G4-SO4 EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY Our Clients 26 Business Ethics Our reputation for sound business ethics (doing the right thing) and compliance (doing the legal thing)—is embedded in over 60 years of heritage. Like all global multinationals, we OUR APPROACH (G4-DMA) operate in markets where positions on ethical business practices may differ from our own. We know the importance of making sure that Edelman employees have the know-how and Supporting Our Clients support they need to address these challenging environments. Leading by example, operationalizing ethics and governance policies, and Training Risk Management working with our clients and other An extensive Workplace Behavior Program, During the year, a coalition of senior stakeholders to address societal issues new in FY15, uses scenarios to help leaders implemented a formalized system and sustainability efforts extend our employees understand how to apply our for enterprise risk management, whereby positive impact. policies in difficult situations. Of course, all key risks and company-wide approaches employees must also sign Edelman’s Code of to mitigating them are evaluated and Ethics and Business Conduct and complete documented, which is then operationalized MATERIAL ASPECTS an introductory compliance training through local market strategies. program. During FY15, 92% of employees Business Ethics completed this training (above the 85% Statement of Purpose • Operating in keeping with our values goal). Additional anti-corruption training is Even though there are differences in local and in compliance with all applicable required for all vice presidents and above, markets, there are Edelman standards laws. and all employees in the Financial Group. that are consistent across all markets 90% of required employees completed this and which are the foundation of how we training (above the 85% goal). operate. Among other key considerations, we take a global and informed approach to OUR GOALS Data Security managing our portfolio, business strategy, We continually review and update our data and client engagements in a manner • At least 85% of full-time employees privacy and information security practices consistent with our shared values. We also complete compliance and ethics to make sure we effectively safeguard respect our employees’ rights to decline to training. personal and business data for our clients work on projects that do not align with their • At least 85% of required employees and for ourselves. personal beliefs. (level 4+ and all levels of Finance) complete anti-corruption training. • Achieve a global average C-score of 8 out of 10. 92% of full-time employees complete compliance and ethics training. EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY Our Clients 27 Edelman C-Score Building a Sustainable Supply Chain Our Citizenship Score, or C-Score, Sustainable Purchasing consolidates progress from every Edelman Building upon our SPLC membership from last year, we are using the SPLC Guidance office on 14 social and environmental for Leadership in Sustainable Purchasing Version 1.0 to develop sustainable indicators, many of which are important to purchasing policies. our clients. In FY15—the first full year we implemented the C-Score—we achieved a Supplier Accountability 8.2 out of 10. Since FY13, new Edelman subconsultants and vendors have been required to acknowledge and sign our Code of Ethics for Suppliers and Service Providers. 8.2 GLOBAL Supplier Diversity Edelman Q-Score Just as a diverse workforce makes us a stronger organization, so does partnering with C-SCORE The Edelman Q-Scores continue to reflect diverse suppliers. In FY15, we laid the groundwork for a supplier diversity policy and how clients are responding positively to guidelines for our U.S. operations. We will extend our policies and practices to ensure a fair their teams’ commitment to delivering and objective supplier identification and selection process. We will continue to evolve a ACHIEVED IN FY15 client service excellence. In FY15, we strong framework for expanding our U.S. network of smalland medium-sized businesses achieved a global Q of 8.6 (out of 10) with a as well as minority-, women-, and veteran-owned businesses. 55% return rate. Those metrics, generated 8.6 GLOBAL by our E2 Client Satisfaction Survey that asks every business partner to evaluate our Q-SCORE ACHIEVED IN FY15 work, have climbed continuously as client retention increases. Knowing our Q-scores new best practices to benefit all, and turns our challenges into strengths. EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY Our Clients 28 Helping Our Clients Change Tomorrow’s Story All of these are important steps. Still, as a professional services firm, we know that our work for clients is the best path to making positive impacts in the world. We’re honored to work for some of today’s leaders in citizenship and sustainability. Here are just a few examples. EDELMAN NEW YORK EDELMAN SAN FRANCISCO Client: The American Lung Association Client: Symantec Our Charge: The American Lung Association, having suffered a Our Charge: In 2014, Symantec turned to Edelman to launch its firstmarked decline in consumer relevance and fundraising power, ever corporate responsibility initiative a program to train underserved turned to Edelman to develop a signature cause initiative that would youth for cybersecurity jobs. rally stakeholders around a singular, powerful idea and transform Our Response: Edelman developed a communications strategy centered the brand. on a high visibility speaking opportunity: former Secretary of State Our Response: Edelman worked closely with the Lung Association Hillary Clinton would unveil Symantec’s program at the Clinton Global to create LUNG FORCE: a communications marketing and Initiative America meeting. Clinton’s speech kicked off a cascade of fundraising initiative designed to inspire all women to band together precisely timed communications. Immediately after her remarks, to fight lung cancer – the #1 cancer killer of women – and to serve embargoed stories hit on FORTUNE and Politico Pro, followed by 23 as a rallying cry to literally breathe new life into the organization. original stories in key business, political, security and CSR outlets. The partners launched LUNG FORCE in 2014 and in the initiative’s All articles underscored how the initiative creates shared value by short history it has already had remarkable success. Since launch, addressing youth unemployment and the increasing problem of data LUNG FORCE has garnered 3.57 billion media impressions and breaches while building a talent pipeline for Symantec. Ultimately the media stories about lung cancer in women have increased 240%. program will directly contribute to Symantec’s business by creating a Through corporate sponsorships and 51 local LUNG FORCE walks, pipeline of diverse talent for the company. multiple millions have been raised for the cause, enabling the Lung Association to increase its investment in lung cancer research by 50%. As for transforming the brand, a June 2015 survey conducted by Edelman Berland found that 90% of female donors said LUNG FORCE was an important women’s cause for them and 74% said they felt more favorable toward the Lung Association after learning about LUNG FORCE. EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY Our Clients 29 Helping Our Clients Change Tomorrow’s Story EDELMAN MUNICH 100 LIVES – COMMEMORATING THE ARMENIAN GENOCIDE/ EDELMAN LONDON Client: United Against Poverty Client: 100 LIVES Our Charge: Edelman Munich worked with seven nonprofit partners to Our Charge: 100 LIVES is a unique project rooted in the centenary of the Armenian Genocide. support the biggest event leading up the G7 meeting in Germany: United The initiative was founded by by Vartan Gregorian, Noubar Afeyan and Ruben Vardanyan along Against Poverty. The Edelman team was tasked with building awareness, with individuals of Armenian origin – who wanted to use the 100th anniversary of the Armenian interest and attendance for the event in just three weeks. Genocide to ensure the events were reinforced in the world’s memory and to express gratitude to Our Response: In addition to generating media attention for the event, those who put themselves in harm’s way to save Armenians a century ago. the Edelman Munich team spearheaded all event promotions, including a Our Response: Working closely with the 100 LIVES team, Edelman undertook a complex program press conference with partner organizations and local “unsung heroes” that included pioneering work in the communications marketing field. This included executive who work to fight poverty every day. On the day of the event, more than positioning, the development of the visual identity, web property development, an international 5,000 people came to Koenigsplatz to see performances and speeches stakeholder engagement and listening tour, creation of compelling content, event production by Usher, Michael Mittermeier, Kweku Mandela and Nobel Peace Prize and management, research and insights. The team developed the Aurora Prize for Awakening Winner and President of Liberia Ellen Johnson Sirleaf. Nearly 40 Humanity, a new global prize worth $1 million that will be given to those who put themselves at interviews were conducted throughout the day and the event earned risk and enable others to survive and thrive. Edelman recruited the crème-de-la-crème of the coverage in than 100 articles that spread the message that working humanitarian world to the Prize Selection Committee. Current members include Elie Wiesel, together is the only way to end poverty. Mary Robinson, Oscar Arias, Hina Jilani, Gareth Evans, Leymah Gbowee, Shirin Ebadi, Vartan Gregorian and George Clooney. The launch event in New York brought together 150 people from the Armenian Diaspora, human rights, business, policy and politics and media communities and was broadcast online to an audience of several thousand people. On launch day Edelman unveiled five language websites, attracted an overwhelming response on social media channels including 12,000 Facebook fans in under 100 hours. It has reached over 21.9 million Twitter users, while the brand film ‘Be Armenian’ has received more than 16,000 views on YouTube. Signature coverage was generated from Australia to Argentina that reached more than 350 million people around the world across key media channels including The New York Times, CNN, Al Jazeera, The Economist, Fox News and the Huffington Post. EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY Our Clients 30 Living Our Values Excellence. Curiosity. Courage. These are just a few of the qualities OUR VALUES we hold dear. And during FY15, we updated and clarified the values we live by to bring these qualities front and center—for our clients, our communities and our colleagues. Edelman’s refined values clearly spell out our commitments, while an accompanying training program shows how they come to life in our decisions, operations and interactions. Our values today reflect a renewed focus on client service, excellence and partnership in today’s world. They honor the 1 2 3 ethics, integrity, excellence and citizenship on which our founder Dan Edelman built this firm more than 60 years ago. We think he THE FREEDOM would proud of our continued evolution. THE RELENTLESS THE COURAGE TO BE PURSUIT OF TO DO CONSTANTLY EXCELLENCE THE RIGHT THING CURIOUS The relentless pursuit The freedom to be The courage to do the of excellence is about constantly curious is right thing is about bringing the best of about having a tenabeing a trusted and ourselves and partners cious and thorough resilient partner for to our clients. approach that drives clients, communities creatively and growth and colleagues. for clients, colleagues and ourselves. EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY Living Our Values 31 Engaging our Stakeholders GRI ASPECTS COVERED: G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21, G4-24, G4-26, AND G4-27 Every year, we review materiality with the input of our stakeholders to make sure we stay focused on the most significant citizenship issues. This not only benefits our annual reporting, but also our ongoing citizenship journey. How We Identified Relevant Aspects How We Collected Input and What We Learned We have made solid progress on some The global citizenship team, with assistance In FY15, we collected feedback from employees and senior leaders around Edelman, as of these aspects during the past 5 years. from local citizenship liaisons, monitors well as from external partners. Through the annual employee citizenship survey sent to For others, such as health and well-being, key risks and opportunities and shares all employees, a smaller survey distributed to those who are specifically engaged with efforts to date have been focused on updates during monthly meetings with citizenship at the local level, and one-on-one interviews, we identified those aspects that are specific offices and markets, and we are Edelman’s Local Citizenship Network and material to our organization, including some that are material within our organization and exploring options for providing further Citizenship Advisory Board. We benchmark some that are material outside our organization. The five aspects we identified as being the employee support globally. our initiatives against other professional most material to our internal and external stakeholders, are: services firms and discuss global trends, Other Relevant Aspects determining all the relevant topics that At the same time, our efforts continue make up Edelman’s citizenship efforts 1. Business Ethics 4. Diversity and Opportunity on other issues that are relevant to around the world. • Operating in keeping with our • Fostering employee diversity our business and our stakeholders, values and in compliance with all and inclusion in the workplace but represent baseline expectations. Who We Consulted and Why applicable laws • Promoting supplier diversity These include implementing effective As a professional services firm, our and responsible/sustainable environmental policies and a sustainable more than 5,500 employees are key 2. Health and Well-Being purchasing purchasing policy. Both are discussed in stakeholders. We also rely on the local • Supporting the health and this report. market knowledge of senior leaders in each holistic wellness of Edelman Edelman region (e.g., general managers, people around the world 5. Community Engagement managing directors, regional CEOs) and the • Helping employees make the functional expertise of senior leaders in most of opportunities to give 3. Training and Development back to the communities where our key service areas and operations (e.g., • Providing employees with public affairs, creative strategy, internal they live and work, through opportunities for training that hands-on service and pro bono communications, and corporate strategy). enables career growth as well professional support Externally, NGO partners, clients in as responsible and meaningful various sectors, academics from leading service for our clients universities and journalists who specialize in sustainability provide valuable feedback on emerging citizenship trends, Edelman’s performance and recommendations for improvements or new initiatives. See also Appendix D for more information on our stakeholder engagement process EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY Engaging Our Stakeholders 32 Material Aspects Business Ethics Diversity & Inclusion INCREASING CONCERN TO EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS Employee Health & Well-Being Supplier Diversity Employee Training & Development Sustainable Purchasing Pro-bono Initiatives Volunteerism Data Privacy & Information Security Community Involvement Carbon Footprint Green Office Policies INCREASING CONCERN TO EDELMAN EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY Material Aspects 33 Appendix A: GRI G4 Content Index GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES General Standard Disclosures Page or Direct Answer Description STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 From Our CEO (page 1) Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the From Our Corporate Responsibility Director (page 2) organization (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about relevance of sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability. G4-2 2015 Citizenship Performance Summary (page 4) Provide a description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities (including summary table of targets and progress against targets) ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Daniel J. Edelman Holdings Report the name of the organization. G4-4 edelman.com/who-we-are/practices-specialties-dje Report the primary brands, products, and services. G4-5 Chicago & New York Report the location of the organization’s headquarters. G4-6 edelman.com/global-network Report the number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has significant organizations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4-7 edelman.com/who-we-are Report the nature of ownership and legal form G4-8 edelman.com/what-we-do Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries). G4-9 edelman.com/who-we-are Report the scale of the organization, including • Total numbers of employees • Total number of operations • Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues ( for public sector organizations) • Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations) • Quantity of products or services provided EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY Appendix A 34 Appendix A: GRI G4 Content Index General Standard Disclosures Page or Direct Answer Description ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-10 Our People (page 11) a) Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender; b) Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender; c) Report the total workforce by region and gender; d) Report whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who are legally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors; e) and any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agriculture industries) G4-11 No employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. G4-12 Our Clients (page 28) Describe the organization’s supply chain. G4-13 edelman.com/who-we-are/practices-specialties-dje Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain, including: • Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings and expansions • Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations) • Changes in the location of the supplier, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationship with suppliers, including selection and termination. G4-14 Edelman supports the precautionary approach as described in the United Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is Nations Rio Declaration but, as a professional services firm, its application addressed by the organization. is not relevant to our business. G4-15 Our communities (page 25) List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses. EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY Appendix A 35 Appendix A: GRI G4 Content Index General Standard Disclosures Page or Direct Answer Description ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-16 Our communities (page 25) List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations in which the organization: • Holds a position on the governance body; • Participates in projects or committees; • Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; and • Views membership as strategic. IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 edelman.com/who-we-are a) List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. b) Report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. G4-18 Engaging Our Stakeholders (page 32) a) Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries. b) Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. G4-19 Engaging Our Stakeholders (page 33) List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content. G4-20 Engaging Our Stakeholders (page 32) For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization, as follows: • Report whether the Aspect is material within the organization. • If the Aspect is not material for all entities within the organization (as described in G4-17), select one of the following two approaches and report either: -The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspect is not material; or -The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspects are material • Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organization. EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY Appendix A 36 Appendix A: GRI G4 Content Index General Standard Disclosures Page or Direct Answer Description IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-21 Engaging Our Stakeholders (page 32) For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization, as follows: • Report whether the Aspect is material outside the organization; • If the Aspect is material outside the organization, identify the entities, groups of entities or elements for which the Aspect is material. In addition, describe the geographical location where the Aspect is material for the entities identified; and • Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary outside the organization. G4-22 We restated our Women in Leadership positions from ‘level 4 and above’ Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in as mentioned in last year’s report, to the positions of GCRMs, Global previous reports and the reasons for such restatements. Practice Leaders and members of the Global Management Team and Executive Committee, as defined by the GWEN network. G4-23 edelman.com/who-we-are/practices-specialties-dje Report significant changes from previous reporting Periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 • Engaging Our Stakeholders (page 32) Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization • Appendix D: Stakeholder Engagement (page 46) G4-25 Engaging Our Stakeholders (page 32) Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. G4-26 • Engaging Our Stakeholders (page 32) Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, • Appendix D: Stakeholder Engagement (page 46) including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. G4-27 • Engaging Our Stakeholders (page 32) Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through • Appendix D: Stakeholder Engagement (page 46) stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY Appendix A 37 Appendix A: GRI G4 Content Index General Standard Disclosures Page or Direct Answer Description REPORT PROFILE G4-28 FY15 (July 1, 2014-June 30, 2015) for all information except Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information environmental data, which is FY14. provided. G4-29 FY14 (July 1, 2013-June 30, 2014) Date of most recent previous report (if any). G4-30 Annual Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). G4-31 Citizenship@edelman.com Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. G4-32 Edelman is reporting in accordance with the Core option. This year’s report a) Report the “in accordance” option the organization has chosen. also includes additional information related to ethics and integrity— b) Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option. as well as some additional indicators—but does not comprehensively c) Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report on all indicators related to identified material aspects. report has been externally assured. GRI recommends the use of external assurance, but it is not a requirement to be “in accordance” with the Guidelines. G4-33 Edelman has not sought assurance for the data presented in this report. a) Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard We evaluate the relevance and value of assurance annually and may to seeking external assurance for the report. choose to have some or all of our performance data assured in the future. b) If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. c) Report the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. d) Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. . EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY Appendix A 38 Appendix A: GRI G4 Content Index General Standard Disclosures Page or Direct Answer Description GOVERNANCE G4-34 edelman.com/who-we-are/people Report the governance structure of the organization, including In addition to Edelman’s board of directors the firm is managed by an committees of the highest governance body. Identify any committees Executive Committee who oversees the execution of the firm’s strategy. responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and This group also enlists the support of individuals who serve in a variety of social impacts. capacities whether via the Operations Committee or Strategy Committee. Members of these committees are responsible for Edelman’s citizenship performance in a variety of ways. Geographically, Edelman’s operations are managed through five regions: Europe & the Commonwealth of Independent States; Asia Pacific, Middle East and Africa (APACMEA); Latin America; Canada; and the United States. Each region operates under the leadership of its own president and chief financial officer. Managing directors oversee strategy, service and operations in each of our 65 offices around the world. ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Our Clients (page 31) Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms edelman.com/who-we-are/about-us/ of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics edelman.com/who-we-are/code-of-ethics-and-business-conduct/ G4-57 Employees can seek advice on business ethics from Edelman’s Global Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on Compliance Officer, who in turn can elevate questions, as needed, to the ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational Edelman Ethics Committee, which includes experienced leaders from integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. around the company. Employees can also elevate questions using the Listen-Up Helpline, a 24-hour, confidential and/or anonymous reporting service available by phone or online. edelman.com/who-we-are/code-of-ethics-and-business-conduct/ G4-58 Employees can raise questions directly with human resources or Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting management or communicate questions, concerns, complaints or concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters allegations made in good faith without fear of retaliation or reprisals related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line through the Global Compliance Officer, the Office of the General Counsel management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. and the Listen-Up Helpline, a 24-hour, confidential and/or anonymous reporting service available by phone or online. edelman.com/who-we-are/code-of-ethics-and-business-conduct/ EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY Appendix A 39 Appendix A: GRI G4 Content Index SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Material Aspects DMA and Indicators Page or direct Answer Ommissions CATEGORY: ECONOMIC Economic G4-EC1 The total global revenue of Edelman in FY15 was $833 million. Not applicable performance (Direct economic See section Our Communities for our community investments (page 20) value generated and distributed) CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Materials G4-EN1 Non-renewable materials used: Data for other non-renewable and renewable materials used is not (Materials used by Copy paper purchased for office use: 79 tons (Material weight estimated available. weight or volume) based on assumption that all paper weigh 80 gram/sq. meter, unless In FY16 we will start implementing our environmental working specified by local offices). group’s recommendations, starting with a recycling and composting pilot programs in several offices. These programs will also address data tracking. Materials G4-EN2 58% of copy paper purchased had post-consumer recycled content by Not applicable (Percentage of weight (material weight estimated based on the assumption that all materials used that paper weighs 80 grams/sq. meter, unless specific by local offices). are recycled input materials) Energy G4-EN3 Fuels: Electricity: (Energy Diesel: 928GJ Electricity consumption is 34,057 GJ. Edelman does not produce its consumption Petrol: 2,704GJ own electricity. The source of the energy is dependent on the fuel within the Natural gas: 957GJ mix of the local electric utility and regional differences. Portion of organization) purchased electricity produced from renewable resources is not Total Energy Consumption: 38,646 GJ available. Please see Appendix B –GHG Emissions Reporting Methodology and Heating consumption – N/A Environmental Metrics for more information. Cooling consumption – N/A Steam consumption – N/A No energy was sold. EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY Appendix A 40 Appendix A: GRI G4 Content Index Material Aspects DMA and Indicators Page or direct Answer Ommissions Water G4-EN8 Water consumption data includes water purchase records from 13 Not applicable (Total water Edelman offices, amounting to a partial water consumption footprint of withdrawal by 50,364 cubic meters in FY13/14: Abu Dhabi, Berlin, Brussels, Dubai, source) Jakarta, Kuala Lumpur, Los Angeles, Milan, Sacramento, Shanghai, Silicon Valley, Singapore, and Warsaw. The lack of metering data and water purchase records from the majority of the offices imposed significant data limitation for the calculation of total water consumption. Emissions G4-EN15 Gross direct GHG emissions (Scope 1): 308 tons CO2e Not applicable (Direct greenhouse Gases included in the calculation: gas (GHG) emissions CO2:307 tons CO2e (Scope 1)) CH4: 0 tons CO2e N2O: 1 ton CO2e There were no biogenic emissions. See Appendix B– GHG Emissions Reporting Methodology and Environmental Metrics for more information (page 44) Emissions G4-EN16 Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2): 4,462 tons CO2e Not applicable (Energy indirect Gases included in the calculation: greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. U.S.: (Scope 2)) CO2:2,599 tons CO2e CH4: 2 tons CO2e N2O: 10 tons CO2e U.K.: CO2:246 tons CO2e CH4: 0 tons CO2e 2O: 2 tons CO2e Other countries: CO2: 1,603 tons CO2e Base year (FY10/11) indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2): 3,473 tons CO2e Please see Appendix B – GHG Emissions Reporting Methodology and Environmental Metrics for more information (page 44) EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY Appendix A 41 Appendix A: GRI G4 Content Index Material Aspects DMA and Indicators Page or direct Answer Ommissions Emissions G4-EN17 Gross other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3): Not applicable (Other indirect 12,763 tons CO2e (only CO2 was included in the calculation) greenhouse gas There were no biogenic emissions. (GHG) emissions Business Air Travel: 12,574 tons CO2e (Scope 3)) Copy Paper Purchase: 189 tons CO2e Base year (FY10/11) gross other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3): 12,476 tons CO2e Business Air Travel: 12,135 tons CO2e Copy Paper Purchase: 341 tons CO2e Please see Appendix B – GHG Emissions Reporting Methodology and Environmental Metrics for more information (page 44) Emissions G4-EN18 3.37 tCO2e/FTE Not applicable (Greenhouse gas All – Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 3 gases (CO2, CH4, and N2O) (GHG) emissions are included. intensity) Please see Appendix B – GHG Emissions Reporting Methodology and Environmental Metrics for more information (page 44) CATEGORY: SOCIAL Sub-category: Labor practices and decent work Occupational Health G4-LA7 As a professional service firm our employees generally not involved in Not applicable and Safety (Workers with high occupational activities that have a high incidence of or high risk of incidence or high risk specific physical diseases. However we will increase our efforts to of disease related to address and measure possible mental diseases (e.g. high stress levels). their occupation) Training and G4-LA9 Our People (Page 8) Not applicable Education (Average hours of training per year per employee, by gender and by employee category) EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY Appendix A 42 Appendix A: GRI G4 Content Index Material Aspects DMA and Indicators Page or direct Answer Ommissions Training and G4-LA10 Our People (page 8-9) Not applicable Education (Programs for skills edelman.com/careers-and-culture/ management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings) Training and G4-LA11 All review-eligible, global employees receive performance reviews to Not applicable Education (Percentage of provide them with regular opportunities to assess career direction and employees receiving receive feedback and direction. This is managed through a sophisticated regular performance career tracking software tool. and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category) Diversity and Equal G4-LA12 Our People (page 11) Not applicable Opportunity (Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity) EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY Appendix A 43 Appendix A: GRI G4 Content Index Material Aspects DMA and Indicators Page or direct Answer Ommissions Sub-Category: Society Local Communities G4-SO1 100% Not applicable Percentage of All Edelman employees can take paid time off to volunteer and all 65 operations with Edelman offices participate in community engagement in meaningful, implemented local locally relevant ways. community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs) Local Communities G4-SO2 Edelman operations do not have a negative impact on local communities. Not applicable (Operations with Around the world, our business supports local economies through jobs significant actual and that provide competitive pay and benefits, employee training and potential negative development, use of local subconsultants and suppliers, and volunteering impacts on local and/or philanthropic support. communities Anti-corruption G4-SO3 All Edelman operations are assessed for corruption-related risks. Not applicable (Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified) Anti-corruption G4-SO4 Our Clients/Business Ethics (page 27) Not applicable (Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures) EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY Appendix A 44 Appendix B: GHG Emissions Reporting Methodology & Environmental Metrics GRI ASPECTS COVERED: G4-EN3, G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN17 GHG Emissions Reporting Methodology Operational Boundary The greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions information in this report was prepared in accordance The GHG emissions calculated include Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions that were reported with the World Resources Institute/World Business Council for Sustainable Development for operations within the organizational boundary defined. Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, Revised Edition. The GHG accounting and reporting standard are referred to as the GHG Protocol in this document. Operational Boundaries Emission Source To calculate the energy consumption within the organization, we collected primary usage Scope 1 Mobile fuel combustion: Diesel and petrol fuel use data to calculate GHG emissions through the application of relevant GHG emission factors. Direct GHG Emissions The primary data obtained from electricity bills, fuel and paper purchase records, and flight Stationary fuel combustion: Natural gas, gas oil and heating oil fuel use ticket information is collected via web based carbon data management software. A proxy built from average office electricity usage is applied to calculate GHG emissions only to cases Scope 2 Purchased electricity consumption where actual metering data is not available. There are 18 offices that have been applied a Energy indirect GHG Emissions proxy, in which the estimated electricity consumption (kWh/sq.m/month) is 9.47. Edelman’s business air travel data comes from a combination of internal booking receipts, Scope 3 Staff business air travel data provided by external travel agent as part of the company’s airline procurement process Other indirect GHG and flight itinerary records. Emissions Office copy paper use Supporting documents, such as copies of purchase invoices, are maintained by local offices for internal data verifications. At the time of the footprint calculations, invoices were checked against the input data based on sampling for electricity, fuel and paper purchase to ensure data accuracy. Raw data and emissions calculation tools are properly documented and archived for future reference. We used two source for conversion factors: • Global Reporting Initiative (2000-2006) Version 3.0. G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. • “Compendium of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Estimation Methodologies for the Oil and Gas Industry,” American Petroleum Institute, 2001 – GHG Protocol – Mobile Guide v1.3 (2005) Organizational Boundary and Reporting Period The organizational boundary of the GHG inventory is determined based on operational control approach in accordance with the GHG Protocol. The inventory accounts for 100% of GHG emissions of business activities and operations in which Edelman has direct operational control and the full authority to introduce and implement its operating policies. The current GHG inventory thus accounts for the GHG emissions of Edelman’s operations for FY14. Edelman operates more than 60 offices in 26 countries and 5 regions: Edelman U.S.; Canada; Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA); Asia Pacific (AP); and Latin America. GHG emissions from 55 local offices were reported for fiscal year 2013/14. EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY Appendix B 45 Appendix B: GHG Emissions Reporting Methodology & Environmental Metrics GHG Quantification Methodology and Emissions Factors GHG emission data is reported in both absolute and normalized values. The number of full-time All GHG emissions include three of the six greenhouse gases covered by the Kyoto Protocol equivalent (FTE) employees at fiscal year-end (i.e., June 30, 2014) is used to calculated carbon carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4) and nitrous oxide (N2O). Hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), intensity (CO2e/FTE). It covers permanent full-time and part-time employees only (interns, perfluorocarbons (PFCs), and sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) are omitted from our reporting as trainees, contractors, and temporary employee are excluded). However, FTE also accounts for they are not a material source of GHGs for the company. the four offices excluded in the GHG inventory as the data quality of these offices is deemed to be Edelman’s GHG emissions are calculated by multiplying activity data with the published insignificant of Edelman’s total global footprint. emissions factor. GHG emissions from multiple gases are standardized to a carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) by applying the corresponding Global Warming Potential (GWP). The general Base Year GHG Emissions and Recalculation calculation formula and global warming potentials used are: The GHG emissions for FY11 were set as the base year for comparing our emissions performance over time. It is the first year for which emissions data is available. The base Total GHG emissions (mtCO2e) = Esources (Activity data x Emission factor x GWP) year GHG emissions apply to Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 3 emissions associated with staff business air travel and office copy paper use. During the base year, gross direct GHG emissions GHG Global Warming Potential Reference (Scope 1) were 289 tons CO2e. (GWP) Carbon Dioxide 1 Second Assessment Report published by Data Collection and Reporting Tools (CO2) Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Primary data is used to calculate GHG emissions through the application of relevant GHG emission Methane (CH4) 21 factors. The primary data obtained from electricity bills, fuel and paper purchase records, and flight ticket information is collected via web-based carbon data management software. A proxy Nitrous Oxide (N2O) 310 built from average office electricity usage is applied to calculate GHG emissions only in cases where actual metering data is not available. There are 18 offices that have been applied a proxy, Published emission factors were identified for all emission sources. They specify the volume of in which the estimated electricity consumption is 9.47 kWh/sq.m/month. emissions per unit of activity. Edelman’s business air travel data comes from a combination of internal booking receipts, data provided by external travel agents as part of the company’s airline procurement process, and Emission Source Source of Emission Factor flight itinerary records. Scope 1 – Global GHG Protocol (Apr 20a14). WRI Emission Factors from Cross-Sector Tools Supporting documents, such as copies of purchase invoices, were maintained by local offices (Apr 2014). for internal data verification. At the time of the footprint calculations, invoices were checked Defra (2014). 2014 Guidelines to Defra / DECC’s GHG Conversion Factors against the input data based on sampling for electricity, fuel, and paper purchases. Raw data for Company Reporting; Table 6a & 7a, Burning oil and emissions calculation tools are properly documented and archived for future reference. Scope 2 – U.S. US Environmental Protection Agency eGRID2014. Most recent year: 2010. Scope 2 – U.K. Defra GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (2014). Scope 2 – Other International Energy Agency CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion, CO2 emissions per kWh from electricity generation (revised Mar 2013) Scope 3 Air Travel – Defra GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (2013). In line with Global international good practice, a Radiative Forcing Index (RFI) multiplier of 1.9 is used to represent the impact of non-CO2 gases from aviation when calculating emissions from flights Scope 3 Paper – Environmental Paper Network Paper Calculator Version 3.2 Global EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY Appendix B 46 Appendix C: Global Emissions & Carbon Intensity Global emissions by scope and carbon intensity (FY11 – FY14) Emission Source (mtCO2e) FY14 % of Total FY13 % of Total FY12 % of Total FY11 % of Total % Change % Change (base year) FY14 vs FY14 vs FY13 FY11 (base year) Scope 1 (Direct emissions) Mobile fuel combustion 263 1.5% 332 1.8% 297 1.7% 191 1.2% -20.7% 37.4% Stationary fuel combustion 45 0.3% 71 0.4% 67 0.4% 97 0.6% -36.4% -53.9% Gross Scope 1 emissions 308 402 364 289 -23.4% 6.6% Scope 2 (Energy Indirect Emissions) Purchased electricity consumption 4,462 25.4% 4,123 22.2% 3989 22.5% 3,473 21.4% 8.2% 28.5% Gross Scope 2 Emissions 4,462 4,123 3989 3,473 8.2% 28.5% Scope 3 (Other Indirect Emissions) Staff business air travel 12,574 71.7% 13,836 74.3% 13,044 73.7% 12,135 74.7% -9.1% 3.6% Office copy paper use 189 1.1% 253 1.4% 304 1.7% 341 2.1% -25.3% -44.6% Gross Scope 3 Emissions 12,763 14,089 13,347 12,476 -9.4% 2.3% Total Gross Emissions 17,533 18,614 17,701 16,237 -5.8% 8.0% Full-time equivalent (FTE) employee 5,204 4,971 4,488 4,015 4.7% 29.6% Carbon Intensity per FTE 3.37 3.74 3.94 4.04 -10.0% -16.7% Global emissions by scope and carbon intensity (FY11 – FY14) Region (mtCO2e) FY14 % of Total FY13 % of Total FY12 % of Total FY11 % of Total % Change % Change (base year) FY14 vs FY14 vs FY13 FY11 (base year) US 263 1.5% 332 1.8% 297 1.7% 191 1.2% -20.7% 37.4% Europe, Middle East, Africa (AMEA) 45 0.3% 71 0.4% 67 0.4% 97 0.6% -36.4% -53.9% Asia Pacific 308 402 364 289 -23.4% 6.6% Canada 4,462 25.4% 4,123 22.2% 3989 22.5% 3,473 21.4% 8.2% 28.5% Latin America 4,462 4,123 3989 3,473 8.2% 28.5% Grand Total 12,574 71.7% 13,836 74.3% 13,044 73.7% 12,135 74.7% -9.1% 3.6% EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY Appendix C 47 Appendix D: Stakeholder Engagement GRI INDICATORS COVERED: G4-24, G4-26, G4-27 BY THE NUMBERS: FISCAL YEAR 2015 STAKEHOLDER INPUT Stakeholder Group Who Methodology Internal All Employees 1,176 respondents Annual online global citizenship survey Global Managing Directors 24 respondents Online citizenship ranking of aspects Senior Leaders 31 Edelman executives, including the CEO, CFO, Phone interviews and COO External Clients, Academics, NGOs, Media 14 representatives from: Phone interviews • Kellogg Company • Johnson & Johnson • Symantec • University of Maryland • Stanford Center on Philanthropy and Civil Society • Presidio Graduate School • University of Chicago • Boston College Center for Corporate Citizenship The Nature Conservancy • Conservation International • CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) • GreenBiz • Undisclosed organization • Undisclosed organization EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY Appendix D 48 Appendix D: Stakeholder Engagement WHAT WE HEARD AND WHAT WE’RE DOING Stakeholder Group Top Aspects Identified Our Response Employees (Global Citizenship Survey) Health and Well-being • Developed a global survey to identify existing regional well-being programs in place and assess feasibility of a global approach. Action plan to be developed in FY16. Training and Development • Launched robust Edelman Learning Institute modules on communications marketing and other topics in FY15 and continue with new modules in FY16 • Refined our career pathing program • Evolved our Client Leadership Academy to include an even greater focus on serving and advocating for clients Community Engagement • Continuing to provide paid time off for volunteering • Continuing our Community Investment Grant Program Environmental Policies • We implemented an environmental working group since half of our employees • In FY16 we will start implementing the working group’s recommendations, starting with a recycling and composting pilot programs in several offices. Senior Leaders Diversity and Inclusion • Refining our approach to workplace diversity, with U.S. operations as a pilot and model • Evolving our sustainable purchasing and supplier diversity initiatives in FY16 Training and Development See above Community Engagement See above Business Ethics • Refined our core values to more clearly and succinctly articulate expectations • Continued refining our enterprise risk management process • Launched new workplace behavior learning modules for employees • Continued compliance and ethics training for all employees, with specialized training for selected positions EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY Appendix D 49 Appendix D: Stakeholder Engagement WHAT WE HEARD AND WHAT WE’RE DOING Stakeholder Group Top Aspects Identified Our Response External Partners Business Ethics • This was defined as the clients selected, the type of work done for clients, and the way employees are trained to conduct business on behalf of Edelman and our clients. • Since our founding, Edelman has been selective about the types of organizations we will support and services we will provide; our employee ethics, compliance, anti-corruption, and other training detail the company’s expectations for employee behavior. Diversity and Opportunity • Diversity in both race and income was perceived as a topical subject in the U.S. today, with a strong business case for filling the pipeline at all levels in a globalized world. • In FY15, Edelman U.S. began moving forward with a refocused diversity and inclusion strategy that we will assess for applicability in other parts of the world as well. Employee Health and Well-Being • Healthy, happy employees were seen as Edelman’s competitive advantage and treating them well was seen as closely tied to business ethics. • A variety of Edelman people programs currently support employee well-being, and in FY16, we will evaluate existing wellness programs to determine how best to provide holistic support going forward. Community Engagement See above EDELMAN 2015 CITIZENSHIP REPORT > CHANGING TOMORROW’S STORY Appendix D 50
