GRUNDFOS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2015 2 / GRUNDFOS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2015 GRUNDFOS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2015 / 3 INDEX Introduction This is Grundfos..................................................................................................................4 Sustainability efforts bear fruit .......................................................................................5 Sustainability focus area status Sustainable product solutions.......................................................................................6-7 People competences ..................................................................................................... 8-9 Environmental footprint........................................................................................... 10-11 Workplace................................................................................................................... 12-13 Community................................................................................................................. 14-15 Responsible business conduct.................................................................................. 16-17 Reporting policy Reporting principles................................................................................................... 20-23 Performance overview.............................................................................................. 24-25 4 / GRUNDFOS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2015 This is Grundfos Grundfos Holding A/S significant reductions in energy and water Grundfos Holding A/S is a pump manufacturer which consumption. offers sustainable pump solutions to the market. Today, Grundfos is a one of the world’s leading pump manufacturers with an annual production of more Business areas than 16 million pump units. Furthermore, Grundfos is Grundfos operates in many different markets and the largest manufacturer of circulator pumps covering offers pump solutions for a number of different approx. 50% of the world market. purposes. One important business area for Grundfos is buildings, and we focus on delivering all the types of Our goal is to be a global leader within advanced pump solutions that are required. These solutions are pump solutions and a trendsetter in water mainly pumps for heating, air-conditioning, fire technologies. We want to contribute to a more protection, water supply and wastewater. They are sustainable world by developing pioneering used in large buildings such as hotels, hospitals, technologies to improve quality of life for people and shopping malls and in smaller buildings such as onetake care of the planet. and two-family houses. Another business area for Grundfos is water. Grundfos Products provides pump solutions to e.g. water plants, waste­ Our range of efficient and reliable pump solutions water plants and agriculture. is continuously extended. Comprehensive know-how and intensive research and product development Also, we focus on pump solutions for industrial allow us to develop new trendsetting products, which customers. We focus on a number of different meet the increasing demand for better energy industries; some are specific, such as the water efficiency and reduced environmental impact. industry, but we also focus on providing pump solutions for industries in general. Our main products include circulator pumps for heating and air-conditioning as well as other centrifugal pumps for industry use, water supply, A global company sewage and dosing. In addition to pumps and pump Grundfos is a global company with almost 18,000 systems, Grundfos develops, produces and sells employees, working in more than 80 companies. energy-efficient motors and advanced electronics. Headquarters are located in Bjerringbro, Denmark. We have production and sales companies in all regions of Built-in electronics make our pumps intelligent and the world, and we are present in more than 50 mean that they can determine the need for water and countries. adapt their performance accordingly. This leads to GRUNDFOS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2015 / 5 Sustainability efforts bear fruit Sustainability is a very important part of Grundfos’ DNA, Verifiable improvements and has been the basis for the way we conduct our As the basis for this report, we have identified ambition business from the very beginning. We take responsibility levels and objectives for the six focus areas, included in for contributing to global sustainability by pioneering our sustainability work: Sustainable Product Solutions, technologies that improve quality of life for people and People Competences, Environmental Footprint, care for the planet, perfectly in line with our purpose – Workplace, Community and Responsible Business to be a global leader in advanced pump solutions and a Conduct. Where possible, we have clear key performance trendsetter in water technology. indicators in place as well. In addition, sustainability is a strong innovation and This has put us in a position, where we can document an business driver for us. immediate, direct and measurable improvement on key sustainability indicators. However, it has also enabled us to identify areas, where we need to improve. Benefitting from ambitions This Grundfos Sustainability Progress Report 2015 reveals In this report, you can read about our progress in 2015 that we ourselves are benefitting from our ambitions, within all six focus areas. while contributing to sustainable development. During 2015, we have reduced our CO2 emission by 7%, energy consumption by 3% and our water consumption by 2% Reporting commitments compared to 2014. This is due to the track of our Reporting on sustainability is part of our long-lasting decisions about never emitting more CO2 than in 2008, cooperation with the United Nations, as Grundfos has and reducing our water consumption by 50% before supported the UN Global Compact and its ten principles 2025. since 2002. Furthermore, we support Caring for Climate and the CEO Water Mandate as part of our commitment As Grundfos wants to be recognized as a company to the UN Global Compact. conducting responsible business, we have performed pilot projects in five countries in the area of Human The Grundfos Sustainability Progress Report 2015 Rights in 2015. This will show us the specific areas we functions as our Communication on Progress (COP). I need to work on and assist us in defining how to manage hope that you will enjoy reading it. Feel free to visit our impact going forward. www.grundfos.com/sustainability for more information. At Grundfos, we strive to have an attractive and safe workplace where Grundfos employees thrive, and last Karen Touborg, year we were proud that injuries in the workplace had Group Senior Director, been reduced. However, 2015 sent us back, as the ratio of Environment, Health and Safety lost times injuries increased by 10%, compared to 2014. This development has already been turned, and in 2016 we will continue to demand better results within this area. As it appears from these examples of our sustainability achievements from 2015, this report not only shows positive results, but also exposes room for improvement. 6 / GRUNDFOS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2015 Sustainable product solutions Every day, the world faces major challenges, such as climate change and resource scarcity. At Grundfos, we strive to help solve these challenges. We do so by delivering some of the most energy-efficient circulator pump solutions on the market, by producing solutions to help water-related problems and by improving the design and production phase of our solutions. help customers reduce their negative impact on the environment and in some cases create opportunities for providing water to people where it was not possible before. Grundfos Demand Driven Distribution is an intelligent solution where water wasted during distribution is minimised. Another example is Grundfos BioBooster. The BioBooster system enables customers to have decentralised wastewater treatment with water re-use. During COP21 in Paris, another Grundfos solution was in focus. The Grundfos LifeLink solution was honoured with the United Nations Climate Change Award, for its Sustainable solutions approach to sustainable water supply in Kenya and For many years, Grundfos has been producing energyUganda. efficient circulator pumps. Besides giving a competitive advantage, we at Grundfos believe that by constantly improving and innovating our solutions we Design and product development can help our customers and partners reduce their Sustainability is something Grundfos believes should be energy consumption. By 2015, sales of high efficiency an integrated part of doing business; and this includes Grundfos circulator pumps in the EU from 2005 to the design and product development phase. We aim to 2015, means accumulated savings of 4.5 billion kWh incorporate environmental and social consideration to an per year. This corresponds to the annual electricity even greater extent during the various stages in product consumption of 1,000,000 European households. development in 2016. To facilitate this integration, we have developed a Sustainable Product Solution Toolbox, However, it is not only in relation to energy consumption which aims at enabling life-cycle thinking based on ecoGrundfos makes a difference. Our water solutions also design best practices. GRUNDFOS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2015 / 7 4.5 billion 3.5 billion 2.8 billion 2013 2014 2015 High efficiency circulator pumps – electricity saved (kWh per year) Take back systems Securing our License to Operate In order to reduce the environmental impact across With increasing demands from regulatory bodies, our value chain, Grundfos has taken initial steps to international standards and customers, Grundfos used establish takeback systems with our partners. Our 2014 and 2015 to prepare the implementation of pilot efforts in Denmark are ongoing but we are standards, including the new ISO14001 standard. We observing an increasing trend in the takeback of small will continue this in 2016, by further strengthening circulators. In line with our social commitment to our processes to ensure we live up to changing employee people with reduced working capabilities, standards before they become mandatory. With a key the returned products are manually disassembled and Grundfos value being open and trustworthy, this is the different fractions are remanufactured or truly a license to operate for Grundfos. recycled. Returned pumps Year from partners (kg.) 2013 1906 2014 2093 2015 6057 8 / GRUNDFOS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2015 People compete Being a successful and sustainable business means that you have to adapt to the surrounding environment and ensure a continuous development. This is of course also the situation for Grundfos. The key element in this journey is our employees. We have a responsibility to develop our employees personally and professionally to ensure personal growth and to sustain an innovative and sustainable business. Employee development In Grundfos, we have our own training academy. Named after our founder, the Poul Due Jensen Academy provides the framework and the ideal setting for our employees to develop their competencies. From specific sales courses to more general leadership courses, the academy brings together hundreds of Grundfos employees each year. It is the aim at Grundfos that each whiteand blue-collar employee should complete an EDD (Employee Development Dialogue) each year. In 2015, 47% of our blue-collar workers and 70% of white-collar workers had an EDD registered in our People Portal (SAP), which is an 2013 2014 2015 Employee Development Dialogue – blue-collar N/A* 36 % 47 % Employee Development Dialogue – white-collar N/A* 66 % 70 % * Data from 2013 is not comparable to 2014 and 2015, due to change in data source. See more at page 23. GRUNDFOS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2015 / 9 nces increase from 2014. It should be noted that a significant 700 leaders attending have been facilitating strategy but unknown number of EDDs were held but just not sessions with the rest of the leadership population in the registered in the system. For 2016, the EDD process has company. This has provided a strong foundation for the been merged with the annual process for setting and continued deployment of the Strategy 2020. evaluating goals in the new Performance & Development Dialogue (PDD). Two elements of the PDD are worth highlighting in the context of employee development Sustainable mind-set through Water2Life and motivation. Firstly, each goal is linked to a high-level Our employee programme Water2Life provides access to Strategy 2020 goal so employees see how their goals fit clean drinking water for poor people in developing into the bigger picture. Secondly, the objective of the countries. The purpose of Water2Life goes beyond dialogue is to set short-term and longer-term providing clean drinking water; Water2Life also builds a development and learning goals that will equip the sustainable mind-set among employees and generates employee for success in reaching performance goals and an engagement for acting for a better world. Grundfos career aspirations. To better support this process, the employees around the world arrange events and People Portal is moving from the existing SAP platform happenings in their local companies, encouraging to a new, best-in-class HR information system, Success colleagues to donate to Water2Life. Grundfos doubles Factors that is recognised for higher user adoption. This the amount donated by the employees. may affect data comparisons in 2016. In 2015, this engagement resulted in the establishment of 2015 was also the year Grundfos launched its Strategy four solar driven Grundfos SQflex water systems with 2020. Because of this, a lot of the training organised by Dosing & Disinfection for automatic and precise the Poul Due Jensen Academy was concerned with chlorination of the water in the Mekong Delta in deployment of the new Grundfos Group Strategy 2020. Vietnam. Four small local water enterprises have been More than 700 leaders were involved in hands-on trained as to how to run a good water enterprise and leadership development/training at eight Strategy maintain the water systems, and 9,500 people in four Deployment Sessions in Shanghai, Frankfurt, Chicago, poor communities now have access to clean drinking Singapore and Bjerringbro. Following these sessions, the water in their own households. 10 / GRUNDFOS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2015 Environmental At Grundfos, we want to minimise our environmental footprint. This commitment includes specific focus on our energy and carbon footprint, water footprint, chemical management, as well as the responsible handling of waste. One initiative towards this commitment is working with (Hungary) was the winner of the award. The initiative implementing environmental management systems in focuses on Rain/Grey Water System Extension, which our companies. generates significant water savings. Our target is that all production companies must have the environmental management standard ISO14001. In 2015, 92% of our production companies were certified, Energy and CO2 footprint and we will strive towards reaching 100% by the end of It is our ambition never to emit more CO2 than we did in 2016. Furthermore, 2 of our local companies are ISO50001 2008 in absolute numbers. In 2015, we reduced our CO2 certified. emissions with 7% compared to 2014; meaning a 25% reduction compared to 2008 levels. Grundfos reduces its CO2 emissions mainly through the reduction of energy Future Now Award consumption. During 2015, several energy-reduction Since 2009, each year Group Management at Grundfos is initiatives have been implemented across our facilities. awarding environmental initiatives with the Future Now Investments include lighting schemes at all our largest Award. The Future Now Award (FNA) is granted to production facilities as well as an extension of our projects, which have proven to reduce environmental symbiotic partnership with Bjerringbro district heating at footprint though an innovative approach and with great our headquarters and largest production facility. In 2015 impact. Initiatives within reduction of energy and CO2, we also continued our strategic initiative to replace water and chemicals, were in the competition for the inefficient motors and drives with high-efficient 2015 Award. A project from our production site GMH Grundfos motors. Throughout 2015 we reduced our 132,603 107,616 347,207 99,627 314,966 305,739 2008 2014 2015 2008 2014 2015 CO2 emissions (metric tonnes)* Energy consumption (MWh)* GRUNDFOS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2015 / 11 footprint annual consumption with more than 320 MWh as a continue in 2016. Grundfos has been committed to the result of this initiative. From 2011-2015 our annual energy UN’s CEO Water Mandate since 2012. As a part of our consumption have been reduced with 8000 MWh from commitment, we have collected a series of cases installing energy-efficient Grundfos solutions across our showing how Grundfos Thinks Water Wise. You can global production facilities. These initiatives have find the cases here contributed to a 3% reduction in our total energy http://www.grundfos.com/about-us/sustainabilityconsumption in 2015. This is 12% lower compared to responsibility/water-activities.html 2008. Chemical footprint Water footprint Since 2013, we have been working actively with all our With the water crisis being one of the biggest threats suppliers worldwide to ensure that, besides complying facing the planet over the next decade, we as a with local laws and regulations, they must comply company have a responsibility to reduce our own with the Grundfos Focus List, which is based on water consumption. However, this is not a new thing European chemical legislation. The continued work in Grundfos. Since 2012, our commitment has been to with Product Chemical Compliance covers the whole reduce our water consumption by 50% by 2025, supply chain – starting already with our development compared to 2008. In 2015, water consumption was projects. This is also to ensure a fast response to reduced by 2% compared to 2014, and compared to growing customer requests regarding documentation 2008 the consumption has been reduced by 34%. Local of legal compliance. water initiatives have been central for obtaining this reduced water consumption; from water harvesting projects in Hungary and the UK to water optimisation Waste footprint in toilet, shower and kitchen facilities in China. We have set yearly targets for our production Projects for realising the water reductions will companies (where the impact is most significant) regarding hazardous waste and non-hazardous waste. Different activities are in place across the companies to reach these targets and performance shows that hazardous waste has been reduced from approx. 655,136 60,000 kilos per million working hours in 2014 to approx. 54,000 kilos in 2015, corresponding to a 10% 445,869 435,038 reduction. Non-hazardous waste has been reduced from approx. 108,000 kilos per million working hours to approx. 102,000 kilos in 2015, corresponding to a 6% reduction. 2008 2014 2015 Water usage (m3)* 12 / GRUNDFOS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2015 Workplace At Grundfos, we want a safe and positive physical and psychological work environment, where innovation and personal development can flourish. This includes the safety, health, diversity and well-being of our employees Health and Safety drive local health and safety processes such as risk In 2015 Lost time injuries ratio increased by 10% assessments, safety walks and near-miss assessments. compared to 2014. Absence due to those injuries increased as well, from 0.54 hours per 1000 workhours to We will continue in 2016 to develop health and safety 0.88. There should be no doubt that this is not skills among our employees. With increased focus on acceptable. This is also the reason why we have near-miss reporting, safety walks and accident handling, introduced a new health and safety standard. The we believe that Grundfos can take important steps to standard covers all of Grundfos, including production, become a safer and healthier workplace. sales and service employees working outside Grundfos premises. To ensure that Grundfos employees focus on safety, each company has assigned at least one employee Diversity responsible for health and safety. Through intensive To achieve a truly innovative environment so Grundfos training, the appointed officer has a thorough can maintain its position as a trendsetter within water understanding of Grundfos health and safety standards. technology, we need to have a diverse workforce. This Furthermore, the responsible health and safety officers includes gender equality among managers and non10.21 0.96 0.88 4.57 5.02 0.54 2008 2014 2015 2008 2014 2015 Injuries (per mio. working hours) Lost working hours due to lost time injuries (per thousand working hours) GRUNDFOS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2015 / 13 Danes in executive positions. Our aim is to have 25% female representative in management positions by 2017. In 2015, 20% of managers in Grundfos were female, and we have not progressed as we hoped. We have therefore planned to further integrate diversity into our recruiting process and leadership programmes, to facilitate having a more diverse workforce in Grundfos. Non-Danes in Executive positions made up 41% in 2015. During 2016, we will launch the new People Dashboard, where employees in Grundfos can follow the development of a number of KPI’s, including gender business. Our founder Poul Due Jensen considered this equality and non-Danes in executive positions. With this followed naturally from being part of a community, and dashboard, we wish to communicate openly and his son and successor Niels Due Jensen carried on this transparently according to our values, as we believe that great involvement. It is still very important and present by having a transparent approach we can improve today, with workshops for people with reduced diversity in Grundfos. capabilities situated around the world. In 2015, 4% of our workforce were people employed on special terms. Grundfos wishes to focus more strongly on employees Inclusion on special terms, which is why we, in 2015, initiated a Taking care of people with reduced working capabilities process to reassess the scope and definition of this area, has always been part of the Grundfos way to do and this initiative will continue in 2016. 2013 2014 2015 Female leaders 19 % 20 % 20 % Non-Danes in key group positions* N/A N/A 41 % Employees on special terms 4% 4% 4% *please see Reporting principles on p. 22 for definition and scope 14 / GRUNDFOS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2015 Community At Grundfos, we wish to improve our positive impact on the communities in which we operate. For this reason, many of our companies support their local communities. At Grundfos South Africa for instance, we have our own Another example is Grundfos in China, who supports charity organisation called SACRED (South African vulnerable children, a school for deaf and blind children, Children’s Resources for Education and Development). provides scholarships, and runs smaller activities such as SACRED provides basic education needs to unprivileged giving Christmas presents to poor children. schools in rural areas. Every year, Grundfos South Africa pays school allowances to almost 100 children so that As a global organisation, we also have a responsibility to they can pay school fees, and buy uniforms and help with current crises. This has led to the Grundfos stationery. Other projects under SACRED are vegetable Group donating EUR 70,000 in 2015, to help ease the gardens for feeding programmes, mobile libraries for current refugee situation in Syria and Afghanistan. schools that do not have libraries, a mobile science lab that tours schools every week for extra science lessons, internet access and mobile kitchens. We involve our employees Some local Grundfos companies encourage their employees to donate to local charity, either directly to NGO partners or through fundraising projects like golf days, auctions, or staff pledges. Grundfos India held an event from 27 July to 5 August across all its offices in the country, aimed at inspiring employees to donate to local NGOs, with either cash or other material needed by the NGO. This resulted in employees from Grundfos India donating fans, stationery, clothes, bedsheets, toiletries, fruit and eatables for the benefit of each NGO. In France, Grundfos collaborates with the NGO Hydraulique Sans Frontières on a project in Chad, Africa. The project involves setting up a training center for contractors, so they are able to maintain water systems correctly and systematically. Because of the risk of working in Chad due to civil conflicts, the training is presently being implemented at a distance, and for that GRUNDFOS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2015 / 15 purpose a ”Contractors Guide” has been developed. we give EUR 2 for each kilometer the runner completes. When Hydraulique Sans Frontières needs a pump for Finally, customers and suppliers support the yearly water works in Africa or elsewhere, our technicians help Grundfos golf event for charity in South Africa and are them determine the right pump, provide them with the thus involved in our community support. necessary training and give them a beneficial price on the pump unit. We involve our partners We also try to involve our business partners in our social work. Grundfos France ties donations to the ECSS questionnaires (Yearly Customer Satisfaction Survey), where EUR 5 per returned questionnaire is donated for charity. We inform the customers that when they answer, Grundfos gives EUR 5 to our partner, Hydraulique Sans Frontières. In addition, for those participating in running competitions where Grundfos France is sponsor, 16 / GRUNDFOS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2015 Responsible busi At Grundfos, we believe that being a responsible company is part of doing business. Being a responsible company is a shared responsibility we have across functions and something to which every single employee contributes. To support our employees in complying with the At Grundfos, we also have an independent ethics Grundfos Code of Conduct, we have launched various committee. The ethics committee is responsible for initiatives to help integrate the Code of Conduct in our advising Grundfos Group Management on ethical issues organisation. Furthermore, we are working on and managing claims of potential breaches of the embedding our Human Rights policy and developing our Grundfos Code of Conduct. In addition to that, we also Human Rights due diligence programme. Finally, we have a whistle-blower function, where employees have continue our implementation of our suppliers’ Code of the option to report potential breaches of the Grundfos Conduct. That is what we call Responsible Business Code of Conduct anonymously. Conduct. In 2015, the total number of claims received by the Ethics Committee was 13. Out of the 13 claims received, one, Code of conduct falling under the Conflict of Interest area, was The Grundfos Code of Conduct outlines how we expect determined to be a breach of the Code of Conduct. We our employees to conduct themselves while doing also developed a training programme to strengthen the business on behalf of Grundfos. Today our Code of competencies of the employees conducting Conduct includes 10 topics. investigations into potential breaches of the Grundfos Code of Conduct. To support our employees in complying with the Code of Conduct, we have our Code of Conduct handbook. The handbook is designed to minimise grey areas and present dilemmas our employees run into in everyday business. We also have training modules to enhance the support, and in 2015, we developed a specific training for China inspired by common challenges in that country. This was a joint initiative with our Chinese company, where we trained several employees who can replicate the training in the local language throughout our operations in China. We will replicate this initiative in other countries and regions in the coming years. GRUNDFOS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2015 / 17 ness conduct Claims Breaches Bribery 2 0 Gifts and Entertainment 0 0 forward. For this exercise, we considered the likelihood Fair and Lawful Competition 0 0 of occurrence, and the scale and severity of potential impact. Based on the outcome, we identified initiatives Conflict of Interest 2 1 to be implemented in 2016. Confidentiality 0 0 Being a global company and with operations in more than 65 countries, we need to look at Human rights from Acceptable Accounting 1 0 a local as well as a global perspective. In 2015, we selected five countries (China, Denmark, India, Mexico Human Rights 1 0 and Russia) for a pilot project focusing on incorporating local views and regulations in our due diligence. As part Labour Rights 1 0 of the project, we developed tailored webinars to facilitate key stakeholders with the knowledge and tools Environment 0 0 to assess potential gaps within our current practices and Political Contributions 0 0 the United Nations Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights. Based on this pilot, we will develop a plan Other ethical issues 3 0 to manage Grundfos Human Rights impact in the coming years. Non-ethics related 3 0 Sustainable supplier management Total 13 1 Grundfos wishes to be recognised as a responsible business partner by all external stakeholders, including suppliers. A tool in this process is the Supplier Code of Conduct, which is included in the Group Framework Human rights Agreement. All suppliers who deliver materials directly to In Grundfos, Human Rights are part of our Code of Grundfos must comply with the expectations and Conduct and our commitment to the UN Global requirements of this document. By working with our Compact. In addition to this, we took another step in our suppliers, we can develop a strong relationship, which is Human Rights due diligence programme following the the foundation for constantly improving our business launch of the Grundfos Human Rights policy in 2014. We approach. Our ambition is to be among the best in class conducted a Human Rights mapping exercise in and to achieve this ambition we are in the process of conjunction with BSR, which assisted us as a company in analyzing our current approach, benchmark it against identifying our most salient risks and defining the way industry standards and address the gaps systematically. 18 / GRUNDFOS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2015 Reporting policy GRUNDFOS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2015 / 19 20 / GRUNDFOS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2015 Reporting principles It is important for us to set targets and monitor the system was used for the first time for this yearly development. For the tenth consecutive year, we therefore process. It took a lot of effort not least for the companies provide a report on our sustainability achievements. It is using this for the first time – however it also gave the the ambition of the company to engage in open and result, that for the first time data for energy and water transparent dialogue with our stakeholders by providing a consumption, CO2 emissions and lost time injuries for all fair and balanced picture of Grundfos’ contribution to Grundfos companies was included in the financial annual sustainable development. Furthermore, the Grundfos report. Thereby we no longer have a different company Sustainability Progress Report 2015 serves as a scope in our Annual Report and this Sustainability Progress communication on progress report for the UN Global Report. In both reports all Grundfos companies are Compact framework. included. The sustainability report covers all subsidiaries that are owned and controlled 100% by Grundfos. Companies Process for defining report content acquired during the reporting year are integrated into Our Group Strategy and Sustainability Roadmap are used Grundfos group data at the time of acquisition concerning to prioritise what we report on. Grundfos follows generally finance and HR data. As regards Environmental, Health and accepted accounting and reporting policies. We also use Safety (EHS) data, however, companies that are owned the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) as a yardstick for our more than 50% by Grundfos must report according to the non-financial reporting, however we have not adopted the requirements defined in this Group Standard. Furthermore G4 guidelines. newly acquired companies must report data for the calendar year in which they have been part of Grundfos for Training hours are not reported for 2015, as global six months or more. During 2015 no new companies where (comparable) data is not available for this year. acquired, one company – Grundfos Hilge – was sold per Implementation of new IT system is planned and data will October 1st. be available again later. However, we estimate that the basis for the report is the Key performance indicators on environment, health and same and comparable to last year’s report. Comparison safety have been examined without a statement by an data (historical) for EHS data has been changed in some external partner. cases. It is of great importance to Grundfos that all data is Strategy and stakeholders complete and as accurate as possible. In 2014, Grundfos The topics reported in the Sustainability Progress Report started the implementation of a new sustainability data 2015 reflect our business goals and strategies and are handling system (SAP SuPM) in order to further improve relevant subjects for our stakeholders. The basis for the data quality. The actual use of the system started on identification and selection of the stakeholders with 1 January 2015 when Grundfos production companies whom we engage is established through our strategy began using it to report their monthly EHS data. For the process, where stakeholders are defined and prioritised in 2015 annual reporting including all Grundfos companies a general stakeholder map. Customers, current and GRUNDFOS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2015 / 21 potential employees, opinion leaders, NGOs, governments Processing data and the media are identified as primary stakeholders as 92% of all Group production companies are ISO 14001 regards sustainability issues. certified, and 88% of all production companies are OHSAS 18001 certified. The data collection processes for meeting Grundfos has responded to key topics and concerns these standards serve as a basis for the measurement of through the company’s corporate communication, EHS data. EHS data has been collected, compiled through including the sustainability report. We have developed and SAP and validated by Grundfos’ Group Sustainability manage a number of stakeholder dialogue tools. Examples department. Human resource data has been collected, of this are our employee satisfaction surveys and customer compiled and validated by Grundfos’ HR department using satisfaction surveys, which provide criticism, improvement SAP reports. Financial data is obtained through the Group’s suggestions and satisfaction indicators, and general accounting system. dialogue. Definition of Key Performance Indicators Environmental footprint As in previous years, Grundfos provides reporting on scope 1 and 2; however, the fuel consumption from our own Carbon emissions and energy consumption vehicles is not included in scope 1 emission figures. Data The reporting of our energy consumption and carbon has been collected, but the data processes are to be emissions data is based on the emission calculation factors further improved before including this in the Group report, provided by the IEA (International Energy Agency) and is in not least when looking at comparison years. accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol), which is an internationally acknowledged The sustainability data provides no reporting on scope 3 standard for measuring greenhouse gas emissions emissions. Our data measurement techniques rely on the developed by the World Resources Institute (WRI) and the total energy consumption related to corporate operations. World Business Council for Sustainable Development The carbon footprint gives a general overview of the (WBCSD). company’s CO2 emissions and is based on reported data from the reporting entities. CO2 emissions are measured in The GHG Protocol categorises direct and indirect emissions metric tonnes. Emissions are calculated for all activities in into three broad scopes: Grundfos companies which are included in the reporting scope. • Scope 1: all direct GHG emissions The baseline year for carbon emissions and energy • Scope 2: indirect GHG emissions from consumption of consumption is 2008. purchased electricity, heat and steam For electricity, we use local factors whenever available, if • Scope 3: other indirect emissions, such as the extraction not available we use country specific factors from the IEA and production of purchased materials and fuels, (International Energy Agency). For heat and steam, we use transport-related activities in vehicles not owned or local factors whenever available, if not available then we controlled by the reporting entity, electricity-related use the factor from the largest Danish production activities (e.g. T&D losses) not covered by scope 2, company (“GBJ”). This CO2 factor for heat and steam is outsourced activities, waste disposal, etc. close to the global average. 22 / GRUNDFOS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2015 Please note that comparison figures for year 2008 had Sustainable product solutions minor adjustments since first reported. This is due to High efficiency circulator pumps enhanced data measurement, reporting measurement and – electricity saved reporting process. The adjustments are not material. Electricity savings are calculated as the electricity saved by all Grundfos high efficiency circulator pumps sold in EU Waste and water between 2005 and 2015. The estimate is based on the Baseline year for water and waste was established in 2008. actual sales figures for the year and assumptions about Water is reported in total use of water m3. The water which previous models the sold pumps replace. The usage is defined as delivered municipal water, ground savings per year are accumulated as each pump leads to water from own well and surface water from e.g. lakes, electricity savings for several years. The figure is calculated measured in m3. Rainwater is not included. as electricity savings in kWh per year. Please note that comparison figures for water Investment in the development consumption for year 2008 have had minor adjustments since first reported. This is due to enhanced data of new products measurement and reporting process. The adjustments are The investment in development of new products is defined not material. as expenses/activities related to research, development and launch of new products. This is indexed in relation to Waste is measured in kg per 1 million working hours. The the annual turnover. components in this indicator are hazardous and nonhazardous waste disposed at landfill, incinerated with energy recovery and incinerated without energy recovery. Recycled waste is not included. Workplace Workforce size This covers the total number of employees at the end of Some of our (smaller) companies have no information the year converted into full time employees. A full time available on water and energy consumption, as this in employee has the standard number of working hours included in the rent and not measured. The same challenge according to local rules/agreements. Personnel rented goes for non-hazardeous waste from some offices. The from a temporary employment agency are not included. consequence is that this is either estimated or not included. It is estimated that the volume for this is not significant. However, we will make more specific reporting Female leaders (%) requirements on how to solve this in the future. Leaders are defined as having staff responsibility meaning having people reporting to them ISO certification The number shows the percentage of Grundfos production Non-Danes in Group positions (%) companies certified according to ISO 14001 and OHSAS The Key Group positions are defined as Mercer band level 1 18001. It is Grundfos policy that within three years of to 4, corresponding approximately to “top 100” leaders in acquisition or production start all Grundfos production Grundfos. The result cannot be compared with earlier companies have implemented management systems years, where only selected positions were included. according to ISO 14001. Employees on special terms (%) The indicator is calculated as the number of employees who are given special consideration by Grundfos, and for whom Grundfos installs facilities aimed at the employees’ physical, psychological or social problems. Special consideration is given to employees by amending or adjusting the workplace with regard to time, flexibility or GRUNDFOS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2015 / 23 Group entities audited, mobility, and by adjusting the content of the job and Grundfos Code of Conduct nature of the work, to enable this to be carried out in spite of reduced working capacity. The number of employees Grundfos Corporate Internal Control (CIC) visits a selected working for an external business partner who carries out amount of Grundfos companies every year. The purpose is assignments for Grundfos is also included. to review and rate the internal control environment and to submit observations, risk descriptions and recommendations for improving business processes and Number of injuries per million working hours controls, including in relation to the Grundfos Code of Injuries are measured as lost time injuries, which has Conduct. caused lost working hours for at least one day after the injury. The indicator is indexed as injuries per one million Actions taken in response working hours for blue and white collar employees. to incidents of corruption This includes breaches reported to the Ethics Committees Working hours lost due to lost time injuries or discovered by e.g. Grundfos Corporate Internal Control. Lost time due to lost time injuries is measured in number of hours. The indicator is indexed as working hours lost due to injuries per one thousand working hours. Group suppliers A Group supplier is a supplier who supplies materials Absence from LTIs that occurred in previous years is directly to more than one Grundfos production company. included. Group suppliers can be global (serving several Grundfos companies across several regions) and regional (serving several Grundfos companies within a region). People competences A process of data quality improvement and a new organisational setup for the European area has during 2015 Employee Development Dialogue (EDD) led to a large increase in the number of counted group At Grundfos, EDDs are used to discuss the employee´s suppliers. It has not affected the processes linked to the tasks, qualifications and motivation for doing her/his job suppliers. and the employee’s development ambitions and competences. It is Grundfos’ objective that all employees with more than 6 months contract attend an EDD every System and process audits year. System audits are quality audits of potential and existing suppliers. System audits include social and environmental Data from 2012 and 2013 are not comparable with 2014 and aspects related to the Grundfos Supplier Code of Conduct. 2015 as we in 2014 changed the data source. In 2016, the During 2013, process audits were introduced to sharpen the EDD process will be merged with the Employee scope and increase the pool of resources able to conduct Performance Dialogue (EPD); and going forward we will audits, enabling Grundfos to carry out the audits where only have one Performance & Development Dialogue and how they provide the greatest value. Process audits, (PDD). A new system, Success Factor, has been however, do not include social and environmental aspects. implemented to support this process. This may affect the numbers and the comparison in 2016. Social audits Social audits focus solely on supplier performance within Compliance workshops the areas of labour standards, employment practices, antiDuring 2015, 2 compliance workshops were arranged. The corruption and community impact and sub-supplier concept was launched in 2009, and Grundfos Corporate responsibility. Internal Control (CIC) executed many workshops in order to educate the whole organisation. Workshops are now mainly conducted for new finance managers. This means that CIC expects to conduct 1 or 2 workshops each year For further information about Grundfos and sustainability reporting, visit www.grundfos.com/sustainability. 24 / GRUNDFOS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2015 Grundfos performance Environmental footprint 2008 2014 2015 CO₂ emissions (metric tonnes) 132,603 107,616 99,627 Energy consumption (mWh) 347,207 314,966 305,739 Water usage (m³) 655,136 445,869 435,038 Environmental footprint 2013 2014 2015 ISO 14001-certified production companies (%) 84 88 92 OHSAS 18001-certified production companies (%) 68 80 83 Sustainable product solutions 2013 2014 2015 High efficiency circulator pumps – energy saved 2.8 3.5 4.5 (billion kWh per year) Investment in the development of new products 5.6 5.5 4.5 (% of turnover) Workplace 2013 2014 2015 Workforce size (full time employees) 18,776 18,878 17,945 Female leaders (%) 19 20 20 Non-Danes in key group positions (%) N/A N/A 41 Employees on special terms (%) 4 4 4 Health and safety 2008 2014 2015 Injuries (per mio. working hours) 10.21 4.57 5.02 Lost working hours due to lost time injuries 0.96 0.54 0.88 (per thousand working hours) GRUNDFOS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2015 / 25 overview People competences 2013 2014 2015 Employee development dialogue blue collar (%) N/A 36 47 Employee development dialogue white collar (%) N/A 66 70 Responsible business conduct 2013 2014 2015 Compliance workshops 2 2 2 Group entities audited, Grundfos Code of Conduct 37 31 20 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 2 1 3 Purchase 2013 2014 2015 Global suppliers 318 385 2000 System and process audits 40 37 42 Social audits 7 6 3 GRUNDFOS Holding A/S Poul Due Jensens Vej 7 DK-8850 Bjerringbro Tel: +45 87 50 14 00 www.grundfos.com The name Grundfos, the Grundfos logo, and be think innovate are registered trademarks owned by Grundfos Holding A/S or Grundfos A/S, Denmark. All rights reserved worldwide. 0516/Group Quality and Sustainability/12059-BrandBox
