Strength in Unity UNITY RESOURCES GROUP PTE LTD COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS (COP) TO UN GLOBAL COMPACT FEBRUARY 2016 Unity Resources Group Pte Ltd unityresourcesgroup.com Strength in Unity Mr Ban Ki-Moon Secretary-General of the United Nations United Nations New York NY 10017 USA 23 February 2016 Dear Secretary-General, Re: Unity Resources Group Pte Ltd Participation in the UN Global Compact. I am pleased to confirm that Unity Resources Group Pte Ltd (hereafter “Unity”) continues to actively support the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Unity is committed to advancing the ten principles throughout our business. We are dedicated to making the UN Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day to day operations of our company. Unity continues to make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the UN Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s effort to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore submit the attached report and commit to report on progress annually according to the UN Global Compact COP policy. Yours sincerely, Gordon Conroy Executive Chairman Unity Resources Group Pte Ltd unityresourcesgroup.com Strength in Unity Contents INTRODUCTION .................................................................................................................... 4 OVERVIEW ........................................................................................................................... 4 VALUES ................................................................................................................................ 4 SERVICES.............................................................................................................................. 4 ETHICS ................................................................................................................................. 4 CODE OF CONDUCT ............................................................................................................. 5 INTERNATIONAL CODE OF CONDUCT (ICOC)....................................................................... 5 UNITY COMMUNITY RELATIONS POLICY ............................................................................. 5 LOCAL INDUSTRY PARTICIPATION/LOCAL CONTENT .......................................................... 5 CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ......................................................................... 5 OUR PROMISE ..................................................................................................................... 5 THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT............................................................ 6 MEASUREMENT AND OUTCOMES ...................................................................................... 12 CONCLUSION ..................................................................................................................... 12 Unity Resources Group Pte Ltd unityresourcesgroup.com Strength in Unity INTRODUCTION OVERVIEW Unity is a trusted and reliable solutions provider of land and air services in complex environments, where dependable infrastructure may not be present. We work in partnership with our clients to deliver resilience and improved results across their business projects. Our innovative approach to the delivery of tailored support services makes us the partner of choice to our diverse global client base. Unity has developed the business by independently winning and managing a number of large contracts covering a broader range of consultancy services to assist our clients to enter new markets, set up and secure their operations and provide on-going facilities and consultation services to ensure success. Unity's global footprint includes over 1200 staff operating from a network of global offices across Australasia, Africa, the Americas, the Middle East and Europe. We support a wide range of clients in the public and private sectors including governments, resource sector clients, international organisations, the world’s leading commercial brands and public identities, as well as development and not for profit organisations VALUES We employ the following values throughout our business: > Trust > Respect > Integrity > Accountability/Responsibility > Courage > Resilience SERVICES Unity provides a range of services internationally: > Security Services > Advisory Services > Aviation Services > Facilities Management > Crisis Response Services ETHICS Unity is an ethical leader in expeditionary environments; compliant with all rules, regulations and legislations. We value our people, our clients and respect the countries in which we operate. We believe our commitment to proper ethical and moral practices is reflected in our loyal client base which includes; refugee organizations and non-government organisations. Unity Resources Group Pte Ltd unityresourcesgroup.com Strength in Unity CODE OF CONDUCT Unity’s Code of Conduct was derived from the Code of Conduct of the International Stability Operations Association (ISOA). Unity is a long standing member of ISOA. The key elements of both codes clearly embrace and reflect good industry practices as supported by the Montreux Document released by the UN in 2008 (UN A/63/467-S2008/636). Unity understands the importance of safeguarding the integrity of company personnel and members of local communities. We recognise a commitment to act in a manner consistent with the laws of the countries within which we are present, to be mindful of the highest international standards, and to promote the observance of applicable international law enforcement principles (e.g. the UN Code of Conduct for Law Enforcement Officials and the UN Basic Principles on the Use of Force and Firearms by Law Enforcement Officials). INTERNATIONAL CODE OF CONDUCT (ICOC) Unity was actively involved in the International Code of Conduct (ICoC) drafting process. Unity is an inaugural signatory to this code, a display of our commitment to fulfilling our humanitarian responsibilities towards all those affected by our business activities. UNITY COMMUNITY RELATIONS POLICY Unity is well aware of the impact that the companies activities may have on local communities, as well as the benefits of our presence. We recognise the value of engaging with civil society, as well as host governments to contribute to the welfare of the local community. LOCAL INDUSTRY PARTICIPATION/LOCAL CONTENT Unity’s global indigenous employment strategy that aims to promote the development and growth of local industry through increased local employment, training and career development opportunities across its worldwide operations. It also embraces local procurement solutions where these values add to the local economy and do not materially risk the quality or timeline of project deliverables. CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Unity ensure that all personnel, suppliers and clients are engaged and doing the utmost to adhere to the high standards of Unity’s Code of Conduct and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) program. All Country Managers and Senior Management are responsible for regular reporting and meetings to discuss what we are doing and how we can do more. OUR PROMISE To provide full, fair and reasonable opportunity for local industry to contribute to client projects and maximise local industry participation where it is capable and competitive on the basis of health, safety and environment, quality, cost and delivery. Unity Resources Group Pte Ltd unityresourcesgroup.com Strength in Unity THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN RIGHTS APPROACH PRACTICAL IMPLEMENTATION PRINCIPLE 1 Unity is an ethical leader in expeditionary Unity offers emergency medical care and Businesses environments. We have made it our policy to shelter in areas that have endured natural should support remain compliant with all rules, regulations and disaster. In situations where a natural risk and respect the legislations in areas where we operate. We remains, we also offer an emergency protection of value our people, our clients and respect the evacuation service. Internationally countries in which we operate. We recruit Local National personnel without proclaimed Before engagement with suppliers, venders discrimination against gender or ethnohuman rights and clients Unity carries out an exhaustive due religious background. As an example across within their diligence process designed to ensure sixteen admin staff in Iraq, eight are women, sphere of compatibility with Unity’s compliance policies, including two Christians. This is further influence including the Ten Principles. amplified in the mix of Kurdish, Shia and Sunni personnel employed on our projects. No set Unity actively supports the humanitarian religious faction is recruited; rather, we requirements, defence and reconstruction of embrace a ‘strength comes from the sum of all communities in areas of the world that suffer parts’ approach, with the ability to understand from conflict and natural disaster. With inand operate in Kurdish, Sunni and Shia areas by house capabilities to manage all aspects of embracing the knowledge and backgrounds of shipping, aircraft and trucking as well as our employees. providing other support services, we offer clients a close partnership that addresses their particular needs in fulfilling complex multidisciplined projects in suffering communities. PRINCIPLE 2 Unity takes workplace relations seriously. All Unity’s Whistle Blower policy allows constituents of Unity follow the appropriate employees to draw the attention of Senior Make sure they are Management to any perceived human not complicit in labour laws for all countries of operation. rights abuse. human rights Where we believe local labour laws do not abuses meet our high standards, we strive to offer All expats have background checks prior to employees greater working conditions and completing Unity contracts. Similarly, Local National personnel are cleared benefits. Unity has a comprehensive Groupthrough the Ministry of Interior (or wide Occupational Health and Safety Policy and appropriate government department) who additionally the Group has formal specific check for any background of terrorist or policies covering areas such as: Staff Welfare, human rights abuses. Risk Management, Health and Safety, The welfare of Local National employees is Environment, and Alcohol and Drugs abuse. constantly reviewed. Many of the Local Any or all of these are available to staff and all Nationals working on projects do so at staff are to be fully conversant with these as a significant risk to themselves and their families. condition of their Employment Contract. Accordingly, respect of their privacy and a large degree of anonymity is afforded. Where an employee indicates they are threatened or are facing hardship, all efforts are made to assist them wherever possible. Unity Resources Group Pte Ltd unityresourcesgroup.com Strength in Unity LABOR STANDARDS PRINCIPLE 3 The Unity executive team are committed Unity has a consultation arrangement to building an organisation that people which encourages cooperation and Businesses should want to be a part of. engagement of employees and uphold the freedom of association and Our goal is to have a professional, management. This enables all Unity the effective engaged and flexible workforce operating employees to voice any concerns over recognition of the in a successful and positive environment. working conditions and rights. Recently right to collective this initiative led to employees receiving The responsibility for this is shared by all bargaining personnel, suppliers and clients. additional leave time, above local labour law requirements, in order to respect religious holidays from a variety of cultures. Unity understands and respects our employees’ rights in relation to freedom of association and the right to representation at work, including actively allowing our employees to be able to make a free and informed choice about whether to join a union and be represented at work. Our projects, through promotion of inclusion and active engagement, seek feedback from the Local National Staff regularly, particularly on issues of potential sensitivity. A key element of this is our Situational Awareness Team who act as a compass on cultural and protocol issues in countries of operation. Staff are also encouraged to provide feedback via their chain of command, or if there is an issue of a sensitive nature, then they can approach the Project Manager directly. A weekly meeting is held where all Staff are present and any questions for an open forum response / discussion are raised. Similar “Tool-box” meetings are held by each individual project team. Communication is open and honest. Feedback is welcomed and acted on. PRINCIPLE 4 Unity takes a strong standpoint against In each country of operation, the Unity inhumane labour practices. In all countries of Country Manager is required to report Elimination of all forms of forced and operation Unity employs staff in accordance any incident involving labour compulsory labour with or above local Labour Laws and is fully irregularities. Our Group Human compliant with the relevant labour codes. Resources and Legal teams oversee the Unity Resources Group Pte Ltd unityresourcesgroup.com Strength in Unity Unity maintains policies and procedures employment and contract process for including Employee Relations Management each and every member of staff. We also Plans and Industrial Relations Plans. Our employ specialists to further enhance our Grievance Policy and Whistleblower Policy also commitment to maintaining fair labour enables any person to report incidents of practices. We are dedicated to being a concern. best practice employer. Unity is confident that its processes have ensured that all personnel are employed at the will of both the employee and Unity, in accordance with, or above, local labour laws. PRINCIPLE 5 Unity is against the exploitation of children, Country Management Teams are required through direct employment or indirectly. Our to conform to our Code of Conduct and Effective abolition of child labour wider polices ‘flow down’ to all sub-contractors policies for recruitment. Unity’s screening and consultants. and vetting procedures ensures that all staff are of legal employment age. This is confirmed by national ID card checks in the country of operation. This process is overseen by Unity’s group Human Resource and Legal teams. For example, in Iraq we ensure that each candidate undergoes a compliance check with the Ministry of Labour who set a higher minimum age for employment. Documents are then further checked by our Human Resources and in-house Legal team before contractual and employment terms are approved. Our contracts in Iraq abide by the Iraqi Ministry of Interior Laws and Ministry of Labour laws. We are proud to ensure that all government labour requirements are met and embraced with strict vigilance. No employee comes onto a contract without an appropriate level of experience and training. PRINCIPLE 6 Unity believes in equal opportunities Unity’s global indigenous Employment Eliminate and outcomes regardless of nationality Strategy aims to promote the discrimination or gender. This involves the removal of development and growth of local industry in respect of discrimination and structural through increased indigenous employment inequalities in access to resources, employment, training and career and occupation opportunities and services, and the development opportunities. This promotion of equal rights. Promoting embraces local procurement solutions Unity Resources Group Pte Ltd unityresourcesgroup.com Strength in Unity equality, Unity will take into account and where these values add to the local recognize employee differences and economy and do not risk the quality or background/experience for diverse roles timeline of project deliverables. and needs, and takes these into account We actively follow a stringent recruitment in development planning and policy which is built around the absolute programmes. avoidance of discrimination of all kinds. For example, we employ over 50 women in various roles across ten countries, which we believe is significantly higher than industry norms. We also have a number of women in our Senior Management team, who provide a central role in the strategy and decision making process. For example, the recruitment process for aviation positions is based on skills, qualifications, experience on aircraft type and security clearance/assessment. The process is therefore performance based and is blind to issues of gender, sexuality, race, religious beliefs etc. THE ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 Unity is well aware of the impact that the Unity maintains an Environmental Policy Businesses companies activities may have on local that provides guidance for our should support communities. As such we recognise the programmes and projects. We give strong a precautionary value of engaging with civil society and emphasis to EHS Policies and Plans on all approach to host and home governments to contribute Projects. environmental to the welfare of the local community challenges For example, our aviation programme while mitigating any potential for conflict confirms to best industry standards. We where possible. are constantly reviewing this procedure to ensure that it remains up to date. Unity has received ISO 14001:2004 Environmental Management Systems accreditation. The operating environment in Iraq is not overly conducive to good environmental practices. The culture of the Country is not one of recycling, ethical waste removal or even the most basic of environmental education. The Country has seen conflict since early 2003 and still Unity Resources Group Pte Ltd unityresourcesgroup.com Strength in Unity operates on less than four hours of Government provided electricity each day. Unity’s contracts in this region try to lead by example by recycling and practicing environmentally friendly waste disposal. PRINCIPLE 8 Unity is committed to appropriate onUnity ensures that any individual Undertake going monitoring of Environmental performing tasks for Unity (or on Unity’s initiatives to impacts in performance of its personnel, behalf) are competently educated and promote activities, resources, equipment and experienced in the appropriate greater implementation of improvements where environment. environmental necessary. responsibility Unity keeps track of its training needs Unity supplies its products and services associated with environmental aspects within the Scope of its Certification to ISO and will provide continuing training to 14001:2004 Environmental Management meet these needs. Systems Standard. We have introduced a policy to ensure Quality Assurance is also a high priority for that all our operations recycle waste Unity and as such, it conforms to the where possible. We have advised all certification requirements of the ISO operations to print only when absolutely 9001:2008 Quality Management Systems necessary. Unity seeks to only use paper Standard. companies that are ISO 14001 endorsed, seeking to reduce the organisations carbon footprint. Unity has achieved this by promoting a culture of printing only when absolutely necessary. PRINCIPLE 9 Our approach will always consider the Innovative technologies are considered at Encourage the environment and community through our project design stage. We can provide development culturally integrated solutions such as solar photovoltaic, solar water heating, and diffusion of engaging local resources and staff, where portable water condenser technology and environmentally possible, in order to have a positive effect biomass digesters to our clients in order friendly on the local economy and community as to reduce the negative impact on the local technologies well as to minimise our carbon footprint. environment. We provide training and mentoring for For example, our Aviation Department is local staff to provide project support currently researching biofuel use for our which, in turn, leads to a skilled, aircrafts. experienced and self-sufficient workforce for future employment. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10 Unity has a clear policy on unethical All staff have signed the Unity Code of Businesses behaviours and improper actions and Conduct and are aware of the effect that should work unethical behaviour has on the fragile Unity Resources Group Pte Ltd unityresourcesgroup.com Strength in Unity against each employee is required to sign a Code operating environments in which Unity corruption in all of Conduct. works. its forms, including Unity has ensured that transparency and extortion and compliance is a central theme in the way bribery that we conduct business. For example, we are currently being audited by one of the “big five” accounting firms as part of our bid to ensure that our business can demonstrate complete financial transparency. By nature of the Clients we work for, anticorrupt practices are at the forefront of our Operations. Unity has a ‘no gifts’ policy which extends to our personnel and their interaction with local authorities. We do not exchange gifts or favours to local agencies or any other party. Furthermore, a culture of being a “good corporate citizens” is encouraged. By abiding by local rules and laws, completing correct and proper paperwork, following all steps in application processes, and only paying applicable fees as opposed to any unexplained ‘add on’, we minimise corrupt practices and being unwittingly a party to it. Unity Resources Group Pte Ltd unityresourcesgroup.com Strength in Unity MEASUREMENT AND OUTCOMES All Country Managers and Senior Managers must achieve a Board endorsed Key Performance Indicator (“KPI”), concerning the active implementation of Unity’s Code of Conduct and CSR program, including the Ten Principles. Regular management meetings take place to outline and review Unity’s policies and procedures. This process also highlights shortfalls and areas for improvement. Guidelines for Corporate Social Responsibility targets are formulated at Board level with the input of senior management and circulated accordingly. The results of our quantitative/qualitative assessment is communicated to all stakeholders annually so that the organisation and other interested parties can track our performance. This enables us to foster a corporate environment of transparency and accountability. CONCLUSION Unity values being a participant in the UN Global Compact. We believe that our active participation reflects our commitment to align operations and strategies with universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Unity continually measures its activities and those of its personnel, suppliers, venders and clients against the Ten Principles as part of our wider CSR Programme. This is done through regular reporting from Country Managers and Senior Managers and a questionnaire sent to our entire staff. The results help to identify areas of improvement. Overall, our corporate ethos is integrally structured towards minimising negative influence and maximising positive impact in the areas in which we operate. Unity Resources Group makes no representations or warranties with respect to the contents or use of this document, and specifically disclaims any express or implied warranties or usefulness for any particular purpose of this publication. This document is not to be used by any third party with without the written approval of Unity Resources Group Pte Ltd. Unity Resources Group Pte Ltd unityresourcesgroup.com
