SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2016 Sustainable Values Impact Centre Safety First In this Review Our 2015 Highlights Our Approach 1 Welcome to our third Sustainability Review 2 Letter from the Chief Executive 3 Our Strategic Goals & Our Values OUR BUSINESS 4 Our Business Overview 94C 3.1% 6 Governance 8 Living our Values 9 Materiality Analysis an increase in volume growth 12 Our Business our CDP score increase 13 Market Context 14 Packaging Reputation 16 Performance Packaging 18 Supply Cycle Thinking OUR ENVIRONMENT 20 Our Environment 21 22 23 Traceability & Transparency Fibre Sourcing & Availability Recycling & Waste 8.1% 26.2% reduction in reduction in 25 Carbon & Energy CO2e emissions waste to landfill 26 Broader Environmental Impact per tonne produced per tonne produced 28 Our People 29 Health & Safety 30 Employees 32 Community Involvement OUR PEOPLE 36 About this Review 37 Data 24% 69 reduction awards for in accident our corrugated frequency rate packaging business Explore our website at www.dssmith.com Explore our sustainability website at www.dssmith.com/sustainability Download our Annual Report 2016 at www.dssmith.com/investors/annual-reports Our Approach 1 Welcome to our third Sustainability Review Our values are at the Our Approach core of our business At DS Smith we value sustainability as it is the cornerstone of our overall business strategy. We understand that sustainability can generate growth, manage risks and enhance relationships. The values at the core of our business enable us to create sustainable value. As our business continues to grow and to expand into new territories, publishing our third Sustainability Review At DS Smith, we are focusing our demonstrates our continued commitment to conducting sustainability work in three key areas: business in a responsible and sustainable manner. Our vision is to be the leading supplier of sustainable packaging Our Business – Creating shared value through solutions, which we aim to achieve through stakeholder responsible recycling, paper and packaging. engagement, reducing our environmental impact, developing See p 12 for more information our people, and creating sustainable value through our closed loop model. Our Environment – Minimising our impact, Each and every day, the activities of all our colleagues are directed from design to production and supply towards delighting our customers, providing a safe and productive to recycling. work environment for employees as well as contractors, suppliers, See p 20 for more information customers and any other visitors to our locations, and ultimately, creating value for our stakeholders. Our People – Ensuring the safety, wellbeing In this year’s Review, we want to showcase the progress we and development of colleagues and contributing have made over the last 12 months and to discuss some of the to our communities. challenges we face in accommodating competing priorities. Our materiality analysis has highlighted our priority areas, which on See p 28 for more information the whole remain unchanged from last year, with the exception of a greater focus on traceability and transparency, which gives DS Smith an immediate opportunity to improve. Our values Our focus is on creating sustainable value in three key areas: We have a clear set of values that we live by. Our Business, Our Environment and Our People. In essence this is about creating returns for our shareholders, whilst recognising Be caring — we take pride in what we do and care environmental constraints and ensuring the wellbeing of our about our customers, our people and the world colleagues. This Review is structured around these three around us. key areas. Be challenging — we are not afraid to constructively We have our five values at the heart of everything we do and challenge each other and ourselves to find a better throughout this Review we will demonstrate how they are central way forward. to our aim to be an ever more sustainable business. How we have Be trusted — we can always be trusted to deliver on done it during the past year, and where we see potential for our promises. improvement in the coming years, will be described in detail in the following pages. Be responsive — we seek new ideas and understanding and are quick to react to opportunities. Be tenacious — we get things done. dssmith.com/sustainability 2 Our Approach Letter from the Chief Executive We are building a sustainable business for all of our stakeholders At DS Smith we are building an even better business, focused on delivering sustainable value to all of our stakeholders. To us, truly sustainable value is found when balancing the needs of Our Business, Our Environment and Our People. Our Business, our products and services create sustainable value for our customers through responsible recycling, paper and packaging solutions. Our focus is on providing the right packaging for our customers, whilst simultaneously adding value through increased brand impact and ensuring functionality to reflect changing consumer lifestyles and retail trends. We deliver this through programmes such as Performance Packaging, our Impact Centres and our “More from Less” consultancy. A commitment to Our Environment is a key part of how we are working to create a sustainable business model. Throughout our operations and supply chains, from design to production and supply to recycling, we are reducing energy consumption, minimising waste and embedding the highest ethical standards to ensure the most positive impact on our environment. We are dedicated to creating sustainable value for Our People. We are committed to the highest standards of safety, and are keen to ensure DS Smith is an engaging employer where our people can thrive and fulfil their potential. Across our business we play an active role in our communities, enabling our people to support the causes that matter to them. As our business grows into new geographical areas we are able to support our customers in more regions. In the last year we have gained market share through our innovative products and services, “We are dedicated to creating particularly with the customers we have an existing relationship with. This growth shows that our customers value our unique closed sustainable value for Our People.” loop model. This continued growth goes hand in hand with operating in a sustainable manner and in accordance with our five values. I am pleased to reaffirm DS Smith’s support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this Review, we describe our performance in the areas we believe are fundamental to Miles Roberts integrating those principles into our business strategy. Group Chief Executive I really hope you enjoy reading about how DS Smith is creating sustainable value. Sustainability Review 2016 Our Approach 3 OUR STRATEGIC GOALS Our Approach OUR STRATEGIC TO DELIGHT OUR TO REALISE THE TO DOUBLE OUR SIZE TO LEAD THE WAY GOALS: CUSTOMERS POTENTIAL OF OUR AND PROFITABILITY IN SUSTAINABILITY PEOPLE IN 2015 WE —— Excellent growth with —— 24 per cent reduction in —— Return on sales margin —— Reduced emissions DELIVERED: panEuropean customers accident frequency rate 9.3 per cent, up 50 bps on of CO2e per tonne of —— Seven updated Impact —— 15 per cent reduction a constant currency basis1 production by 8.1 per cent Centres and 18 PackRight in lost hours —— Return on capital 15.4 per —— Reduced effluent water Centres now open —— 211 sites with no cent, up 70 bps on a constant discharge per tonne of —— 69 industry and customer lost-time accidents currency basis1 production by 13.4 per cent awards for our corrugated —— Award winning Sharesave —— Volume growth +3.1 per cent1 —— Reduced waste to landfill packaging business Plan across 32 countries —— Five acquisitions completed per tonne of production, —— Three major awards for —— Over 1,500 employees totalling £433 million, by 26.2 per cent our recycling business attending our engaging expanding our businesses in managers programme Spain, south eastern Europe, —— Integration workshops Greece, Turkey and the UK1 for all acquisitions IN 2016 WE —— Invest further in innovation —— Invest in talent management —— Increase share in growth —— Source recovered paper WILL: —— Continue to roll out and learning and markets via acquisition at the correct quality Impact Centres and development and investment —— Deliver correct levels of PackRight Centres —— Engage our people —— Grow scale in niche markets integration for recycled —— Develop closer relationships through communication and in new business areas and virgin papers with customers and collaboration such as services —— Implement Performance —— Continue focus on —— Adopt a global human —— Reduce complexity, risk Packaging principles quality and service resources operating model and wastage in operations, throughout the Group to spread best practice offices and procurement —— Drive further improvement in health and safety Notes: 1 This information is taken from the financial year 2015/16. See our Annual Report 2016 for more information OUR VALUES Our values describe the ways in which we strive to exceed Be caring – we take pride in what we do and care the standards expected of us. They guide how we make about our customers, our people and the world decisions and shape company policies and practices, driving around us. both individual employee behaviour and organisational culture. Be challenging – we are not afraid to constructively To promote a sense of personal ownership, our employees are challenge each other and ourselves to find a better encouraged to discuss these values and how they can make way forward. them relevant to their workplaces. Our values reflect what we genuinely believe, and what we actually do. Be trusted – we can always be trusted to deliver on our promises. Be responsive – we seek new ideas and understanding and are quick to react to opportunities. See p8 to read more on this Be tenacious – we get things done. dssmith.com/sustainability 4 Our Approach Our Business Overview Our business model is focused on packaging We bring insight and OUR BUSINESS MODEL innovation, use this to design the optimum packaging for our customers’ supply chains, then manufacture it to the INSIGHT highest standard. To support the production of high quality, cost effective corrugated packaging, we manufacture paper and have a recycling business to source fibre for this activity. We design and manufacture specialised lightweight paper grades to produce the highest performing packaging from the least amount of fibre. PAPER We also design and manufacture certain MANUFACTURE INNOVATION types of speciality plastic packaging, CORRUGATED in particular plastic bags and taps for & PLASTIC bag-in-box packaging and rigid crates PACKAGING for bottled liquids. RECYCLING Key Be caring Be challenging Be trusted Be responsive DESIGN Be tenacious SUPPORTED BY OUR VALUES Sustainability Review 2016 Our Approach 5 RECYCLING PAPER CORRUGATED PLASTIC PACKAGING Our Approach PACKAGING What we do What we do What we do What we do We source fibre from used paper DS Smith manufactures recycled DS Smith designs and DS Smith has three parts to its and old corrugated cases (OCC) paper, principally corrugated manufactures corrugated plastics business: from both retailers and traders. case material (CCM) or testliner, packaging. We focus particularly Flexible packaging and This fibre is principally used which is the paper used to make on packaging for fast-moving dispensing: We design and by our own paper mills to corrugated board. We also have consumer goods such as grocery manufacture plastic bags and make recycled paper, with the the capability to manufacture products. These need large taps and fitments for use in remainder sold to other paper other grades of paper, such as volumes of high quality bag-in-box packaging for liquids. manufacturers in Europe and core board and solid board. packaging to complement Our products are used for globally. We also offer a full branded products and Our paper business is an transportation of beverages, recycling service to cover other requirements change frequently. essential partner to our concentrates, chemicals and materials such as glass and We also have leading positions packaging business. We seek to pharmaceuticals. Bag-and-tap metals, which we then recycle in supplying the rapidly growing optimise the level of integration solutions can be used for partnership with subcontractors. e-commerce channel. of the businesses as much as commercial containers, for In addition, we offer a range of practicable, with the paper We make packaging for other dispensing beverages in value-added services, such as operations focused on producing consumer products such restaurants or as a consumer recycling and environmental the paper required by packaging, as pharmaceuticals and product, such as a wine box. audits and consultancy to to the correct quality standard consumer electronics. Rigid packaging: We design help customers manage their and consistency. Any testliner not The remainder of our business and manufacture rigid plastic materials most efficiently and used by the DS Smith packaging is for industrial products such as packaging products for the optimise the value of their business and all our other grades automotive spare parts and bulk transportation of food and “waste”. DS Smith is different of paper are sold to third parties. materials. Industrial packaging drinks, healthcare products from other recyclate collectors We seek to compete on the is often very high precision and and automotive products. because we do not operate quality of our product, while our involves complex designs. landfill sites — our sole focus scale and efficiency mean that Foam products: We design and is on recycling, with a target of we remain cost competitive. manufacture foam moulded, helping our customers achieve custom-designed components zero waste. and packaging. Our customers Our customers Our customers Our customers We source our fibre through The majority of the CCM that DS Smith customer type Our plastics division works direct agreements with other we make is used by our own with many of the world’s leading corporates, principally retailers, corrugated packaging business, companies in a diverse range and from third party traders. with the remainder sold to other 22% of industries and markets. Approximately 60 per cent of corrugated manufacturers. Flex. Rigid Foam the fibre we collect is used by 10% Market Pack. Pack. Prod. All other grades are DS Smith mills and the remainder sold externally. 68% Beverage is sold to paper markets across Europe. Pharma Auto DS Smith recycling FMCG and agriculture Fresh volumes by region Other consumer Produce Industrial 14% Construction DS Smith has a greater share Retail 36% of FMCG and other consumer products, compared to 35% the market. 15% UK Western Europe DCH and Northern Europe Central Europe and Italy dssmith.com/sustainability 6 Our Approach Governance Focusing our resources where we can have the greatest positive impact The need to operate ever more sustainably presents us with a variety of challenges and opportunities. LETTER FROM CHAIR OF I am delighted to be the new chair of the DS Smith Sustainability SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE Committee. My predecessors have made great progress at DS Smith and I am looking forward to working with my colleagues as we continue on our journey. Over the last twelve months DS Smith has strengthened its sustainability reporting capabilities and has continued to make investments in the systems, processes and resources needed to meet customer and other stakeholder demand for greater transparency. One of our highlights this year has been the completion of our biennial materiality analysis (page 9). It is invaluable to get insight from shareholders, customers and employees as we prioritise our sustainability work. Other successes include our Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) score improving to 94C, and achieving a gold award from EcoVadis. Both of these ratings are well above the industry average and this external recognition gives a tangible measure of the progress we are making. As well as reinforcing our decision to focus on issues such as carbon (page 25), health and safety (page 29) and waste (page 23), our materiality analysis also helps us to identify issues of growing importance. For example, traceability and transparency “It is essential we build on our momentum (page 21) appeared as a topic for the first time, reflecting an increasing interest from consumers in the provenance of consumer and ensure we continue to satisfy the needs products. This will be further strengthened with the work we are of our stakeholders.” doing in order to produce our first statement under The Modern Slavery Act. My ambition for the coming year is to continue the great work we are doing and to put a strategy in place that takes into account our internal priorities and our stakeholders’ priorities. This strategy will focus our resources in those areas in which we can have the Iain Simm greatest positive impact on Our Business, Our Environment and Chairman of the Sustainability Committee Our People. Sustainability Review 2016 Our Approach 7 SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE Our Approach Sustainability is embedded within our corporate governance Ethical business conduct and compliance with local, national framework, starting with our Board of Directors. The Board is and international legislation are fundamental to our way of responsible for reviewing and approving the Group’s Environmental doing business. We believe that an ethical approach will lead to and Social Responsibility policies, whilst executive responsibility repeat business and protect our reputation, thereby preserving our for sustainability sits within the Group Operating Committee. The license to operate. Monitoring ethics and compliance and providing committee’s members are responsible for overseeing the effective annual training to our employees are the responsibility of our implementation of policies within areas under their control. Legal department. The DS Smith Sustainability Committee, a sub-group of the All our employees are encouraged to report suspected misconduct Group Operating Committee, and chaired by our General Counsel & or unethical behaviour directly to their own supervisor, Human Company Secretary, is a cross-divisional, multi-functional group Resources or Legal Services. Our employees may also report their responsible for ensuring coordination of sustainability across concerns in confidence to a dedicated hotline, an external service DS Smith. through which anyone can confidentially and anonymously report any issues. STRATEGY AND TARGETS Our current targets, set by the Board, require that related to CODE OF CONDUCT production, we will: The DS Smith Code of Conduct codifies our ethical position on key topics. It describes common rules which apply to all of our —— Reduce our CO2 emissions from fossil fuels by 20 per cent over employees, and provides guidance on our approach to ethical the 10 years to 2020. business practices, environmental values, and human and —— Reduce our water usage in our paper mills by 20 per cent over labour rights. It is made available to all employees as part of the 10 years to 2020. their induction, and has been translated into 19 languages. —— Reduce the amount of production rejects sent to landfill by 20 per cent over the 10 years to 2020. RISK REPORTING The Group has an established management framework for However, having recently completed our materiality analysis, identifying, managing, monitoring and mitigating risks. This and in line with our strategic goal to lead the way in sustainability, forms the basis on which the Board reaches its conclusions we are reviewing our strategy and targets, and we will publish an on the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management and update in the next six months. internal controls. COMMITMENT TO INTERNATIONAL STANDARDS At a strategic level, our risk management process continues We are committed to operating transparently, and disclose our to be one of the cornerstones of our corporate planning process. climate change, forest and water impacts to the Carbon Disclosure All risk management actions are aligned to our strategic priorities Project annually. We are a member of the London Stock Exchange to ensure the Board has a clear line of sight to the amount of risk FTSE4Good index, an international responsibility performance to be taken to deliver the Group’s plan. benchmark. We share supply chain information with our One of our key risks is the reputational damage we may incur if customers through SEDEX. we are unable to meet a changing consumer ethos and increasing DS Smith subscribes to the following international standards customer requirements for more sustainable products. In addition and guidelines: any failure of our business to respond to the pressures of climate change, energy consumption and resource scarcity could lead to —— United Nations Global Compact; cost inflation and margin decrease. —— United Nations Declaration of Human Rights and the Convention on the Rights of the Child; —— International Labour Organization (ILO) eight Fundamental Conventions; —— Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. THE POWER OF LESS® dssmith.com/sustainability 8 Our Approach Living our Values Our values are lived every day Our vision is to be the leading supplier of sustainable packaging solutions. OUR CHALLENGE LIVING OUR VALUES In order to realise that vision, we need all our colleagues to be actively contributing their ideas and bringing energy and enthusiasm into delivering results and improving the business. We believe that our values promote the behaviours that will create that working environment. The challenge is to ensure all our colleagues throughout DS Smith are willing and able to live those values and to use them as filters when making decisions. OWN IT! To address that challenge we have developed OWN IT!, a cultural change programme that sets out to strengthen our ability to deliver our strategy at pace and with consistency across all geographies and business disciplines by focusing on four basic things: —— Understand and connect to the strategy —— Engage with our values —— Develop an engaging management style —— Share ideas and good practice For now, OWN IT! provides tools and materials to assist teams in discussing what the vision, values and strategic goals of our business mean to them and sets individual projects in context. In time, it will become the “way we do things” as it already is in many parts of the business. Our values are embedded in our Over 1,500 informal processes as well as our formal policies and are lived every day. RECOGNITION employees attending Leaders, managers and peers are encouraged to recognise and our engaging managers share examples of employees living the values. Our intranet is full programme of these stories and increasingly there are award schemes being implemented to reward and reinforce that way of working. Sustainability Review 2016 Our Approach 9 Materiality Analysis Listening to our Our Approach stakeholders Our approach to materiality ensures that the most important issues in our analysis form part of our sustainability strategy. DEFINING MATERIALITY OUR APPROACH Materiality aims to identify the societal and environmental Our biennial sustainability materiality analysis is a key part of how issues that present risks or opportunities to our business while we manage sustainability at DS Smith. Completed in early 2016, taking into consideration the issues of most concern to external our latest analysis has given us some new and interesting insights stakeholders. Our materiality analysis enables us to engage into those issues that our stakeholders see as the highest priority. a broad spectrum of internal and external stakeholders on Whilst some of these issues are consistent with our 2014 analysis, sustainability topics of concern to them, and through a rigorous there are a number of new issues that have been identified. and structured comparison with our own corporate objectives this Our 2016 materiality analysis focused on quality over quantity, process generates new insights and highlights opportunities to engaging a smaller number of our stakeholders one to one, giving improve our position and further delight our customers. DS Smith’s us detailed insight. We engaged with a variety of our external approach to materiality ensures that the most important issues stakeholders in this way, including our customers, investors, in our analysis form part of our sustainability strategy. insurers, NGOs and suppliers. For our internal engagement, we completed a number of site visits and workshops, attended by OUR STAKEHOLDERS operational staff, senior management and technical experts to For our materiality analysis we focused on our commercial get a cross-section of opinion from the heart of our operations. stakeholders in order to understand the most important issues impacting DS Smith. Over the next 24 months we will continue All of our stakeholders were invited to rank a range of issues in to engage with these stakeholders and discuss materiality order of importance. Some issues are of universal importance; with a wider stakeholder group. In our next analysis, likely others are significant only to particular stakeholder groups or to be conducted in 2018, we will engage with a greater within niche areas. The analysis highlighted the great work we variety of stakeholders including the end user. are already doing, as well as providing direction and focus for our future direction in specific sustainability areas. We are aware that many of our customers have their own sustainability aspirations and that these often include a target Our to use more sustainable packaging. Packaging plays a vital role 10 up and down supply chains and collaboration is key to success. DS Smith is delighted to be working with a range of customers to help them achieve their sustainable packaging goals. largest FMCG customers took part in the For more information and to find out how DS Smith analysis can support you, please contact our Customer Sustainability Manager at sam.jones@dssmith.com. dssmith.com/sustainability 10 Our Approach Materiality Analysis continued OUR MATRIX Higher Traceability & Transparency Legislation & Compliance Recycling & Waste Health & Safety Labour Standards & Human Rights Carbon & Energy Importance to external stakeholders Diversity & Equal Opportunity Healthy & Affordable Food Supply Cycle Thinking Community Involvement Employee Wellbeing Fibre Sourcing & Availability Animal Welfare Transport & Logistics Packaging Reputation Product Life Cycle Analysis Other Material Sourcing Education & Training Water Biodiversity Medium Medium Priority for DS Smith Higher ASSESSING THE MATERIAL ISSUES The analysis indicates the issues of material importance to DS Smith. The magnifying class clearly identifies issues that are of high or growing importance to DS Smith and our external stakeholders. The results inform our approach to sustainability, enabling us to focus on the issues that are most important to our stakeholders, those which are likely to impact our business the most and those areas in which we can have the most influence. Throughout this Review we will discuss each material issue, focusing on those of higher priority. OUR BUSINESS OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR PEOPLE Packaging Reputation – p14 Traceability & Transparency – p21 Health & Safety – p29 Supply Cycle Thinking – p18 Recycling & Waste – p23 Carbon & Energy – p25 Fibre Sourcing & Availability – p22 Sustainability Review 2016 Our Approach 11 MATERIAL ISSUES Our Approach A key element of both the OWN IT! programme and the DS Smith Story are our five values – be caring, be challenging, be tenacious, be responsive and be trusted. We believe that by living our values every day, we will achieve our long term vision and strategic goals. Our values can be linked to our material issues. Packaging Reputation Packaging can sometimes have negative connotations; however, we understand the important role packaging can play in protecting our products, keeping our food fresher Supply Cycle Thinking for longer and helping Through our supply cycle Health & Safety to build brands. approach and closed loop To us this is about providing business model we work with safe, healthy working See p14 our customers across their environments in which our supply chain, unifying people can thrive without processes, eliminating risk of harm. complex methods and See p29 making packaging simple. See p18 Carbon & Energy Fibre Sourcing Energy consumption and & Availability associated carbon emissions At DS Smith, our values are For DS Smith, this means are significant environmental lived every day by all employees. continuing to source recovered aspects that contribute to Our values can be linked to our paper at the correct quality for global challenges such as security of supply and to source climate change. material issues. virgin fibre responsibly. See p25 See p22 Recycling & Waste Recycling is a key part of our Traceability & Transparency business mix and is a concept This is the first time it has inseparable from packaging. featured in our materiality Waste means three things to analysis and reflects growing DS Smith: customer waste, consumer interest in where and production waste and waste how their products are made. as a resource. See p21 See p23 Key Be caring SUPPORTED BY OUR VALUES Be challenging Be trusted Be responsive Be tenacious dssmith.com/sustainability 12 Our Business Our Business Creating shared value through responsible recycling, paper and packaging. 25 Impact and PackRight Centres across Europe delighting our customers PackRight Centre Impact Centre Sustainability Review 2016 Our Business 13 Market Context What we do DS Smith is a leading provider of corrugated packaging in Europe and of specialist plastic packaging worldwide, supported by paper and recycling operations. 5.3m 2.4m 6.7bn 686m tonnes of tonnes of paper m2 corrugated plastic taps used paper for packaging board and fitments recycled Where we operate Our Business DS Smith operates in 30 countries in Europe and a further six worldwide. BENCHMARKING OUR PERFORMANCE This year we continued our A/B membership of SEDEX In 2015 we improved our Carbon Disclosure Project score to 94C. demonstrating our commitment to highest ethical standards In early 2016 we also achieved the EcoVadis gold award. EcoVadis across our business. is an external platform benchmarking organisations based on their policies, procedures and performance around environmental management, responsible supply chains, labour standards and fair business practice. The gold award puts us in the top 5% of organisations evaluated by EcoVadis. Both of these ratings are well above the average in our industry and this external recognition reflects our strategic aims to delight our customers and lead the way in sustainability. dssmith.com/sustainability 14 Our Business Packaging Reputation Innovation and product responsibility The right packaging protects our products, keeps our food fresher for longer and helps to build brands. Packaging is the ultimate guarantee that the carbon footprint of a customer’s product is not wasted through damage or spoilage. 2degrees Packaging is not always done in the right way, with examples of DS Smith is a key partner in 2degrees’ global oversized packaging and confusing messages around recyclability. community – helping to share and drive best practice This can contribute to a poor reputation for the packaging industry in sustainable business for over 50,000 business from a sustainability perspective. What is sometimes lost is the professionals globally. vital relationship between packaging and the product. Living our “be responsive” value, DS Smith presented at DS Smith has invested significantly to ensure we are able 2degrees’ Resource Efficiency Summit in December 2015 to provide the right packaging for our customers, simultaneously on the practical steps that can be followed by companies adding value through increased brand impact and ensuring who want to build a successful recycling and waste functionality to reflect changing consumer lifestyles and management programme. retail trends. We deliver this through programmes such as DS Smith launched the “there’s only one way” how-to guide Performance Packaging, our Impact Centres and our “More at the event. The guide is DS Smith’s roadmap to achieve from Less” consultancy. more efficient recycling and waste management practices, We work closely with many industry bodies to ensure packaging whilst improving environmental and financial performance. has a minimal impact on the environment whilst satisfying our A Customer Account Director from DS Smith said, “The customers’ needs. The table on the next page highlights some event allowed DS Smith to share our expertise in the circular of the bodies we work with. economy. We were able to help some of our customers get the best value from their recycling and waste management services PRODUCT SAFETY through less waste, less cost and less complexity.” Our in-house controls and safety systems cover our processes from the product development stage through raw material An Executive Director for 2degrees said, “I’ve been continually sourcing to the delivery of the finished products. Some of impressed by DS Smith’s commitment to sustainable business. our packaging materials may come into contact with food. To What stands out is their appreciation that, alongside the guarantee that consumer demands and food safety regulations strategy and theory, many businesses need the practical are fully met, all our units producing food contact materials follow and applied advice and solutions to help make their businesses Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP), which helps to ensure perform better. There are plenty that wish to lead on the vision product safety. We provide our customers with information on of the circular economy, but very few like DS Smith who are products’ hygiene and safety aspects through declarations of making it work for businesses right now. They listened to our compliance and other documentation, and we have effective business community and delivered exactly what they needed processes in place for verifying product compliance and safety. in the form of this guide and the advice around it.” We work with our suppliers to ensure that we only use chemicals that are approved and in accordance with the applicable regulations (e.g. REACH). Sustainability Review 2016 Our Business 15 INFLUENCING THE INFLUENCERS ABOUT THE ORGANISATION HOW DS SMITH INTERACT WRAP Waste and Resources Action Programme (WRAP) works DS Smith interacts on numerous communication and with governments, businesses and communities to deliver behavioural change projects with WRAP, including practical solutions to improve resource efficiency. quarterly marketing campaigns, attending steering groups and being a member of WRAP’s Designing for Recyclability Group. DEFRA Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs DS Smith interacts directly with DEFRA and in the last (DEFRA) is the UK government department responsible 12 months DS Smith hosted DEFRA in site visits to our Our Business for safeguarding our natural environment. Paper, Recycling and Packaging Divisions. We also deal with DEFRA through the trade associations of which we are members. FEFCO European Federation of Corrugated Board Manufacturers DS Smith is a member through various national (FEFCO) represents the interests of the European corrugated board associations and we have seats corrugated industry, investigating its economic and on the FEFCO committee. marketing issues. CEPI The Confederation of European Paper Industries (CEPI) The Head of DS Smith Recycling represents the UK is a non-profit-making organisation. It has three standing on the CEPI Recovered Paper Group. committees, which take long-term strategic perspectives on the issues affecting the industry. CPI The Confederation of Paper Industries (CPI) is the DS Smith has numerous interactions with CPI. The leading organisation working on behalf of the UK’s CPI Council includes the Operations Director, DS Smith paper-based industries. Paper and the Managing Director, DS Smith Packaging UK. DS Smith is represented on the Health and Safety Group by the EQHS Manager, DS Smith Recycling, and the Head of External Affairs, DS Smith Recycling. DS Smith Recycling is a member of the Recovered Paper Council. PACKAGING The Packaging Federation is the overarching trade The Head of Strategy at DS Smith sits on the Packaging FEDERATION association for the UK packaging manufacturing industry. Federation Council. It is a unique representative body for companies and organisations in the UK packaging manufacturing sector and associated activities. INCPEN Industry Council for Research on Packaging and the DS Smith advocates its position on packaging Environment (INCPEN) is a research organisation, which through INCPEN. draws together an influential group of companies who share a vision of the future where all production, distribution, and consumption are sustainable. EUROPEN The European Organisation for Packaging and the DS Smith advocates its position on packaging Environment (EUROPEN) is an industry organisation through EUROPEN. presenting the opinion of the packaging supply chain in Europe on topics related to packaging and the environment, without favouring any specific packaging material or system. RESOURCE The Resource Association is an advocacy body for the The Head of External Affairs at DS Smith Recycling is ASSOCIATION material reprocessing sector. Chairman of the Resource Association. BPF British Plastics Federation (BPF) is the most powerful The Managing Director of DS Smith Foam sits on the voice in the UK plastics industry with members across Expanded Polystyrene Group, whilst DS Smith Recycling the plastics industry supply chain. is represented on the Recycling Group. dssmith.com/sustainability 16 Our Business Performance Packaging We are Packaging Strategists We focus on performance packaging, delivering reliable packaging with no more material than necessary. PERFORMANCE PACKAGING IMPACT AND PACKRIGHT CENTRES Consumers make the vast majority of their purchasing decisions We now have seven Impact Centres and 18 PackRight centres based on what that product or service will deliver for them. For across Europe, with plans to open another five Impact Centres example, cars are bought based on fuel efficiency, speed and and 23 PackRight Centres in the near future. These form a network comfort. Cars are not bought based on the fact that they are that allows insight, innovation and design to be shared with our heavier than the alternatives. customers across our whole pan-European network. In the last year we have run 200 workshops, with 82 per cent involving Traditionally packaging has been based largely on weight, but FMCG customers. this standard is changing, with DS Smith leading the way in performance packaging. OUR IMPACT CENTRES We focus on performance packaging, delivering reliable Our Impact Centres are located in Belgium, Denmark, France, packaging with no more material than necessary with the Italy, Poland and the UK. At Impact Centres, stakeholders can packaging designed for the specific requirements of its operations experience the important role packaging plays in retail and back throughout the supply chain. We developed a patented real time of store with simulation of both environments. Our customers can testing process that enables us to have complete confidence that judge their packaging’s performance at each stage of the supply every box that leaves a DS Smith facility meets our customer’s cycle, right up to the moment of truth, when the shopper decides performance requirements. which product to purchase. We focus on selecting the best raw materials for the job, and on Through our Impact Centres, we demonstrate best packaging optimising our manufacturing processes to minimise damage to practice, share inspiration from across our global business and valuable fibres during the production of each box. apply lessons to every touch point. Our Packaging Strategists This analysis can deliver significant environmental benefits. can help to challenge thinking and perceptions and to see what Increased insight into the performance requirements of can be achieved with packaging. We optimise our customers’ our customers’ packaging enables us to more accurately specify opportunities to increase sales, reduce supply cycle costs and individual requirements and guarantee levels of performance. This manage risk. can reduce over-specification and deliver significant reductions in fibre use, with potential marginal indirect reduction in energy PACKRIGHT CENTRES consumption, water use and a variety of other efficiencies in Our PackRight Centres are located in Belgium, Denmark, Estonia, upstream and downstream resource use and logistics. France, Germany, Hungary, Italy, Lithuania, Poland, Slovenia, Sweden and the UK. At our PackRight Centres our customers participate in interactive workshops and design facilities. Our skilled and experienced designers and engineers use our four step process and the latest technology and tools to deliver 2,000 bespoke solutions. Those bespoke solutions are focused on supply cycle effectiveness and maximising opportunities to increase sales, reduce cost and manage risk. visitors to an Impact Centre Hundreds of designers across Europe share best practice and in 2015 innovation using a unique company-wide software platform, ensuring customers can access the latest thinking. We don’t just respond to our customers’ existing challenges. We proactively go out to our customers with innovations that will help them seize new opportunities. Sustainability Review 2016 Our Business 17 MORE FROM LESS The focus on global solutions and the team’s international operations means the team are well placed to become the global DELIVERING RESULTS THAT BENEFIT brand in responsible packaging design. When applied to large-scale BUSINESS AND THE ENVIRONMENT businesses this ethos has the reach to make a significant impact More from Less is a specialist packaging consultancy with a on the environment – a legacy that will stand the test of time. difference. It brings together an understanding of consumer behaviour, omni-channel retail, design innovation and global value The company operates a four stage process from concept to chain optimisation with a unique belief in a sustainable future. consumer. At each and every stage of this process the team is looking to reduce waste and inefficiencies, making every aspect More from Less aims to responsibly reduce the negative of the value chain work harder and perform better. impact of packaging for the benefit of clients, consumers and the environment. Well designed packaging should avoid FORESIGHT – insight-driven innovation. Transforming insights and unnecessary waste across the entire value chain. knowledge into a brand vision. Our Business We love packaging but not waste. PRECYCLING – packaging and supply chain optimisation. Redefining how packaging connects with the value chain. MORE MEANING, LESS PACKAGING EQUITY – virtual packaging management. Providing scalable brand More from Less is the company’s overarching business ethos, and packaging management solutions for global execution. a shared vision of an efficiency driven business focused on DELIVERY – compliance management. Protecting brands whilst innovation. The team consults with brands and retailers to implementing and validating the benefits. engineer out cost throughout the supply chain whilst creating more brand impact. More from Less works with leading brands and retailers who recognise how vital it is to engineer sustainability into their The More from Less team comprises experts from the creative global operations and the important role that packaging plays. industry, the packaging industry and supply chain management. “More from Less is a team of experts who employ a holistic approach to packaging design and evaluation, and they will reveal the true potential of packaging improvement. They have helped me identify savings and improvements in packaging materials, design, freight, storage and distribution. Damages have been reduced, availability increased and customer satisfaction improved.” Head of Packaging, Together with their custom made IT systems, this combination of Kingfisher Group skills is unbeatable when delivering results that benefit the environment and their clients’ businesses. MORE FROM LESS: PARTNERING WITH CLIENTS TO REVEAL THEIR BRAND PROMISE, DELIVERING RESULTS THAT BENEFIT THEIR BUSINESSES AND THE ENVIRONMENT. www.morefromlessglobal.com dssmith.com/sustainability 18 Our Business Supply Cycle Thinking We’ve long recognised the importance of the circular economy Our recycling, paper and packaging operations are closely integrated, with cardboard boxes made, used, collected, recycled, pulped, pressed and made back into cardboard boxes again, from start to finish in as little as 14 days. CUSTOMER Supply PACKAGING Cycle RECYCLING Thinking BOX TO BOX RECYCLING IN 14 DAYS PAPER Sustainability Review 2016 Our Business 19 DAY 1 – 3: DS Smith’s packaging is delivered to our customer Our unique supply cycle approach begins in our Packaging operations. Our Packaging Strategists work closely with our customers to produce reliable, sustainable corrugated packaging solutions, using no more material than necessary. The customer then fills this packaging with their product, ready for onward distribution to the retailer. Our PackRight Centres ensure optimised packing space, storage and distribution, which helps to drive efficient logistics. “Packaging plays an essential role to safeguard product and minimise waste throughout the United Biscuits supply chain. Well designed, Retail Ready Packaging not only contains and protects, but also promotes our product to shoppers from the retail shelf.” Head of Packaging, United Biscuits DAY 4 – 6: Our Business DS Smith Recycling collects the fibre Having been displayed and with product now sold, the packaging is removed from the retailer’s shelf. Using a variety of logistical solutions, discarded packaging is then managed through our recycling operations. These operations are designed to reduce costs, minimise waste, and maximise recycling rates. Our recycling teams work with our retail customers to find the best operational and logistical solution for their supply cycles. We work with many retailers to process their material on site, allowing them to dispatch packaging for recycling direct to our paper mills. However, if further processing is required packaging for recycling is sent to one of our Recycling depots. Here the materials are graded and sorted, before being baled and dispatched to the mills. Further quality checks are carried out on the bales before they leave the depots – always ensuring optimum quality throughout the process. Quality checks are used to screen for, and remove, materials that contaminate the fibre such as foodstuffs. DAYS 7 – 10: Recovered fibre is delivered to one of our paper mills Baled recovered fibre arrives at one of our DS Smith paper mills where it is first inspected and tested against European Standards. The bales are then loaded onto a continuous conveyor. The pulping process uses warm water recovered from the papermaking process. In this first stage we remove unwanted materials, such as plastics, which are then either sent for recovery in the energy production process or recycled as mixed plastic. At this stage the fibre stock contains roughly 1% fibre and 99% water: it is only by diluting the stock in this way that it can be used to make thin and uniform paper. The papermaking process itself then has three main stages – forming, pressing and drying – with continuous controls all along the paper machine to ensure a perfect paper quality according to the product specifications. The finished reels, made of 100% recovered and recycled fibres, are then labelled and stored ready for dispatch. DAY 11 – 14: Paper reels are delivered to our Packaging Operations Paper reels are delivered to one of our Packaging sites for use in the making of a new corrugated box. There are two processes – corrugating to create the corrugated board and conversion of the board into a box. The new box is ready to be delivered to the customer and our fibre can start the 14 day journey again. By championing sustainable supply cycle solutions and using materials responsibly through our production processes we are able to lead the way in sustainability. dssmith.com/sustainability 20 Our Environment Our Environment Minimising our impact, from design to production and supply to recycling. 90% of our materials come from recovered sources RECYCLING CENTRE Sustainability Review 2016 Our Environment 21 Traceability & Transparency Traceability and transparency are our highest priority issues Traceability and transparency were ranked as the highest priority issues by both internal and external stakeholders in our recent materiality analysis, despite not featuring at all as issues just two years ago. A number of pieces of legislation, including the EU Timber Regulations and the UK’s Modern Slavery Act, increasing consumer interest and a desire to manage supply chain risks are driving businesses to understand and disclose more about their supply chains. Our Environment MODERN SLAVERY PAPER MILL CERTIFICATIONS In the last 12 months we have seen an increasing focus on the At DS Smith we pride ourselves on operating to the highest work we are doing to drive our ethical and sustainability standards standards. Our paper mills are regularly audited by independent into our supply chains. assessors who inspect all aspects of our management systems and approve accreditations. Our mills’ certifications include: In 2015 we rolled out our Global Supplier Standard, comprising our minimum requirements for quality and sustainability, with —— Forest Certification & Chain of Custody strategic suppliers. —— Quality Management ISO 9001 Chaired by the General Counsel and Company Secretary, our —— Environmental Management ISO 14001 Modern Slavery Working Group is planning a range of activities —— Safety Management OHSAS 18001 to respond to the new legislation and ensure we are driving the —— Energy Management ISO 50001 highest ethical standards into our supply chains. An Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy, which prohibits forced labour, —— Food Safety has been approved by the Board and will be shared with our tier one suppliers. Forest ISO ISO OHSAS ISO Food Certification 9001 14001 18001 50001 Safety In addition, we will begin formal dialogue with our tier one Aschaffenburg, suppliers, prioritising those representing the greatest spend and Germany x x x x x x assessed risk based on geography. In 2017 DS Smith will interact Chouanard, with more suppliers to increase our understanding of our supply France x x x x chain, using SEDEX to audit our high-risk suppliers. De Hoop, Netherlands x x x x x x Kaysersberg, France x x x x x Kemsley, UK x x x x x x Lucca, Italy x x x x x Witzenhausen, Germany x x x x x x dssmith.com/sustainability 22 Our Environment Fibre Sourcing & Availability Fibre is our primary raw material Whilst we prioritise the use of recycled fibres through our circular business model, a small amount of virgin fibres are required in our processes. However, to deliver truly sustainable value, whilst we consume virgin fibre today we must also protect the resources that our business will need tomorrow. We believe that supporting responsible and sustainable forestry FSC® CERTIFIED SITES is a matter of strategic importance for our industry, although we don’t own any commercial forestry operations ourselves. Our work on sustainable fibre sourcing splits into two key areas: —— supporting initiatives that promote forest management and chain of custody, and gaining certification across our operations and —— ensuring, through traceable and transparent supply chains, that any virgin fibres in our products originate from sustainably 25 managed sources. 30 Within our Paper operations, our Paper Sourcing team is responsible for the purchase of over 95% of papers consumed 34 by our packaging operations and they monitor where our fibre originates. We cooperate with suppliers to ensure all the wood we use has a sustainable origin. 30 We support the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC®) standard, the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC) and any other credible international forest certification schemes. Working with a single certification body, DS Smith has embarked on an ambitious programme to achieve 100% certification for all relevant DS Smith operations which trade, process or manufacture products from virgin and/or recovered fibre by 2018. Chain of Custody certification is not relevant or appropriate to all European locations of our 300+ operational sites. There are currently 190 DS Smith sites in scope for FSC® certification and 119 are already certified. UK We define a site as a single functional unit of an organisation Western Europe or a combination of units situated at one locality, which is DCH and Northern Europe geographically distinct from other units of the same organisation. Certification applies to sourcing, processing, manufacturing and Central Europe and Italy sale of virgin and/or reclaimed material. X Number of FSC® Certified corrugated manufacturing sites by region The map shows the geographical spread of all 119 sites that presently have FSC® certification. Sustainability Review 2016 Our Environment 23 Recycling & Waste Our approach to waste At DS Smith we see waste as a resource. We see its value. Our recycling business manages over 10,000 supply contracts years will be diluted. Our Recycling operations are leading the way with a wide spectrum of organisations including national retailers, in developing waste management infrastructure in these regions. news and print companies, blue chip brands, small to medium-sized Collaboration throughout the supply cycle is an essential part enterprises, local authorities and communities. With an emphasis of our circular economy approach. By applying the principles of on providing quality materials for recycling, we pride ourselves on the waste hierarchy, setting clearly defined objectives and creating maximising recycling and recovery systems for all our customers innovative new opportunities to reduce, reuse, recycle and recover whilst simultaneously identifying cost efficiencies – delivering material, we are able to deliver a zero-waste solution to major both economic and environmental sustainability. Every tonne of retailers and other organisations. recycled fibre offsets the need to harvest a tonne of virgin raw material. In our closed loop recycling solutions, recycled fibres are turned back into new packaging within 14 days, all within our WASTE AND RECYCLING recycling, paper making and packaging closed loop. To us, ‘waste’ cardboard and old corrugated cases are a resource. When they pass from our Recycling depots to our Paper Mills as While waste to energy, incineration and other energy recovery part of our supply cycle approach, they become a raw material, and techniques have a place in diverting non-recyclables from landfill, Our Environment as with any other raw material, quality and consistency are vital to these technologies should not replace recycling and reuse in the the downstream manufacturing processes. first instance. Instead of allowing recyclable materials to end up in waste to energy and landfill sites, we recognise the As part of our recovered fibre sourcing strategy, we are committed environmental and sustainable benefits of turning these to working with waste producers to ensure material is, where materials back into something useful. possible, collected in separate streams. This ensures minimal or no contamination, and provides for a high quality recycling stream In 2015, we reduced total waste to landfill by 20% by focusing that positively impacts on the quality of the end product, as well as investments on our most high-impact facilities, which has reducing waste in the recycling process itself. resulted in a 26% improvement per tonne of production. DS Smith is increasingly expanding into countries where the recycling Only by placing such an emphasis on retaining quality and value infrastructure is not as developed as in our traditional markets, can DS Smith offer innovative, value-adding recycling solutions. so the Group-level improvements which we have made in previous DS Smith wins zero waste award for difficult-to-recycle materials DS Smith has won the Chartered Institute of Waste Management (CIWM) “Achieving Zero Waste” award for its Reject Processing Centre (RPC) at the Kemsley Paper Mill. This award is a great example of our DS Smith value “be tenacious.” An RPC was established at the mill to find a better way to deal The ragger line produces metals, plastics and wet fibrous with the amount of waste that arose from the processing and material (WFM). The separated metal wire is sent for recycling, production of paper and cardboard. The waste generated and moving from a cost to the business to a revenue earner. In one subsequently used in the RPC amounted to 12,000 tonnes per month alone this has generated £20,000. The plastics that have annum of ragger, a by-product of the paper pulping process little value in this condition are mixed with sludge from the mill containing baling wire, plastics and fibre, and 29,000 tonnes effluent process and sent to the on-site EON Waste to Energy per annum of light rejects. plant to produce process steam. In a six month period 12,400 tonnes were diverted from landfill. Following and applying the principles of the waste hierarchy from the top down is integral to our zero waste philosophy, identifying DS Smith’s Head of Recycling said, “This is great news. A zero how to achieve the best environmental and economic solution. waste philosophy is central to the work at DS Smith and as a We have found ways to divert materials previously deemed too company 100% of collected resources are turned back into difficult to recycle and found new uses for them. something useful once more.” dssmith.com/sustainability 24 Our Environment Recycling & Waste continued PRODUCTION WASTE Our internal production processes also generate waste, which Lucca Paper Mill Supports can be reused through our closed loop model. We are constantly “Ricicloaperto” looking for new and innovative ways to reuse materials that would A great example of our value “be caring” in action is otherwise end up as waste. our Lucca Paper Mill supporting “Ricicloaperto”, a massive communication campaign focused on waste collection All of our plants actively segregate waste to ensure that what can and recycling of paper and cardboard, designed to spread be recycled is recycled. We use six sigma and lean manufacturing knowledge about the various steps of the process through tools to drive out all forms of waste from our manufacturing direct observation. processes. The reduction of waste to landfill, both for our own operations and those of our customers, has long been The ultimate goal of the event is to create awareness among a Group target. students of the benefits of collecting and recycling these materials. During the three day event DS Smith’s Lucca Paper CUSTOMER WASTE Mill hosted 169 pupils from three local secondary schools. In recent years food waste has become a more high-profile, The event included a guided tour of the production facilities to consumer-facing issue. Our role in designing and manufacturing see the paper machines, the warehouse, the process and the appropriate food packaging helps to combat food waste – final product. As a gift, every student was given a corrugated minimising transport and logistics losses, and ensuring cardboard bird house. This campaign shows our pride in what food stays fresher for longer. we do and how we care about our people and our community. Packaging can also play a key role in food security, protection from damage, preservation of freshness, prolonged shelf life, added convenience and reduced waste. As part of our total waste solution, our Recycling operations also manage post-production, post-consumer and end-of-life food waste streams. We have developed a core competency of working with food waste and end-of-shelf-life produce to reduce, reuse and recycle potential food waste for our customers. Turning Paper and Food Waste into Compost In the UK, our Plymouth and Launceston sites found an inventive way of diverting cardboard dust away from landfill by partnering with the Eden Project. As a result of our new partnership, 32 tonnes of food waste is now combined with 13 tonnes of paper dust waste produced by DS Smith Plymouth and Launceston annually, to produce a nutrientrich compost – creating sustainable value for our business and our communities. The initiative has worked so well, and the demand from the Eden Project for this waste is so high, that DS Smith’s Sheetfeeding business in Blunham is also going to start supplying its cardboard dust. It will be transported from Blunham to Plymouth on a DS Smith lorry that already travels that route every day – no additional road miles, no additional emissions. This partnership is a great example of how DS Smith can be a trusted neighbour in local communities. With a growing awareness among consumers of sustainability, and due to the highly visible nature of packaging in a world of scarce resources, the partnership allows both The Eden Project and DS Smith to reduce their impact on the environment by reducing the amount of waste sent to landfill. Sustainability Review 2016 Our Environment 25 Carbon & Energy Our carbon footprint We are pleased to have achieved a reduction in both our CO2e emissions per tonne of production and our total group CO2e emissions. OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT ENERGY We are pleased to have achieved a reduction in our CO2e intensity Our paper mills produce their own steam and electricity in CHP as well as a slight reduction in our net CO2e. Our gross scope 1 plants whilst most of our other production sites raise steam and emissions have increased as a consequence of a full year’s output purchase fuel and electricity from external suppliers. The energy from our Combined Heat and Power (CHP) installation at our paper procurement function is responsible for buying energy, including mill in Italy. This has resulted in a corresponding decline in scope 2 fossil fuels, and hedging with regard to energy prices, as well as emissions and a substantial year-to-year increase in our exported the trading of green certificates and the monitoring of emission energy. When we subtract the emissions associated with exported trading trends. Energy efficiency specialists help to find and exploit energy from our gross total emissions, we have achieved a opportunities to save energy and reduce our overall emissions. reduction in CO2e compared to 2014. Using natural gas at our Lucca One major project currently under way is the replacement of paper mill produces almost 50% less CO2e than using a kilowatthigh bay lighting with LED lighting. We have initially identified over hour of electricity purchased from the Italian national grid. Of the 130 sites that would benefit from a replacement in lighting. The Our Environment 193 sites where a year-on-year comparison is possible, 60 have deployment has begun in the UK, with Italy, France and Germany achieved reductions in absolute scope 1 emissions. This is the to follow. In total over 30,000 lamps will be replaced which will consequence of greater production efficiency and continued result in an estimated £4m worth of power saving annually. Each investments in more efficient boilers and switching to less high bay lamp consumes 460W of energy, whereas the new LED polluting fuels. lights require only 90/110W and have a much longer life. Analysis of our performance in reducing scope 2 emissions tells a similar story, with 91 sites achieving an absolute reduction. Investing in Low Carbon Production This has largely been driven by initiatives to replace high bay A key element of DS Smith’s approach to lighting with LED lighting. Furthermore, DS Smith has broadened its analysis of energy usage to include some sources of scope 3 reducing energy use is the strategic investment emissions, such as business travel and hired third party transport. in more efficient plant and equipment. We have taken steps to monitor emissions from these sources and A key part of this investment programme is the upgrading of over time to reduce emissions. our corrugator lines, as has been the case at DS Smith Blunham, The figure for total production volume, used to normalise our total Bedfordshire. In addition to the new corrugator, new LED emissions, water and waste intensity ratios, has increased by 8% lighting has been installed as well as upgrading condensate since the previous year. This is due to two factors. Firstly, many of return systems to improve efficiency. The positive impact on our operations had a record production year, and secondly, several the environment has been impressive. high volume businesses which DS Smith acquired in 2014 have DS Smith Blunham were keen to measure the killowat-hour per now entered our statistics. 1,000 squared metre (KSM) since the new corrugator was fully The total emissions of greenhouse gases aggregates the operational and upgrades had been made to LED lighting. On a emissions of a number of businesses with dissimilar impacts 12 month like for like basis1 overall energy usage halved2 since and energy requirements. During 2015, a number of recycling the upgrades were made to the site. depots were closed but these were replaced by several high We are always challenging ourselves to find a better way volume corrugated packaging facilities, resulting in an increase in forward and the investment in new machinery and systems net tonnes produced. A large increase in overall volumes produced at Blunham have had a positive impact on our environment. combined with a marginal fall in net CO2e emissions has resulted in 1 We have compared 1 May 2015 – 30 April 2016 against 1 May 2012 – a substantial reduction in CO2e intensity. As mentioned previously, 30 April 2013 to give a fair 12 month like for like comparison before the fall in net CO2e is mostly due to the switching of our energyand after all the installations were completed. intensive Lucca paper mill from using bought electricity to 2 Energy usage reduced by 49.8% per KSM and CO2 reduction was generating its own power using natural gas. 49.7% per KSM. dssmith.com/sustainability 26 Our Environment Broader Environmental Impact Managing our broader environmental impact Whilst we are concentrating our resources on the issues in which we can make the greatest positive contribution, we are committed to minimising our impact in other areas that are material to DS Smith. WATER BIODIVERSITY Our assessment of water-related risks in our operations and our Though we do not have much direct impact on biodiversity, supply chain indicates that the majority of our sites are located our suppliers involved in the virgin fibre industry do through in regions where freshwater is a relatively abundant resource. their logging activities. Our work to ensure 100% of appropriate We have examined the water bodies that our most significant DS Smith sites are FSC® certified, and a commitment to sourcing water users discharge into, and have found that the effect of their FSC® certified or Controlled Wood materials, ensure we protect operations is comparatively small. Many of the water sources are of biodiversity and ecosystems in accordance with Principle 6 of special ecological status, and our comprehensive and responsible their principles for responsible forest management. treatment of our effluent ensures that we do not adversely We are also very aware of the natural habitat close to our factories. impact these ecosystems. We regularly review which of our factories are close to protected Water plays an essential role in paper production processes. It is areas and national parks, and these sites work closely with local used as a transport medium to carry chemicals and fibres through authorities to ensure no harm is done to the ecosystem. the production process. Water is also used for cooling machinery, for cleaning, and as a carrier of energy in the form of steam. As a PRODUCT LIFE CYCLE ANALYSIS water-intensive business, we endeavour to consume and treat We continue to support CEPI and FEFCO in their industry wide water responsibly and efficiently. life cycle analysis projects. We submit data triennially to these In the last 12 months record production has affected our effluent organisations. In the most recent analysis conducted using 2014 water intensity ratio. In absolute terms there was a decrease data, DS Smith performed better than the industry average. due to the divestment of some water intensive facilities. A direct benefit of these efforts to reduce water usage is the improvement OTHER MATERIAL SOURCING in energy and material efficiency. Further to this, the overall Our raw materials procurement is focused primarily on denominator of all production across the Group results in a better consumable commodities used in our manufacturing operations. figure for our target as we make more with less water waste. Approximately €250m of spend is broken down into the following categories: Performance & Technical Chemicals, Commodity Water is a critical resource, but for our business its materiality Chemicals, Starch, Adhesives, Inks, Pigments & Coatings, is aligned more to reputational risks from our stewardship over Dyes, Print Stereos/Clichés, Pulp, Baling Wire and Expanded water resources. Polypropylene/Expanded Polystyrene. Group-wide, 51% of our water comes from boreholes, 6% municipal, and 43% is surface water. 82% of this total volume is returned to the river after appropriate treatment. We use wastewater treatment systems to ensure that the effluent we discharge is purified, ecologically safe, and meets all regulatory requirements. We also recycle water within our facilities where this is feasible, reducing the demand for freshwater intake. Sustainability Review 2016 Our Environment 27 TRANSPORT & LOGISTICS HEALTHY AND AFFORDABLE FOOD The role of Transport Procurement is to provide transport We understand how important healthy and affordable food is and logistics support to DS Smith Group business units by and we are aware that to some of our largest FMCG customers this identifying sustainable synergies across divisions, countries, is a very high priority issue. DS Smith will continue to support our regions and sites. Transport Procurement implements common stakeholders in this issue and work closely with our customers to working practices to leverage and improve transport and logistics innovate with packaging in order to play our part in the production service delivery, safety, environmental impact and the businesses’ of healthy and affordable food. commercial position. We are continually working to be more efficient by reducing ANIMAL WELFARE mileage and emissions when transporting our products. Transport DS Smith has no direct contact with animals in the production and Procurement has specific projects committed to reducing CO2 supply of our products throughout Europe, therefore we do not within our transport and logistics and we are able to reduce our have any programmes dedicated to animal welfare. We understand environmental impact with the use of road vs rail, multimodal, the issue is of high importance to some of our larger customers alternative fuels, management systems and modelling processes and we will support them wherever necessary. which have improved our load optimisation, and backhauling, and enabled more efficient vehicle routing. Caring for King Crabs One of our customers challenged us with an interesting task – transporting live crabs. Norway King Crabs SA flies around four tonnes of king crabs to markets at destinations around the world – from Korea in the east to San Francisco in the west. To delight diners’ taste buds, crabs are transported live from the sea all the way to restaurants’ tanks. It is imperative to minimise the crabs’ stress during transport, and that means temperatures must be kept low. Shipping live produce around the world on ice is not Our Environment easy. The packaging used to transport the crabs must hold enough ice or gel ice packs to keep the crabs cool and it must retain its shape so the crabs aren’t crushed. Our 100% leak-proof DryPack packaging provided the ultimate solution. Being paper, the packaging can easily be adjusted according to the crab sizes. The crabs have more space, which is especially important for the larger crabs. “The extra space means we can put more gel ice packs in, which means we can cool the crabs more,” says the Managing Director of Norway King Crabs. “When we cool them more they are less stressed. Their heart rate goes down.” RESULTS —— The flexible DryPack has helped the company increase transportation capacity by 20%, reducing air freight costs substantially. —— Cost of transporting packaging to northern Norway reduced by 90%. —— Reduced mortality from 10% to below 4%. —— Size easily optimised to minimise stress and maximise freshness for each crab. —— Unique design holds ice or gel ice packs securely in place, meeting 100% leak-proof criteria for air freight. —— High quality flexoprint work portrays Norway King Crabs’ high quality brand and allows options like a current QR code campaign. dssmith.com/sustainability 28 Our People Our People Ensuring the safety, wellbeing and development of colleagues and contributing to our communities. c.26,000 employees Safety First Sustainability Review 2016 Our People 29 Health & Safety The safety of our people remains our number one priority We seek to improve our performance continuously and strive to ensure that all visitors, colleagues, contractors, agency workers and members of the public are kept safe. HEALTH AND SAFETY KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS A Health, Safety and Environment Leadership Team coordinates Group policy and ensures that best practice from the various parts Total LTAs1 AFR2 of the organisation is shared and disseminated throughout the business. This team meets quarterly to review major LTAs/high 171 146 120 4.79 4.16 3.20 potential severity incidents, and to coordinate audit activity and accident investigation. We will continue to set stretching safety targets using a variety of lead, as well as lag, key performance indicators, in order to develop a stronger zero accident culture in all sites, irrespective of how long they have been part of the DS Smith family. 211 Our People 13/14 14/15 15/16 13/14 14/15 15/16 1 Lost Time Accident (LTA): number of accidents resulting in lost time of one shift or more. 2 Accident Frequency Rate (AFR): number of LTAs per million hours of our sites worked. experienced zero LTAs We are committed to achieving a zero accident workplace and last year recognise that more work needs to be done on reducing risks and raising our safety awareness. We believe that this target, although challenging, is achievable. We are delighted to report another year where our key safety measures of LTAs and of AFR have continued to improve. This has been the result of a programme of continuous improvement and the high priority assigned to safe working practices. During the year, 211 sites had no LTAs. During the period, we acquired four businesses that had a markedly higher AFR than our existing businesses. We have worked hard to ensure that the focus on safety leadership, augmented by audits and investments in safety equipment and machinery guarding programmes, has been rapidly This is a picture of our Health & Safety hero, Boxy. adopted during the integration of these businesses. To learn more about Boxy please see the inside back cover. dssmith.com/sustainability 30 Our People Employees All of our people have an important role to play As a business we are stronger together and all of our people have a key role to play in achieving our goals and objectives. EMPLOYEE WELLBEING DIVERSITY & EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES To ensure the wellbeing of our people we continue to invest in Acquisitions in South East Europe, Iberia, Greece and Turkey have safe, comfortable and engaging work environments. We believe introduced colleagues with differing cultural perspectives to our that our employees, and those who support them, should be Group, adding to the diverse composition of our employee base. rewarded. We have numerous initiatives to improve the wellbeing DS Smith puts emphasis on diverse thinking because it strengthens of our people: our decision making and fuels creativity and innovation. —— We have an award winning share save scheme that employees However, moving from separate businesses to one unified can to opt in to. company requires a careful and thorough integration process and —— Physiological surveys are routinely completed to ensure sensitivity to those cultural differences. We have supported each noise, vibrations and lighting levels across our sites are of the new businesses joining DS Smith with a cultural integration at a healthy level. programme called Stronger Together. —— Across the UK sites are engaged in a range of healthy activities DS Smith is an equal opportunities employer and is firmly as part of the Healthy Hearts campaign. committed to both the principle and the realisation of —— With sites holding family days, employees are able to show their equality as set out in our Code of Conduct. families their place of work and take part in various fun activities. Alliance for YOUth In an effort to address the gender imbalance within the industry, DS Smith is always looking to bring in fresh ideas DS Smith has organised ‘Girls’ Days.’ These educational open and new thinking, but also to balance the age days give an insight into the manufacturing industry for school and gender profile of the workforce. Equally, as and college age females. At a recent ‘Girls’ Day’ hosted by our an employer across Europe, we are well aware of the packaging site in Fulda, Germany, twenty-six girls under the difficulties facing young people in some of our markets in finding age of 15 were given practical experience across a wide range employment. For these reasons, DS Smith are delighted to be of services including quality, innovation and product design. a part of the Nestlé-founded Alliance for YOUth, an alliance of leading organisations that recognise the severity of youth unemployment in Europe as a significant social and economic issue. Since joining the Alliance, we have continued to support this initiative in two main ways: 1. Supporting students with ‘Readiness for Work’ activities such as job fairs and site open days to showcase what we do and the opportunities available to young people; and 2. Providing a genuine experience of work in our industry by offering work experience, internships and apprenticeship opportunities. Our commitment to the objectives of the Alliance closely aligns both to our strategic goal of realising the potential of our people and to our corporate values. Sustainability Review 2016 Our People 31 EDUCATION AND TRAINING LABOUR STANDARDS AND HUMAN RIGHTS One of our four strategic goals is to realise the potential of our Our commitment to respect and support human rights extends people. We believe that the best way to achieve that is to develop to our suppliers, business partners, and the wider communities both our people themselves and their working environment so within our sphere of influence. Our human rights approach is that DS Smith employees are proud and able to give their best aligned with universally accepted international and regional at work. human rights instruments and we subscribe to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We have embedded these elements DS Smith continues to promote active and meaningful in our Code of Conduct, which has an enhanced focus on human performance conversations between managers and their teams and labour rights. These issues have also been integrated into throughout the year, enriched by an annual performance appraisal. our social responsibility guidelines, supplier sustainability requirements and due diligence guidelines for new investments. ENGAGING OUR PEOPLE IN THE STRATEGY OF These frameworks shape our approach to human and labour rights THE BUSINESS and serve as guiding standards when we work in regions where Strategy deployment and aligned activity require all employees related local regulations are assessed as weak or non-existent. to understand the ambitions of the company and how they can contribute to achieving them. The DS Smith OWN IT! Programme During the reporting period, we surveyed our entire business and (detailed on page 8) is designed to facilitate and accelerate the we can confirm there were no reported instances of forced labour delivery of that clarity of direction and inspiration to take action or child labour or any legal disputes regarding indigenous land and improve. rights. We will only ever employ people who are working of their own free will. No employee is required to lodge a deposit, and no Individual contributions to the performance of the business, and individual will be deprived of identity papers upon commencing marginal gains made at all levels of the organisation, are at the employment with the company. Every line manager is responsible core of employee engagement activity. DS Smith is able to see for making sure that these absolute standards are adhered to. that engagement in the way employees get involved in sharing best practice and driving awareness of issues. Engaging Managers Programme GENDER DIVERSITY Our Engaging Managers learning Board Senior Management and development programme, designed to promote an engaging 9% and inclusive management style 25% throughout DS Smith, has been running since May 2015. Our People This course has three phases: Preparation (self-reflection 75% and collecting 360° feedback); 91% an Off-site Course (interactive Male: 6 Male: 144 experiential learning); and Female: 2 Female: 15 Implementation (turning the learning into action with the support of individual coaching). To date, the materials have been translated into 13 languages and Group the course has been delivered to over 1,500 of our managers across Europe, the United States and New Zealand. Engaging 21% Managers is a real example of how we are stronger together and the outcomes have been outstanding. The UK & Ireland Packaging Managing Director said, “I was lucky Employee data, based on all permanent enough to attend the ‘Engaging Managers’ course to support employees as at 30 April 2016. anyone who leads a team in DS Smith. It is about developing 79% Our senior management population leadership skills in accordance with our values as a means to consists of the Group Operations achieving our personal and business goals. I do firmly believe Committee (excluding executive Male: 20,833 that for DS Smith to thrive we must continually develop our directors) plus those who report Female: 5,475 to the Group Operations Committee. people and give everyone the chance to fulfil their potential.” dssmith.com/sustainability 32 Our People Community Involvement Being caring At DS Smith we seek to make a positive contribution to our communities and build a reputation as a good neighbour and employer. We take pride in what we do and care about our people and the world around us. The DS Smith Charitable Foundation was established to provide funding to charities with activities and values similar to those DS Smith donates €50,000 to UNICEF of DS Smith. The DS Smith Charitable Foundation particularly DS Smith has decided to make a donation of €50,000 to the supports charities engaged in improving or conserving the UNICEF charity campaign ‘Donations instead of gifts’. For the environment and those providing training and educational second year in a row, money that would normally be spent opportunities. on customers’ Christmas gifts is now donated to UNICEF. The money is used to help refugee children. For more information and how to apply for funding, visit www.dssmith.com/company/sustainability/our-people/ “The initiative came from our customers that instead of community-involvement giving Christmas gifts we should make a donation via the DS Smith Charitable Foundation,” says Michael Lamprecht, CHARITABLE FOUNDATION GRANTS Sales & Marketing Director at DS Smith. “Last year’s positive feedback and the current state of emergency for thousands Red Cross Donation of refugees, many of whom are children, has encouraged Anyone who has watched the news on television or opened us to donate again.” a newspaper in the last year will have seen harrowing stories Per V Frederiksen, Managing Director of DS Smith in the about refugees. More than a million migrants and refugees Germany & Switzerland region, adds: “It is a part of our crossed into Europe in 2015. Group values to be caring. We care about our customers, our The conflict in Syria continues to be by far the biggest driver of people and the world around us. We would like to actively take the migration. But the ongoing violence in Afghanistan, abuses responsibility and contribute towards giving refugee children in Eritrea, as well as poverty in Kosovo are also forcing people a future. That is why we are supporting the UNICEF campaign.” to look for new lives elsewhere. “Clean drinking water, medication, winter clothing, a warm Many of DS Smith’s businesses in Central and Eastern Europe blanket, the opportunity to receive an education – these are all have been directly impacted by the crisis. At every border along things that we normally don’t have to think twice about in our the refugee trail, through Macedonia, Serbia, Croatia, Slovenia, region. For children in war zones and on the arduous escape Austria, Germany, Denmark and Sweden, border checks are from Syria they make a decisive difference. By forgoing a small tighter. Eurostar services have often faced disruption over gift, our customers give children in need a gift that could the last year as thousands have tried to cross the Channel change their lives,” says Anja Röhrle, Marketing Manager by climbing into lorries and clinging to the Eurostar trains at DS Smith. as well as trying to board ferries. The DS Smith Charitable Foundation wanted to help the humanitarian aid efforts in the areas most affected by the crisis. DS Smith managers suggested that a single donation to the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) would be the best way to get help to where it was needed. The DS Smith Charitable Foundation gave €50,000 to the International Red Cross to help with its work. Photographer: Somar Rezk, ©ICRC Sustainability Review 2016 Our People 33 DS Smith partners with London’s Edinburgh International Science Festival Museum of Brands DS Smith supports the Edinburgh International Science Festival, DS Smith is a founding sponsor of the Museum of Brands, founded in 1989, which is an educational charity that aims to Packaging and Advertising. inspire people of all ages and backgrounds to discover the world around them. Edinburgh’s annual Science Festival is the world’s In line with our commitment to innovation, DS Smith supports first public celebration of science and technology and still one the Museum’s conference space where the shared objective is of Europe’s largest. The organisation has a strong focus on to spark creativity and inspiration. education and runs a touring programme that visits schools around Scotland throughout the year. The Sales and Marketing Director for DS Smith’s UK Packaging Division, said, “This collaboration will allow us to further strengthen our relationships with marketers and brand owners as well as demonstrate how secondary packaging works best when it is considered an innovative part of the promotional mix.” The Museum’s Time Tunnel takes the visitor through how daily life has changed during the last 150 years – leisure and entertainment, travel and transport, design and fashion, toys and games, as well as the rapid rise in packaging of products. Chairman of the Museum of Brands, says: “DS Smith’s sponsorship is a significant next step for the Museum. The marketing community in particular will benefit from better programmes, facilities and enhanced exhibitions.” The DS Smith Charitable Foundation, which supports charities engaged in training or educational opportunities, will support an education programme at the Museum, delivering learning Durham Military Scholarship sessions to more than 20,000 schoolchildren and students The Durham University Military Scholarship programme each year on branding, marketing, business and design. provides £5,000 per year to support former members of the British armed services and their dependants taking a degree at Durham. It recognises the huge contribution made by servicemen and women – and the challenge that the transition Trees for Life to civilian life following years of military service can present. DS Smith supports Trees for Life, Scotland’s leading conservation The 2016 DS Smith Our People volunteering charity. Their vision is to restore the ancient Caledonian Forest to the Scottish Highlands, by working with Military Scholarship a number of partners across our Core Area including Forestry has been awarded Commission Scotland, The National Trust for Scotland, RSPB to Andrew Murray, and private landowners, to grow the Caledonian Forest of the who spent 15 years future through planting native trees, removing non-native in the army, serving species and fencing seedlings to protect them from in Northern Ireland, overgrazing. The long-term goal is to create a mature, Afghanistan and healthy forest and to reintroduce missing species of Iraq, carrying out wildlife, such as the beaver, wild boar, lynx and wolf. bomb disposal and training. This scholarship has allowed him to take up a place at Durham to study Archaeology. dssmith.com/sustainability 34 Our People Community Involvement continued EMPLOYEE FUNDRAISING Keep Britain Tidy Plastics USA – cooking for a good cause For two years DS Smith has been the primary sponsor of The Ronald McDonald House (RMH) Charity creates, finds and the Green Flag Award Scheme managed by Keep Britain Tidy. supports programmes that directly improve the health and During this time our employees have pledged to volunteer and well-being of children. The Ronald McDonald Houses provide fundraise to support the development of green spaces and temporary housing and food for families with seriously ill children. the Green Flag Award for communities and businesses in the UK across its sites. The partnership has been embraced by DS Smith Plastics North America Senior Management team colleagues across all four divisions. came together to serve a home-cooked meal to over 60 family members staying at the Upper Midwest Ronald McDonald Here is an insight into the excellent and exciting work being House located in Minneapolis, Minnesota. carried out in 2016. With aprons ready, the team cut, chopped, shredded, and baked VIRTUAL BALLOON RACE a wonderful meal. While the families who call RMH home were DS Smith’s first UK group wide fundraiser, the environmentally grateful to the DS Smith team for the meal, it was the team friendly Virtual Balloon Race raised a fantastic £2,000. The that was grateful for the families allowing the team to be in online race took place in January 2016 and was a modern take their home and serve them. Donating time like this supports on the traditional pastime, but without littering or causing our ambition to continuously strive towards the DS Smith danger to wildlife. Real weather conditions determined value ‘be caring’. the journey of the balloons and participants tracked their balloon’s progress over the duration of the seven day race. CLEAN FOR THE QUEEN The “Clean for the Queen” national campaign swept the nation in March 2016, in preparation for the Queen’s 90th birthday. Caring teams armed with litter pickers, brushes and bags, set out on their mission to clean up their DS Smith sites and surrounding areas. At our Head Office in London, colleagues (pictured below) cleaned a local children’s park. The Managing Director of Neath said, “At Neath we are really supportive of the DS Smith and Keep Britain Tidy partnership and what it stands for. Where possible, we are tenacious in seeing DS Smith Germany raises money for how we can involve ourselves in the various initiatives that take place throughout the year; which is why it was great to take part little heroes in a national campaign such as Clean for the Queen.” The DS Smith marketing department organises a tombola at the Fulda site on an annual basis in order to raise money for Keep Britain Tidy’s Deputy Chief Executive said, “The good causes. Around 300 employees were actively involved partnership has really taken shape over the past two and bought tickets with all the proceeds being donated to years and been embraced wholeheartedly by the DS Smith the Little Heroes hospice. Little Heroes or “Kleine Helden” is a workforce. We’re really excited about the future and what hospice in the Hesse region of Germany. “We have decided to we can achieve together.” donate the money from this campaign to the Kleine Helden For more information about the Partnership contact society, which helps children and young people in our region Sophie Gibbs, Corporate Engagement Manager, at: who are suffering from life-shortening illnesses,” says Rainer Sophie.gibbs@keepbritaintidy.org Fugmann, Plant Sales Manager at the DS Smith site in Fulda. Sustainability Review 2016 Our People 35 DS SMITH’S SOCIAL MEDIA DS Smith Running for Charity Over the last 12 months we have grown our social media DS Smith employees have taken part in many charity runs over presence and encouraged our employees to take an active the last 12 months. In Brussels DS Smith participated for the first role in our different social media channels. time in the Acerta Ekiden marathon with three teams of six runners raising money for a local Belgian charity supporting children wellbeing and education. TWITTER DS Smith Packaging reached 10,000 Twitter followers – Employees from Austria, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Croatia, the highest amount of followers in our industry. Twitter is an Hungary and Slovenia took part in the Vienna marathon. important part of our marketing mix, increasing brand exposure. At DS Smith we use Twitter as an engagement tool with our customers and other stakeholders as we are able to spread our key messages to them quickly. Each month DS Smith receives 750,000 Twitter impressions and 9,000 visits to our Twitter profile. We present the best of what DS Smith does, whether innovative new products, delivering concrete value for our customers or engaging with the community. In September 2015, 44 employees from 10 DS Smith sites across the French Region competed as a team in La Parisienne. La Parisienne is the biggest women only race in Europe, helping to raise money for medical research into cancer. INSTAGRAM We have been using our Instagram channel to increase brand Our People awareness and support our value proposition. The photo-based social medium also helps us to gain a wider audience and encourage engagement with our employees and other stakeholders. Our designers have used Instagram to exhibit their creativity with examples below showing some of our ingenious designs: cardboard sheep from Sweden and cardboard cars from Czech Republic. Colleagues are also using Instagram to share their environmental efforts – one of our colleagues planted over 800 trees in her home town of Värnamo, Sweden. Completing these events is a great example of our employees being tenacious and we would like to say a fantastic “well done” to all employees who took part in marathons over the last 12 months. dssmith.com/sustainability 36 About this Review About this Review This Review provides a comprehensive description of the governance of sustainability issues within DS Smith, and how our strategy, targets and performance are monitored for each of our environmental, social and economic objectives. Our data collection strategy that underpins our sustainability reporting uses the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI G4) framework, although we have insufficient data as yet across all material aspects and indicators. Unless otherwise specified, any statistical information referred ENVIRONMENTAL INCIDENTS to in this document covers the calendar year 2015, January to There were no major environmental incidents, or incidents of December. Our consolidated environmental performance data significant impact reportable to local or national authorities, or covers all production facilities, unless otherwise stated. Sales incidents potentially resulting in legal prosecution reported for offices and other central staff locations are excluded from the the period of this Review. environmental performance data. Data about our people was derived from separately collected DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH HR sources, and the numbers of our employees are derived from The management approach to sustainability is based on those payroll data. This covers permanent and temporary employees aspects of the GRI G4 framework that have been identified as as at 31 December 2015. material to our business. We measure, analyse and report on additional data for each of these aspects, where we consider this It is our policy that certain key performance indicators (KPIs) should to be consistent with the legitimate demands of our stakeholders be externally assured, and this is clearly annotated for the data and appropriate from a commercial and legislative perspective. sets covered. Unless otherwise stated, the Group’s consolidated data published in this Review or on our website covers DS Smith Plc (the parent company), and all subsidiary entities in which we hold over 50% Assurance Statement of voting rights directly or indirectly. Consolidated sustainability BUREAU VERITAS STATEMENT performance data does not cover investments where ownership Bureau Veritas UK has been commissioned is below 50%. These are undertakings in which DS Smith has by DS Smith Plc (DS Smith) for the eighth influence, but which we do not control. DS Smith Plc complies year to provide an independent opinion on with the corporate and accounting regulations of the UK and all the following environmental performance subsidiary companies comply with the regulations, legislation indicators: energy consumption, raw material and permitting requirements of all countries and regions in usage, water consumption, waste and discharge (to air and which they operate. water) for calendar year 2015. The reporting boundaries cover DS Smith’s global operations. QUESTIONS AND FEEDBACK Any questions about this document should be directed to Having completed a process of assessment including site the Group Health, Safety and Environment Director via the visits, document review and interrogation of associated Group website. management and reporting systems, Bureau Veritas concludes that there is no evidence to suggest that the data presented here is not a fair and accurate representation of DS Smith’s performance. DS Smith should be commended on its approach to consistent data collection and the work which was continued this year to ensure that there is a good understanding of associated processes across the company both at a group and a site level. It remains clear that DS Smith is constantly looking to improve its internal processes and has proactively engaged in the verification process. A  full verification statement including methodology, limitations and exclusions can be found on the DS Smith website (www.dssmith.com/company/sustainability/ our-environment/performance). Sustainability Review 2016 Data 37 Data ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS GROUP GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS KPI Unit of measure 2015 2014 2013 Change Scope 1 ktonnes of CO2e 1,540 1,279 1,183 20.4% Scope 2 ktonnes of CO2e 347 510 573 (32.1%) CO2e impact of electricity, heat, and steam exported to third parties ktonnes of CO2e (342) (235) (187) 45.8% Total 1,545 1,555 1,569 (0.7%) OTHER ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS KPI Unit of measure 2015 2014 2013 Change Total production ktonnes 6,802 6,294 6,257 8.1% Electricity, heat, and steam exported to third parties GWh 845 570 457 48.3% Total effluent water discharged Mm 15.9 16.9 16.0 (6.4%) Total waste to landfill ktonnes 49.8 62.4 61.9 (20.2%) OUR ENVIRONMENTAL TARGETS KPI Unit of measure 2015 2014 2013 Change Emissions per tonne of production (CO2e net of energy exports) kg CO2e/tonne 227.1 247.1 250.8 (8.1%) Total effluent water discharged per tonne of production m3/tonne 2.3 2.7 2.6 (13.4%) Total waste to landfill per tonne of production kg/tonne 7.3 9.9 9.9 (26.2%) Methodology 1 Data based on data from 101 sites (paper mills, plastics sites and corrugators) and 92 smaller sites (sheet plants, display and recycling depots). 2 Data from sites we have owned since 1 January 2015. We will report on sites acquired during 2015 in next year’s figures. 3 Total Production figure is sum of Printed Reels produced by our Paper Mills, Paper Reels produced by our Paper Mills, Plastics Production (all types) produced by our Plastics Plants, Recycled fibre collected and processed through our physical depot network, recycled other materials collected and processed through our physical depot network and Boxes produced by our Packaging Plants (corrugators and sheet plants). The conversion from ksm (thousand square metre) to tonnes was accomplished by multiplying the ksm values from the packaging division figures by the average grammage provided by the sites (if known) or else by an estimated value of 500. It also includes the production from six sheetfeeders which produce no boxes, but only corrugated board (Agugliano, Arcore, Blunham, Porcari, Louth Sheetfeeding (Abbey Converters) and Kettering. 4 DS Smith collects and reports environmental data in accordance with the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative and the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP), to the extent that this is practicable. 5 The figures reported above include data from all the Group’s wholly-owned or majority-owned manufacturing operations. Of the 86 sites whose production process requires fossil fuels (paper mills, corrugating plants and foam plants), actual consumption figures were available for all sites. The total figures also include emissions data from a further 107 smaller production facilities that use only grid electricity. 6 The CO2 and CO2e emissions were calculated using the UK Department for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs 2015 emissions factors. The factors used for converting grid electricity reflect the mix of fuels used for electricity generation in each country. 7 Scope 3 emissions, from sources external to DS Smith but involved in the supply cycle for the Group’s products and services, are not included. 8 The waste figures relate to waste generated by our operations; they do not include waste that is collected from external sources for recycling. 9 The CHP that supplies our Witzenhausen Paper Mill with steam is fired predominantly by biogenic fuels. The emissions factor for this site has been estimated as 92.019 kg/MWh of CO2e. Changes to Methodology 1 To gain additional detail about our environmental load, we have additional internal KPIs to monitor energy flows at our sites of largest impact. This includes increased detail around reporting of steam exported. Previously, our mills had recorded the steam that their power plants exported to the production process as an export, and as such we deducted this from the site’s carbon load as part of the “CO2e impact of electricity, heat and steam exported to third parties” field in the table. This energy did not in fact leave the site boundary in the same way as exported electricity to the national grid does, so we have not included these figures for 2015. We believe this is the correct methodology for our business and best reflects the reality. 2 To maintain the temporal integrity of the data set, we applied the above methodology to 2014 and 2013 figures as well. This has resulted in a decrease in our previously published “CO2e impact of electricity, heat and steam exported to third parties” figure as well as the “Electricity, heat and steam exported to third parties” figure. As a result, our net carbon emissions are now higher than previously published. 3 In previous years we had not included the production from six facilities that produce only corrugated board, and therefore produce no boxes (which we consider to be the primary output of our Packaging Division). As a result, these facilities were adding carbon emissions to our total without adding production, which meant that our intensity ratio (measured as net emissions divided by production) was worse than it otherwise would have been. This year we have added the figures from these six sites to our total, which represented approximately 400k tonnes of production in 2015. Data 4 To maintain temporal integrity and compare our performance on a like-for-like basis, we have restated the production figures for 2013 and 2014 to include these sites. This has resulted in an increase in our production when compared to previously published values. 5 Our Packaging Division records its production in thousands of metres squared (ksm), so we are required to convert this to tonnes using a conversion factor. In previous years this has been 500 as this was assumed to be a good analogue for the average grammage of the product produced. We have introduced new indicators to record the average grammage at our production facilities, so we now have an accurate figure to use. Our new methodology uses this figure instead of 500 as long as it is known, otherwise we still use the estimate of 500. For 2015, this produced a figure that was 244 ktonnes higher than it would have been under the old methodology. This is production we were previously undercounting. 6 To maintain temporal integrity, we applied the above methodology to 2014 and 2013 data as this was data we were previously undercounting. It had the effect of keeping our carbon intensity ratio artificially higher as we use production as the denominator in that calculation. As a result our production figures for 2013 and 2014 are higher than previously published. 7 The above changes to production mean that the previously stated ratios in the “Our Environmental Targets” section concerning effluent water and waste to landfill will have improved slightly on the previously stated figures. The gross water effluent and waste to landfill figures have not changed, nor has the way they are recorded. 8 The above changes to the way we treat exported steam at our mills mean that our net carbon emissions have risen from 2013 to 2015 from those previously stated using the old methodology. When combined with increases in production, this means that overall our intensity ratios listed under “Emissions per tonne of production (CO2e net of energy exported)” will be higher than previously published because we are reducing the CO2e of the energy exported under this methodology. dssmith.com/sustainability 38 Data Data continued GROUP GREENHOUSE GAS GROUP GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS BY SCOPE EMISSIONS BY GREENHOUSE GAS TYPE (Data for period 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015) (Data for period 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015) Total CO2e Location-based Market-based Total CO2 Total CH4 Total N2O Total HFCs Total C5H12 emissions Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 2 emissions emissions emissions emissions emissions (tonnes) (tonnes) (tonnes) (tonnes) (tonnes) (tonnes) (tonnes) (tCO2e) (tCO2e) Global 1,886,543 1,539,782 346,761 346,761 1,887,501 2,662 2,041 1,200 195 Austria 3,092 2,374 718 718 3,086 5 4 0 0 Belgium 8,430 5,396 3,034 3,034 8,465 8 4 0 0 Bulgaria 759 34 725 725 758 47 19 0 0 Croatia 1,907 153 1,754 1,754 1,906 34 14 0 0 Czech Republic 8,328 3,365 4,963 4,963 8,445 5 4 0 0 Denmark 10,381 5,819 4,562 4,562 10,319 9 56 0 0 Estonia 2,766 838 1,928 1,928 2,762 1 2 0 0 Finland 4,134 1,856 2,278 2,278 4,081 5 47 0 0 France 143,331 125,794 17,537 17,537 143,529 196 82 0 0 Germany 320,719 228,123 92,596 92,596 320,934 496 215 0 0 Hungary 5,290 2,731 2,559 2,559 5,283 5 3 0 0 Italy 413,928 392,638 21,290 21,290 413,785 589 228 0 0 Lithuania 3,473 2,205 1,268 1,268 3,469 3 2 0 0 Netherlands 254,003 224,705 29,298 29,298 253,545 344 125 0 0 New Zealand 222 7 215 215 223 0 0 0 0 Poland 35,962 12,499 23,463 23,463 35,782 12 169 0 0 Romania 3,102 1,765 1,337 1,337 3,097 2 2 0 0 Slovakia 9,217 4,012 5,205 5,205 9,015 6 3 0 0 Spain 6,884 3,257 3,627 3,627 7,817 5 5 0 0 Sweden 2,692 1,953 739 739 2,661 5 30 0 0 Switzerland 1,917 1,779 138 138 1,914 3 1 0 0 Thailand 122 0 122 122 122 0 0 0 0 United Kingdom 636,212 518,079 118,133 118,133 636,946 882 1,026 1,200 1951 United States 9,672 400 9,272 9,272 9,556 1 0 0 0 1 Pentane is used in Foam Products and we only have Foam businesses in the UK. Sustainability Review 2016 Data 39 OPERATIONS DATA 2015 Other Total Paper Mills Operations Operations Production Total production Tonnes 2,694,577 4,106,858 6,801,435 Energy Electricity generated MWh (electricity) 1,761,007 0 1,761,007 Electricity purchased from grid MWh (electricity) 281,504 507,764 789,268 Electricity exported MWh 829,410 0 829,410 Fuels Fossil fuels MWh 6,508,369 871,216 7,379,585 Renewable fuels MWh 118,124 1,093 119,217 Water Water Abstraction Borehole water m3 10,026,868 254,144 10,281,012 Municipal water m3 300,531 914,046 1,214,577 Surface water m3 7,808,342 186,611 7,994,953 Total fresh water utilisation m3 18,135,741 1,354,800 19,490,541 Emissions to Water Total effluent from site m3 15,184,869 675,515 15,860,384 Fugitive Emissions to Air Dust kg 5,061 0 5,061 Total NOx emissions kg 824,041 0 824,041 Total SO2 emissions kg 3,473 0 3,473 Waste Total solid waste Tonnes 410,418 576,088 986,506 Solid waste to off site landfill Tonnes 41,116 8,639 49,755 Solid waste to off site landspread Tonnes 113,115 0 113,115 Solid waste to off site recycling Tonnes 46,104 556,814 602,918 Solid waste to third party incineration Tonnes 210,084 10,634 220,718 Hazardous waste Tonnes 333 4,200 4,533 Data dssmith.com/sustainability 40 Data Data continued PAPER MILL DATA 2015 ContoireChouanard, Hamel, Kaysersberg, Aschaffenburg, Witzenhausen, Lucca, De Hoop, Kemsley, Wansbrough, France France France Germany Germany Italy Netherlands UK UK Total Mills Production Paper reels Tonnes 33,007 71,042 144,898 402,333 352,586 391,288 347,876 799,697 151,850 2,694,577 Energy Electricity MWh Generated (electricity) 0 0 58,014 299,418 9,730 589,975 350,077 453,793 0 1,761,007 Electricity purchased MWh from grid (electricity) 11,937 24,632 28,522 464 105,124 144 6,076 28,165 76,440 281,504 Electricity exported MWh 0 0 16,627 133,515 5 402,346 220,273 56,644 0 829,410 Fuels Fossil Fuels MWh 47,992 95,271 286,884 955,160 63,758 1,747,432 1,066,686 2,009,701 235,485 6,508,369 Renewable Fuels MWh 0 0 13,000 0 105,124 0 0 0 0 118,124 Water Water Abstraction Borehole water m3 0 0 0 0 213,048 1,424,152 2,075,546 6,314,122 0 10,026,868 Municipal water m3 94,223 17,935 0 38,786 122,973 2,643 0 0 23,971 300,531 Surface water m3 209,704 638,200 1,580,819 2,142,696 1,416,391 765,870 0 0 1,054,662 7,808,342 Total fresh water utilisation m3 303,927 656,135 1,580,819 2,181,482 1,752,412 2,192,665 2,075,546 6,314,122 1,078,633 18,135,741 Emissions to Water Total effluent from site m3 156,127 342,411 1,462,370 1,395,197 1,227,992 1,973,923 1,387,964 6,499,964 738,921 15,184,869 Fugitive Emissions to Air Dust kg 0 42 0 1,725 0 0 0 3,294 0 5,061 Total NOx emissions kg 81 6,572 14,305 111,132 8,440 178,670 159,000 261,782 84,059 824,041 Total SO2 emissions kg 0 192 0 514 780 0 0 1,987 0 3,473 Waste Total solid waste Tonnes 1,005 2,298 25,032 49,399 26,939 40,489 23,428 228,666 13,162 410,418 Solid waste to off site landfill Tonnes 63 2,079 134 0 0 1,126 0 32,424 5,290 41,116 Solid waste to off site landspread Tonnes 0 0 3,918 0 0 14,135 732 90,909 3,421 113,115 Solid waste to off site recycling Tonnes 90 218 14,167 9,178 5,109 7,858 695 4,338 4,451 46,104 Solid waste to third party incineration Tonnes 853 0 6,814 40,221 21,830 17,370 22,001 100,995 0 210,084 Hazardous waste Tonnes 10 0 12 41 32 50 33 72 83 333 Sustainability Review 2016 Data 41 WASTE BY COUNTRY 2015 Solid waste Solid waste Solid waste Solid waste Hazardous to off site to off site to off site to third party Total solid waste landfill landspread recycling incineration waste (tonnes) (tonnes) (tonnes) (tonnes) (tonnes) (tonnes) Austria 0 49 0 7,199 11 7,259 Belgium 24 289 0 14,936 282 15,507 Bulgaria 0 40 0 132 0 172 Croatia 10 17 0 67 4 88 Czech Republic 51 157 0 12,802 14 12,973 Denmark 19 0 0 7,738 4,650 12,388 Estonia 2 9 0 46 0 55 Finland 15 22 0 6,746 126 6,894 France 3,006 3,247 3,918 158,460 10,304 175,929 Germany 251 471 0 104,040 62,304 166,815 Hungary 214 314 0 14,601 53 14,968 Italy 192 4,136 14,135 88,840 17,378 124,489 Lithuania 5 85 0 5,467 38 5,590 Netherlands 64 286 732 14,773 22,262 38,053 New Zealand 0 82 0 44 0 126 Poland 58 675 0 37,162 0 37,837 Romania 0 24 0 5,325 17 5,366 Slovakia 8 82 0 245 0 327 Spain 2 239 0 10,916 4 11,159 Sweden 15 5 0 15,961 345 16,311 Switzerland 0 49 0 6,317 48 6,414 Thailand 0 10 0 0 0 10 United Kingdom 597 39,363 94,330 90,606 102,878 327,176 United States 0 104 0 495 0 599 Total 4,533 49,755 113,115 602,918 220,718 986,506 Data dssmith.com/sustainability 42 Data Data continued DS SMITH SITES 20151 Country Name Product Country Name Product Australia Melbourne Plastics France St-Just-en-Chaussée Packaging France Thouarcé Packaging Austria Margarethen am Moos Packaging France Tigy Packaging Austria Neumarkt am Wallersee Packaging France Torigni-sur-Vire Packaging Belgium Buggenhout Packaging France Toury Packaging Belgium Gent Packaging France Vervins Packaging Belgium Harelbeke Packaging France Vittel Packaging Belgium Bilzen Plastics France Chouanard Paper France Kaysersberg (Paper Mill) Paper Bulgaria Shumen Plastics France Kaysersberg (Rigid Packaging) Plastics Croatia Karlovac Plastics France La Chevrolière (Rivatex) Plastics France Wormhout Plastics Czech Republic Boletice Display Packaging France Paris Office Recycling Czech Republic Boletice nad Labem Packaging Czech Republic Jilove u Decina Packaging Germany Arenshausen Packaging Czech Republic Karlovy Vary Packaging Germany Arnstadt Packaging Czech Republic Kladno Packaging Germany Berlin Packaging Czech Republic Nový Bor Packaging Germany Donauwörth Packaging Czech Republic Stritez u Jihlavy Packaging Germany Endingen Packaging Germany Fulda Packaging Denmark Grenaa Packaging Germany Fulda (Pre-Press Services) Packaging Denmark Taulov Packaging Germany Hamburg Packaging Denmark Taulov (Die Cut Factory) Packaging Germany Hanau Packaging Denmark Vejle Packaging Germany Hövelhof Packaging Estonia Tallinn Packaging Germany Lahnau Packaging Germany Mannheim Packaging Finland Ii Packaging Germany Minden Packaging Finland Kuopio Packaging Germany Nördlingen Packaging Finland Nummela Packaging Germany Paderborn Packaging Finland Tampere Packaging Germany Polkenberg Packaging Finland Turku Packaging Germany Pulheim Packaging Finland Viiala Packaging Germany Pulheim (Delta Packaging Services) Packaging France Cabourg Packaging Germany Rhein Display Packaging France Carhaix-Plouguer Packaging Germany Shared Service Centre Nürnberg Packaging France Cognac Packaging Germany Traunreut Packaging France Contoire-Hamel (Cartonnerie) Packaging Germany Wilhelmshaven Packaging France Contoire-Hamel (Papeterie) Packaging Germany Wolfsgrün Packaging France Dijon-Chenôve Packaging Germany Aschaffenburg Paper France Éloyes-Remiremont Packaging Germany Witzenhausen Paper France Fegersheim Packaging Germany Schwetzingen Plastics France Kunheim Packaging Germany Raubling Recycling France La Chevrolière Packaging Hungary Budapest Head Office Packaging France Marnoz Packaging Hungary Budapest HUDI Packaging France Mehun-sur-Yèvre Packaging Hungary Győr Packaging France Meyzieu Packaging Hungary Nagykáta Packaging France Neuville-aux-Bois Packaging Hungary Nagykáta Sheet Plant Packaging France Puteaux Packaging Hungary Sárvár Packaging France Rochechouart Packaging Hungary Székesfehérvár Packaging France St-Jean-de-Bournay Packaging Hungary Tiszaújváros Packaging Sustainability Review 2016 Data 43 Country Name Product Country Name Product Italy Agugliano Packaging Poland Kutno Packaging Italy Arcore Packaging Poland Kwidzyn Packaging Italy Barletta Packaging Poland Olawa Packaging Italy Brescello Packaging Poland Kielce (Rigid Packaging) Plastics Italy Casalgrande Packaging Romania Pitesti Packaging Italy Casarile Packaging Romania Timisoara Packaging Italy Colle di Compito Packaging Romania Timisoara Sheet Plant Packaging Italy Cornuda Packaging Italy Ferrara Packaging Slovakia Bratislava Packaging Italy Lana Packaging Slovakia Galanta Packaging Italy Lari Packaging Slovakia Ilava Packaging Italy Marlia Packaging Slovakia Rožňava Packaging Italy Milano Packaging Slovakia Hurbanovo Plastics Italy Nola Packaging Slovakia Nitra Plastics Italy Pessione Packaging Spain Pamplona Packaging Italy Porcari Packaging Spain Alcala de Henares Plastics Italy Quargnento Packaging Spain Cardona Plastics Italy Rosá Packaging Italy Serra de Conti Packaging Sweden Avesta Packaging Italy Vigasio Packaging Sweden Göteborg Packaging Italy Lucca Paper Sweden Järfälla Packaging Italy Ancona Depot Recycling Sweden Järfälla Förpackningsservice Packaging Italy Ancona – Marina Depot Recycling Sweden Kramfors Packaging Italy Milano Depot Recycling Sweden Malmö Packaging Italy Novara Depot Recycling Sweden Mariestad Packaging Italy Torino Depot Recycling Sweden Mariestad Förpackningsservice Packaging Sweden Norrköping Packaging Latvia Riga Packaging Sweden Piteå Packaging Lithuania Vilnius Packaging Sweden Värnamo Packaging Sweden Värnamo Förpackningsservice Packaging Netherlands Almelo Packaging Sweden Värnamo Head office Packaging Netherlands Barneveld Packaging Netherlands Eerbeek Packaging Switzerland Altbüron Packaging Netherlands Hoek Van Holland Packaging Switzerland Oftringen Packaging Netherlands Loven Packaging Thailand Bangkok Plastics Netherlands Rijswijk Packaging Netherlands Tilburg Packaging United Kingdom Belper Packaging Netherlands Zaandam Packaging United Kingdom Blunham Packaging Netherlands De Hoop Paper United Kingdom Bristol Packaging Netherlands Doetinchem Depot Recycling United Kingdom Bristol Heavy Duty Packaging Netherlands Eerbeek Office Recycling United Kingdom Burwell Packaging United Kingdom Clay Cross Packaging Data New Zealand Auckland Plastics United Kingdom Crumlin Packaging Norway Oslo Packaging United Kingdom Devizes Packaging United Kingdom Ely Display Packaging Poland Customer Service Centre Katowice Packaging United Kingdom Featherstone Packaging Poland Customer Service Centre Krakow Packaging United Kingdom Fordham Packaging Poland Customer Service Centre Poznan Packaging United Kingdom Heanor Packaging Poland Customer Service Centre Warsaw Packaging United Kingdom Hinckley Packaging Poland Kielce Packaging dssmith.com/sustainability 44 Data Data continued Country Name Product Country Name Product United Kingdom Kettering Packaging United Kingdom Brixham Plastics United Kingdom Launceston Packaging United Kingdom Gloucester Plastics United Kingdom Livingston Packaging United Kingdom Livingston (Foam Products) Plastics United Kingdom Lockerbie Packaging United Kingdom Northampton Plastics United Kingdom Louth (Ralegh) Packaging United Kingdom Rugby Plastics United Kingdom Louth Box Plant Packaging United Kingdom Spennymoor Plastics United Kingdom Louth Sheet Plant Packaging United Kingdom Torpoint Plastics United Kingdom Louth Sheetfeeding Packaging United Kingdom Birmingham Depot Recycling United Kingdom Neath Packaging United Kingdom Bolton Depot Recycling United Kingdom Newcastle Packaging United Kingdom Bristol Depot Recycling United Kingdom Oldbury Packaging United Kingdom Caerphilly Head Office Recycling United Kingdom Packaging Services Packaging United Kingdom Cambridge Depot Recycling United Kingdom Plymouth Packaging United Kingdom East London Depot Recycling United Kingdom Porth Packaging United Kingdom Exeter Depot Recycling United Kingdom Redditch Packaging United Kingdom Glasgow Depot Recycling United Kingdom Sheerness Packaging United Kingdom Leeds Depot Recycling United Kingdom Wellingborough Packaging United Kingdom Maidstone Depot Recycling United Kingdom Wirral Packaging United Kingdom Portsmouth Depot Recycling United Kingdom Blunham Logistics Paper United Kingdom West London Depot Recycling United Kingdom Bristol Logistics Paper United Kingdom Caerphilly Shared Service Centre Plc United Kingdom Ely Logistics Paper United Kingdom London Head Office Plc United Kingdom Kemsley Paper United States Bolingbrook Plastics United Kingdom Kemsley Logistics Paper United States Lester Prairie Plastics United Kingdom Launceston Logistics Paper United States Romeoville Plastics United Kingdom Nottingham Logistics Paper United States Union City Plastics United Kingdom Wansbrough Paper 1 This is the complete list of DS Smith sites for 2015, including offices. Not every site listed here is in scope for Greenhouse Gas calculations, so their emissions are not included in the data tables in this Review. As per our methodology on page 37, we have excluded sites which were not fully owned at the start of 2015. Sustainability Review 2016 Data RAISING HEALTH & SAFETY AWARENESS At DS Smith, Health & Safety remains our number one priority. We are committed to the highest standards of safety, and are keen to ensure DS Smith is an engaging employer in which our people can thrive and fulfil their potential. Feedback received from our colleagues highlighted the need to communicate our health and safety message consistently across all 32 countries using graphics and imagery instead of words. It was decided to introduce a consistent communication toolkit across the business which empowered local Health & Safety teams to highlight the dangers of their workplace environment. This toolkit is centred around a character based on a corrugated box called Boxy, and is the face of our health and safety campaigns. Boxy is always on hand to highlight the potential dangers we face in our work environment. Humble and humorous, the character’s simple form makes it easy to craft instantly recognisable workplace scenarios and situations, and to develop strong messages that illustrate the health and safety risks across our business. From puddles to potholes and falling boxes to fires, Boxy will battle all potential work hazards, and will share his experiences, ensuring that all of our colleagues can learn from mistakes, and help to prevent any accidents from happening more than once. Boxy posters will be prevalent across all of our sites, highlighting the dangers posed in the workplace and encouraging best practice. Boxy has appeared on four other pages in this Review. Please tweet @dssmithpack with the page numbers Boxy has appeared on and you could win a prize. #findBoxy Terms and conditions can be found on our website at www.dssmith.com/company/ sustainability/sustainabilityreport/find-boxy-twitter-competition Data DS Smith Plc 350 Euston Road Regent’s Place London NW1 3AX Telephone +44 (0)20 7756 1800 www.dssmith.com Find us on linkedin.com/ @dssmithpack facebook.com/ youtube.com/user/ @dssmithgroup company/ dssmith.group DSSmithGroup ds-smith Printed in the UK by Principal Colour Ltd on Lumi Silk made from FSC® certified fibre Principal Colour Ltd are certified to the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System. Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc (London) www.blacksunplc.com +44 (0) 20 7736 0011
