United Nations Global Compact Communications on Progress 2016 Date: September 4th, 2016 PO Box 214, Paddington, NSW 2021 P + 61 417 655 547 E paul@paulgreening.com W www.paulgreening.com UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 STATEMENT OF SUPPORT Paul Greening & Associates became a signatory to the UN Global Compact in October 2013. We are pleased to present this, our second Communication on progress under the United Nations Global Compact. As a current Global Compact business participant. I am pleased to reaffirm Paul Greening & Associates continued support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. As a leader in talent solutions, we are committed to responsible corporate citizenship, both in the services we provide to clients and in our own operations and business practices. We understand the powerful impact that people can have on business performance and on their local and world communities. We instil in our own people as well as the consultants we place with client organisations the importance of integrity, quality and, most importantly, humanity in the workplace. Yours Sincerely, Paul Greening Managing Director Paul Greening & Associates About Paul Greening & Associates Paul Greening & Associates is an Australian recruitment company with expertise in specialised recruitment and recruitment process outsourcing. We help our clients and our candidates succeed by leveraging our expertise, deep industry and market knowledge, and proprietary assessment tools and techniques. With offices located across Australia & Asia, and relationships with large numbers of specialised professionals across numerous industries, we bring an unparalleled ability to match talent with opportunities by assessing, recruiting, developing and engaging the best and brightest people for our clients. We combine our broad geographic presence across APAC, outstanding talent solutions and a tailored, consultative approach to help businesses and professionals achieve higher performance and outstanding results. Paul Greening & Associates always strives to be the best and prides itself on always doing the right thing. More information is available at w w w . paulgreening.com Page 2 of 8 SUPPORT OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT'S 10 PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses ASSESSMENT, POLICY & GOALS Every human being is entitled to basic human rights that is, freedom, equality, justice and the right to life. Paul Greening & Associates (PGA) is committed to supporting all aspects of human rights, and actively supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. It is our policy to ensure that such rights are implemented for employees at all levels of our processes and activities, by promoting a culture of respect of all members within our organisation and with others with whom we interact. IMPLEMENTATION PGA’s corporate values and its Code of Conduct are at the core of its policies and practices to promote respect for human rights. PGA is also an active supporter of community involvement and a robust corporate and social responsibility policy. PGA’s Values Our values represent the high standards we expect our people to uphold in every interaction with clients, candidates, colleagues and community partners. Living our values ensures that we deliver consistently high quality service and can be counted on to act with integrity and respect in all aspects of our business. REAL DETERMINED PEOPLE Earn trust by acting with Take the initiative and Give every customer a precision honesty and integrity. the fit for their resource needs. Give customers what they need, Go Above and Beyond in all Value the skills and capabilities not what they think they need. aspects of the job of every candidate. Talk straight and Get the job done by being Inspire each other to bring out keep it simple. resourceful and innovative. the best in every employee. Following are some of the ways we celebrate, measure and reinforce our core values: • Each year, the prestigious “Walk the Talk” PGA Awards program honours employees who best exemplify the values and further our global strategy. PGA ‘Walk the Talk Awards’ is a program recognising success, innovation and ethics across PGA nationally and regionally. The annual award ceremony is an opportunity to reward and recognise outstanding employees who have and continue to dedicate their abundant talent and skills to PGA over the preceding financial year • PGA's annual engagement survey measures areas aligned with our values to track progress and identify opportunities for improvement. • As part of the Personal Performance Agreement, a formal process for managing performance, each employee is required to identify at least one objective related to furthering PGA’s values. Page 3 of 8 Our Code of Conduct and Business Ethics As a provider of human resource solutions, PGA is committed to the protection of human rights among employees and consultants based on our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. This comprehensive document describes conduct that is based on our core values, reinforces our policies and practices, and enforces legal and regulatory compliance. It outlines the company’s expectations of employees to ensure lawful and ethical behaviour. Every new employee must complete a mandatory Code of Conduct training program and provide signed confirmation that they have read the Code of Conduct, understand the content, and agree to comply with its principles. Corporate Social Responsibility PGA is a values-driven organisation and since our founding PGA has embodied the true spirit of corporate and social responsibility. Its key principles resonate through our culture and the values we share as an organisation. Inherently through our core business we seek to improve the quality of life for our employees, their families, their communities and society at large. We embrace public accountability, the part we play, and the value we contribute to society, whether ensuring equal opportunity in employment, promoting safer workplace conditions, or adhering to sustainable business practices. Our philosophy is firmly built on the foundation of being People Focused people are at the centre of our world in everything we do, how we act and what we say. Creating shared value for all is a fundamental part of the way we do business. As an organisation, we have a real and every day focus on the community and the environment we live in. We take our role as a Corporate Citizen very seriously. PGA and its employees support their communities and causes that are important to them in a variety of ways. Through employee volunteerism, corporate giving and responsible business practices, PGA is committed to making a difference in the world. Following are some of the local/regional initiatives supported by PGA employees in 2015/6: To encourage employee volunteerism, PGA allows participating employees a paid day off to participate in a charitable program. This year PGA employees participated in:• Bear Cottage fundraising for terminally ill Children. • The Salvation Army-Red Shield Appeal. • Several fund raising events for the “Children with Special Needs Olympic” foundation. The company has made corporate and employee matched donations to many charitable organisations including the Red Cross, Salvation Army and Legacy. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES PGA continues to build a culture which values and respects all employees and their opinions. We remain committed to meritocracy, which requires a diverse and inclusive culture. PGA has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights violations. Page 4 of 8 LABOUR PRINCIPLES Principle 3 : Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory Labour; Principle 5 : the effective abolition of child Labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS PGA recognises its employees' rights to freedom of association and collective bargaining (Principle 3) and recognises the importance of having a well-balanced team through our policies that support diversity and non-discrimination (Principle 6). PGA opposes all forms of forced and compulsory Labour (Principle 4). The nature of PGA's work means that the Labour-related risks referred to in Principles 5 on child Labour is not applicable to PGA. As a talent solutions company, we demonstrate our commitment to supporting the UNGC Labour principles by helping our clients make fair and informed decisions about their people strategies and also adhere to all applicable laws governing Labour and employment. These principles also apply to our own efforts to attract, develop and retain the right people. All PGA employees are issued with a contract of employment which clearly states their terms and conditions including pay rates and overtime pay arrangements. All staff are issued with a Company Handbook which includes information on standard terms and conditions of employment, company benefits, company rules, grievance and disciplinary procedures. IMPLEMENTATION Based on our commitment to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights we have set up policies in relation to Equal Opportunity, Discrimination, Bullying and Harassment to make our position clear for all our suppliers, employees and partners. Diversity & Equal Opportunity As a global company, our employees, contractors, clients and suppliers come from diverse backgrounds and cultures. By valuing diversity and equal opportunity, we connect with the richest spectrum of experiences, skills, expertise and perspectives for all of the markets we serve. This philosophy is also reflected in our own recruiting process we recognise that a diverse workforce fosters creativity, innovation and better business practices. PGA's policies, procedures and corporate values ensure compliance with all legislation and regulations relating to recruitment and employment, these include Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO), Anti-Discrimination, Workplace Health and Safety (WHS) and Privacy. PGA is committed to maintaining EEO recruitment practices that are fair and equitable and has strategies in place to integrate employees from all backgrounds and assist clients in accessing the maximum number of candidates. All of our business activities are required to be conducted without discrimination based on race, colour, genetics, religion, gender, sexual orientation, national origin, disability or age. Discrimination, Bullying and Harassment Policy PGA employs a diverse workforce and is committed to creating a positive work environment where employees are treated with dignity, courtesy and respect. PGA has zero tolerance to behaviours which are contrary to this, such as unlawful discrimination, harassment, bullying, victimisation and vilification are not tolerated. Page 5 of 8 PGA seeks to ensure that its employees are provided with workplaces free from any form of harassment and/or bullying. The aim of the policy is to create a working environment which facilitates a culture of respect for others and personal responsibility free from any form of harassment and bullying. Work Health and Safety WHS PGA has extensive Work Health and Safety (WHS) policies and processes in place that protect all employees, whether they are based in a PGA office or on a client site. We have strict incident management and reporting procedures in place, and conduct regular site visits to ensure our contractors are properly protected. Professional Development & Training PGA is dedicated to employees' professional development to hone their skill levels and advance with the company. Training content is developed internally for PGA-specific training needs and purchased externally for universal content. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Employee Satisfaction Survey 100% of employees participated in our annual employee engagement survey, to share their feedback about PGA as a place to work. The results were compared against company benchmarks and prior results. A focus group is then established, facilitated through external consultants, to design and implement plans to address any issues identified through the survey. PGA's Safety Performance We are proud of our safety performance over the 5 years, recording a 1 0 0 % reduction in Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) during this time. Our objective is zero harm and we have consistently improved our performance by reducing injuries in the work plac e. During the past year, PGA has delivered a strong national safety performance program, with both AIFR and LTIFR improving on last year's statistics. Our safety record continues to improve and we are moving closer to achieving our goal of zero harm. Response to Labour Standard violations There have not been any reported possible breaches of Labour Standards during 2015/6. Our Human Resources Department has not reported any breach of any Labour principles for 2015/6. Page 6 of 8 ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Principle 7 : Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 : undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental r es pons ib i lit y; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS PGA's tradition of responsibility to the communities we serve means that we conduct our business with respect and consideration for the environment. As a service organisation, our operations are entirely office-based. Our environmental impact primarily takes the form of energy used in our offices, and business travel to deliver our services. Our environmental impact is small compared to that of manufacturing and industrial companies, however even office based businesses have the opportunity to impact the environment in a positive way. IMPLEMENTATION As a socially and environmentally responsible organisation, we believe in contributing in many different ways to the communities we serve, and in having a positive impact on all our stakeholders: customers, shareholders, employees and society as a whole. PGA promotes and maintains environmentally responsible practices for the benefit of our clients, employees and the communities in which we operate. We conduct and develop our business in a manner that is environmentally responsible having due regard for protecting the environment and complying with all relevant environmental legislation and regulations. PGA is committed to: • Complying with applicable regulations and standards to which we subscribe • Preventing pollution, reducing waste and consumption of resources such as materials, fuel and energy and commit to recover y and recycling, as opposed to disposal wherever feasible. • Sharing environmental solutions with all stakeholders. • Giving emphasis to preventative rather than corrective action. • Regular monitoring of technology to reduce consumption of resources. • Reviewing our activities to develop objectives and targets to minimise the impact of the business on the local environment and develop appropriate programs to achieve these objectives. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES PGA has not had any environmental incidents and has not been subject to any statutory notices or prosecutions during 2015/6. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS PGA is firmly opposed to corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. PGA’s objective is to compete in the marketplace on the basis of competitive services and prices. Under no circumstances is it acceptable to offer, give, solicit or receive, any form of bribe, kickback, improper or illegal inducement. PGA supports the UN Convention against Corruption and will not operate with organisations that are corrupt. IMPLEMENTATION Our value system emphasises integrity and trust at all levels of the organization. To ensure our company is managed with integrity and in our stakeholders best interests, we have put in place policies and practices that maintain high ethical standards of conduct and comply fully with applicable laws and governmental regulations. Our Code of Conduct and Ethics gives clear guidelines for the company’s expectations of employees to ensure lawful and ethical behaviour. Our Code of Conduct covers such areas as: . Reporting violations and ensuring compliance. . Corporate opportunities and conflicts of interest. . Compliance with securities laws. . Antitrust and competition law compliance. . Financial and accounting practices. . Political contributions. . Lobbying and legislative contacts. . Business with governments and officials. . Governmental investigations. . Gratuities and gifts. Any violations or concerns about the Code of Conduct can be reported to management, 24 hours a day. To ensure transparency and adherence to quality standards, PGA’s consolidated financial statements and the effective operation of internal control over financial reporting are subject to external monthly reviews and an annual audit. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES PGA has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption and bribery.
