CSR REPORT 2016 New Value for a Sustainable World Konica Minolta’s mission is “The Creation of New Value.” The company exists for this very purpose: to use creative ideas to deliver tangible new value in order to resolve the challenges faced by customers and the broader society. In order for companies to be sustainable in the times ahead, they will have to contribute to the resolution of social challenges while continuing to grow. In other words, they will be required to create value for both the company and society. In cooperation with its stakeholders around the globe, Konica Minolta aims to establish itself as a company that is vital to society by continuing to create new value that brings innovation to the world. Contents Contents / Editorial Policy 1 Customer Satisfaction and Diversity Product Safety 37 Message from the President 3 25 Assuring Product Safety 26 Supporting Women’s Konica Minolta’s CSR 5 Career Building 38 Increasing Customer Satisfaction 27 Globalizing Human Resources 39 Close Up 28 Close Up 40 Environment 13 Responsible Supply Chain 29 Green Products Essential Requirements to Fulfill CSR 41 15 Promoting CSR Green Factory 17 in the Supply Chain 30 Evaluation of CSR by External Parties 46 Green Marketing 19 Human Capital 33 Data 47 Social Innovation 21 Ensuring Work-Life Balance 34 Expert Opinion of 22 Developing Human Resources Konica Minolta’s CSR Report 51 Close Up 35 Managing Occupational External Assurance 52 Safety and Health 36 Overview of the Konica Minolta Group 53 Note: Indicators that have been assured by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. are marked with ★. 1 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 Konica Minolta Philosophy Editorial Policy The Konica Minolta CSR Report is published to inform all stakeFor Further Information holders about the Group’s corporate social responsibility initiaMore detailed information about the Group’s CSR activities is available at: tives. Konica Minolta recently reevaluated the issues with the http://konicaminolta.com/about/csr greatest materiality to its business̶issues with social signifiRelevant information cance and substantial impact on the company’s business. This Page on the website available on the website report provides information on the specific initiatives taken and progress made on each of those issues. To facilitate communicaThe documents below are available for download at: tion with stakeholders around the world, the report is published in http://www.konicaminolta.com/about/corporate/ document_download.html five languages: Japanese, English, Chinese, German, and French. •Company Brochure •CSR Report •Environmental Report Report Boundary •Annual Report •Intellectual Property Report This report covers Konica Minolta, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. When data is given on a specific subset of companies, the boundary is sepaThe CSR report, which consists of the printed pamphlet and the web-based rately indicated. information, is prepared in accordance with the Core option of the Global Note: In this report, “Konica Minolta” refers to the Konica Minolta Group. “Konica Reporting Initiative’s G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Minolta, Inc.” refers to Konica Minolta, Inc. alone. GRI / ISO26000 / United Nations Global Compact Content Indices Reporting Period In principle, the report covers activities from April 1, 2015 to March 31, 2016. Some sections may include information on earlier initiatives or more Disclaimer recent activities. In this report, “fiscal 2015” refers to the fiscal year that In addition to facts about past or present circumstances, this report contains started April 1, 2015 and ended March 31, 2016. descriptions of the Group’s current plans and projections for the future. These descriptions are based on information that is currently available and have been Publication Date deemed reasonable based on the Group’s current status. The Group’s actual August 2016 performance could differ from its predictions due to future changes in the busi(Next report: scheduled for August 2017; previous report: August 2015) ness environment. KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 2 Message from the President We strive to earn social support and be a company that is vital to society by creating value that contributes to people’s lives. Continuing to Embrace the Challenge of Creating Value That Contributes to Society Technological innovation and globalization are spurring “creative destruction” worldwide. In this era, we believe it is crucial that our business helps provide solutions to social issues so that we can achieve our management vision of making Konica Minolta a global company that is vital to society. By using the core technology and expertise that we have built up throughout our history to produce products and services that help to resolve society’s issues, I believe that we can achieve sustainable growth as a company that society can depend on. In line with this belief, our Medium-Term Business Plan, TRANSFORM 2016, aims to create value that contributes to society. It is driven by two aspirations: resolving global environmental problems and contributing to a better quality of life for people everywhere. Leading the Way in Environmental Management by Striving to Reduce Global Environmental Impact Addressing environmental problems such as climate change is a pressing issue for the global community. Konica Minolta established Eco Vision 2050, a long-term environmental plan that aims to reduce CO2 emissions by 80% over the product life cycle compared to fiscal 2005. Reducing the environmental impact of CO2 emissions and use of resources helps to realize a sustainable society and also creates economic value as a result of cost savings. This awareness lies behind Konica Minolta’s commitment to initiatives that raise corporate value by both creating environmental value and enhancing business value. For example, given the importance of the sustainable use of resources, we developed our own upgraded recycling technology that recycles milk bottles to produce toner bottles for multi-functional peripherals (MFPs). This is both an effective use of resources and a way of reducing material procurement costs. 3 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 In addition, we share the environmental expertise that contributes to society quickly and continually. we have gained through experience with customers For this reason, the entire Group is working togethand suppliers, thereby making a greater impact er to create a system and culture that makes the most of through collaboration. By sharing our knowledge with diverse human resources, providing opportunity to talcustomers and suppliers, our initiatives and efforts ented individuals regardless of nationality, culture, expand beyond the walls of our company, and have a race, religion, gender, age and area of expertise. As much greater effect in reducing environmental impact. president, I will be sincere in my efforts to utilize human We aim to achieve business growth and contribute resources from countries and regions all over the world, to the environment by expanding our activities globally. train a global staff with broad perspectives, and foster an environment where women can perform to their full Building a Problem-Solving Company That potential. I believe this will lead to innovation and Improves the Quality of Life growth born from diverse ideas. Technological innovations such as the Internet of Things, artificial intelligence, and robots are not just Bringing Together the Group’s Strengths and solutions for our customers’ problems; they also have Meeting Responsibilities to the Global the possibility to solve social issues. At Konica Minolta, Community we are working to become a problem-solving digital Konica Minolta is a signatory to the United Nation company that generates solutions for social issues by Global Compact (UNGC). By signing the UNGC, we proactively integrating these cutting-edge technolohave demonstrated our resolve to fulfill our social gies with our area of expertise, digital input/output responsibilities in a wide range of areas, and to pursue technology. CSR activities in line with the UNGC principles. In recent Konica Minolta’s strength in this area is our ability to years, companies have been called on to be more protransform the workflow of people working in offices active to help resolve social issues. The Sustainable Deand other facilities across a wide variety of industries velopment Goals (SDGs), adopted by the United and sectors. One example is our Care Support SoluNations in September 2015, exemplify this. tions, integrating sensing technology with information Konica Minolta has reviewed a broad range of social and communication technology (ICT). This system issues and designated six material issues that we aim to focuses on nursing homes, which are experiencing tackle with priority. All 40,000 of our Group employees staff shortages as populations are aging. We have around the world will work together as one to address begun to expand this solution, which was developed to these key issues in order to achieve sustainable growth improve the operational efficiency of nursing staff. while contributing to society. I am confident that we will achieve business growth I invite you to look forward to what Konica Minolta while enhancing quality of life by creating and offering will achieve in the future. this kind of high value-added solutions business. Emphasizing Diversity in Management Our world currently faces a wide range of challenges, and social values and needs are diversifying. This means Shoei Yamana that we need to incorporate a broad range of sensibiliPresident and CEO ties into our business activities in order to create value Konica Minolta, Inc. KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 4 Konica Minolta’s CSR CSR Management ter as a basis for understanding and practicing desired behavior. The Group Guidance articulates Konica Minolta’s commitment to acting in compliance with international social norms such as the United Nations Global Compact, Basic Approach to which the company is a signatory, and the Universal DecKonica Minolta aims to establish itself as a company that is laration of Human Rights. innovative and constantly evolving. Practicing its manageThe United Nations Global Compact’s Ten Principles ment philosophy, “The Creation of New Value,” Konica Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the Minolta works to remain vital to society. This is why the protection of internationally proclaimed Human Group strives to contribute to the resolution of societal Rights human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in challenges by creating value that improves the quality of human rights abuses. the world through its business endeavors. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of Konica Minolta’s CSR activities are guided by its manassociation and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; agement philosophy and Labour Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and vision, which are based on compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and its Charter of Corporate BePrinciple 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. havior. The Konica Minolta Group Guidance for the Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Charter of Corporate BeEnvironment Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and havior is shared globally Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion and illustrates desirable of environmentally friendly technologies. behavior in each of the cateAntiPrinciple 10: Businesses should work against corruption in Corruption all its forms, including extortion and bribery. gories included in the CharKonica Minolta Group Charter of Corporate Behavior Corporations, in addition to being economic entities engaged in the pursuit of profit through fair competition, should be beneficial to society at large. For this reason, the Konica Minolta Group shall behave in a socially responsible manner and shall have all of its directors, officers and employees clearly acknowledge the spirit of this Charter of Corporate Behavior. Senior management shall recognize that the fulfillment of the spirit of this Charter is its own role and responsibility and shall take the initiative to ensure that all directors, officers and employees fully understand the Charter. In addition, management shall constantly pay attention to the opinions of internal and external parties and shall promote the implementation of effective systems to secure ethical corporate behavior. 1. Beneficial and safe products 5. Contribution to society We shall strive to earn the confidence of consumers and We shall, with a global perspective, affirmatively make contribuclients through the development and provision of socially tions to society while respecting local customs and cultures. beneficial products and services with the utmost consider6. Respect for employees ation for safety. We shall endeavor to make the lives of employees comfortable 2. Fair and transparent corporate activities and fulfilling, provide a safe work environment, and respect We shall, in the pursuit of fair and transparent corporate activieach employee’s personality and individuality. ties, comply with laws and social regulations and act in accor7. Responsible actions dance with international rules and the articles of incorporation. In the event of a violation of the principles of this Charter, in order to 3. Communications with society and information disclosure solve the problem senior management shall investigate the cause We shall communicate with society at large and disclose of the violation and develop reforms to prevent its recurrence in corporate information fairly and adequately. accordance with corporate compliance procedures. Prompt public 4. Environmental protection disclosure of precise information and an explanation regarding the We shall acknowledge the seriousness of global environmenviolation shall be made and responsibility for the violation shall be tal issues and shall act voluntarily and affirmatively to protect clarified. Strict and fair disciplinary action shall be taken including the environment. with respect to senior management where necessary. 5 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 CSR Management System management for the entire Group. The division reports the At Konica Minolta, Inc., the executive officer responsible for progress of CSR activities to the executive officer responsiCSR, who is appointed by the Board of Directors, carries the ble for CSR, while also reviewing measures and making produties and authorities concerning the entire Group’s CSR posals. Regarding matters of great importance, the activities. Directly reporting to the officer is the CSR promoexecutive officers meet in a timely fashion to deliberate, tion division, which sees to the implementation of CSR keeping CSR at the forefront of management decisions. Board of Directors Appointment Reporting Appointment Reporting Executive Officers Executive Officer in charge of CSR Decision-making on each division’s strategy, Decision-making on CSR strategy, Coordination commitment to goal achievement commitment to goal achievement Communication of policy Reporting Communication of policy Reporting Corporate planning and management divisions CSR promotion division Monitors each division’s Goal setting and progress management Coordination goal setting and progress Daily dialogue Stakeholders Disclosure of CSR information •Customers •Employees •Local and global •Business •Shareholders/ communities partners investors Characteristics of Stakeholders Tools and Opportunities for Communication • Providing customer service via websites and call centers Konica Minolta does business around the world. The • Providing product information via websites and newsletters major customers of Konica Minolta’s main business • Conducting customer satisfaction surveys Customers • Exchanging information via visits to customers operations are corporations, government agencies, and hospitals. • Exchanging information at showrooms and trade shows • Holding seminars • Interactive intranet Konica Minolta employs 43,332 people worldwide. Of • Group journal those, 28% are in Japan, 23% are in Europe, 20% are in • Employee attitude surveys Employees the U.S., and 29% are in China and elsewhere in Asia, • Dialogue with labor unions and others. (Figures are based on total regular • Internal help line systems employees of consolidated companies, as of March • Discussion during inspection tours of production sites by senior staff 31, 2016.) • Town meetings attended by senior staff • Activities that contribute to local communities • Community briefings and invitational events Local and Konica Minolta operates in countries across the • Sending speakers to lectures and places of education Global globe, and acts as a responsible member of every • Industry group activities Communities community where it operates. • Environmental reports and websites • Global public relations activities through international publications and websites Konica Minolta procures raw materials, parts and • Holding suppliers’ meetings Business components from many suppliers for each of the Partners Group’s businesses. The majority of these suppliers • Procurement Collaboration System are located in Japan, China, and elsewhere in Asia. • Conducting CSR surveys (self-assessment questionnaires) • Shareholders’ meetings Since Konica Minolta, Inc. has relatively high owner• Briefings for investors Shareholders ship by institutional and foreign shareholders, the • Visits to investors and Investors company is expected to take part in IR initiatives pro• Briefings for business analysts and institutional investors actively on a worldwide basis. • Annual reports • IR website KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 6 Konica Minolta’s CSR Reevaluating Materiality objectivity into the decisions on the materiality of each issue, which were then validated by the newly established CSR Executive Meeting, whose main members are executive Companies must address a great range of social issues, officers. Six material issues were identified in this process. including human rights issues, labor issues, and environIn the future, targets and action plans will be estabmental challenges such as climate change and resource lished in accordance with these material issues, and depletion. In light of the changing social landscape and action taken. This approach will help to ensure that Konica business environment, Konica Minolta reevaluated mateMinolta contributes to the resolution of social challenges, riality to identify issues that it should address on a priority thereby enhancing its competitiveness as a company. basis, with the aim of ensuring that its initiatives function Overview of the CSR Executive Meeting with greater coordination between social issues and business objectives. Purposes of the CSR Executive Meeting To identify materiality, first a comprehensive list of (1) To hold fundamental discussions on CSR issues, make policies, and decide on future course. issues was made with reference to international guidelines. (2) To review the “Planning” phase of PDCA, which until now was Those issues were given a quantitative rating for two done separately by each organization, in a cross-cutting manner from the overall perspective of CSR, thereby increasing the aspects, “stakeholder interest” (materiality to stakeholders) sophistication of each strategy and improving measures. and “impact on the Group’s business” (materiality to the Members Mandatory members: Executive officers in charge of areas company’s business) to verify their materiality. Outside concerned with the environment and social impact experts were asked for their opinions in order to incorporate Process for Identifying Materiality Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 Assessment of issues Assessment of materiality Validation and Issue awareness from stakeholders’ for Konica Minolta and identification perspectives prioritization Make an extensive list of Quantitatively assess the Quantitatively assess the Validate and identify material environmental, social, and materiality of issues based on materiality of issues based on issues at the company’s CSR economic issues with reference publically available sustainability their impact on the Group’s Executive Meeting while to GRI guidelines, the UNGC, ISO information and interviews with business and prioritize the issues. incorporating the opinions of 26000, and the SDGs. outside experts, etc. outside experts. Identification of Materiality Material Issues Boundary GRI G4* Aspects •Group •Materials •Products and 1 Environment •Suppliers •Energy Services •Customers •Emissions to Air •Group Transport Higher 2 Materiality for stakeholder Social innovation •Group － Customer satisfaction and 3 product safety •Group •Customer Health and Safety •Group •Supplier Assessment for 4 Responsible supply chain •Suppliers Labor Practices Higher •Supplier Human Rights Assessment Materiality for business •Employment 5 Human capital •Group •Training and Education •Occupational Health and Safety 6 Diversity •Group •Diversity and Equal Opportunity *G4: The 4th edition of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 7 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 Konica Minolta’s CSR Activity System Simultaneously creating social and corporate value •Supporting women’s •Green Products career building Material issue 6 Material issue 1 •Green Factory •Globalizing Diversity Environment human resources •Green Marketing p37 p13 •Ensuring work-life balance •Developing Material issue 5 Management Philosophy Material issue 2 •A digital company human Social contributing to Human capital resources The Creation of New Value innovation solving social issues •Managing occupational safety and health p33 p21 Material issue 3 Material issue 4 •Promoting CSR Customer •Increasing customer satisfaction in the supply chain Responsible supply chain satisfaction and •Assuring product safety product safety p29 p25 Essential requirements to fulfill CSR Social Corporate Information Compliance Human rights contribution governance security activities p41 p42 p43 p44 p45 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 8 Konica Minolta’s CSR Goals of the Medium-Term Environment Plan 2016 and Fiscal 2015 Targets and Results Goals of the Medium-Term Environment Plan 2016 Materiality Key Action Material Issue Business Value Environmental Value Environment Green Products (1) Creating and promoting the Sales Preventing global warming (planning and green products demanded •Sales of Green Products: 640 •CO2 emissions reduction during development) by customers and society billion yen (GP sales ratio: product use: 59 thousand tons 60%) •CO2 emissions reduction during Cost reductions procurement: 105 thousand tons •Reduce cost of product Supporting a recycling-oriented materials society •Effective resource utilization: 33 thousand tons Reducing chemical substance risks •Control emissions (2) Complying with government Sales Environment overall procurement standards and •Eliminate lost sales •Reduce environmental impact by environmental label opportunities complying with standards and requirements label requirements (3) Dependably complying with Risk avoidance Reducing chemical substance product-related laws and •Eliminate effect on sales risks regulations •Reduce hazardous chemical substance risk by conforming to laws and regulations Green Factory (1) Translating Green Factory Cost reductions Preventing global warming (procurement operations into cost •Reduce costs of energy and •CO2 emissions reduction during and production) competitiveness materials (reduce loss) production: 4 thousand tons Supporting a recycling-oriented society •Effective resource utilization: 3 hundred tons Restoring and preserving biodiversity •Sustainable use of water resources (2) Upgrading recycling to Cost reductions Supporting a recycling-oriented resolve environmental •Reduce cost of materials society challenges faced by society •Effective resource utilization: Resource cycle through expanded utilization of reusable materials (3) Translating cooperation with Cost reductions Preventing global warming suppliers into cost •Reduce costs of energy and •CO2 emissions reduction at competitiveness materials (reduce loss) suppliers (established in agreement with each target supplier) Supporting a recycling-oriented society •Effective use of resources (established in agreement with each target supplier) (4) Dependably complying with Risk avoidance Environment overall production-related laws and •Eliminate effect on •Reduce environmental impact by regulations production complying with laws and regulations Green Marketing (1) Resolving customers’ Sales Environment overall (distribution, environmental challenges •Acquire sales opportunities •Reduce environmental impact on sales and service, customer side and collection and recycling) (2) Optimizing the supply chain Cost reductions Preventing global warming and linking environmental •Reduce cost of distribution •CO2 emissions reduction during initiatives and packaging distribution: 3 hundred tons Supporting a recycling-oriented society •Effective resource utilization: 4.5 hundred tons (3) Undertaking product 3R Risk avoidance Supporting a recycling-oriented initiatives •Reinforce 3R initiatives society •Use resources effectively through product 3R initiatives Note: Some of the fiscal 2016 targets have been changed, but the binding target of a 40% reduction in lifecycle CO2 emissions has not been changed. 9 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 Fiscal 2015 Targets Fiscal 2015 Results Business Value Environmental Value Business Value Environmental Value Sales Preventing global warming Sales ○ Preventing global warming ○ •Sales of Green •CO2 emissions reduction during •Sales of Green •CO2 emissions reduction during Products: 590 billion product use: 50 thousand tons Products: 590.7 billion product use: 51.5 thousand tons yen (GP sales ratio: •CO2 emissions reduction during yen (GP sales ratio: •CO2 emissions reduction during 54%) procurement stage: 83 thousand tons 57%) procurement stage: 93 thousand tons Cost reductions Supporting a recycling-oriented Cost reductions Supporting a recycling-oriented •Reduce cost of society •Reduced cost of society product materials •Effective resource utilization: product materials •Resources used effectively: 27 thousand tons 27.7 thousand tons Reducing chemical substance risks Reducing chemical substance risks •Control emissions •Controlled emissions Sales Environment overall Sales ○ Environment overall ○ •Eliminate lost sales •Reduce environmental impact by •Eliminated lost sales •Reduced environmental impact by opportunities complying with standards and label opportunities complying with standards and label requirements requirements Risk avoidance Reducing chemical substance risks Risk avoidance ○ Reducing chemical substance risks ○ •Eliminate effect on •Reduce hazardous chemical •Eliminated effect on •Reduced hazardous chemical sales substance risk by complying with laws sales substance risk by complying with laws and regulations and regulations Cost reductions Preventing global warming Cost reductions ○ Preventing global warming ○ •Reduce costs of •CO2 emissions reduction during •Reduced costs of •CO2 emissions reduction during energy and materials production: 1.7 thousand tons energy and materials production: 2.85 thousand tons (reduce loss) Supporting a recycling-oriented (reduced loss) Supporting a recycling-oriented society society •Effective resource utilization: •Effective resource utilization: 5.5 hundred tons 7.5 hundred tons Restoring and preserving Restoring and preserving biodiversity biodiversity •Sustainable use of water resource •Sustainably used water resources Cost reductions Supporting a recycling-oriented Cost reductions ○ Supporting a recycling-oriented ○ •Reduce cost of society •Reduced cost of society materials •Effective resource utilization: materials •Effective resource utilization: Expanded use of reusable high Expanded use of reusable high density polyethylene in toner bottles density polyethylene in toner bottles Cost reductions Preventing global warming Cost reductions ○ Preventing global warming ○ •Reduce costs of •CO2 emissions reductions at •Reduced costs of •CO2 emissions reductions at energy and materials suppliers: 4 hundred tons energy and materials suppliers: 4.7 hundred tons (reduce loss) Supporting a recycling-oriented (reduced loss) Supporting a recycling-oriented society society •Effective resource utilization: 1 •Effective resource utilization: hundred tons 1.3 hundred tons Risk avoidance Environment overall Risk avoidance ○ Environment overall ○ •Eliminate effect on •Reduce environmental impact by •Eliminated effect on •Reduced environmental impact by production complying with laws and regulations production complying with laws and regulations Sales Environment overall Sales ○ Environment overall ○ •Acquire sales •Reduce environmental impact on •Acquired sales •Reduced environmental impact on opportunities customer side opportunities customer side Cost reductions Preventing global warming Cost reductions △ Preventing global warming △ •Reduce cost of •CO2 emissions reduction during •Reduced cost of •CO2 emissions reduction during distribution and distribution: 3 hundred tons distribution and distribution: 2.7 hundred tons packaging Supporting a recycling-oriented packaging Supporting a recycling-oriented society society •Effective resource utilization: •Effective resource utilization: 3 hundred tons 2.5 hundred tons Risk avoidance Supporting a recycling-oriented Risk avoidance △ Supporting a recycling-oriented △ •Reinforce 3R society •Reinforced 3R society initiatives •Use resources effectively through initiatives •Use resources effectively through product 3R initiatives product 3R initiatives KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 10 Konica Minolta’s CSR Targets and Results Regarding Social Impact Materiality Key Action Fiscal 2015 Targets Customer Satisfaction Assuring 1) Number of serious product-related accidents*1: 0 and Product Safety product safety 2) Improve quality throughout the product lifecycle*2 Increasing customer satisfaction Responsible Promoting CSR •Request that suppliers practice CSR Supply Chain in the supply chain •Conduct CSR assessments and audits •Clarify support programs for suppliers •Clarify incentive programs for suppliers •Proper information disclosure •Further improve the response rate and response accuracy for conflict mineral surveys Human Capital Ensuring •Initiatives to reduce working hours work-life balance •Support for balancing work and childcare Developing •Conduct a global employee attitude survey human resources •Run programs for systematically developing senior personnel in Asia •Continue implementing the town hall-style meetings between employees and the president Managing occupational 1) Serious accidents*4: 0 safety and health 2) Frequency rate of accidents causing absence from work: 0.1 or less •Strengthen cultivation of safety culture: Involvement of top management in safety, safety management at workplace, improve individuals’ safety awareness •Improve global safety and health management •Ensure basic safety of facilities and provide comprehensive risk assessment in safety sectors 1) Continue implementing the Health KM2016 medium-term health plan •Enhance and strengthen support for Group-affiliated companies in Japan •Reduce the number of high-stress workplaces by strengthening workplace improvement measures •Increase the continuous usage rate of KENPOS, a health encouragement website Diversity Supporting women’s •Implement career development programs for female employees career building Globalizing •Proactive hiring and utilization of global human resources human resources Note: Targets are not set for social innovation since this material issue has been newly specified. *1 Serious accidents refer to those accidents that cause serious harm to the product user’s life and/or body and accidents that cause serious damage to assets other than the product. *2 Product lifecycle: All processes from product planning, development, and material procurement, to production, sales, service, and disposal. 11 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 Fiscal 2015 Results Fiscal 2016 Targets and Plans 1) Number of accidents: 0 •Number of serious product-related accidents*1: 0 2) Improved quality throughout the product lifecycle*2 •Risk assessment practice: 12 times/year •In addition to the original product safety education, a program to improve risk assessment was implemented. •In the Business Technologies Business, NPS indicators*3 were measured globally, and measures integrating development, production and sales were implemented based on customer •Set indicators measuring customer relationship strength for each feedback. business •The CR Master Program was started in the Business Technologies Business. •Requested that suppliers practice CSR CSR procurement •CSR assessments were carried out on 16 Group manufacturing sites •Request that business partners carry out CSR activities: 100% and 57 business partners implementation •Improvements were made at one Group manufacturing site based •CSR assessment: Complete assessments of all 20 Group production on the results of the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) sites and about 130 important business partners by the end of fiscal 2016 third-party audit •CSR audit: Complete audits of three particularly important Group •A Konica Minolta CSR audit was implemented at one business partner production bases and two particularly important business partners by •Education was provided on the background of CSR procurement, the end of fiscal 2016 codes of behavior and audit standards •Expanded CSR activities to logistics partners CSR logistics •CSR assessment: Assess eight logistics partners and complete improvements by the end of fiscal 2016 •Appropriate disclosure of information in response to customer inquiries Response to conflict mineral issues •Improved business partners’ response rate to 99% in conflict mineral •Response to customers’ request for surveys: 100% response surveys in the Business Technologies Business •Prohibited overtime past 8 pm in principle (Konica Minolta, Inc.) •Promotion of Work-style Reform Project •67 employees took childcare leave with a 100% rate of return from Pursued with the following four task teams childcare leave -Improve labor productivity -Optimize workplace -Promote sharing and utilization of information -Set rules for improvements to operations •Reorganized education process for global managerial staff •Develop customer-oriented, innovative personnel to win out in global •Implemented global employee survey competition •Held reginal Global Executive Program (GEP) •Clarify the ideal employee and the desired mindset, actions, capacity •Held town meetings hosted by president and executive officers and skills •Accelerate the speed of human resource development •Systematically develop Group managers •Share global success stories (hold global award ceremonies, etc.) 1) Serious accidents*4: 1 Prevention of occupational accidents 2) Frequency rate of accidents causing absence from work: 0.23 (in •Serious accidents*4: 0 Japan), 0.44 (outside Japan) •Frequency rate of accidents causing absence from work: 0.1 or less •Selected for inclusion in Health & Safety Stock Selection of Ministry of Promote health management Economy, Trade and Industry of Japan for second straight year •Step in to help employees before they have to take leave of absence for •Promoted measures to minimize number of employees with health risks illness •Promoted health movement to establish exercise habits and improve •Take steps to reduce the number of employees with health risks food habits •Provided leadership training for female managerial candidates •Hire female managers: 5.0% ratio of female employees (fiscal 2017 •Offered mentoring for female employees target) •Active hiring of new female graduates: 30% rate of female hires •Encourage female employees to perform to potential through leadership from top managers •Percentage of non-Japanese employees among new Konica Minolta, •Proactive hiring and training of employees of foreign nationality Inc. employees: 8.0% (joining April 2016) •Evaluation of managerial staff based on globally standardized evaluation •Evaluated managers based on globally standardized evaluation criteria (ongoing) criteria •Sharing of global perspective developed by Global Strategy Council •Shared a global perspective through Global Strategy Council (expand membership) (ongoing implementation) •Share measures to promote diversity on a global basis *3 The NPS (net promoter score) indicator measures the percentage of recommendations of companies, products and services made to other people. *4 Serious accidents refers to (1) death, illness requiring a long recuperation (or the possibility of such), injuries leaving a disability (or the possibility of such), and/or specific contagious diseases and/or (2) an accident that causes the occupational death, injury or illness of three or more workers at one time (including cases in which leave is not required). KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 12 Material Issue 1 Environment In order to achieve sustainable growth in the future, a company must not only pursue economic value̶it must help to solve social challenges including environmental sustainability. Konica Minolta strives to reduce environmental impact by applying its management philosophy, “The Creation of New Value,” and sees these efforts as the key to further corporate growth. The company’s environmental management is driven by the commitment to create new social and economic value. Our Vision Long-Term Environmental Plan: Concept of the Medium-Term Eco Vision 2050 Environmental Plan 2016 Given the urgency of global environmental issues, global Twin Objectives: Resolving Environmental businesses have a great responsibility to help build more Challenges and Achieving Corporate Growth sustainable societies by reducing environmental impact. Companies that contribute value to society grow based on Konica Minolta has created specific targets in its the profits they earn. The same is true for corporate enviMedium-Term Environmental Plan 2016, which was ronmental activities. Based on this approach, Konica released simultaneously when the company announced Minolta’s Medium-Term Environmental Plan 2016 works its Eco Vision 2050, a long-term environmental plan detogether with its business plan. The aim is to achieve corsigned to help realize a sustainable society. porate growth while providing products and services that help reduce environmental impact. Eco Vision 2050 1. Reduce CO2 emissions throughout the product lifecycle by Increase environmental value 80% by 2050, compared to fiscal 2005 levels •Preventing global warming Vision •Supporting a recycling-oriented A company that creates value for 2. Promote recycling and effective use of Earth’s limited resources society both society and itself by integrat3. Work to promote restoration and preservation of biodiversity •Reducing chemical substance risks ing efforts to resolve societal chal•Restoring and preserving lenges and improve corporate Vision for Reducing CO2 Emissions biodiversity competitiveness and profits (％) 100 Products Environmental value 80 Procurement Fiscal 2016 CO2 emissions 60 Manufacturing Goals set for both environmental value and business value 40 Collection, distribution, sales and services Reduction by FY2013 20 40 ％ from fiscal 2005 levels by 2016 Reduction by 80 ％ from Increase business value •Net sales 0 fiscal 2005 levels by 2050 •Cost reductions 2005 2016 2050 •Risk avoidance Business value •Branding 13 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 About Konica Minolta > Sustainability > Environmental Activities > Environmental Policy, Vision, and Strategy Creating Value Together with Stakeholders Environment Konica Minolta is working to solve environmental challenges on a global scale. By cooperating with stakeholders such as customers and business partners, the company can have a greater impact. Konica Minolta’s environmental plan suggests that the Group and stakeholders work side-by-side to create value and grow together. Utilizing Konica Minolta's environmental technology and expertise to help customers meet their environmenEarning the confidence of shareholders and tal goals, while reducing environmental impact and investors by disclosing appropriate non-finanShareholders cial information achieving business growth Customers and ●Creating Green Products needed by customers and society investors ●Inclusion in SRI indexes ●Strengthening relationships with customers by solving specific ●Reporting at general meeting of shareholders and at issues that customers face, etc. IR seminars, etc. Social Innovation Earning the support of the international Leveraging Konica Minolta’s environmental community by fulfilling Konica Minolta’s technology and know-how in pursuit of the responsibilities as a global company to mutual reduction of environmental impact and help solve global environmental issues International Konica Business increased corporate competitiveness through community Minolta partners cooperation with suppliers ●Eco Vision 2050 ●Participating in initiatives to help solve global ●Green Supplier activities for collaboration on cost and environmental issues, etc. environmental impact reduction, etc. Utilizing Konica Minolta’s environmental All Konica Minolta Group employees recognize the technology and expertise to create new importance of creating business value in addition to value by finding solutions to environmental Local social value through their work, and are promoting issues faced by local communities communities Employees corporate growth Customer Satisfaction and ● Upgraded recycling to solve regional environmen● Green Factory activities to realize both cost and environmental issues, etc. tal impact reduction, etc. Important Environmental Issues Product Safety the commitment of the entire organization including top Under the Medium-Term Environmental Plan 2016, Konica management, Konica Minolta is achieving highly effective Minolta ascertained environmental factors relating to its environmental management. business, both as risks and opportunities. It identified important issues where solutions can lead to business Reducing Environmental Impact growth, and reviews results each fiscal year to confirm that throughout the Entire Product Lifecycle the issues selected and plans devised are adequately Eco Vision 2050 commits Konica Minolta to reducing its Responsible Supply Chain aligned. By aligning targets for strengthening its business environmental impact in all business processes, from with targets for environmental issues, and demonstrating product development to procurement, production, distribution, sales and service, collection, and recycling. Materiality Analysis (Opportunities) Earning customers’ To that end, the Medium-Term Environmental Plan 2016 Promoting mutual growth with business confidence by helping them partners through collaboration on measures overcome their challenges lays out Three Green activities̶Green Products (planning to solve social and environmental issues Creating products, services and and development), Green Factories (procurement and proReducing costs by improving businesses that help duction), and Green Marketing (distribution, sales and serMateriality for stakeholders energy efficiency solve environmental issues Developing environmental technology to solve local Reducing costs by improving vice, and collection and recycling)̶as globally material environmental issues resource efficiency Obtaining support from themes at each stage of business. Therefore, this environObtaining support from stakeholders through information mental plan takes the entire supply chain and product lifestakeholders based on measures dissemination on environmental to restore and preserve biodiversity activity achievements cycle into account. Human Capital CO2 Emissions Reduction Goal throughout the Entire Product Lifecycle 2,027 (Thousand tons) Materiality for business Procurement stage 352 Materiality Analysis (Risks) 40 ％ 80％ Energy/ reduction reduction Tightening of chemical Production 387 Depletion of climate substance regulations resources Renewable change (products, production) 168 thousand-ton (water resources) energy problems Distribution 58 1,384 Depletion of resources reduction Ecosystem Materiality for stakeholders (petroleum-based Sales and 1,216 destruction resources) service 93 (forests) Air pollution Environmental requests from customers (products) Water pollution Product Depletion of resources (rare metals) Diversity Environment use 1,137 protection Product Soil pollution around plants recycling Lagging behind in Management of environmentally friendly 405 waste laws business practices compliance Non-financial Lagging behind in government information disclosure procurement standards Actual Estimated emissions Goal Vision when measures are not implemented Materiality for business 2005 2016 2050 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 14 Environment Key Action 1 Green Products Background and Issues Vision Key Measures and KPIs Given the broad-based While striving to develop Creating Green Products with awareness of environmental products that help reduce the outstanding environmental and social issues, the value that environmental impact of performance people seek today is shifting customers and society, Konica •GP sales: 640 billion yen (GP sales ratio: 60%) from material wealth to value Minolta also aims to encourage that helps improve the quality of widespread adoption of these •CO2 emissions reduction during product use: society. By ascertaining the products by broadly promoting 59 thousand tons evolving values of society and their value. Through initiatives •CO2 emissions reduction helping to solve social issues, like these, Konica Minolta during procurement: Konica Minolta is able to strives to help build a sustain105 thousand tons continue to develop highly able society, earn social •Effective resource utilization: competitive products which confidence, and achieve 33 thousand tons enhance its profitability. sustainable growth together with the broader society as a company of choice. Main Initiatives in Fiscal 2015 Green Products Certification System Green Products Certification System Konica Minolta introduced its original Green Products Products that contribute to Certification System to drive the creation of environmental realizing a sustainable Sustainable Products society (SP) value that matches business and product characteristics. The goal is to reduce the environmental impact of customers and Products that achieve the industry’s top environmental Green Products Plus society, while also raising profitability. In fiscal 2015, Konica performance (GPplus) Minolta placed 35 new models of certified Green Products on Products that achieve the market, bringing the total to 182. Sales of Green Products in top-level environmental Green Products (GP) fiscal 2015 came to 590.7 billion yen, or 57% of the Group’s total performance in the industry sales. In that year, Green Products also had a CO2 emissions Environmentally responsible reduction effect during product use of 51.5 thousand tons and products based on product assessment represented 27.7 thousand tons in effectively used resources. CO2 Emissions Reduction Effect Green Product Sales During Product Use Effective Resource Utilization (Billion yen) Sales Percentage of total sales (％) (Thousand tons) (Thousand tons) 750 80 60 59.0 40 640.0 51.5 33.0 590.7 547.1 60 45 42.7 30 60 27.7 500 54 57 23.8 389.6 40 30 20 41 250 20 15 10 0 0 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 (FY) (Target) (Target) (Target) 15 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 About Konica Minolta > Sustainability > Environmental Activities > Green Products Environment C lose Up 1 Significant Environmental Performance Enhancement Social Innovation in New Green Products Launched in June 2015, three models of bizhub full-color printers (C368, C308, and C258) were certified as “Green Products Plus.” The products incorporate the industry’s top-level environmental technology, including the use of recycled plastic that contains at least 25% recycled resin by weight. This represents an industry first for MFPs that accommodate A3 size paper. Feature 1 Recycled PC/PET Feature 2 Energy Savings Feature 3 Ozone-Free Through the further evolution of chemiCO2 emissions have also been greatly A charge roller method is used to reduce Customer Satisfaction and cal processing technology, Konica reduced by substantially lowering the ozone emissions by at least 99%. Ozone Minolta has also increased its use of typical energy consumption (TEC) value emits an odor when it exceeds a certain recycled PC/PET*1 and has raised the compared to the previous model. TEC is concentration. PCR ratio*2 to approximately 70%. This an international energy saving index. recycled material accounts for at least 25% of the weight ratio of the total resin Product Safety volume in the main unit. The ratio of TEC value Ozone recycled materials in the surface area of the machine has increased to approxi53％ emissions 90％ mately 78%. (kWh) 4.5 reduction (mg/h) 1.2 reduction 3.0 0.8 1.5 0.4 Responsible Supply Chain Recycled PC/PET 0 0 (parts where recycled material has been used) C360 C364e C368 C360 C364e C368 *1 PC/PET: polycarbonate/polyethylene terephthalate *2 PCR (post-consumer recycling) ratio: Percentage of recycled material containing material processed from used consumer products C lose Up 2 Upgraded Recycling Technology: Turning Used Materials into High-Performance Materials Human Capital When used materials are recycled, qualities such as strength, flame retardancy and processability are usually degraded, which limits the use of recycled materials to products with low performance requirements. Using its own material and production technologies, Konica Minolta is enhancing the performance of recycled materials and thereby expanding the effective use of resources. Recycled PC/PET Milk Bottle Recycling Recycled ABS Konica Minolta developed a composite Polyethylene milk bottles widely used in The company has developed recycled material, recycled PC/PET, by using the US are being recycled to make toner ABS* with enhanced flame retardancy, used plastic PET bottles and PC. It bottles for MFPs. The company develproduced by upgraded recycling of achieved the industry’s first use of this oped a bottle cleaning technique to ABS resin obtained from used gaming material to make the exterior body of remove milk odor and tiny cells that machines. It plans to start using the bizhub series color MFPs. lead to plastic deterioration. material for internal parts of MFPs in fiscal 2016. Diversity * ABS: acrylonitrile butadiene styrene KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 16 Environment Key Action 2 Green Factory Background and Issues Vision Key Measures and KPIs Today’s increasingly urgent In pursuit of production process Promoting Green Factory environmental problems efficiency, Konica Minolta is activities to reduce costs and demand more efficient use of developing production environmental impact energy and resources. technology that helps to control •Energy and materials cost reduction There is a limit to the degree CO2, waste, and chemical of environmental impact substance emissions while •CO2 emissions reduction effect in production activities: reduction that can be obtained minimizing energy and 4 thousand tons solely through a company’s resource input. Integrating this •Effective resource utilization: own initiatives. Global with proprietary environmental 3 hundred tons companies must increase their technologies and expertise, the Promoting Green Supplier positive contribution to global company is working to make an activities to reduce both cost environmental preservation by even larger environmental and environmental impact expanding their activities to contribution across the entire together with business suppliers and other business supply chain by working in partners partners throughout the close collaboration with supply chain. business partners. Main Initiatives in Fiscal 2015 Green Factory Certification System crystallizes Konica Minolta’s know-how and helps improve The purpose of Konica Minolta’s original Green Factory the quality of environmental activities. Certification System is to promote both cost and environIn fiscal 2015, four more units (two in Japan, one in the mental impact reduction by developing specific initiatives United States, and one in France) achieved Level 2 status, to suit the production strategy in each business field. In bringing the total up to 18 units, which now covers all of addition to achieving targets based on individual environKonica Minolta’s production sites. As a result of Green mental themes, the Green Factory certification requireFactory activities, CO2 emissions were reduced by 71 ments include the attainment level for some 250 specificathousand tons, waste was decreased by 14 thousand tons, tions related to the implementation process. The system and costs were lowered by 5.4 billion yen. CO2 Emissions Reduction Effect during Production Waste Reduction Effect during Production (Thousand tons) (Thousand tons) 400 30 387 CO2 emissions 26.5 300 reduction: Waste 307 71 thousand tons 20 reduction: 200 Cost reduction: 14 thousand tons Cost 2.2 billion yen 15.5 reduction: 100 10 3.2 billion yen 0 0 2005 2015 (FY) 2005 2015 (FY) 17 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 About Konica Minolta > Sustainability > Environmental Activities > Green Factories Environment Green Supplier Activities These activities were launched at three more locations Konica Minolta conducts Green Supplier activities, aiming to in fiscal 2015, and two suppliers that started in fiscal 2014 reduce costs and the environmental impact of suppliers. This are nearing their Green Supplier activity targets, which are is achieved by saving energy and materials through the at a comparable level to Konica Minolta's Green Factory Social Innovation sharing of environmental technology and expertise accumustandards. lated through Konica Minolta's Green Factory activities. Environmental experts from Konica Minolta visit supplier Providing Green Factory expertise Konica Minolta environmental factories and propose improvement measures. The suggestKonica Minolta Business Technologies (Wuxi) manufacturing experts ed measures are designed to reduce energy and resource Konica Minolta Business Visiting supplier Technologies (Dongguan) 1 supplier sites and providing use as well as waste production. The experts convey the cost environmental techniques and reduction benefits to the suppliers and emphasize the need 3 suppliers expertise •Energy-saving for investment to reduce impact. Through these activities, support program •Resource use and Customer Satisfaction and the company takes action in cooperation with suppliers to 1 supplier waste reduction reduce their environmental impact. Product Safety Voice Voice of a Business Partner: Changhong Technology Co., Ltd. As part of the Green Supplier activities, Konica Minolta tation of the suggested measures, we visited a Konica Minolta environmental manufacturing experts visited our production production site in China, and we were able to address our site, and we discussed environmental measures for molding situation while discussing specific ways to proceed. machines and utilities use. Preparing for the actual implemenThe local government places great importance on energy-saving activities, and we received a monetary Responsible Supply Chain incentive after reporting the energy-saving initiatives we took through the Green Supplier activities. We were able to reduce our emissions by 800 tons per year, and also contributed to CO2 emissions reduction in China. Xu Yanping Visiting a Konica Minolta site to see environmental measures President, Changhong Technology Co., Ltd. Highlight Human Capital Excellent Green Factory Activities: The Next Step in Green Factory Certification In fiscal 2016, Konica Minolta is Certification system Certification standards launching an Excellent Green Factory Carbon neutral 1. Stakeholder standard System. Along with promoting fur(Transforming society) Standard for utilizing the environmental ther cost and environmental impact Environmental impact reductions manufacturing know-how of Konica Minolta equivalent to the company’s own sites to help solve environmental challenges reduction at production sites, the Sustainable factories, utilizing cutting-edge faced by stakeholders and society and new system sets activity standards Green Factory environmental technology and broadly reduce environmental impact know-how for fiscal 2018 that involve cooperation with stakeholders, such as cus2. Reduction of environmental tomers, business partners, and local impact standard Significant reduction Standard for environmental impact reducDiversity communities. By making the most of (Social contribution) tion that Konica Minolta sites should achieve its technology and expertise, Konica Substantially reducing the Excellent environmental impact of local Minolta is determined to contribute to Green Factory communities, business partners, the global environment on a broad customers or the company 3. Guideline standard Initiative standard that Konica Minolta sites scale that goes beyond its own corposhould aim for rate organization. KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 18 Environment Key Action 3 Green Marketing Background and Issues Vision Key Measures Environmental issues such as Konica Minolta seeks to make a Strengthening relationships global warming and resource substantial contribution to the and helping customers solve depletion cannot be solved by entire value chain by sharing their environmental issues the efforts of just one company. the various environmental •Reducing customers’ environmental impact All companies need to raise their technologies and expertise that level of contribution to global it has developed, and by •Generating sales opportunities environment preservation helping customers resolve their throughout the value chain. This environmental challenges. The can be achieved by going beyond aim is to strengthen relationthe company’s immediate range ships with customers and of activities, and creating shared continually create shared value value with customers and other with them, building on the stakeholders. foundation of trust they have for Konica Minolta. Main Initiatives in Fiscal 2015 Utilizing Environmental Expertise and Helping tions. By raising the level of environmental action among Customers Solve Their Environmental Issues customers, Konica Minolta is striving to create substantial Konica Minolta seeks to provide optimal solutions for each environmental value that could not be achieved by one customer, engaging in close communication and informacompany. Proposing solutions to customer issues and tion sharing about their unique needs. Similar efforts are earning their confidence has also helped Konica Minolta applied to understanding each customer’s environmental foster business discussions and secure MFP sales. This is concerns. The company utilizes Green Marketing to the essence of Creating Shared Value (CSV) that promotes support customers’ environmental activities by sharing its the growth of both Konica Minolta and customers. management approach and effective practical applicaIn fiscal 2015, Konica Minolta held a total of 12 environmental seminars, lectures and factory tours, involving 350 companies and over 500 personnel. Many participants provided positive feedback and considered the events very useful, while others expressed a desire for more detailed information. Konica Minolta also visited over 100 customers and held discussions with them. The company conducted energy-saving diagnoses at some customer production sites and implemented an Energy-Saving Support Program consisting of suggestions for reducing energy use. These actions create a beneficial cycle for the mutual improvement of environmental activities and give Konica Energy-saving diagnosis at a customer factory Minolta insight into customer expertise and initiatives. 19 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 About Konica Minolta > Sustainability > Environmental Activities > Green Marketing Environment Voice Voice of a Customer: JTEKT Corporation (auto parts and machine tool equipment manufacturer) Although JTEKT had set high CO2 emissions reduction assessment, and we turned to Konica Minolta for an Social Innovation targets for its long-term group vision, our programs energy-saving diagnosis. stagnated since all the energy-saving measures we We received very helpful ideas including visualization thought of had already been done. Top management told measures to monitor costs and CO2 emissions reduction us that it might be a good idea to get a third-party effects, prioritization starting with investment recovery, and Visiting a Konica Minolta the creation of execution plans. The energy-saving diagnosis site to see environmental became an opportunity to revitalize energy-saving activities measures at our other plants. Based on joint activities by the management department and frontlines, we realized the importance of sharing a sense of accomplishment in order Customer Satisfaction and to achieve further improvements. We believe that companies from different industries can share their technologies and expertise to achieve an even greater environmental contribution. We will continue to value the Product Safety deep relationship of trust we have built with Konica Minolta through these environmental activities. Sharing and discussing the results of an Kiyonori Ito energy-saving diagnosis General Manager, Environmental Management Department at a customer plant JTEKT Corporation Responsible Supply Chain Voice Voice of a Customer: Shanghai Huahui Silk Products Co., Ltd. (textile manufacturer) Chinese environmental regulations have been getting environmental measures, we were wondering how to stricter by the year. Since companies in the dyeing industry comply with the government requests. use large amounts of energy and water, the government Then we were contacted by Konica Minolta, a asked us to make special efforts to save energy and water. company we knew through its inkjet textile printers. They Since our firm does not have experts in energy and said members of their environmental team would be visiting China from Japan, and they offered to help us. The team visited us several times and empathetically reviewed our energy and water usage situation before proposing a Human Capital solution. Several of the measures they suggested, we then implemented. In addition to providing us with inkjet textile printers, Konica Minolta gave us very useful support including related areas, and helped us deal with the environmental issues we faced. Studying potential Based on the trust created, we intend to environmental maintain a long-term relationship with measures at a customer’s plant Konica Minolta. Chen Yundai Chairman Shanghai Huahui Silk Products Co., Ltd. Diversity KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 20 Material Issue 2 Social Innovation Creating new value to solve issues that customers and society face, by making the most of the unique technologies developed across the years̶this is Konica Minolta's mission and reason for being. By continually creating value that offers new innovation for society, Konica Minolta is promoting social and environmental sustainability. Our Concept Aiming to Be a Digital Company That Solves Social Issues In recent years, there has been an urgent need for initiatives to combine the company’s strengths in optical, imagethat help solve global issues for humanity, such as climate processing, and sensing technologies. The company seeks change as well as resource and energy issues. Meanwhile in to become a problem-solving digital company that creates Japan, which is becoming a super-aged society, issues such products and services that help resolve social issues. as a shrinking working population and rising healthcare This is why the company not only embraces the perand nursing care costs are intensifying. Konica Minolta’s spective of its immediate clients, but is also now extending mission, “The Creation of New Value,” stated in its manageits focus to their customers̶all the people who make up ment philosophy, means that the company is working to society̶in other words, switching its focus from B2B to help solve these social problems and generate new value “B2B2Person.” Toward this end, Konica Minolta is building that brings innovation to people and society. new organizations that cross the boundaries between its Under its Medium-Term Business Plan, TRANSFORM current business units, aiming to work as One Konica 2016, Konica Minolta is currently promoting a bold change Minolta to meet customer and social requirements in each in its business focus. The aim is to use digital technology business area. A problem-solving digital company Social Technology Aging of society Business Business Increasing healthcare costs Industrial Nursing care printing Serious diseases Healthcare Commercial printing Urbanization issues One Business Units TRANSFORM Healthcare Konica Minolta Commercial printing Resource and energy issues Manufacturing Workplace Climate change issues Manufacturing Workplace Shrinking workforce Facility management Human rights issues B2B Customer B2B2 Person 21 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 About Konica Minolta>Research and Development>Design> Technologies for the Future Environment C lose Up 1 Delivering Even More Advanced Healthcare by Providing Solutions Social Innovation for Home Care and Regional Healthcare Collaboration Social Issues Regional Healthcare Systems Needed for Growing Numbers of Home Care Patients in an Aging Society With a quarter of its population now 65 or older, Japan need to work together to care for patients over large has reached the globally unprecedented situation of areas. There is an urgent need to create a system to being a super-aged society. As such, it faces various support this kind of service provision. issues, including more patients who cannot make hosCustomer Satisfaction and Patients Who Received Home Care (Japan) pital visits, fewer doctors in local communities, and (1,000 patients) higher healthcare costs for the whole society. As a 160 Surpassed 100,000 156.4 result, there is a growing need for care products and ser120 110.7 Product Safety 98.7 vices that enable healthcare to be provided in the home. 80 69.5 71.7 64.8 In order to further popularize home care and 40 expand healthcare provided in the home, local clinics 0 that provide diagnostic visits and general hospitals 1999 2002 2005 2008 2011 2014 (FY) that have specialized knowledge and facilities will Source: Prepared based on the “Patient Survey” of the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare Responsible Supply Chain Social Innovation New Diagnostic Solutions to Support Home Care and Community Healthcare Konica Minolta provides new solutions to support the care collaboration through its Informity ICT service, future of healthcare. which provides broad support for building healthcare For example, the company has realized a digital networks. The company’s Collaboration Box Service, X-ray system and an ultrasound diagnostic imaging which allows the seamless sharing of diagnostic data device that are lighter, more compact and wireless. As a such as medical images between medical institutions, result, the diagnostic imaging equipment can be taken makes greater healthcare cooperation possible. For out of the hospital, and it is now possible to make highly example, specialists in the hospital can perform diagaccurate medical diagnoses with a visit to the patient’s nosis based on data sent from a local clinic, and then home, thereby reducing the stress on the patient. inform the clinic of the necessary treatment and Human Capital The company is also supporting regional healthpatient transport. Healthcare collaboration using ICT Medical visits Patients Hospital Clinic at home AeroDR SONIMAGE P3 cassette-type portable ultrasound digital X-ray system diagnostic imaging device Informity and Collaboration Box Service Diversity linking clinics and hospitals using ICT KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 22 Social Innovation C lose Up 2 Innovating in Nursing Care Workflow to Facilitate Care Support Solutions for an Aging Society Social Issues Shortage of Nursing Care Staff in an Aging Society 2015 Worker Shortfall by Occupation in Japan* Along with the graying of society, more people are in Nursing care services 1.37 need of nursing care. Meanwhile, the shrinking workGreeters / servers million people Food and beverage force has worsened the shortage of nursing care staff. preparation Given this situation, Konica Minolta determined Product sales Public health nurses, that it could help to reduce the workload of nursing midwives, and nurses care staff by promoting workflow innovation on the Automobile drivers frontlines. The company visited nursing care facilities Social workers Architects, civil engineers, to ascertain and analyze operations in detail. Nursing and surveying technicians care operations were separated into individual Environmental health service workflows initiated by a nurse call. That made nursing * Labor shortage figures are calculated by subtracting the number of care staff run around the facility. It was clear that this effective job seekers from the number of effective job openings Source: Labor market indicators by occupation (Ministry of Health, Labour was creating a major burden. and Welfare) Social Innovation Workflow Innovation for Nursing Care Staff, Starting with Highly Accurate Action Recognition In order to tackle the challenges of the nursing care field, smartphone with video display. By checking the video Konica Minolta’s business development staff gathered of the patient, the staff can decide whether to rush for information directly at about 70 nursing care facilities. assistance and can predict patient behavior, which Stationed in the facilities for about three months, they significantly reduces their workload. Since the staff can ascertained the nursing care operations in detail. Based on also use their smartphones to input care records or this, the company developed its Care Support Solution, a vital-sign data on the spot and share them instantly, the monitoring system for nursing care workflow innovation. system substantially reduces record-keeping work The Sensor Box, which is the core of the system, and helps to prevent miscommunication. By providing performs 24-hour monitoring using near-infrared and one-stop total innovation that covers both the nursing microwave sensors, and operates regardless of the care frontlines and administrative work such as record room’s brightness or the posture of the room occupants. keeping, the Care Support Solution offers greater If a patient sits up on the bed, leaves the bed, falls down, efficiency for the entire nursing care operation. or falls out of the bed, nursing staff are notified via a Konica Minolta’s Care Support Solution Patient activity monitoring Caregiver checks Detecting actions Sensor Box and situation situation using The Sensor Box can a smartphone monitor the entire changes room both day and night, without giving patients the stress of Sitting up on the bed, leaving the bed, feeling that they are falling down, and falling out of the bed Bedside being watched assistance as required 23 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 Environment C lose Up 3 3D Laser Radar Pioneering the Future for a Safer and More Secure Society Social Innovation Social Issues Need to Improve Sensor Detection Accuracy to Achieve More Reliable Security With society’s growing awareness of safety and issues, such as unnecessary personnel dispatch due to security, improving security levels has become a social sensor false alarms, and reduced detection ability due issue. This includes measures to prevent street crime to blind spots or nighttime and rainy conditions. especially in downtown areas, security measures for Cases Where Greater Detection Accuracy Is Needed areas where crowds gather, and strengthening securiCustomer Satisfaction and Counter-terrorism Minor vehicle ty at facilities where safety is required. measures at train accidents in stations and airports parking lots Rapid personnel response is essential to maintain the current level of security. However, due to a shortage Nighttime detection Early abnormality of suspicious Product Safety of human resources and the need to reduce costs and persons in parks detection in plants raise efficiency, there are growing needs for security Prevention of Crime prevention technology such as surveillance cameras. Facilities luxury and rare measures in downtown goods theft areas and at event sites with extensive grounds are facing detection accuracy Social Innovation Responsible Supply Chain Realizing Advanced Security Using Motion Detection in Addition to High-Precision, Real-Time Detection 3D Laser Radar was developed by Konica Minolta and by conducting behavior detection of suspicious utilizing its proprietary optical technology. It can persons based on analysis of accumulated behavior perform 3D scans from high angles and distant data, an even higher level of security is being realized. locations, and detects objects and people with high As an unprecedented high-precision, high-perforaccuracy. In addition to ascertaining the position, mance detection tool, 3D Laser Radar is expected to shape and size of an object in real time, the technology be adopted for a variety of applications. It will help can also recognize a moving object, while detecting realize a safer and more secure its direction and speed. Moreover, through the society not only as part of moniaddition of image processing and analysis technology toring systems, but also in using artificial intelligence, situation prediction is also self-driving vehicle development Human Capital possible. By realizing an efficient surveillance system and social infrastructure surveilthat only sends alerts when there is an actual problem, lance. 3D Laser Radar Self-driving Vehicle Development Preventing Traffic Accidents Risk Prediction at Construction Sites Diversity 3D Laser Radar can be combined By indexing behavior patterns based with various sensors for pedestrian on collection and analysis of pedesSince a wide area can be monitored at detection to increase driving safety, trian and vehicle behavior data, one time, the technology can also be and for creating high-accuracy maps pedestrians who suddenly dart into used to predict operational hazards and for use by self-driving vehicles. the street can be predicted. monitor safety at construction sites. KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 24 Material Issue 3 Customer Satisfaction and Product Safety Konica Minolta puts customers first; that’s why a “customer-centric approach” is one of the company’s core values. Konica Minolta employees worldwide strive to practice a thoroughly customer-oriented attitude. This commitment helps to build long-term relationships with customers, allowing Konica Minolta to continue creating new value. Our Concept Sharing a Single Global Quality Policy Creating Shared Value with Customers Konica Minolta aims to maximize customer satisfaction by In addition to striving for excellent customer satisfaction, offering products and services that reflect its manageKonica Minolta considers the needs of the consumers who ment philosophy, “The Creation of New Value.” To achieve use the products and services offered by Konica Minolta’s top-tier, high-value products, the company created the direct corporate clients. Konica Minolta is aiming for uniKonica Minolta Quality Policy, a global program that is fied growth by creating shared value in collaboration with followed by Group companies and employees worldwide. these clients. The company is working to achieve this by The policy ensures that emphasis is placed on customer promoting continuous dialogue with clients and carefully confidence in Konica Minolta products and services. listening to their feedback with the goal of forming prosAccordingly, a group-wide quality assurance system has perous, long-term relationships. By sharing feedback been created, allowing the Group to further enhance reliwith R&D and production departments, Konica Minolta ability throughout the product lifecycle including product strives to meet the needs of both direct clients and their planning, development, procurement, production, sales, customers. The ultimate goal is to help create a prosperservice, and disposal. ous society. Konica Minolta Customers Customers’ Customers Solutions that look beyond the immediate customer Production Success of Development of customers’ Creation of products and services Creating businesses customer satisfaction through developmentproduction-marketing Marketing shared value cooperation Development Feedback 25 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 About Konica Minolta > Sustainability > CSR Activities > Together with Customers Environment Key Action 1 Assuring Product Safety Background and Issues Vision Key Measures and KPIs Today, safe, high-quality To meet the ever-changing •Reduction of quality risk Social Innovation products are valued more than needs of customers, Konica throughout the product ever before. Expectations from Minolta continually seeks to lifecycle customers and society have enhance its products, incorpo•Sharing information about grown, and companies that quality problems and crossrating cutting-edge technolodeploying countermeasures cannot provide high quality and gies. Simultaneously, the •Implementation of risk safety will not survive. This is company is educating employassessment practices as part of why the entire Konica Minolta ees about quality and safety, product safety training Group is working to ensure that while continuously enhancing •Number of serious productits products and services meet quality management activities. related accidents*: 0 Customer Satisfaction and the highest levels of quality and The aim is to provide customers •Risk assessment practices: 12 safety. Konica Minolta believes with products that offer greater times / year that this commitment is the key convenience and confidence. to sustainable growth. Product Safety * Serious product-related accidents: Accidents in which products put the lives of product users at risk or cause serious bodily injury, and those in which property other than the products is damaged seriously Responsible Supply Chain Main Initiatives in Fiscal 2015 Product Safety Training Sharing Information about Quality Problems Technical employees related to design and development, and Cross-Deploying Countermeasures production technology, procurement and quality assurTo raise awareness surrounding quality issues, improve ance across the Konica Minolta Group receive training early issue resolution and raise response levels, the comaimed at enhancing their knowledge and awareness of pany is promoting group-wide initiatives to share quality product safety. issues and cross-deploy countermeasures. In fiscal 2015, in addition to pre-established product In fiscal 2015, mutual production capability assesssafety training, the company introduced a hands-on risk ments were conducted by participants at 16 production Human Capital assessment program, focusing on identifying and assesssites across business areas in and outside of Japan. By ing risks working with actual equipment. The goal of the assigning scores in categories such as 5S, visualization, program is to promote the practical use of the knowledge elimination of inefficiencies, and factory management, and skills learned through training. Participants provided issues at individual sites were identified and proactive feedback that was used to evaluate the program and improvement was encouraged. make improvements. Additionally, outstanding practices are cross-deployed Konica Minolta will continue to raise the level of by sharing assessment results and examples of initiatives product safety awareness and skills by providing ongofrom each site on the company intranet. ing training. Diversity Number of serious product-related accidents 0 in fiscal 2015 Production capability assessment KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 26 Customer Satisfaction and Product Safety Key Action 2 Increasing Customer Satisfaction Background and Issues Vision Key Measures Long-term customer relationKonica Minolta uses customer •Formulating measures for ships are essential for Konica feedback to improve its development-productionMinolta’s businesses in office products and services. The sales cooperation in each business based on customer equipment, medical devices, company strives to strengthen feedback measuring instruments, and its relationships by helping •Promoting global measures to other products. In order to customers achieve their unique improve customer relationship remain irreplaceable to goals. Konica Minolta aims to management customers in an era when continually improve customer •Setting indicators to measure needs are becoming more satisfaction and form strong customer relationship sophisticated and diverse, relationships that result in a management in each business Konica Minolta must be able to positive reputation and new meet specific needs and customer referrals. continually strengthen customer confidence. Main Initiatives in Fiscal 2015 Strengthening Customer Relationships Enhancing Call Center Customer Service in the Business Technologies Business Capabilities in the Healthcare Business In the Business Technologies Business, the Customer In the Healthcare Business, Konica Minolta is focusing on Relations (CR) Division, which is part of the Business strengthening call center capabilities in order to minimize Planning Headquarters, deployed a unique scientific diagnostic downtime. approach worldwide, adding NPS* to the customer satisAt call centers in Japan, Konica Minolta has introfaction survey. At the annual Global Customer Relations duced remote maintenance technologies for resolving Conference, CR managers from sales companies worldequipment problems in the early stages. This system wide met with members of the development, production allows call center staff to operate customer equipment and marketing departments to discuss ways to improve remotely over the Internet. The ability to resolve equipcustomer relations and share experience and knowledge. ment problems without dispatching technicians has They also discussed the pursuit of best practices. These helped reduce product down time. activities are part of Konica Minolta’s continuous efforts to In fiscal 2015, approximately 60% of calls received at strengthen customer relations. call centers were from customers using the remote A CR Master Program was launched in fiscal 2015. The maintenance service. As a result, product down time was training and certification program aims to improve the reduced by approximately 45,000 hours.* This represents skills of CR managers and leaders at sales companies a 65% improvement over the figure from six years ago. The worldwide. Currently, there are approximately 100 rate of issues resolved by the Call Center also increased employees from the eight principal sales companies from approximately 60% in the year it opened to approxiparticipating in the program, mately 80% in fiscal 2015. and the number will increase * Calculated using Konica Minolta’s own index as necessary in the future. * NPS (Net Promoter Score): An indicator that measures the percentage of customers who recommend the company and its products and services to others Certificate presentation for CR Master Program completion 27 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 Environment C lose Up Building a Global Support Structure Social Innovation to Support Global Customers with One-Stop Operations It is becoming more common for large, global cusGSC Staff Message tomers to centralize the management of ICT devices including MFPs at their locations worldwide. This I oversee the European hardware service desk at means that support calls often come from the head GSC. Customers have told us that they appreciate our seamless global service, and we are logoffice, rather than the office that requires the service, ging an increase in customer satisfaction. Our and these two offices are sometimes in different locaCustomer Satisfaction and global system also makes it easy to learn about tions. In order to provide accurate and timely support customer service initiatives in the United States, for these customers, device vendors also need to Asia, and other regions, and build a global support system. that is truly rewarding. Product Safety To address this need, Konica Minolta has established the Global Support Center (GSC), an infrastrucChristopher Farrugia Smith Team Leader, Service and Support ture that allows for consistent global customer Division, Konica Minolta Business service. The mission of the Global Support Center is to Solutions Europe GmbH provide a single point of contact to initiate service and support delivery worldwide in a consistent and I oversee the software help desk at GSC. Konica Responsible Supply Chain efficient manner. Minolta is strengthening hybrid-type sales activities Using dedicated IT tools, support requests received that combine MFPs with IT service. By providing by the GSC are shared with support staff worldwide. For detailed support in the IT field, my team and I intend hardware support, local customer engineers are to contribute to the popularizadispatched to the customer’s site, and for software tion of this new business model. support, specialized staff provide support remotely. This system allows Konica Minolta to provide efficient, Simon Koch Manager, IT Support, Service quality support globally. Furthermore, inquiries and Competence Center, Konica Minolta support results are stored in a database. Sharing this Business Solutions Deutschland GmbH information globally is helping to provide a consistent level of service to customers. Service provided Human Capital by customer engineers Remote support provided in each country Customer’s by specialized staff Service Desk Department Inquiries Konica Minolta Global Support Center Diversity Hardware service Software service Americas EMEA Asia-Oceania Software service desk service desk service desk help desk Sharing information in real time KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 28 Material Issue 4 Responsible Supply Chain Companies that supply raw materials and parts, product manufacturing contractors, and logistics providers are essential business partners that help Konica Minolta contribute to society. To enhance these partnerships even further, Konica Minolta is working to expand its CSR activities through coordinated activities with its business partners. Our Concept Solving Social Issues with Partners through Business Activities In the age of global business, companies need to support Konica Minolta has joined other companies through progress towards a sustainable society by taking steps to membership in the EICC*1, which adheres to internationalsolve social issues. These actions must be taken in collaboly recognized standards, such as the Universal Declaration ration with business partners throughout the supply chain of Human Rights*2 and the ILO International Labour in an effort to achieve efficient procurement and producStandards*3. Konica Minolta is engaging in activities with tion, while improving product quality, costs, and lead time. other member companies based on the EICC framework. This is why Konica Minolta is working to make a positive *1 Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC): An organization that promotes change in society while enhancing the corporate value of CSR in the supply chain of the electronics both Konica Minolta and its business partners. This can be industry *2 Universal Declaration of Human Rights: Basic human rights to be achieved by providing customers with reliable products recognized by all people and countries, adopted in 1948 by the United that contribute solutions to social issues such as environNations General Assembly *3 ILO International Labour Standards: Standards on human rights and mental sustainability, health and safety, ethics, and labor labor adopted by the general assembly of the International Labour and human rights. Organization (ILO) Konica Minolta’s CSR Activities in the Supply Chain Customers Improvement of customer satisfaction ■ Purchase of responsible products Konica Minolta Suppliers Improvement of corporate value Creation of Improvement of corporate value ■ Expansion of sales opportunities shared value ■ Expansion of sales opportunities ■ Enhancement of brand power ■ Enhancement of brand power ■ Improvement of employee satisfaction ■ Improvement of employee satisfaction Sustainable society 29 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 About Konica Minolta > Sustainability > CSR Activities > Together with Business Partners Promoting CSR in the Supply Chain Environment Key Action Background and Issues Vision Key Measures and KPIs The Konica Minolta Group is In order to solve social issues CSR procurement Social Innovation determined to address social and realize a sustainable society, •CSR activity participation issues, including environmental it is essential to include material requests to partners: 100% sustainability, health and safety, suppliers and logistics providers implementation ethics, and labor and human rights, throughout the supply chain in •CSR assessments: By the end in the supply chain. This commitCSR activities. Konica Minolta of fiscal 2016, completion at all 20 Group production sites and ment extends not just to Group shares initiative value with its at approximately 130 production sites but also to business partners, and provides important partner sites material suppliers, logistics them with support for improve•CSR Audits: By the end of fiscal providers and even to mines ment. By thinking and growing 2016, completion at three Customer Satisfaction and where raw materials are obtained. together with its partners, targeted Group productions Adhering to the EICC framework, Konica Minolta aims to continue sites, and at two partner sites Konica Minolta is addressing CSR initiatives that include CSR Logistics conflict mineral issues in order to its suppliers. •CSR assessments: By the end Product Safety prevent human rights violations in of fiscal 2016, completion of implementation and improvemines, at the beginning of the ments at 8 logistics providers supply chain. The company also Addressing conflict mineral engages in CSR procurement issues activities at Group production •Response to customer survey sites and through material requests: 100% compliance suppliers, and works with logistics Responsible Supply Chain providers to ensure efficient and responsible distribution. Main Initiatives in Fiscal 2015 (1) CSR Procurement CSR Activity Participation Requests and that all locations were achieving their targets. CSR Assessments Konica Minolta will continue to perform regular confirThrough its Procurement Policy and Supplier Code of mation while offering support, so that partner companies Human Capital Conduct, Konica Minolta asks its partners to participate in can promote their independent CSR activities. CSR activities. By setting explicit targets and standards in areas such as the environment, health and safety, ethics, Rankings from CSR Assessment Results and labor (human rights), these activities aim to promote Rank A (100% 85%): Social demands are mostly satisfied. improvements at partner companies. Rank B (85% 65%): There is some room to improve, and voluntary improvement is expected. In order to ascertain the level of CSR activity impleRank C (65% 0%): There are items needing improvement, and mentation, Konica Minolta uses Self-Assessment urgent improvements are needed in conjunction with submission of an improvement plan. Questionnaires to promote CSR assessments at Group production sites and important partner companies. The Fiscal 2015 Partner CSR Assessment Results and questionnaires are administered using EICC-ON, the Regional Distribution Diversity EICC’s online database. Sites are assigned rankings from A Rank B Rank C SE Asia USA to C, based on their CSR achievement level. The target for 27％ 0％ 3％ 2％ Group production sites is rank A, while partners aim for Overall Rank A Regional Japan rank B or higher. Evaluation 73％ Distribution 50％ In fiscal 2015, CSR assessments conducted at 16 China Group production sites and 57 partner sites confirmed 45％ KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 30 Responsible Supply Chain CSR Audits and Correction Support address the identified issues. Konica Minolta will continue Konica Minolta is developing appropriate EICC third-party to provide support for ongoing improvement, including auditing*1, mainly using Konica Minolta CSR Audits*2 participation in progress reviews, consultation, and CSR based on EICC standards, for targeted Group production education for Allied Precision Manufacturing employees. sites and business partners. *1 EICC third-party auditing: Using EICC standards, audits are performed Konica Minolta Business Technologies (Wuxi) is one of by a third-party institution certified by EICC [Validated Audit Program (VAP) audits] the Group’s main production sites in China; the site under*2 Konica Minolta CSR Audit: Using EICC standards, audits are performed went EICC third-party auditing in fiscal 2014. In fiscal 2015, by Konica Minolta auditors who have EICC qualifications the company revised its internal regulations and operating Results from a Third-Party Audit of procedures based on the issues identified in the audit. It Konica Minolta Business Technologies (Wuxi) implemented correction measures such as ensuring Ethics thorough implementation records. In-house training on 100％ CSR auditing was also provided to 27 employees, and an 80％ internal audit system was created at the company. A 60％ follow-up audit is scheduled for fiscal 2016 to confirm the 40％ Labor 20％ Environment improvements. 0％ As part of CSR auditing measures at partner companies, a Konica Minolta CSR Audit was conducted at Allied Precision Manufacturing in Malaysia in fiscal 2015. Some suggestions for improvement were identified, but no urgent Management problems requiring immediate action were discovered. An system Health and safety improvement plan was formulated with the company to Voice Business Partner Feedback Working together with Konica Minolta to improve labor circumstances. What is most attractive about Konica Minolta’s CSR procurement activities is that Konica Minolta is willing to work together with us to accomplish improvement. In the stage of establishing the corrective action plan, Konica Minolta not only shared with us a lot of knowlIn-house education on CSR auditing at a production site in China edge; we also worked together to discuss the countermeasures. As a result, we could establish the most appropriate corrective action plans. With the assistance of Konica Minolta, we will keep improving the labor, work, and employment conditions, taking human rights issues into consideration. By fostering a supportive, safe and healthy work environment, we will improve CSR issues, which will maximize organization value and improve competitiveness. Hsu Ching Yuh CEO/Group Managing Director Allied Technologies Limited Group of Companies CSR education at Allied Precision Manufacturing 31 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 Environment Main Initiatives in Fiscal 2015 (2) CSR Logistics CSR Initiatives Expanded to Logistics Providers activities are implemented based on the results. This Social Innovation In fiscal 2015, Konica Minolta began promoting CSR activirepresents the first CSR Logistics initiative in Japan based ties in its logistics chain. Together with logistics partners, on the comprehensive application of EICC standards. CSR Logistics is being carried out through cooperation In fiscal 2015, CSR assessment was conducted as part of with DHL Supply Chain, which provides comprehensive CSR activity requests made to eight logistics providers. domestic logistics services for Group companies in Japan. The assessment revealed that all the providers met the As with CSR procurement, logistics providers are sent target of rank B or higher. Improvement plans were created a request to complete CSR assessments using an EICC in collaboration with the providers to improve low-scoring self-diagnostic questionnaire. Ongoing improvement areas. Support is being provided for improvement. Customer Satisfaction and Voice Business Partner Feedback Product Safety It was an opportunity to greatly enhance our CSR activities. By adopting CSR activities based on EICC standards, we got and now we have a clear picture of what needs to be done in to know what the international community is expecting the future. We are confident that the resulting improvement beyond just legal compliance. By evaluating and analyzing efforts will further strengthen our competitiveness. our initiative situation for over 400 items in areas such as the Takuya Sugawara (left) environment, health and safety, ethics and labor, we were Sales Development Department Manager, Nippon Express Co., Ltd. Responsible Supply Chain able to ascertain our current situation in a systematic and Yusuke Yuasa (right) rational way. Our achievements and areas for improvement Kofu International Transportation Office Manager, Yamanashi Branch, Nippon were clarified both company-wide and for each business unit, Express Co., Ltd. Main Initiatives in Fiscal 2015 (3) Addressing Conflict Mineral Issues Ongoing Implementation of Conflict Mineral Surveys steadily advancing toward a conflict-free supply chain. No It is pointed out that certain minerals mined in the Demoevidence of involvement in conflicts was found relating to cratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries have parts and materials procured by Konica Minolta. Human Capital become a source of funding for warring forces who are vioKonica Minolta is also actively cooperating with other lating human rights. The Konica Minolta Conflict Minerals companies through industry associations, to address conPolicy Statement was created to address the conflict minerflict mineral issues. The company gave a lecture at a conflict al issue. While responding to customer survey requests, mineral survey briefing organized by the Japan Electronics Konica Minolta asks its suppliers to take measures in line and Information Technology Industries Association (JEITA) with its Conflict Minerals Policy, and to respond to a survey to raise awareness of the conflict mineral issue. about the parts and materials it procures. Percentage of Certified Conflict-Free Smelters among All The conflict mineral survey was conducted in the Busithe Specified Smelters in the Konica Minolta Supply Chain ness Technologies Business in fiscal 2015. The supplier (％) 50 response rate was 99%, a dramatic improvement over the 41 Diversity previous year. Referencing the responses, Konica Minolta identified smelters in the supply chain in its own investiga25 tion as part of due diligence. The percentage of these 20 smelters that have been certified as conflict-free by the 10 international Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative (CFSI) rose 0 to 41% from 20% in the previous year. The company is 2013 2014 2015 (FY) KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 32 Material Issue 5 Human Capital Konica Minolta’s growth as a problem-solving company is powered by employees’ ability to create value by understanding customer issues and using creative approaches to resolve them. Recognizing this, Konica Minolta strives to create work environments that enable every employee to perform to his or her full potential. Our Concept Raising the Value of Human Capital Workplaces Where Employees Can Make Konica Minolta is transforming itself into a problem-solvthe Most of Their Skills ing company that helps resolve issues faced by customers Creating an environment where every employee can perand the broader society in order to achieve sustainable form while maintaining both physical and emotional growth. In today’s world, humanity is faced with increashealth is vital to ensuring that they can maximize their poingly complex and unpredictable problems. This means tential. Konica Minolta helps employees achieve work-life that innovative, flexible employees who take bold action balance, seeks to foster a culture in which health comes to solve problems are the key to Konica Minolta’s success first, and takes measures to improve labor safety. By rollwith its growth strategy. Accordingly, Konica Minolta ing out these initiatives globally across the Group, Konica seeks to foster the independent development of every Minolta aims to enhance the human capital of the Group employee by hiring talented individuals and devoting as a whole and empower employees to create value. ample resources to their development, while also providing an environment that allows every person to experience meaningful growth. Helping customers and society solve problems Developing human resources to create value Helping employees achieve Fostering a culture where Improving occupational safety work-life balance health comes first and health Creating workplaces where employees can make the most of their skills 33 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 About Konica Minolta > Sustainability > CSR Activities > Together with Employees Environment Key Action 1 Ensuring Work-Life Balance Background and Issues Vision Key Measures Balancing work and personal life Konica Minolta systematically Promoting the Workstyle Social Innovation is becoming more essential in encourages communication Reform Project today’s workplace as lifestyles and collaboration transcending Four teams worked on the change and values diversify. sectional boundaries in order to following different aspects of this Pursuing a work-life balance enhance efficiency of the project, starting in fiscal 2015. enriches employees’ lives and overall organization. •Improving labor productivity broadens their perspective This enables employees to •Optimizing workplaces beyond work, while also raising focus on tasks that lead to value •Promoting information sharing individual productivity. creation, while proactively and utilization enriching their lives outside of •Setting rules for operation Customer Satisfaction and work. The company aims to improvements strengthen the potential of its human resources and create an environment of mutual trust by Product Safety promoting work-life balance. Responsible Supply Chain Main Initiatives in Fiscal 2015 Initiatives to Reduce Working Hours Support for Balancing Work and Childcare Since April 2015, Konica Minolta, Inc. has promoted workIn an effort to support work-life balance, Konica Minolta, style reforms to boost labor productivity by enhancing Inc. has created programs to support working parents. In skills of individual employees while helping them to find addition to maternity and childcare leave, a work-at-home work-life balance. program has been introduced. These programs, available As part of these efforts, overtime past 8 pm has been to both men and women, were expanded to include embanned in principle in order to change perceptions of time ployees providing nursing care to family members in fiscal Human Capital and transform workstyles. 2014. The company works to familiarize employees with these programs, and to create an environment and infraResults of Initiatives to Reduce Labor Hours (Results in fiscal 2015) structure that makes it easy for employees to use them. Konica Minolta received the Kurumin Mark Certification, Annual overtime working hours per employee recognizing the company as a “corporation that supports Average 58 hours parents and children” based on Japan’s Act for Measures to Support the Development of the Next Generation. Status of Use of Main Programs Supporting Annual total actual working hours per employee Work-Life Balance (Results in fiscal 2015) Average 1,787 hours Number of employees taking childcare leave Percentage of employees returning from childcare leave Diversity 67 100 ％ Rate of taking annual paid leave Average of 57.5％ Note: Figures are for regular employees of Konica Minolta, Inc. Note: Figures are for regular employees of Konica Minolta, Inc. KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 34 Human Capital Key Action 2 Developing Human Resources Background and Issues Vision Key Measures Global competition is intensifyKonica Minolta aims to be an •Fostering innovative, customing, and the needs of customers innovative company that is er-oriented human resources and society are becoming more sought out by customers and to succeed in the global marketplace sophisticated and diverse. society, thrives in global Konica Minolta recognizes that •Establishing the mindset, competition, and contributes to actions, capacities and skills to adapt to these changes it sustainable development. It required of exemplary must systematically and achieves this by continually employees continually train human educating employees in order •Accelerating the speed of resources to achieve sustainto create value, thereby helping employee development able corporate growth. Konica to solve the issues which •Systematically developing Minolta aspires to foster customers and the broader Group managers employees who are driven by society face. the customer perspective and skilled at working closely with customers to create the kind of innovative value that only Konica Minolta can offer. Main Initiatives in Fiscal 2015 Global Rollout of Human Resource become business leaders. In this one-week training sesDevelopment Cycle sion, a global mindset is fostered and leadership is develKonica Minolta has conducted global employee surveys oped via dialogues with top managers and discussions and in Japan held town-meeting-style dialogues between with other participants. top management and employees to identify concerns Konica Minolta also holds a regional GEP, expanded among employees. It has also globally rolled out the cycle to include managers, with the aim of training candidates that runs from off-the-job-training (Off-JT) to assessment, for executive positions in different regions. In fiscal 2015, on-the-job training and regular reviews, as part of its the second regional GEP was held in Singapore for Group efforts to develop and utilize human resources across the companies in ASEAN regions in May. Eighteen managers entire Group. from nine companies in four countries participated. Specifically, an image of the ideal employee for each business and the skills and experience needed to achieve this ideal were clarified, and then put into action by jump-starting rotations and other measures. In fiscal 2015, the process of training global executives was redesigned based on the results of assessments of global executives. Program to Foster Business Leaders Konica Minolta holds the Global Executive Program (GEP) for executives working for affiliates around the world with Second regional GEP held in Singapore for Group companies in the the aim of fostering human resources with the potential to ASEAN region 35 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 Environment Key Action 3 Managing Occupational Safety and Health Background and Issues Vision Key Measures and KPIs When an accident occurs in the Based on its commitment to Preventing occupational Social Innovation workplace, employee safety is “safety first,” Konica Minolta accidents jeopardized. This can affect the seeks to foster a culture of •Serious accidents*1: 0 neighboring environment and occupational safety and health •Frequency rate of accidents even threaten business that places a premium on top causing absence from work*2: continuity. Konica Minolta also management engagement and 0.1 or less recognizes that ensuring employee awareness. Promoting health management employees’ mental and physical Additionally, the company aims •Preventing illness resulting in health is a critical management to create a workplace where absences issue, given the growing social every employee can work with •Reducing number of employees with health risks Customer Satisfaction and problems of higher risk of peace of mind and energy by lifestyle diseases and people promoting healthy habits and a having to leave work due to safe environment. mental health issues. Product Safety *1 Serious accidents: (1) Death, disease requiring a long recovery period (or the possibility), an injury resulting in a disability (or the possibility of a disability), or a specific contagious disease; (2) an accident resulting in the death or injury of three or more workers during work at one point or the contraction of a disease (including accidents not accompanied by lost worktime) *2 Accident frequency rate: The number of persons absent from work per one million total actual working hours for current employees Responsible Supply Chain Main Initiatives in Fiscal 2015 Occupational Safety and Health at KM2016, measures to promote health are actively impleProduction Sites mented to achieve the philosophy laid out in the Konica Konica Minolta takes various steps to prevent workplace Minolta Statement on Health. In fiscal 2015, the company accidents based on the Occupational Safety and Health pursued a range of measures related to improving physiManagement System (OSHMS) and its occupational cal and mental health, seeking to minimize the number of safety and health committee organization. These meaemployees with health risks. Health indicators were set sures are practiced worldwide. and steps were taken to establish physically active habits In fiscal 2015, despite ongoing efforts to reduce risks, and improve eating habits to promote better health. Human Capital there was one serious accident at a production site outside Japan. In June 2015, a fire caused by explosion occurred at a group company in China. While there were no fatalities C lose Up or injuries leaving residual disabilities, nine employees and three outside contractors had to take leave from work. An Chosen for the Health and Productivity investigation into the cause of the accident found that it Stock Selection for second straight year was due to a leak of flammable refrigerant gas from the In January 2016, Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade air-conditioning cooling device. In response, the company and Industry and the Tokyo Stock Exchange chose replaced the refrigerant gas with a non-inflammable gas Konica Minolta for inclusion in the Health and and measures were taken to prevent similar accidents Productivity Stock Selection for the second straight Diversity from occurring in the future anywhere in the Group. year on the basis of its health management philosoThe frequency rate of accidents causing absence from phy and initiatives. The Health and Productivity work was 0.23 in Japan and 0.44 outside Japan in fiscal 2015. Stock Selection recognizes companies that focus on employee health from a management perspecManaging Employee Health tive and take strategic initiatives accordingly. Under the three-year medium-term health plan, Health KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 36 Material Issue 6 Diversity Being “Inclusive and Collaborative” is one of Konica Minolta’s core values. This not only means adapting to the diversifying needs of customers and society, but also creating an environment that enables employees from diverse backgrounds to use their skills to their full potential. Our Concept Making the Most of Employee Diversity to Create New Value One of Konica Minolta’s strengths as a global company is to this value, respecting diversity and promoting inclusion that employees of different national origins, races, beliefs, to create value that leads to progress for customers, socicultures, languages, genders, ages and expertise work ety, and individuals. together in regions all over the world. It is this employee Konica Minolta not only has a very diverse workforce, diversity that leads to innovative thinking and original but also takes a wide range of measures to create an enviideas, thus generating new value that helps to resolve ronment where employees can exercise their own unique issues for customers and society. skills while supporting each other and performing at a This kind of value creation is the very embodiment of high level. Recently, in support of these measures, Konica “Inclusive and Collaborative,” one of the six values that Minolta has focused on promoting the performance of its makes up the Konica Minolta Philosophy. This value refers female employees and training global leaders. These to the power and teamwork generated by embracing efforts are paying off with the generation of new value. diverse people and ideas. Konica Minolta strives to live up 9,824 8,848 employees in Europe Creating new value employees in the US Inclusive and Collaborative 12,696 employees in Asia 11,964 (excluding Japan) and employees in Japan other countries 37 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 About Konica Minolta > Sustainability > CSR Activities > Together with Employees Environment Key Action 1 Supporting Women’s Career Building Background and Issues Vision Key Measures and KPIs Gender equality is an important Konica Minolta believes that •Establishing and implementSocial Innovation topic in today’s global commuemployee diversity is a source ing individual development nity. Companies are expected of growth. The company takes plans based on dialogue with each employee to create workplaces where measures to create an environemployees with high potential •Mentoring female employees ment where women can can perform to the best of their perform to their full potential. •Appointing female managers (Target for fiscal 2017: 5.0% abilities, regardless of gender. In order to support its female ratio of female managers) In Japan, women’s participation employees, Konica Minolta •Actively hiring new female in the workplace is still generally does not limit itself to simply graduates (Target for fiscal inadequate in the industry ensuring that they can continue 2016: 30% female hiring rate) Customer Satisfaction and overall. Konica Minolta working through various life recognizes that proactive events, but also aims to expand support is essential and is their access to any career path taking steps to address this. they want to pursue. Product Safety Responsible Supply Chain Main Initiatives in Fiscal 2015 Offering Career Development Programs run by mentors who provide guidance separately from for Women their supervisors. Konica Minolta, Inc. implements various programs to In fiscal 2016 and beyond, action plans are being foster the career development of female employees, supestablished and initiatives pursued to achieve targets porting them in maximizing their level of achievement. in line with Japan’s Act on Promotion of Women’s For example, manager candidates are selected Participation and Advancement in the Workplace. among female employees at the senior staff level. A training plan for the next several years is devised for each emAction Plan Human Capital ployee and leadership training is provided. In addition, Plan duration April 2016 – March 2018 the supervisors of these candidates attend briefings on Numerical targets 5% ratio of female managers measures to promote women’s job performance, and the candidates participate in a six-month support program Selective training of manager candidates in Performance Grade 3 Number of Female Managers and Ratio •Selection of targets in spring evaluation at Konica Minolta, Inc. (as of April 2016) Description of and rolling initiatives •Establishment of training plan (support Number of Percentage of for each division and staff) female managers female managers •Off-JT programs offered (mentor 49 3.4 ％ systems, leadership training) Diversity Implemented as needed from 2016 spring Timing of initiatives evaluation KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 38 Diversity Key Action 2 Globalizing Human Resources Background and Issues Vision Key Measures As the globalization of business Konica Minolta hires and trains •Proactively hiring and training continues to accelerate, individuals with diverse non-Japanese employees in incorporating a global perspecbackgrounds. The company Japan tive in management is essential aims to address the needs of •Developing human resources to meeting the needs of diverse based on global standardized customers globally and to evaluation criteria customers around the world. create new value that goes •Sharing a global perspective Companies like Konica Minolta beyond previous concepts by through the Global Strategy seek to hire, promote and building dynamic networks of Council maximize the skills of employemployees and promoting ees with diverse viewpoints and collaboration among people backgrounds in order to with different strengths and accurately identify the issues experiences. faced by different countries and regions. Main Initiatives in Fiscal 2015 Hiring of Global Human Resources in Japan Konica Minolta proactively hires non-Japanese employees be created to include North America, Europe, China and and Japanese people with experience living outside other regions in Asia. Globally standardized evaluation Japan, in hiring new graduates in Japan. These global criteria will be used to assess executives and match emhuman resources are intended to strengthen the ability of ployees with job opportunities. the company’s workforce to perform in the international Konica Minolta organizes a Global Strategy Council̶a community. Numerical targets are not set, but Konica collegial body composed of top managers from both in Minolta is gradually increasing these hires up to a total of and outside of Japan̶to ensure that the knowledge and 20% of the workforce. The company makes the most of perspectives of executives from Group companies outside the diverse perspectives and skills that these individuals of Japan are incorporated in the management of the possess to bring new energy to its business. Group. In fiscal 2015, Konica Minolta, Inc. management held invigorating discussions on mediumand long-term Hiring of Global Human Resources in Fiscal 2015 (Joining in April 2016) management issues with three executives from Group companies outside of Japan. In fiscal 2016, the number of Number of non-Japanese Percentage of non-Japanese participants from outside Japan was increased to six in employees newly hired employees, of new hires in Japan in Japan order to encourage even more lively discussions. 8 8.0 ％ Most recently, Konica Minolta, Inc. appointed one non-Japanese corporate executive in fiscal 2016 to accelerate the globalization of management. Dynamically Deploying Global Human Resources Konica Minolta is building a platform consisting of a framework, tools, and concepts to train and make the most of its global human resources. Through this platform, a single human resource management system will Global Strategy Council 39 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 Environment C lose Up Business Innovation Centers: Social Innovation Aiming to Leverage Diversity and Create New Business Konica Minolta established the Business Innovation the centers all have impressive specialist experience Centers (BICs) as organizations dedicated to creating from outside of the company. new businesses in fiscal 2014. The BICs bring togethBased on this system, the BICs are developing er the experiences and knowledge of diverse employinnovative solutions to help meet customer needs, ees around the world and translate these into the while collaborating with research institutions such as development of innovative businesses. universities and venture capital companies. Currently, Customer Satisfaction and The BICs operate in the five major regions around there are approximately 100 projects underway, each the world ̶North America, Europe, Asia Pacific, China tailored to the market characteristics of its region and and Japan, and are made up of employees recruited premised on market changes. Product Safety locally. The directors who are responsible for running BIC Managers in the Five Major Regions around the World Europe Asia Pacific North America Responsible Supply Chain Dennis Curry Rachel Goh Ekta Sahasi Professional experience in creating Entrepreneurial corporate leader with Professional business incubation innovation centres 32 years of IT Solutions experience at e-Commerce •Director, Account Strategy & •VP, Business Applications (Singapore •Director, R&D & Innovation Enterprise Innovation Telecommunications Limited) Products (PayPal Pte. Ltd.) (Hewlett-Packard Development •Director, Application Services •Senior Manager, Research Lab & Company, L.P.) (Hewlett-Packard Development Innovation Program (eBay Inc.) •CTO (North Atlantic Treaty Company, L.P.) Human Capital Organization) China Japan Takashi Hakii Professional experience in IT business start-ups/Internet entrepreneur •Director, Supply Chain Management (PricewaterhouseCoopers Consultants Co., Ltd.) •Founder/CEO (TRICORN Corporation) •Founder/CEO Diversity (JOLLYROGER Corporation) From the left, Tao Xiong, Yongjun Chen, Yaojing Wang This team has a broad range of expertise in marketing strategy formulation and new business development with diverse experience at Shanghai Galileo Navigation Industry, Komatsu (China) and NS Solutions (Shanghai). KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 40 Essential Requirements to Fulfill CSR Compliance Compliance Promotion System Internal Hotline Systems (Helpline) Compliance is the highest priority for Konica Minolta in all Konica Minolta is working on building and improving interof its corporate activities, and as such a compliance pronal hotlines. In Japan, the Group-wide helpline is available motion structure has been established to supervise the so that employees can use it to seek consultation and Group overall. directly contact the President, Chief Compliance Officer, At Konica Minolta, the Chief Compliance Officer detergeneral manager of the Legal Division, or an outside mines important matters for the promotion of the Group’s lawyer via various channels such as telephone and email, compliance and is responsible for promoting and overseewhen they become aware of any conduct that poses a risk ing compliance activities such as anti-corruption meaof non-compliance. Similar helplines have been made sures and personal information protection. The Chief available in North America and Europe, as well. Beginning Compliance Officer reports directly to the President and in fiscal 2015, efforts were made to expand the hotline CEO of Konica Minolta, Inc., who has ultimate responsibilisystem by establishing external hotlines in China, set up so ty for Group compliance. The Chief Compliance Officer that employees can contact outside lawyers. convenes the Group Compliance Committee, which is composed of officers responsible for compliance from corPreventing Corruption porate departments in charge of Group-wide functions. The Konica Minolta Group Guidance for the Charter of Moreover, the general manager of each department Corporate Behavior lays out basic policies on the prevenof Konica Minolta, Inc. and the presidents of Group comtion of corruption, such as prohibiting demands for the panies in Japan and overseas promote compliance in their exchange of gifts and entertainment and prohibiting bribpositions as the official responsible for the compliance of ery. The Group compliance support office and regional their organizations. They regularly report to the Chief compliance support officers analyze risks in each country Compliance Officer on progress and compliance events. and support the establishment of measures by Group The Chief Compliance Officer reports regularly to the companies and implementation of ongoing education, Audit Committee regarding the progress of compliance tailored to laws and customs. The Corruption Perception activities and important compliance issues in the Group. Index* and other indicators are used in assessing risks in the respective countries. Global Group Support System There were no incidents related to bribery or corrupThe Legal Division at Konica Minolta, Inc. drafts policies for tion in fiscal 2015. the fiscal year and measures regarding the promotion of *The Corruption Perception Index is published by Transparency International (TI), an NPO that works internationally to prevent corruption by surveying counthe Group’s compliance, serving as the Group compliance tries and ranking them according to their levels of corruption in public sector support office assisting the Chief Compliance Officer. The and private sector relationships. Legal Division also assists with the compliance activities of each department and subsidiary. Complying with Antitrust Laws In addition, the Chief Compliance Officer appoints The Group compliance support office and regional comregional compliance coordinators in Europe, North Ameripliance support officers assist with the establishment of ca, China, and Southeast Asia, tasking them with implemeasures by Group companies and implementation of onmenting activities to promote compliance, considering going education, consistent with the laws and business the circumstances of each region. environment in each region. For example, in China, specifIn fiscal 2015, the Group compliance support office ic guidelines on gifts and business entertainment are laid and regional compliance coordinators worked together to out in their own compliance manual, and training is given help newly acquired companies inside and outside Japan on avoiding commercial bribery. In Japan, seminars on as well as small Group companies to adopt compliance responding to transparency guidelines in the medical measures, seeking to instill compliance throughout the industry are held. These steps reflect Konica Minolta’s entire Konica Minolta Group. efforts to promote practical measures consistent with related laws in respective countries. In fiscal 2015, there were no problems related to antitrust laws. 41 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 About Konica Minolta > Sustainability > CSR Activities > Compliance About Konica Minolta > Sustainability > CSR Activities > Corporate Governance About Konica Minolta > Sustainability > CSR Activities > Risk Management About Konica Minolta > Sustainability > Contributing to Society Corporate Governance Corporate Governance System Specifically, the Board of Directors and the three comKonica Minolta, Inc. has established a corporate govermittees are structured as shown in the figure below. nance framework from the standpoint of supervision. This is based on the conviction that corporate governance that Building a Risk Management System contributes to mediumand long-term corporate value The executive officers are responsible for managing growth must encourage suitable risk-taking in business various risks including strategic risks, financial risks, operations and have a highly effective supervisory funcrisks pertinent to environmental regulations and tion for business operations. In 2003, the “company with hazard risks. They identify and evaluate risks and develcommittees” (currently “company with three committees”) op and monitor countermeasures in their respective structure was selected as the organizational structure in spheres of management. accordance with the Companies Act. In addition, to mainIn addition, the Risk Management Committee, tain a governance system devoid of personal characterischaired by an executive officer appointed by the Board tics, there have been measures to operate a governance of Directors, is convened periodically. The Committee system in a distinctive Konica Minolta style. examines the risks identified by each executive officer, The company’s basic views with regard to its goveras well as the countermeasures in place, and checks to nance system are as follows. ensure that the risk management system is function•Reinforcement of management oversight for corporate ing effectively, making revisions where necessary. The value growth by separating the roles of management Group responds as a whole to risks judged to be paroversight and operation of business activities ticularly important, led by an executive officer ap•Election of independent Outside Directors who can perpointed by the chairperson. The activities of the Risk form supervision from the standpoint of shareholders Management Committee are periodically reported to •Using these measures for improving the transparency, the Audit Committee. integrity and efficiency of management Structure of Corporate Governance Systems (As of June 17, 2016) Key characteristics of General Meeting of Shareholders structure Reporting & proposals Election & termination •Setting the company with three Board of Directors Election & committees structure to (management termination Nominating Committee separate supervision and the supervisory Board of Directors execution of the management function) Reporting Compensation Committee and perform highly effective oversight of business operations Reporting & Election & proposals termination Audit Committee •All of four Outside Directors are Audit Independent Directors Delegation Supervision Key characteristics of Executive Officers the Board of Directors (business execution function) •Chairman is not an Executive Officer Board of Directors and Three Committees •Outside Directors are at least one-third of the Board of Board of Directors Nominating Directors 7 Non-Executive Committee •Directors who are not F E G A B concurrently Executive Officers Officers Chairman A B C D E F G are the majority of the Board of Chairman Directors of the Board Directors Outside Directors Compensation Committee 3 Concurrently E D G B C Key characteristics of serving as Chairman the three committees Executive Officers H I J Audit •Chairmen are Outside Directors Director and Director and Representative Senior Executive Committee •Directors who are concurrently Executive Officer Officers D F G B C Executive Officers are not Chairman allowed to be committee members KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 42 Essential Requirements to Fulfill CSR Business Continuity Management also established an initial response system to decide the One of the most important responsibilities of an enterprise necessity of putting the BCP into action by gathering is to maintain or rapidly resume its essential business information such as the damage situation immediately operations in the event of a major disaster or accident. after a disaster. Konica Minolta is working toward this goal at Group Specifically, in the event of a major earthquake in Japan, companies worldwide, as well as across its supply chain. the basic policy is to keep supplying consumables and At Konica Minolta, each business division and subsidiproducts as much as possible so as to not inconvenience ary, including the Business Technologies Business, which customers, while continuing to provide support services to is Konica Minolta’s core business, and the Healthcare existing customers. The Group also works on preparing Business, for which there is a high need during disasters, responses in case of an infectious disease epidemic, such formulates a business continuity plan (BCP), laying out a as new strains of influenza for which there are concerns specific plan of action for such an event. The Group has about a global outbreak. Human Rights Human rights are universally valued rights that all people are also avoids all child labor and forced labor, and strives to born with. In today’s world, there is a growing awareness provide safe and healthy work environments. Hotlines to that businesses can have a great impact on human rights. report human rights violations are provided in each As a company with a globally growing business, Konica country as part of efforts to promote compliance. Minolta views respect for human rights as one of the basic Initiatives to ensure respect for human rights extend conditions for its business activities. This is in line with the to the supply chain. The company works with business company’s goal of contributing to a sustainable society in partners that supply raw materials and parts and carry which human rights are respected. The Ten Principles of out consigned production to enhance their human rights the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) include stateactivities. In fiscal 2015, CSR Logistics initiatives were ments that “business should support and respect the proalso introduced. tection of internationally proclaimed human rights” and Konica Minolta has also expanded its initiatives to address “make sure that they are not complicit in human rights conflict mineral issues by engaging its business partners in abuses.” Konica Minolta is a signatory to the UNGC. activities to prevent human rights violations resulting from Konica Minolta respects the individuality, human conflicts at the upstream end of the supply chain. rights and privacy of all of its employees, and strives to Konica Minolta will continue to communicate with eliminate discrimination of all kinds, including that based stakeholders while actively addressing human rights issues. on race, nationality, gender, religion or level of ability. It 43 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 Information Security Information Security Management have acquired ISO 27001 certification in Europe, North Information security is one of the most important issues America, China and elsewhere. Also, all Group companies for any company that wants to effectively utilize all the outside Japan are required to provide education on infortypes of information in its possession. Konica Minolta mation security at least once a year. With respect to cyber treats information as a valuable asset and is working to attacks, which have been on the rise in recent years, the ensure information security. It does this by practicing Group maintains the necessary systems with awareness proper information management to address risks such as of the importance of risks and initiatives, at the manageloss, leakage, or destruction of data, while carrying out ment level, based on the Cybersecurity Management continual improvements. Based on the leadership of the Guidelines formulated by Japan’s Ministry of Economy, President and CEO as well as the executive officer in Trade and Industry. charge of the IT planning and management organization, Finally, Konica Minolta is putting in place IT security Konica Minolta has established a Group-wide information controls, which are a part of the IT controls required under security management system and is promoting a higher the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act (Japanese level of IT security and continual improvements at Group Sarbanes-Oxley Act) while ensuring compatibility within companies worldwide. the Group. In Japan, in order to ensure information security, including not only of information handled using informaProtecting Personal Information of Customers tion technology, but also of information on paper and Konica Minolta, Inc. has established a privacy policy and information about services and personnel, all Group comrules for the protection of personal information. In accorpanies in Japan have continuously maintained ISO 27001 dance with this policy and rules, the company has estabcertification, which is the international standard for inforlished a system for protecting personal information and mation security management, since fiscal 2009. In addiproperly manages the personal information in its possestion, once a year risk assessments of information security sion. In addition to internal team training on compliance, are conducted and a risk management plan is formulated. the company uses e-learning to keep employees informed At quarterly meetings of information security promoters, of the privacy policy and rules for the protection of personincident summaries are reported to the Chief Information al information. Security Officer and instructions for necessary responses In the event that a leakage of information, including are issued. In this way, the PDCA cycle is followed. personal information held by Konica Minolta, Inc., is conFurthermore, measures to prevent unauthorized use firmed or liable to have occurred, an event/incident report and information leakage are implemented through the would be made under the information security manageenactment and operation of rules relating to the management system. The persons responsible for the protection ment of confidential information and the establishment of of personal information and for departmental compliance systems for restricting and monitoring access to confiin each department would immediately check the facts dential information and its removal off-site. Also, educaand degree of impact and submit a report to the Personal tion on the protection of personal information and Information Protection Control Officer and the Group information security is given at least once a year to all emCompliance Committee. ployees, including non-regular employees, of Group comIn fiscal 2015, there were no problems with leakage of panies in Japan. Outside Japan as well, Group companies personal information. KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 44 Essential Requirements to Fulfill CSR Social Contribution Activities Konica Minolta Basic Policy on Social Contribution Activities As a responsible, global corporate citizen, Konica Minolta makes Groupwide efforts to address social issues that it can contribute to through its businesses in order to be an entity that is essential to society. It is also committed to contributing to the creation of a sustainable society by continually engaging in activities that meet local challenges in the various countries where it operates. Main Initiatives in Fiscal 2015 USA Japan Wide-Ranging Support for Disadvantaged People Cooperation with Science Education Konica Minolta Business Solutions U.S.A. is involved in a as Visiting Teachers wide range of community support activities including Since fiscal 2012, Konica Minolta, Inc. has sent its new eminitiatives to support education, healthcare and environployees out to schools to give classes as guest lecturers. mental sustainability. The company organizes annual food These classes deal with the copying functions of MFPs drives for families in need and runs various programs in an attempt to redress the loss of interest in science. including the Books2BETTER program to put books in the Actual machines are used to help students understand homes of low-income students. In fiscal 2015, employee how static electricity is used to make copies. volunteers worked with a non-profit organization on a In fiscal 2015, 112 new employees embraced this hands-on agricultural program to deliver organic farm teaching role, visiting junior and senior high schools in produce to families in need. Tokyo, Aichi and Osaka (8 schools) to give classes to a total of 748 students. Konica Minolta won the Hall Special Prize and the Silver Prize at the Education Support Grand Prix 2015. Using a manual copier Hands-on agricultural project Czech Republic China Support for Women’s Career Development Educational Support for Children Konica Minolta collaborated with the NGO Impact Hub Konica Minolta Group companies in China provide support and Czechitas on capacity building to support women’s to local schools on an ongoing basis. In fiscal 2015, Konica career development and to build up the IT knowledge of Minolta Business Technology Development (Wuxi) began women in the Czech Republic. a program that donates books to elementary schools in As a program co-sponsor, Konica Minolta dispatched IT Wuxi. About 200 new books have been donated. experts to workshops designed to enhance the IT knowledge and entrepreneurial knowhow of women who aspire to find employment in the IT industry, change jobs, or launch their own business. The goal was to promote the career development of women in the IT industry and thereby encourage Book presentation ceremony diversity in this industry. Workshop 45 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 Evaluation of CSR by External Parties Konica Minolta, Inc. is included in major internavarious other SRI research institutes, such as the tional socially responsible investment (SRI) indexSilver Class rating from RobecoSAM and the Prime es. The company has been included in the World Status in the corporate ratings for CSR from oekom category (since 2012) and Asia Pacific category research AG. (since 2009) of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index Additionally, Konica Minolta was included in (DJSI) issued by U.S.-based S&P Dow Jones Indithe Japan 500 Climate Disclosure Leadership Index ces and Swiss-based RobecoSAM. (CDLI) 2015 of CDP, an international NGO working The company has also been included in the to build a sustainable economy. FTSE4Good Global Index (since 2003). Konica Minolta has received high marks from (As of March 31, 2016) Inclusion in SRI Indices Maintained inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index Maintained inclusion in the FTSE4Good Global Index Maintained inclusion in the Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index (MS-SRI) Evaluations by International CSR Rating Agencies Ranked Silver Class 2016 by RobecoSAM, an investment specialist group focused on sustainability investing Selected for CDP’s Japan 500 Climate Disclosure Leadership Index 2015 (CDLI) Selected for Prime Status in the corporate ratings for CSR by oekom research AG, one of the leading rating agencies worldwide in the field of sustainable investment Corporate Evaluation in Japan Ranked first place for the second straight year in the overall manufacturing sector in the 19th Environmental Management Survey conducted by Nikkei Inc. Chosen for the second straight year for inclusion in the Health and Productivity Stock Selection, a joint project of Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Tokyo Stock Exchange Recognized as the company with the best long-term goal at the 2016 Low-Carbon Cup About Konica Minolta > Sustainability > CSR Activities > Evaluation of CSR by External Parties KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 46 Data Environmental Data Summary Overall View of Environmental Impacts Resulting from Business Activities INPUT Konica Minolta OUTPUT Resources Petroleum-based resources (48.2 kt) (Usage in Procurement Atmosphere CO2 emissions (403.6 kt-CO2)★ products) Non-petroleum-based resources (61.3 kt) Atmosphere CO2 emissions (306.9 kt-CO2)★ SOx (0 t) NOx (79.7 t) Soot and dust (1.7 t) Energy Electricity (388 million kWh)★ Wastewater Wastewater (3,082 thousand m3) Fossil fuels (2,349 TJ)★ COD (1.1 t) Production/ Phosphorous (0.6 t) Water Water consumption (3,543 thousand m3)★ Research and Nitrogen (3.2 t) Water recycled/reused (43.1 thousand m3) development Waste Total waste (20.1 kt) Resources Amount recycled internally (4.6 kt) Waste discharged externally (15.5 kt)★ Amount recycled (15.2 kt) Final disposal (46.2 t) Chemical Atmospheric emissions of VOCs (224 t)★ Substances Energy Fossil fuels (377.1 TJ)★ Distribution Atmosphere CO2 emissions (27.3 kt-CO2)★ Resources Packaging materials usage (23.8 kt) Energy Electricity (68.1 million kWh)★ Atmosphere CO2 emissions (offices) (36.7 kt-CO2)★ Sales and Fossil fuels (offices) (66.2 TJ)★ service* CO2 emissions (vehicles) (48.0 kt-CO2)★ Fossil fuels (vehicles) (710.2 TJ)★ Waste Waste discharged externally (3.2 kt) Energy Electricity (514.5 million kWh)★ Usage Atmosphere CO2 emissions (258.3 kt-CO2)★ Resources Product recovery (16.1 kt) Recovery Resources Product recovered and recycled (16.0 kt) (product recovery) * Boundary: All consolidated sales companies worldwide Product Lifecycle CO2 Emissions★ Product use Sales and service (offices and vehicles) Distribution Production Procurement stage (kt-CO2) 1,500 1,331 1,265 1,200 1,143 1,104 450 1,081 408 900 364 376 404 374 376 600 330 312 44 307 38 36 74 76 34 73 27 300 87 85 389 367 342 296 258 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) Notes 1. The method used to calculate CO2 emissions at the procurement stage for business technology products was revised in fiscal 2015 to raise the accuracy of data. The effect of this change in the method was a 19.8 thousand tons increase in CO2 emissions at the procurement stage. 2. Figures do not necessarily add precisely to the total due to rounding. ★: Indicators assured by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. 47 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 About Konica Minolta > Sustainability > Environmental Activities > Environmental Management at Konica Minolta > Environmental Data Calculating CO2 Emissions across the Entire Supply Chain Konica Minolta has calculated the CO2 emissions associated accounts for 18.2% of emissions, the Group is working to with the Group’s activities across its entire supply chain, from develop features that encourage customers to save energy, in the upstream to the downstream aspects of its operations, addition to reducing the power consumption of the products based generally on the standards of the GHG Protocol,* the themselves. Konica Minolta will share information with releinternational standard. In fiscal 2015, the calculation showed vant stakeholders in the future based on the results of these that CO2 emissions throughout the supply chain were calculations and move forward with CO2 emissions manageapproximately 1.42 million tons, which represents an increase ment and reduction activities throughout the supply chain. of approximately 4% over fiscal 2014. In fiscal 2015, category *GHG Protocol: Guidelines for calculating and reporting greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 9 (downstream transportation and distribution) and category 10 (processing of sold products) were added to calculations. Overall View of CO2 Emissions When excluding this impact, CO2 emissions fell slightly overAcross the Entire Supply Chain of Konica Minolta all compared to the previous fiscal year. Emissions from the Scope 3 (1,030 thousand tons) Scope 1 (167 thousand tons) ★ Group’s activities̶including direct emissions from fuel use Other categories (3,5,6,7,8,9,14,15) *1 Production/R&D (Scope 1) plus indirect emissions from the consumption of 87 thousand tons 117 thousand tons ★ purchased electricity, heat or steam (Scope 2)̶totaled Category 4 (Upstream Sales and service approximately 0.39 million tons, or approximately 28% of all Transportation and Distribution) 51 thousand tons ★ 44 thousand tons*2 emissions. Other indirect emissions (Scope 3) associated Scope 2 with the Group’s activities totaled approximately 1.03 million Category 10 (processing of sold products) Total (224 thousand tons) ★ tons, accounting for approximately 72% of all emissions. 44 thousand tons CO2 emissions for “purchased goods and services,” 1,422 thousand Production/R&D 190 thousand tons ★ Category 12 (End-of-Life tons Treatment of Sold Products) accounted for 28.4% of emissions across the entire supply 65 thousand tons Sales and service 34 thousand tons ★ chain. The Group is continuing its work to reduce emissions Category 2 (Capital Goods) by setting targets in cooperation with suppliers. It is providing 128 thousand tons technical assistance and making suggestions for the Category 1(Purchased Category 11 (Use of Sold Products) Goods and Services) improvement of suppliers’ production processes in an effort 258 thousand tons ★ 404 thousand tons ★ to reduce material and energy use. In product development, *1 Categories 3 (Fueland energy-related activities), 5 (Waste generated in operathe company is working to develop recycled plastics and tions), 6 (Business travel), 7 (Employee commuting), 8 (Upstream leased assets), 9 (Transportation and distribution), 14 (Franchises), and 15 (Investments) design smaller and lighter products, which reduces the input *2 CO2 emissions attributed to product distribution: 27 thousand tons ★ of resources. In terms of the “use of sold products,” which Note: Figures do not necessarily add precisely to the total due to rounding. Environmental Accounting Konica Minolta has implemented global-scale, consolidatmarily incurred for the development of environmentally ed environmental accounting in order to quantitatively friendly products in the areas of business technologies assess the costs of environmental preservation in business and functional products. Investments were about 1.0 operations and the benefits obtained from those activities. billion yen and consisted primarily of investments related Expenses in fiscal 2015 were approximately 14.1 billion to next-generation products in functional materials and yen, about the same as in fiscal 2014. Expenses were priregular facility updates. Environmental Other 0％ Environmental remediation 0％ Upstream/ Global warming remediation 1％ Pollution prevention 7％ Social activity 1％ Pollution prevention 9％ downstream 13％ prevention 10％ Global warming prevention 5％ Global warming Resource Economic R&D 34％ Investment prevention R&D Expenditures circulation 9％ Benefits Resource 38％ 51％ circulation 973 14,146 Upstream/ downstream 23,136 76％ Administration million yen million yen 14％ million yen 0％ Resource Administration circulation 19％ 9％ Note: Percentages do not necessarily total to 100 because of rounding. KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 48 Data Human Resources Data Summary Employee Composition by Employment Status (As of March 2016) Regular employees Non-regular employees* Total Konica Minolta, Inc. 6,198 2,152 8,350 Group companies in Japan 5,766 1,818 7,584 Group companies outside Japan 31,368 2,148 33,516 Konica Minolta Group (worldwide) 43,332 6,118 49,450 *Non-regular employees: Contract or temporary employees Number of Employees, by Gender (As of March 2016) Fiscal 2015 Women Men Konica Minolta Group (worldwide) 12,833 30,499 Percentage of Management Positions Held by Women (As of April of the following fiscal year ) Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 Konica Minolta, Inc.*1 2.1％ 2.7％ 3.4％ Konica Minolta Group (worldwide)*2 15.1％ 15.3％ *1 Includes employees seconded to Group companies *2 Covers at least 89% of the consolidated Group on a number of personnel basis Percentage of Employees with Disabilities (As of June of each fiscal year) Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 Employment rate 1.94％ 2.02％ 2.03％ Coverage: Konica Minolta, Inc. in fiscal 2013. In fiscal 2014, Konica Minolta, Inc., Konica Minolta With You, Inc., and Konica Minolta Electronics Co., Ltd. In fiscal 2015, Konica Minolta, Inc., Konica Minolta With You, Inc., Konica Minolta Japan, Inc., Kinko’s Japan Co., Ltd. and Konica Minolta Mechatronics Co., Ltd. Percentage of Local Hires at Subsidiaries Outside Japan (As of March of each fiscal year) Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 President 59％ 61％ Senior staff 53％ 53％ 49 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 About Konica Minolta > Sustainability > CSR Activities > Together with Employees > Human Resources Data Summary Indicators Related to Work-Life Balance Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 Percentage of paid leave taken 55.8％ 57.5％ Annual overtime hours worked per employee 58 hours 58 hours Annual total hours worked per employee 1,792 hours 1,787 hours Note: Figures are for regular employees of Konica Minolta, Inc. Work-Life Balance Support Program Use (persons) Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 Women Men Women Men Women Men Maternal health management leave 1 2 4 Maternity leave 30 19 32 Spousal maternity leave 129 115 144 Parental leave 61 2 61 5 53 14 Shorter working hours for childcare 156 3 159 3 158 3 Work-at-home during child-rearing 16 2 18 2 20 3 Nursing care leave 1 0 0 3 0 1 Shorter working hours for nursing care 0 0 0 0 0 0 Note: Figures are for regular employees of Konica Minolta, Inc. Percentage of Employees Who Return to Work after Childcare Leave Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 Work resumption rate 100％ 100％ 100％ Note: Figures are for regular employees of Konica Minolta, Inc. Percentage of Unionization (As of March of each fiscal year) Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 Konica Minolta Group (worldwide) 72％ 86％ Note: Figures are for non-managerial employees. Retention Status of Employees Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 Turnover rate 0.4％ 0.7％ 0.7％ Percentage of new employees leaving 2.0％ 1.8％ 6.3％ within three years Note: Figures are for regular employees of Konica Minolta Inc. The percentage of new employees leaving within three years is defined as the percentage of employees who leave their job within three years of joining the company (as of April 1 each year). KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 50 Expert Opinion of Konica Minolta’s CSR Report We asked Yoshinao Kozuma, Professor of Economics at Sophia University, to give us feedback on this report. His comments are presented below. We will use this feedback to improve our future CSR activities and our 2017 CSR Report. 1. Review of Materiality Analysis Method In my opinion, the extensive overhaul using the materiality analysis method is the most important result of Konica Minolta’s fiscal 2015 efforts. Konica Minolta’s CSR management has strengthened the CSV aspects in recent years. The lineup of the newly identified six material issues reflects the integration of environmental and social considerations into business activities. One can easily understand the way the company’s management philosophy, “The Creation of New Value,” simultaneously “generates value for society” and “improves corporate value.” Focusing on the material issue of “social innovation,” Konica Minolta aspires to become a problem-solving digital company by creating products and services that are effective in solving social issues with its highly sophisticated and unique techYoshinao Kozuma nologies. I have great hopes that this focus will propel Konica Minolta’s shift to a Professor, Faculty of Economics, business model that will help to realize a sustainable society. Sophia University 2. Further Augmentation of Information Disclosure I also saw improvements in information disclosure. For example, the number of pages dedicated to summarizing data on human resources was doubled, and new indicators were added, including the percentage of employees returning from childcare leave, the union membership ratio, and employee retention rates. In the area of “human capital,” one of the new material issues, Konica Minolta has pursued work-style reform since April 2015, and has added indicators related to work-life balance that gauge the effect of measures prohibiting overtime past 8 pm, as well as other initiatives. In fiscal 2013, regulations on conflict minerals were added to the CSR procurement guidelines, followed in fiscal 2014 by the establishment of guidelines on conflict minerals. In fiscal 2015, configuration data on conflict-free smelters accredited by the CFSI began to be disclosed. These improvements were very impressive as evidence that the PDCA process is functioning well. 3. Assessment of Results of CSR Management Konica Minolta has released greenhouse gas emission data on a value chain basis since fiscal 2013. This shows that about 70% of all emissions fall into the scope 3 category. Much of this consists of “purchased goods and services” (category 1) and “use of sold products” (category 11). The trend over the past four years shows that the actual emissions and percentage of total emissions have been declining for category 11, but there has not been much improvement in category 1. CO2 emissions over the product lifecycle are decreasing over time, but given that Konica Minolta is reinforcing CSR procurement by carrying out assessments and audits based on the EICC Code of Conduct, category 1 management should be explained in greater detail. I would also like to see additional information, including causal analysis, that explains why the targets for the frequency rate for accidents causing absence from work have not been achieved either in or outside of Japan since fiscal 2007. 51 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 External Assurance Konica Minolta engaged KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. to provide assurance on whether its CO2 emissions from procurement, production/research and development, product distribution, sales and service, and product usage; energy use; waste discharged externally from manufacturing; atmospheric emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs); and water consumption have been measured, gathered and disclosed in accordance with the criteria set by the Group. Indicators that have been assured by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. are marked with ★. Period: March to June 2016 On-site audit of the Osakasayama site of Konica Minolta, Inc. Independent Assurance Report To the President and CEO of Konica Minolta, Inc. We were engaged by Konica Minolta, Inc. (the “Company”) to undertake a limited assurance engagement of the environmental performance indicators marked with ★ for the period from April 1, 2015 to March 31, 2016 (the “Indicators”) included in its CSR Report 2016 (the “Report”) for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016. The Company’s Responsibility The Company is responsible for the preparation of the Indicators in accordance with its own reporting criteria (the “Company’s reporting criteria”), as described in the Report, which are derived, among others, from the Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2012) of Japan’s Ministry of the Environment, the Act on the Rational Use of Energy, the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures, the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (2004) by World Resources Institute and World Business Council for Sustainable Development. Our Responsibility Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the Indicators based on the procedures we have performed. We conducted our engagement in accordance with ‘International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000, Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information’, ‘ISAE 3410, Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements’, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board, and the ‘Practical Guidelines for the Assurance of Sustainability Information’ of the Japanese Association of Assurance Organizations for Sustainability Information. The limited assurance engagement consisted of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of information presented in the Report, and applying analytical and other procedures, and the procedures performed vary in nature from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement. The level of assurance provided is thus not as high as that provided by a reasonable assurance engagement. Our assurance procedures included: •Interviewing with the Company’s responsible personnel to obtain an understanding of its policy for the preparation of the Report and reviewing the Company’s reporting criteria. •Inquiring about the design of the systems and methods used to collect and process the Indicators. •Performing analytical reviews of the Indicators. •Examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the generation, aggregation and reporting of the Indicators in conformity with the Company’s reporting criteria, and also recalculating the Indicators. •Visiting to one of the Company’s domestic factories selected on the basis of a risk analysis. •Evaluating the overall statement in which the Indicators are expressed. Conclusion Based on the procedures performed, as described above, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Indicators in the Report are not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Company’s reporting criteria as described in the Report. Our Independence and Quality Control We have complied with the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which includes independence and other requirements founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behavior. In accordance with International Standard on Quality Control 1, we maintain a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. Tokyo, Japan August 2, 2016 Comments from the Assurance Provider Naomi Sugo, KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. The context of this CSR report is a reevaluation of materialiThis report also introduces a new material issue, ty and a reorganized system for CSR initiatives that focus“social innovation,” which reflects Konica Minolta’s aspiraes on the material issues the company has identified. tion to become a solutions-oriented digital company that The report is organized by material issues, with each resolves social issues. Going forward, it is important that section introducing the “Background and Issues,” “Vision,” the company provide more specific explanations conand “Key Measures and KPIs” for each material issue. These cerning the ways in which the Konica Minolta Group’s sections clearly explain why Konica Minolta has chosen to technologies and resources can be used to resolve social address these issues and the courses of action it has set. issues, which issues it will address, and how this will There has been progress in the disclosure of quantitative improve corporate value. information. For example, the report discloses the compaWith companies expected to make a contribution to the ny’s specific action plan for supporting its female employrealization of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), ees, such as promoting women to managerial positions Konica Minolta’s contributions to resolving social issues will and aggressively hiring new female graduates, thereby be weighed heavily. I believe that Konica Minolta’s innovacommunicating Konica Minolta’s approach to readers in a tion initiatives will play a major role as one of the ways of succinct manner. achieving this. KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 52 Overview of the Konica Minolta Group Corporate Data Company name Konica Minolta, Inc. Fiscal year-end March 31 Head office Number of employees 2-7-2 Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, Japan Non-consolidated: 6,198 (as of March 31, 2016) President and CEO Shoei Yamana Consolidated: 43,332 (as of March 31, 2016) Established December 22, 1936 Paid-in capital 37,519 million yen (as of March 31, 2016) Consolidated Operating Income / Consolidated Net Sales Operating Income Ratio Operating Income Operating Income Ratio (Billion yen) (Billion yen) (%) 1,200 75 12 1,002.7 1,031.7 65.7 943.7 935.2 58.1 60.0 9 800 813.0 50 767.8 40.3 40.6 6.2 39.8 6.6 6 5.3 5.8 400 25 5.0 4.3 3 0 0 0 Japanese Accounting International Financial Japanese Accounting International Financial Standards (J-GAAP) Reporting Standards (IFRS) Standards (J-GAAP) Reporting Standards (IFRS) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) Global Network Asia (excluding Japan) and Asia (excluding Japan) and other regions Japan other regions Japan 244.3 200.2 12,696 11,964 billion yen billion yen 29％ 28％ 23.7％ 19.4％ Number of Sales by Region Employees Total by Region 1,031.7 Total Europe billion yen Europe 43,332 319.7 United States 9,824 United States billion yen 267.5 23％ 8,848 31.0％ billion yen 20％ 25.9％ 53 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 Business Domains Business Segments Applications Principal Products and Services •MFPs (Multi-functional peripherals) •Laser printers •Facsimile machines Office Services •Software and peripheral devices Business •Cloud services Technologies •OPS (Optimized Print Services) Business •MCS (Managed Content Services) 80.7％ of sales •Digital color printing systems •Digital monochrome printing systems •Marketing Print Management (MPM) •Marketing Management Service (MMS) •Digital color-proofing systems •Digital marketing Commercial •Prepress production systems and Industrial Printing •Inkjet print heads •Inkjet inks •Inkjet textile printers •Sheet-fed inkjet printers •TAC film for LCD polarizers •VA-TAC film for increasing viewing angle •High-precision photo plates Performance •Barrier film Materials •Mirror film Industrial •Functional film for windows Business •Organic light emitting diode (OLED) lighting 10.3％ of sales •Lens units •Pickup lenses for optical disks •Spectrophotometers Optical Systems •Illuminance meters for Industrial Use •Spectroradiometers •Spectrometers •Digital manufacturing Healthcare •Digital X-ray diagnostic •Pulse oximeters Business imaging systems (CR, DR) •Jaundice meters •Digital mammography •Diagnosis medicine Healthcare •Diagnostic ultrasound systems •Medical ICT services 8.7％ of sales Business •Medical imaging filing systems •All-in-one medical imaging •Nursing care support services information workstations KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2016 54 2-7-2 Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-7015, Japan For inquiries CSR Promotion Department, Corporate Planning Division Phone: +81-3-6250-2120 FAX: +81-3-3218-1368 E-mail: csr-support@konicaminolta.jp www.konicaminolta.com 1608BCD
