2015 STATEMENT CEO STATEMENT OF SUPPORT Exxaro Resources is one of the largest South African based diversified resources companies, with interests in the coal, titanium dioxide, ferrous and renewable energy commodities. Exxaro became a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in 2007. As one of the foremost black-owned diversified resources companies listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, the signing of the UNGC marked our foundational commitment to sustainability. That commitment and focus is ongoing and we are once again proud to reaffirm our support of the ten principles of the Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. In this Communication on Progress for 2015, we draw on Exxaro’s Integrated and Supplementary reports for 2015 to describe how the ten UNGC principles are incorporated into our business. The Integrated Report and Supplementary Report are both products of the company’s strategic objectives, legislative and regulatory requirements, including the Companies Act of South Africa, 71 of 2008 as amended (Companies Act), the Mining Charter and the JSE Limited Listings Requirements as well as global best practice standards the International Integrated Reporting Council’s framework for integrated reporting, the Global Reporting Initiative GRI, UN Global Compact principles and the King Report on Governance for South Africa 2009 (King III) and AccountAbility 1000SES. A sustainability highlight of 2015 for Exxaro was the implementation of a fully integrated strategic performance dashboard that gives the board and executive the most critical information required to measure and manage the company’s strategy and performance. It also provides a transparent and consolidated view to stakeholders on our drivers of value and sustainability and is the result of four key steps in our sustainability journey.  Implementation of an integrated risk management framework clearly outlining what is material to the company and why  Establishment of a sustainability framework  Identification of the key performance indicators (KPIs) aligned with material issues  The linking of the combined assurance plan with risks, material issues and KPIs. The Integrated and Supplementary reports can be found at www.exxaro.com Mxolisi Mgojo Chief Executive Officer Exxaro Resources For enquiries: Contact: Hanno Olinger, Manager Sustainability Email: hanno.olinger@exxaro.com Fixed: +27 12 307 3359 Fax: +27 12 307 5327 EXXARO | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2015 P a g e |2 Human rights GLOBAL COMPACT SUMMARY OF ACTIONS TAKEN AND MEASUREMENT OF RESULTS PRINCIPLE IMPACT ACHIEVED 1: Businesses should Exxaro complies with labour legislation in The group’s compliance with legislation and support and respect the South Africa and International Labour international conventions was audited by our protection of Organization guidelines. As a signatory to internal auditors and confirmed in the prior internationally proclaimed the United Nations Global Compact, we period. human rights. encourage freedom of association and collective bargaining, ensure child labour is not tolerated and that forced or compulsory Human Rights labour is not practised. 2: Make sure that they Induction programmes educate employees To date Exxaro has not been complicit in the are not complicit in human about human rights. Policies on violation of any human rights. rights abuses. discrimination, harassment and racism are in place, as are structures to protect employees’ human rights in the workplace. Security personnel are fully trained on human rights aspects relevant to each operation. Refresher courses also cover human rights issues. Labour GLOBAL COMPACT SUMMARY OF ACTIONS TAKEN MEASUREMENT OF RESULTS PRINCIPLE AND IMPACT ACHIEVED 3: Businesses should As a signatory to the United Some 76% of our employees are represented by affiliated uphold the freedom Nations Global Compact, Exxaro unions recognised by Exxaro subsidiaries: primarily National of association and the encourages freedom of Union of Mineworkers (NUM), Solidarity, Association of effective recognition association and collective Mineworkers and Construction Union (AMCU) and, most of the right to bargaining. recently, Food and Allied Workers Union (FAWU) after collective bargaining. concluding a recognition agreement at Ferroland. Throughout the group, our In 2015, we embarked on negotiations in both forums, with approach to the employment the in‐house process concluded in November 2015 without relationship is based on the any labour incidents. The Chamber of Mines process was principles of constructive also concluded in 2015 and, despite a related week‐long engagement or regulated strike that affected the entire coal industry, we engaged cooperation. Accordingly, our positively with our union stakeholders to arrive at an engagement structures at all amicable settlement. Labour levels continue to function constructively in line with our In consultation with our labour stakeholders, we concluded employee relations strategy a number of section 189 closure processes in 2015 at our Labour legislation is the broad Inyanda, New Clydesdale and AlloyStream business units framework under which related and are currently finalising the Tshikondeni mine closure. policies, systems and procedures Although these processes are challenging, our relationships are developed, and employees with stakeholders are a key factor in determining their are managed (individually and outcome. collectively) in Exxaro. Confirming the commitment from all parties to build solid We concentrate on maintaining relationships, no grievances about labour practices were filed sound relations with employees in the reporting period. in bargaining units by engaging with their representatives. Negotiations for wages and conditions of employment are EXXARO | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2015 P a g e |3 GLOBAL COMPACT SUMMARY OF ACTIONS TAKEN MEASUREMENT OF RESULTS PRINCIPLE AND IMPACT ACHIEVED conducted through in‐house forums and the Chamber of Mines. Exxaro’s disciplinary codes are based on the principle of fairness as required by labour law, and our supervisors have the skill to implement the codes. Diversity training is ongoing throughout Exxaro. 4: The elimination of An extract of the Exxaro Labour Exxaro complies with labour legislation in South Africa and all forms of forced and Human Rights Policy states: International Labour Organization guidelines. As a signatory and compulsory ”Subject to the provisions of the to the United Nations Global Compact, we encourage labour. Constitution of the Republic of freedom of association and collective bargaining, ensure South Africa, the Company will child labour is not tolerated and that forced or compulsory not cause, demand or impose labour is not practised. forced labour on any other person” 5: The effective Exxaro complies with labour No children are in the employ of Exxaro. Below is the abolition of child legislation in South Africa and breakdown of employees by age: labour. International Labour Organization guidelines and as a signatory of the UNGC ensures child labour is Bargaining Management Grand Age range not tolerated. Unit & Specialist Total 18‐25 333 43 376 26‐30 971 164 1 135 31‐35 1 117 216 1 333 36‐40 868 227 1 095 41‐45 688 201 889 46‐50 638 192 830 51‐55 748 132 880 56‐65 628 95 723 Total 5 991 1 270 7 261 Labour 6: The elimination of As an employer, Exxaro is firmly There is no discrimination between the salaries of men and discrimination in committed to the concept and women in the bargaining unit category as collective respect of practice of equal opportunity, agreements determine specific guaranteed minimum employment and irrespective of race, religion, salaries. In the management and specialist category, occupation. gender, health status, sexual individual salaries are strictly based on contracted preference or nationality. Our performance. corporate values guide the way we do business, and discrimination on any grounds is not acceptable. A comprehensive suite of policies covers employment, labour relations, occupational health and safety, training and education, diversity and equal opportunity. Our aim is to provide working conditions that are safe and EXXARO | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2015 P a g e |4 GLOBAL COMPACT SUMMARY OF ACTIONS TAKEN MEASUREMENT OF RESULTS PRINCIPLE AND IMPACT ACHIEVED healthy, opportunities that are enriching and an environment conducive to performance. Environment GLOBAL COMPACT SUMMARY OF ACTIONS TAKEN AND IMPACT MEASUREMENT OF RESULTS PRINCIPLE ACHIEVED 7: Businesses should Exxaro adopts the precautionary principle, All Exxaro’s business units have ISO 14001 support a which is entrenched in the National accreditation, reflecting the global industry precautionary Environmental Management Act (NEMA), standards in place to minimise environmental approach to when evaluating the environmental impacts impacts. environmental of business opportunities. challenges. We focus on responsible use by conserving All our South African operations have natural resources and reducing the burden of environmental management programmes pollutants on the environment through: (EMPs) as required under the Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act  Ensuring all activities are properly (MPRDA) and National Environmental authorised Management Act (NEMA). These are key  Complying with all statutory indicators in ensuring Exxaro remains a environmental requirements as a sustainable business. minimum  Using energy and water as efficiently as possible  Conducting activities responsibly from the twin perspectives of compliance and natural resource use  Actively participating in voluntary benchmarks, such as the global carbon Environment and water disclosure projects  Developing innovative policies and programmes to address environmental impacts and use of natural resources. Comprehensive group standards have enhanced the implementation of legal requirements and sustainable use of natural resources. These include management standards for air quality, water, energy, rehabilitation and mine closure, and environmental incident management and reporting. Legal compliance South African mining companies are heavily In 2015, five environmental authorisations regulated, with compliance centred on (under NEMA) were granted for FerroAlloys receiving, converting and retaining all mining expansion, Thabametsi, Belfast Rietkuil siding, rights. To ensure we continue to meet legal Matla mine new shaft and Leeuwpan block OI, requirements as a minimum, compliance and the environmental management plan across Exxaro is monitored by two board‐ (MPRDA) approved for Grootegeluk’s mandated entities: the sustainability, risk and infrastructure projects. compliance committee as well as the social and ethics committee. Running all our operations with approved EMPs Exxaro received no environmental stoppage is fundamental to our sustainability and legal directives during the review period. A fine was EXXARO | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2015 P a g e |5 GLOBAL COMPACT SUMMARY OF ACTIONS TAKEN AND IMPACT MEASUREMENT OF RESULTS PRINCIPLE ACHIEVED compliance. Some EMPs are being updated to issued to ECC Tumelo Coal, which has been align to the MPRDA and to include new paid and an environmental authorisation is developments. awaited from the authorities. 8: Undertake After a strategic review of key environmental initiatives to promote risks from Exxaro’s operations, the following greater environmental challenges were identified (dealt with in responsibility. specific sections of this report):  Air quality management  Water quality management, security of supply  Hazardous waste management  Biodiversity management  Ongoing rehabilitation  Cost of, and provision for, environmental liabilities  Lead time for securing environmental authorisations  Improving compliance to granted environmental licences  Increasing statutory and non‐statutory environmental requirements. Air quality Dust As a mining group, air quality is a risk to Comparing Exxaro’s dust‐fallout rate against Exxaro on several levels, particularly dust and the regulated non‐residential limit other pollutants (eg PM10 and PM2,5) from (1200mg/m2/day), no operation exceeded the opencast operations. Accordingly, we focus two allowable annual limits in 2015. on:  Minimising impact on the receiving environment  Full legislative compliance  Air quality management planning  Risk management  Monitoring, measurement and reporting. Daily measures ensure we address the challenges of Exxaro’s dust‐generating activities (blasting, drilling, crushing and screening, vehicle entrainment, materials handling and wind erosion of exposed operational areas). These include applying dust‐suppressant agents on haul roads, watering secondary unpaved operational roads, vegetating topsoil stockpiles and overburden material. All mining operations monitor daily dust fallout rates and results are assessed against national regulations. . We track our compliance against the stringent residential limit (600mg/m2/day) instead of the non‐ residential limit (1 200mg/m2/day) to minimise the impact on residents. This will ensure fallout dust is reduced to the residential limit. EXXARO | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2015 P a g e |6 GLOBAL COMPACT SUMMARY OF ACTIONS TAKEN AND IMPACT MEASUREMENT OF RESULTS PRINCIPLE ACHIEVED Carbon footprint Carbon emissions Operational activities are guided by our Diesel and electricity are Exxaro’s primary climate change response strategy. A steering sources of energy. Total energy consumed committee oversees related improvement increased by 0,8% in 2015 to 4 364 142 giga projects and activities, and ensures these are joules (GJ), mainly on higher electricity use aligned with Exxaro’s climate change position which rose by 10%. The bulk of this was due to statement. expansion activities at Grootegeluk. Energy sourced from diesel consumption decreased This supports a clear understanding of the 6,8% in 2015. risks and opportunities presented by energy and emissions in the broader sense, and Diesel consumption enables operations to focus on managing Diesel is the most significant energy source in energy, emissions and other climate change‐ our coal operations, consuming over 50% of related issues. energy alone, slightly ahead of energy from electricity consumed in 2015. The electricity Our energy and carbon measurement, data and diesel intensity in 2015 per total tonnes management, accounting and reporting is mined was respectively 3 72MWh/kt and maturing. Exxaro reports carbon emissions 363ℓ/kt. through CDP South Africa (the local arm of the international benchmark carbon and water By continuing focusing on diesel efficiency, we disclosure projects), where we remain among have reduced consumption by over 13,5% in the leading companies by reporting on scope 2015 from 2012, despite a significant rise in 1, 2 and 3 emissions. diesel consumption at Leeuwpan and North Block Complex. Carbon disclosure Exxaro participates in two programmes: CDP Energy management Climate Change (since 2008) and CDP Water. Our coal operations account for almost all The CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure energy consumption in the group after Project) is a UK‐based global climate change divesting of the mineral sands and base metals reporting system. Our carbon performance is businesses in recent years. As part of Exxaro’s externally assured annually. energy and carbon management programme, our coal operations have focused on reducing energy consumption, including projects to specifically increase the efficiency of diesel and electricity use. This led to a significant decrease in energy consumed through electricity in 2015, on the back of increased production. Specific energy‐intensity improvement targets were set for each operation in 2015. These targets formed part of relevant managers’ remuneration‐linked performance contracts and further absolute emission reductions are expected from these initiatives in future. Water management Status of integrated water use licences Water is a strategic natural resource for South Water use for most Exxaro operations is Africa. It is also key to our business. The authorised under the old Water Act (1956). In Exxaro water management policy therefore recent years, after all operations submitted defines our commitment to the sustainable their integrated water use licence (IWUL) use of water, with a strong focus on efficiency applications, we have steadily migrated these through reuse and recycling. This policy is authorisations to the National Water Act aligned to the legislative environmental (1998). By January 2016, 12 IWULs were framework governed mainly by the National approved and four pending. Water Act 36 1998. In support of the act, the Department of Water Affairs has issued an integrated water resource management hierarchy that prioritises mine and waste management decisions and actions. This EXXARO | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2015 P a g e |7 GLOBAL COMPACT SUMMARY OF ACTIONS TAKEN AND IMPACT MEASUREMENT OF RESULTS PRINCIPLE ACHIEVED hierarchy informs both our policy and strategy on mine and waste water management as:  Pollution prevention  Minimise environmental impacts  Maximise water reuse and reclamation  Responsible water discharge and disposal  Water treatment. Translating policy into action, our management standard on water for mining and industrial use articulates our commitment to develop and implement an effective integrated water and waste management plan across the lifecycle of a mine. This includes planning, construction, operation, decommissioning, closure and rehabilitation phases. The standard reflects management’s vision to:  Ensure a cost‐effective integrated approach to water management  Be environmentally responsible  Be ecologically sustainable. These management standards are enacted by adhering to the Department of Water and Sanitation’s best practice guidelines on:  The integrated water and waste management plan  Stormwater management planning  Water and salt balances  Water monitoring systems  Water reuse and reclamation  Pollution control dams  Environmental performance indicators. Water management is integral to our licence to operate and, in recent years, we have made considerable progress on our focus areas, notably:  Our vision, strategy and policy for water management  Data management that facilitates water accounting and reporting  Regulatory compliance  Improving skills and knowledge in water management  Water and related technology solutions  Water business opportunities  Stakeholder engagement  Communications. Under a holistic strategy, we are managing Water withdrawal performance water‐related risks, minimising impacts, and Exxaro increased water withdrawals by 20% in operating efficiently through reduction, reuse 2015 compared to 2014. This is mainly due to and recycling. Most of our operations have Grootegeluk, where the two new plants (GG7 EXXARO | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2015 P a g e |8 GLOBAL COMPACT SUMMARY OF ACTIONS TAKEN AND IMPACT MEASUREMENT OF RESULTS PRINCIPLE ACHIEVED water conservation plans that support the and 8) are now fully operational. Other national strategy to ensure equitable business units, including head office, show a distribution of water resources that allows for slight reduction in water withdrawals, reflecting business growth and protection (sustainable the ongoing commitment to operational use). efficiency. We are also committed to protecting and In 2015, coal operations accounted for 99% of improving water quality by ensuring the water our water withdrawals. Total withdrawals by we discharge is the same or better than the these operations rose by 20% in tandem with original. Central to this are the three water higher production, leading to a slight increase treatment plants planned for our in water intensity (water withdrawals relative Mpumalanga region as part of our long‐term to production). Water intensity for 2015, albeit water management strategy. These plants will higher, is still better than 2013 and underscores have total capacity to treat 17,5 mega litres our commitment to water stewardship. The per day. The plant at Matla has been increase is largely due to higher withdrawals at commissioned and performance tests are Grootegeluk. Given the relative scale of this under way (case study). The second plant is mine, water withdrawal intensity rose across being commissioned at North Block Complex, our coal operations. Water withdrawals at and is expected to be fully operational later in mines in closure are reducing significantly, as 2016. For the plant at Arnot, a pre‐feasibility expected. study has been completed, and a bankable feasibility is under way. This plant is expected to be in operation by 2017. Our prime focus is optimising the use of recycled water. We have installed a filtration plant at Matla to treat water for reuse in underground workings. With a maximum capacity of 3 mega litres a day, this plant operated well during the year and reduced Matla’s intake of fresh water slightly. We continue to collaborate with other mining houses through a local research institution on a project to develop appropriate technology to deal with waste from planned water treatment plants. This will enhance the efficiency of the waste treatment process and mitigate potential exposure linked to waste management. Two technologies were successfully tested ahead of scaling up and implementation. Hazardous waste management Hazardous waste Waste management is a key compliance The total weight of hazardous waste generated indicator in Exxaro’s social licence to operate. at our managed coal operations in 2015 was 1 Our group‐wide standard enforces use of the 814 tonnes (2014: 1 541 tonnes). The increase waste management hierarchy, which in turn in volumes removed (18%) for 2015 reflects the promotes waste prevention or minimisation, planned clean‐up operation conducted at a reuse, recycling, recovering energy and business unit to increase efficiency in the ensuring safe disposal of waste in line with sewage treatment plant. This activity the National Environmental Management: contributed to the increase in volumes (429 Waste Act 59 2008 and supporting legislation. tonnes) in November 2015, as it involved removal of the sludge from the treatment plant We are setting up recycling stations in by an external contractor and responsible selected business units to divert all recyclable disposal into a registered landfill. ECC wastes currently being sent to landfill sites for operations produced small amounts of waste in potential and practical reuse options that 2015 (60 tonnes hazardous waste and 58 make economic sense. We are also exploring tonnes general waste). opportunities with industrial partners and EXXARO | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2015 P a g e |9 GLOBAL COMPACT SUMMARY OF ACTIONS TAKEN AND IMPACT MEASUREMENT OF RESULTS PRINCIPLE ACHIEVED research institutions to use viable solutions in converting waste into renewable energy. Exxaro is working with the Department of Environmental Affairs to adhere to regulations that eliminate the use of polychlorinated biphenyl (PCBs) materials in all equipment used by our operations by 2023. Responsible conservation of biodiversity Our vision is to conserve biodiversity for future generations through the sustainable co‐existence of our mining operations and South Africa’s natural resources. In addition to complying with legislation and best practice, we aim to develop a competitive advantage through conservancy and re‐establishing resilient ecosystems that underscore our commitment to duty‐of‐care principles. We have developed the strategy and framework to reach our goals, and compiled baseline reports and biodiversity action plans for most business units. A draft wetland policy and management standard was compiled in 2013 but not finalised nor approved, given that Exxaro needed to align this with new guidelines. The best‐practice standard (Wetland Offsets: A Best Practical Guideline for South Africa 2014), as well as the mining and biodiversity guideline (Mainstreaming biodiversity into the mining sector (DEA, DMR, Chamber of Mines, SA Mining and Biodiversity Forum and SANBI, 2013)) will be taken into account in finalising Exxaro’s wetland policy and management standard. Performance reviews against biodiversity action plans continued in 2015. Our detailed management standard guides business units in implementing group policy, aiming to:  Ensure a cost‐effective integrated approach to biodiversity management  Be environmentally responsible in protecting and managing biodiversity  Be ecologically sustainable by ensuring biodiversity‐rich areas are contained within mining right areas, to manage and monitor protected and threatened Red Data species, and control declared category 1, 2 and 3 invasive plants. Wetland baseline assessments for all business units were updated in recent years and wetland maps for all business units compiled. These include: desktop NFEPA (national freshwater ecosystem priority areas) maps, Mpumalanga biodiversity sector plans (2014), site‐specific wetland types and their EXXARO | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2015 P a g e | 10 GLOBAL COMPACT SUMMARY OF ACTIONS TAKEN AND IMPACT MEASUREMENT OF RESULTS PRINCIPLE ACHIEVED distribution, present ecological status (PES) of each identified wetland and wetland type, and the ecological importance and sensitivity (EIS) of each identified wetland and wetland type. This data is used to consider biodiversity‐ sensitive areas as part of our business and mine‐planning decisions. During mine planning, we consider the hierarchy of avoidance, minimisation, rehabilitation and, finally offsets. Biodiversity across the Exxaro group 2015 Biodiversity According to the latest national spatial Exxaro has evaluated and identified all biodiversity assessment report (2011) shape protected vegetation units with important files of national protected areas, none of conservation targets and listed as protected by Exxaro’s business units fall within these areas. the national spatial biodiversity assessment Only Tshikondeni is next to a protected area report (2011). (Kruger National Park), although several business units fall within protected vegetation Funds were spent on biodiversity management, types. including wetland offsets, wetland delineation and wetland studies and biomonitoring. Risk‐based external reviews In the first quarter each year, our sustainability department and each business unit perform a risk analysis based on the group environment and risk assurance process, with risks reported to appropriate management in terms of Exxaro’s governance process. Where mines are eligible for an external review, these are conducted under commercial agreements with competent third parties. Concurrent rehabilitation plan All business units have a detailed concurrent rehabilitation plan and supporting material (plan, schedule and budget). These are revised and updated as necessary, but at least annually. The mine manager or person in charge of a site reports on any deviation from the rehabilitation programme (reasons and how this affects future activities; financial provisions; corrective steps to rectify the deviation, especially to prevent financial shortfalls accumulating and closure liabilities rising). Environmental liabilities and rehabilitation Liabilities All business units annually review their At 31 December 2015, total land disturbed was financial provisions. They also consider 9 311ha and total rehabilitated 2 247ha. amendments to rehabilitation plans and Exxaro’s direct contingent liability for closure objectives based on regular EMP environmental rehabilitation has increased performance assessments. The cost estimates 37,9% after its commitments to the of activities in the concurrent and final‐ Department of Mineral Resources to address closure rehabilitation programme are shortfalls on financial provisions for our reviewed and adjusted where necessary. operative mines. The company has committed to radical improvements to close the gap on Water‐related liabilities are calculated as per concurrent rehabilitation, which will contribute the Exxaro excess water risks and liability to reducing these contingent liabilities by end EXXARO | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2015 P a g e | 11 GLOBAL COMPACT SUMMARY OF ACTIONS TAKEN AND IMPACT MEASUREMENT OF RESULTS PRINCIPLE ACHIEVED management standard. 2016. The Exxaro Environmental Rehabilitation EERF Fund (EERF) provides for most liabilities, while The EERF earned R66,2 million in 2015, which additional bank guarantees are taken out to includes cash contributions, interest earned on provide for new developments and cover any investments and fair value adjustments. The shortfalls in financial provisions. fund has recorded 8,8% growth from an Environmental rehabilitation liabilities are opening balance of R753 million in January updated biannually for internal reporting at 2015 to R819 million in December 2015. In interim and financial year end, and submitted addition, the group had bank guarantees of R1 annually to the Department of Mineral 457 million in place at year end. Updating these Resources (DMR). provisions biannually highlights potential rehabilitation alternatives that could decrease The promulgation of regulation 1147 under the long‐term closure liabilities of mines. NEMA on the financial provision for prospecting, exploration, mining or External closure‐cost reviews were completed production operations will require a at three operations during the year. fundamental change in how we manage these Performance assessments against the in future. Exxaro continues to comply with objectives of EMP reports were completed for effective MPRDA and NEMA regulations on four operations and submitted to the DMR. environmental management. In line with the growing government focus on rehabilitation, all our business units have reviewed their rehabilitation plans (with appropriate schedules and budgets). Mine closure Mine closure All closure activities are executed against risk‐ Exxaro had three operations in active closure in based principles. As several Exxaro mines are 2015 – Tshikondeni, Durnacol and Hlobane. nearing their end of life, mine‐closure Their closure environmental plans are being planning is already in place to ensure the reviewed by the authorities. closure process complies with the latest legislative requirements. 9: Encourage the Exxaro sponsors academic chair positions at During 2015, Exxaro supported the following development and universities in order to broaden the body of university research positions: initiatives: diffusion of knowledge on sustainable development  The Global Change and Sustainability environmentally initiatives. chair at the University of the friendly technologies. Witwatersrand which focuses on water, Sixteen strategic initiatives have been sustainability and social interventions. identified to reach specific five‐year goals, our  The Chair in Business and Climate Change strategy also articulates aspirational goals that at the University of South Africa include becoming self‐sufficient in our  The Exxaro chair in energy efficiency at operational water requirements and the University of Pretoria. Key research becoming a leader in water technology themes include mining system solutions. components, design efficiency in capital projects, mine engineering for energy We are also committed to protecting and efficiency, cogeneration (using waste heat improving water quality by ensuring the water to produce electricity for the same or we discharge is the same or better than the related processes in those operations, original. Central to this are the three water smelter technology and efficiency, clean treatment plants planned for our development mechanism (CDM) and Mpumalanga region as part of our long‐term carbon trading (carbon footprint and water management strategy. These plants will carbon‐neutral study), as well as the low‐ have total capacity to treat 17,5 mega litres carbon economy, and energy efficiency per day. measurement, verification, baseline determination and evaluation. We are also focused on optimising the use of Recycled water recycled water. Innovative passive water We have installed a filtration plant at Matla to EXXARO | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2015 P a g e | 12 GLOBAL COMPACT SUMMARY OF ACTIONS TAKEN AND IMPACT MEASUREMENT OF RESULTS PRINCIPLE ACHIEVED treatment systems are being evaluated by our treat water for reuse in underground workings. R&D department in collaboration with the With a maximum capacity of 3 mega litres a University of the Free State and the day, this plant operated well during the year Technology Innovation Agency as part of a and reduced Matla’s intake of fresh water long‐term solution to water management slightly. including post‐closure. Exxaro has developed a new treatment plant We continue to collaborate with other mining for acid mine drainage. Based in Belfast, the houses through a local research institution on plant effectively treats major contaminants a project to develop appropriate technology found in acid mining wastewater using a low‐ to deal with waste from planned water cost and low‐maintenance passive water treatment plants. This will enhance the treatment system. This patented technology efficiency of the waste treatment process and has treated over 1,8 million litres of acid mine mitigate potential exposure linked to waste drainage to date, producing water of a quality management. Two technologies were accepted for drinking purposes by the South successfully tested ahead of scaling up and African National Standards (SANS) 241:2006 implementation. and 2011 regulation. The pilot plant exploration is now complete and techno‐economic studies for upscaling are under way. Anti‐corruption GLOBAL COMPACT SUMMARY OF ACTIONS TAKEN AND MEASUREMENT OF RESULTS PRINCIPLE IMPACT ACHIEVED 10: Businesses should We are driven by our desire to always In 2015, 457 cases of alleged unethical work against all forms of operate as a responsible corporate citizen behaviour (2014: 448) were reported for corruption, including and recognise that an ethical culture investigation. In total, 201 people were extortion and bribery. underpins corporate governance and subjected to disciplinary hearings, with 175 contributes to our licence to operate. arrests made by the South African Police Exxaro and its board of directors are Service (SAPS) for criminal prosecution based committed to ensuring ethical and on the results of referred investigations sustainable business practices, guided by (2014: 164). The direct monetary value of our values. Our values are captured in our cases reported and investigated was R18,5 ethics and related policies, which are million (2014: R16,7 million), with R11,0 approved by the social and ethics (SE) million (2014: R10,5 million) recovered/saved. committee on behalf of the board. Our ethics management practices (including Copper cable theft has increased dramatically Anti‐corruption anti‐bribery and corruption initiatives) and and affected Exxaro’s loss‐recovery rate, processes are aligned with international despite successes in concluding investigations best practice. and disciplinary actions. Ethics processes and policies are managed either by the general manager: risk, compliance and assurance or the group company secretary. Established policies, on which employees are regularly trained and which are frequently reviewed, include:  Code of ethics  Whistleblowing  Conflicts of interest  Fraud investigation  Fraud prevention  Fraud response  Gifts and benefits from suppliers. EXXARO | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2015 P a g e | 13 GLOBAL COMPACT SUMMARY OF ACTIONS TAKEN AND MEASUREMENT OF RESULTS PRINCIPLE IMPACT ACHIEVED We are confident that our robust policies and processes ensure full compliance with principle 10 of the United Nations Global compact on anti‐corruption, OECD recommendations on corruption, and international legislation and best practice. Incidents of unethical behaviour At Exxaro, reports of alleged unethical behaviour are received through the anonymous reporting hotline and other mechanisms. All reports are periodically reviewed by the ethics committee and referred either for forensic investigation or to functional heads to be investigated. The ethics committee comprises executives, senior management and the chief audit executive. Chaired by the chief audit executive, it meets either monthly or as required to consider issues of non‐ compliance to the group code of ethics or conflicts‐of‐interest policy, as well as matters reported on the ethics hotline or to management. EXXARO | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2015 P a g e | 14
