2015 JOTUN VALUES CONTENTS INTRODUCTION At a glance // 02 Group key figures // 03 LOYALTY Jotun’s global history // 04 Reliable and trustworthy Long term relationships between OUR BUSINESS // 06 Celebrating 90 years // 08 customers, Jotun and colleagues Loyalty Jotun Group // 10 Commitment to Jotun’s values, Marine Coatings // 12 strategies, policies and decisions Powder Coatings // 16 Decorative Paints // 20 Protective Coatings // 24 CUSTOMERS AND INNOVATION // 28 Supporting Jotun’s HSE vision // 30 Green Building Solutions // 32 CARE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY (CR) // 34 Help and support others Managing Corporate Responsibility // 36 Display trust and empathy EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE // 38 Appraise and judge fairly Putting people first // 40 Protect internal and external Crisis management // 42 Care environment HSEQ management // 43 Safety at the workplace // 44 Risk and prevention // 45 Developing our dynamic workforce // 46 Competence counts // 47 RESPECT ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT // 48 Jotun Greensteps // 50 Values differences in people Our carbon footprint // 51 Be honest and fair Taking responsibility // 52 A measure of success // 53 Build diverse teams across culture Respect and gender JOTUN AND SOCIETY // 54 Follow laws and regulations Making a difference // 56 Fighting illiteracy // 57 Treat others the way they expect Responsible Purchasing – Leading from the front // 58 to be treated United on Anti-corruption // 60 FINANCIAL INFO // 62 Chairman of the Board // 64 Consolidated financial statements // 65 BOLDNESS Executive summary of the financial statement // 69 Take initiatives to create the future COMPANY OVERVIEW // 70 Initiate and nurture change Organisation // 72 Boldness Communicate openly, honestly and with integrity Be proactive Address difficulties constructively AT A GLANCE GROUP KEY FIGURES 2 The Jotun Group is a matrix organisation divided into seven regions responsible for the sale (NOK MILLION) 3 PROFIT/LOSS 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 of Decorative Paints and Marine, Protective and Powder Coatings. INTRODUCTION INTRODUCTION Operating revenue 16 282 13 171 12 034 11 351 10 659 Operating revenue outside Norway in % 86 83 82 80 77 The company has 37 production facilities in 21 countries, 63 companies in 45 countries and Operating profit 2 064 1 314 1 258 1 126 956 is represented in more than 100 countries around the world. Profit before tax 1 918 1 301 1 191 1 055 893 Net cash flow from operating activities 1 500 919 819 902 303 PROFITABILITY Return on capital employed, in % 1) 24.2 17.2 20.0 19.5 18.3 Operating margin, in % 2) 12.7 10.0 10.5 9.9 9.0 Return on equity, in % 3) 17.9 14.0 15.5 15.8 13.1 9 842 YEAR-END FINANCIAL POSITIONS Total assets 15 187 13 300 10 799 9 317 9 140 PEOPLE Investments in intangible and fixed assets 922 911 733 590 867 Equity (including non-controlling interests) 7 932 6 739 5 515 5 016 5 028 Equity / assets ratio, in % 52.2 50.7 51.1 53.8 55.0 REGIONS AM SCA WE EECA MEIA NEA SEAP (NOK) Americas Scandinavia West Europe East Europe and Central Asia Middle East, India and Africa North East Asia South East Asia and Pacific 45 Number of employees in the Group Number of employees in the Group, including 7 415 7 158 6 695 6 379 5 884 100 per cent in joint ventures and associated companies 9 842 9 676 8 991 8 740 8 296 16 282 000 000 37 DEFINITIONS OPERATING REVENUE FACTORIES COUNTRIES 1) Return on capital employed % = Operating profit + amortisation of intangible assets Average capital employed x 100 SALES EBITA Operating profit 21 000 2 100 2) Operating margin % = x 100 Operating revenue Total comprehensive income for the year 3) Return on equity % = Average equity x 100 18 000 1800 SEGMENTS 10% 27+37+2610M Decorative Paints: Jotun manufactures, sells and distributes 15 000 1500 interior and exterior paints to consumers and professionals 30% POWDER COATINGS worldwide. 12 000 1200 Marine Coatings: Jotun is a world leading provider of marine MARINE COATINGS coatings to the newbuilding, DryDock and SeaStock markets. In SALES AND EBITA DEVELOPMENT 24% PROTECTIVE COATINGS BUSINESS addition, Jotun supplies coatings solutions for megayachts and leisure yachts. (NOK MILLION) 9 000 900 SEGMENTS Protective Coatings: Jotun’s protective coatings are sold to 6 000 600 companies active in industries related to offshore, energy, infrastructure, hydrocarbon processing industry and mining. 3 000 300 36% Powder Coatings: Jotun Powder Coatings is a leading supplier to companies active in industries related to appliances, furniture, 0 0 DECORATIVE PAINTS building components, pipelines and general industries. 1972 1974 1976 1978 1980 1982 1984 1986 1988 1990 1992 1994 1996 1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2015 2014 JOTUN’S GLOBAL HISTORY 4 Jotun is organised into seven regions. 5 Each region has its own unique history. INTRODUCTION EAST EUROPE AND INTRODUCTION SCA SCANDINAVIA EECA CENTRAL ASIA NEA NORTH EAST ASIA Jotun was founded in Sandefjord, Lured to Turkey’s active shipbuilding industry, As early as 1961, Jotun had an office in Hong Norway in 1926. Building on the success Jotun formed a joint venture with a local Kong to serve Norwegian owners trading in the of its first marine coating, Arcanol, supplier in 1989. Economic reforms in the region, but it wasn’t until 1993, when Jotun the company grew quickly, selling 1990s lifted Turkey’s economy, creating formed a joint venture with a subsidiary of China’s to shipowners in Norway, Sweden demand for decorative paints, and protective state controlled shipping company COSCO, and Denmark. Further success with and powder coatings. With two factories that Jotun became a market player. Jotun also decorative products encouraged the in Istanbul, Jotun now supplies paints and established a joint venture with Chokwang Paints company to expand into Sweden (1969) coatings to 12 countries in Eastern Europe. In in South Korea in 1988, giving the company access and Denmark (1972). 1992, Jotun established a company in Russia to Korea’s expanding shipbuilding industry. Today, and in 2014 officially opened a factory near Jotun is a market leader in marine and protective St. Petersburg. coatings in the region. 1926 1108 2 1989 645 2 1988 2032 4 MIDDLE EAST, SOUTH EAST ASIA AM THE AMERICAS WE WEST EUROPE MEIA INDIA AND AFRICA SEAP AND PACIFIC As with other regions, Jotun’s entry into In 1970, Jotun purchased the British Jotun opened its first overseas factory in Seeing a promising market for paints and coatings the Americas was driven by the Marine marine coatings manufacturer, Henry Libya in 1962. Other factories in Dubai in South East Asia, Jotun opened a factory in segment. The company established a Clark & Sons of Brighton, which (1975), Saudi Arabia (1984), Oman (1985), Thailand in 1968. Rapid economic development network of agents in key ports in Canada, gave Jotun more access to the British Egypt (1986), and Abu Dhabi (1995) soon in the region led to new companies and factories the US, and Central America (Panama). In fleet, international markets and later, followed, helping Jotun to become a in Singapore (1975), Malaysia (1984), Indonesia 1974, Jotun purchased a stake in an old production in Flixborough (1989). Jotun recognised leader in the region. Jotun also (1996) and Vietnam (1997). Factory construction is factory in Baltimore, but was unable to make also opened a powder coatings factory has two factories in Pakistan (2004) and in now underway in Myanmar and in the Philippines. the business work. In 2000, the company in the Czech Republic in 1995 and a 2008, the company completed a factory in Jotun also bought a factory in Australia in 1990. acquired a factory in Belle Chasse, Louisiana paint factory in Spain in 2000. Today, India. In 1995, Jotun bought a factory in Jotun is now represented in all countries in South to serve customers operating in the Gulf, Jotun has sales offices in about 20 South Africa, and over the past five years, East Asia. later refurbished in 2013. In 2015, Jotun European countries. the company has established companies in opened a new factory in Brazil. Morocco, Algeria and Kenya. 1974 209 2 1970 755 3 1962 2682 14 1968 2411 10 OUR BUSINESS 6 Celebrating 90 years // 08 7 Jotun Group // 10 OUR BUSINESS OUR BUSINESS Marine Coatings // 12 Powder Coatings // 16 Decorative Paints // 20 Protective Coatings // 24 JOTUN GROUP CELEBRATING 90 YEARS 8 Jotun’s history has been shaped by world events and new technologies, but the roots of the company’s 9 remarkable success can be traced back to the business philosophy of the founder Odd Gleditsch. OUR BUSINESS OUR BUSINESS The rapid pace of Jotun’s growth, especially in the last 10 years, act. Negotiators representing four market leaders met to discuss is unusual for a privately owned company that (with few the terms of a merger, and in 1972, a new company was born. exceptions) has grown organically and relies almost exclusively The new entity was named after the company with the strongest on technologies developed in-house. Yet Jotun’s prudent balance sheet and access to its own technology: Jotun. growth strategy, focus on building a strong corporate culture, and willingness to invest in research and development is a GOING ABROAD reflection of its founder’s business philosophy. While Jotun had long been active in international markets (the company opened its first overseas factory in Libya in 1962), ORIGINS IN NORWAY the merger allowed Jotun to accelerate investments overseas. In 1926, Odd Gleditsch, a former seafarer, purchased an old Thanks to the bold, entrepreneurial spirit of Jotun personnel, paint factory in Sandefjord, Norway. While not a chemist new factories were built in Dubai, Singapore, Malaysia, the himself, he was a natural salesman and understood the value United Kingdom, Turkey, and South Korea, among others. of technology and recruiting good people. His first success Workers were recruited and trained locally, creating a more was Arcanol, a new grey lead marine paint that would soon international company, and Jotun expanded into new markets, dominate the Norwegian market. When he built his second adding protective and powder coatings to its product portfolio. factory, a five-storey building completed in 1951, he reserved the top floor for his R&D department. Over the next 10 years, Much has changed since Gleditsch began selling paint mixtures Jotun’s ability to develop quality paints made the company a from a small shop in Sandefjord. Advances in chemistry, market leader in Norway. production technologies and world events have all shaped Jotun’s history, creating a true global giant that would be all By the end of the 1960s, Norway’s paint market was but unrecognisable to its founder. But Gleditsch would certainly characterised by intense competition, both from domestic recognise – and take pride in – Jotun’s enduring focus on and international paint companies. Gleditsch and his son Odd R&D, organic growth strategy and strong corporate culture. It Gleditsch jr. (who became the CEO in 1968) realised that for the was Gleditsch, after all, who embodied the values that Jotun Norwegian paint industry to survive, the company would have to employees live by today; Loyalty, Care, Respect and Boldness. A family business: Odd Gleditsch jr. (left) and son, Odd Gleditsch d.y. The third generation Gleditsch became Chairman of the Board of directors in 2000. 1926 1931 1953 1962 1968 1970 1972 1976 1988 1998 2000 2015 Odd Gleditsch Jotun launches Arcanol, Jotun launches Jotun opens its first Jotun enters the Powder Odd Gleditsch jr. Together with three Jotun launches the Jotun formalises entry Uniform HSE standards SeaQuantum, Jotun’s Jotun achieves record establishes the a highly effective antiFenom, the company’s overseas factory in Coatings segment. becomes chairman of other paint companies, Multicolor in-shop into Protective Coatings introduced. premium marine profits and growth in all Jotun Kemiske Fabrik corrosive marine coating first market-leading Tripoli, Libya. the Board of Directors, Jotun merges to create tinting machines. segment. antifouling coating, regions and markets. (Jotun Chemical Factory) that soon dominates the decorative paint. replacing his father Norway’s largest paint is launched. in Sandefjord, Norway. Norwegian market. Odd Gleditsch sr. manufacturer. JOTUN GROUP A REMARKABLE YEAR 10 Jotun’s strong performance in all segments and regions resulted in another year of record sales 11 and volume growth. OUR BUSINESS OUR BUSINESS In 2015, a mix of favourable macro-economic trends helped lift Jotun continues to grow the organisation. In 2015, the Jotun’s overall results. Positive currency effects and lower raw company opened a new factory in Brazil, new offices in Egypt, material prices inflated Jotun’s profits and the company’s overall expanded its factory in India and opened businesses in Kenya growth was helped by a sharp increase in newbuilding orders and Mexico. The company has also started factory construction in the Marine segment. Jotun welcomed these favourable projects in Myanmar, the Philippines and Oman, and approved conditions, but the management team is more focused on the construction of a new corporate headquarters in Norway parts of the business it can control. And what makes 2015 that will include state-of-the-art Research and Development exceptional is that Jotun performed well in most areas, and for facilities. The success of Jotun’s premium products (e.g Jotachar the first time in recent memory, managed to grow the business and SeaQuantum) in 2015 serves as a strong reminder of in all segments and in all regions. the importance of retaining the company’s edge in product innovation. POSITIVE SALES AND GROWTH FROM PRODUCTS TO SOLUTIONS Jotun’s record profits are welcome, but a more accurate way to measure our success in 2015 is to look at positive developments While Jotun cannot expect favourable macro-economic effects in both underlying sales and volume growth and other financial to persist indefinitely, the company has built a strong platform indicators. For example, gross margins are up from last year, and to continue its positive growth trend. In addition to investing the company’s cash flow position has improved. It should also in new facilities, technologies and markets, Jotun is evolving be noted that the focus on controlling operating expenses – an from a products-based company to a solutions-based company. issue in years past – has been successful, with the company Rather than supplying paint, Jotun is working more closely ending the year with a reduction in costs relative to sales. than ever with customers – from homeowners to real estate developers, energy majors to shipowners – to develop solutions that meet their specific needs. This process may take time, but the management team is confident that it will help sustain Jotun’s growth for years to come. Jotun management team (from left): Geir Bøe, Group Executive Vice President (Performance Coatings); Morten Fon, President & CEO; Bård K. Tonning, Group Executive Vice President (Decorative Paints) and Vidar Nysæther, Group Vice President (CFO) FULL TIME EMPLOYEES PRODUCTION FACILITIES PRODUCTION VOLUME TOTAL SALES Litres/kilos (1 000 tonnes) Sales in NOK billion SCA SCA SCA SCA WE WE WE WE EECA 2015 EECA EECA EECA MEIA 2005 MEIA MEIA MEIA SEAP SEAP SEAP SEAP NEA AM NEA NEA NEA Corporate AM AM AM 0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 0 3 6 9 12 15 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 MARINE COATINGS EXCEEDING EXPECTATIONS 12 Jotun enjoyed remarkable growth in the Marine Coatings segment in 2015, but with tonnage supply 13 likely to outstrip transportation demand in the years ahead, the company expects more modest growth OUR BUSINESS OUR BUSINESS going forward. Overall, Jotun recorded a sales growth in excess of 20 per cent topcoat, established a good market position. The company also for marine coatings in 2015. Growth was especially strong in had success with its premium tankcoating range, Tankguard. China and South Korea. Jotun’s strong sales growth, combined By offering complete coatings solutions for every part of the with favourable raw materials prices and effective cost controls, vessel, Jotun is in a better position to secure newbuilding and helped Jotun improve profits in the segment. maintenance contracts. MILESTONES ACHIEVED LOOKING AHEAD Jotun’s success in the Marine Coatings segment has been driven Based on reported orderbooks from shipyards, sales of marine by a sharp increase in newbuilding orders over the last couple of coatings are expected to level out next year. It often takes years years, improved sales in the maintenance business, and quality between the time a vessel is ordered and when it is delivered. products increasingly recognised by owners seeking to reduce This makes it difficult for shipowners to predict transportation fuel costs and corresponding emissions. In 2015, the company demand. Indeed, Jotun’s success in 2015 is due in part to the coated its 10 000th vessel with SeaQuantum, a silyl acrylate optimism expressed by shipowners in the past, many of whom antifouling first launched in 2000. Jotun has also secured more hoped for improved market conditions today. However, tonnage than 400 contracts for Jotun’s Hull Performance Solutions overcapacity has kept freight rates low in most segments and (HPS) concept, the company’s premium antifouling solution, the decline in the price of oil has forced lay-ups for many introduced in 2012. offshore vessels, creating some market uncertainty going forward. By retaining Jotun’s advantage in product quality, and In addition to hull coatings, Jotun manufactures a range of continuing to develop solutions to meet the evolving needs of specialised tankcoatings and paint solutions for topsides. owners, the company is confident that it will remain the world’s Launched in 2014, Jotun’s Hardtop Smartpack, an easy-to-use leading manufacturer of marine coatings. JOTUN MARINE COATINGS 6+18+511514M 4% 6% AM SCA SALES IN BILLION NOK 18% WE 2015 2014 SALES 5% 2013 PER REGION EECA 51% NEA 5% 2012 MEIA 2011 11% SEAP 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 MARINE COATINGS NINE DECADES AT SEA 14 Jotun’s long history serving the maritime industry has not only helped the company become As a former seafarer himself, Gleditsch understood that AN ENDURING MODEL OF SUCCESS 15 shipping is a global industry. Over time, the company opened the world’s leading provider of marine coatings, it has shaped how Jotun has developed in OUR BUSINESS OUR BUSINESS warehouses and offices in distant ports and shipyards to While the shipping industry has changed a lot over the last 90 other markets and segments. ensure his customers had access to Jotun products, wherever years, Jotun has remained true to Gleditsch’s vision of investing they traded. This raised Jotun’s profile among non-Norwegian in product innovation and working closely with owners and Jotun’s remarkable position in the marine coatings segment owners and yards, and exposed Jotun to promising new yards. Indeed, the company has been so successful that an PRODUCT BREAKTHROUGH today is grounded in a formula for success established by the markets, where the company might sell other kinds of paint. estimated one out of five vessels in the global merchant fleet company’s founder, Odd Gleditsch in the 1920s. Born in the Gleditsch equipped his new factory with a small laboratory, For example, some of the anti-corrosive technologies originally are coated by Jotun – many with the company’s revolutionary thriving port town of Sandefjord, Norway in 1894, Gleditsch and recruited skilled chemists to get to work on new paint developed for the marine segment were later applied to landantifouling, SeaQuantum. opened a paints store and ships’ chandlery in 1920, and thanks formulations. His first breakthrough in 1931 was an antibased and offshore installations, helping Jotun enter a new to his strong ties to local yards and shipowners, his small corrosive grey lead marine coating he called Arcanol. While it market, protective coatings. business thrived. Six years later, he acquired a factory, and took time for Gleditsch to convince owners to try the new paint, began developing and marketing his own products under the Arcanol was eventually embraced by the industry and helped Jotun brand. establish Jotun as a market leader in marine coatings in Norway. SEAQUANTUM – THE MEASURE OF SUCCESS SeaQuantum’s success has its roots in years of intensive laboratory work followed by a concerted effort by marketing and sales personnel to gain the confidence of shipowners. The active component in SeaQuantum is hydrophobic silyl acrylate technology that provides predictable self-polishing properties, reducing drag and lowering fuel costs and corresponding emissions. Launched in 2000, it took some time before the industry embraced SeaQuantum. But like Arcanol so many years before, SeaQuantum eventually became a market leader, helping Jotun to become recognised as a pioneer in premium antifoulings. In 2015, Jotun celebrated the 10 000th hull coated with SeaQuantum at COSCO Dalian shipyard, helping to cement a successful legacy of innovation and marketing that stretches back almost a century. POWDER COATINGS STEADY PROGRESS 16 To grow in the Powder Coatings segment, Jotun is producing and marketing innovative products that 17 not only offer superior protection in different finishes, but help customers achieve their business and OUR BUSINESS OUR BUSINESS environmental objectives. Jotun finished the year with positive results in the Powder Late last year, Jotun launched Ultra Shine, a safe, affordable Coatings segment, led by double-digit sales growth in the and sustainable powder coatings alternative for the potentially U.A.E., China, India, Russia and Vietnam. However, the hazardous chrome plating process traditionally used for metal company experienced a contraction in Saudi Arabia, where a furniture. Also in 2015, Jotun launched the Aurora Collection, slowdown in construction projects and increased competition in an environmentally friendly alternative to the energy and waterrebar and pipeline projects depressed sales. Growth in Western intensive anodising process for manufacturers of aluminium Europe and Scandinavia has been flat due to sluggish economic components for buildings. Jotun is also developing its line of conditions in these regions. In Turkey, currency effects coupled products for Medium Density Fibreboard (MDF) used primarily with intense competitive pressure eroded profits derived from in the furniture industry as an alternative to solvent-based wet otherwise strong volume growth. coating systems. SUPPORTING OUR CUSTOMERS ACCELERATING GROWTH Jotun offers powder coatings to manufacturers operating While satisfied with developments within the Powder Coatings all over the world in a broad range of industrial segments. segment in 2015, Jotun recognises that the company can These include oil and gas (pipelines), consumer goods (air grow faster in this segment. To help drive this growth, the conditioners, refrigerators, metal furniture), construction and company is working to secure more agreements with global architecture (window frames, louvers, rebar), and general customers, building stronger relationships with consultants industries such as electrical switch gears, shelving and auto and architects, and working more closely with dealers and parts (coil springs, alloy wheels, etc.). Increasing market distributors to improve market penetration. Jotun will continue demand for quality products that help support customers’ to invest in marketing and R&D to provide users not only with businesses while safeguarding the environment, continues to quality products, but solutions that help meet their needs and drive Jotun’s product development. strengthen their businesses. JOTUN POWDER COATINGS 5+10+1644223M 3% 5% NEA SCA SALES IN BILLION NOK 22% 10% SEAP WE 2015 2014 SALES 16% EECA 2013 PER REGION 2012 2011 44% MEIA 0 1 2 3 POWDER COATINGS A POWDER PIONEER 18 From its humble beginnings in Norway in the 1960s, Jotun Powder Coatings has emerged as Jotun differentiates itself through product innovation, solutions The company’s experience working with some of world’s largest 19 that improve efficiency for the customer, excellent technical architects, fabricators and contractors has helped Jotun become a a globally recognised provider of premium products to a broad range of industries. OUR BUSINESS OUR BUSINESS service, and its ability to manage complex, cross-border projects. recognised coating partner of reference for many iconic projects. Powder coatings were developed by Dr. Erwin Gemmer, a coatings factory in Thailand. Other factories and companies soon German scientist, who registered a patent in May 1953 for followed in Malaysia, Turkey, the United Arab Emirates, Saudi the fluidised-bed process for the processing of thermosetting powder coatings. However, it wasn’t until the 1970s and 80s, Arabia and The Czech Republic, among others. Jotun assumed full ownership of the powder coatings business in 2000. PRESTIGIOUS PROJECT – LOUVRE ABU DHABI when electrostatic powder application systems were developed, Announced in 2007, Louvre Abu Dhabi is based on an Working with the international architects, façade that powder coatings began to emerge as a preferred Today, Jotun Powder Coatings is active in 75 different countries, intergovernmental agreement between the governments of consultants and a local façade contractor, Jotun created alternative to wet paint on selected metal substrates. with a global network of 11 production facilities and sales Abu Dhabi and France. The museum, which consists of a built samples using the Cool Shades collection – a heat-reflective offices in nine other countries. While representing a modest 10 up area of approximately 87 000 square metres (including architectural powder coating solution that reduces the per cent share of Jotun’s total revenues, growth in this segment 9 200 square metres of gallery space), is covered by a temperature of aluminium building components exposed EARLY ADOPTER is expected to accelerate. Increasing consumer spending on perforated dome of 180 metres in diameter. to the sun. The samples were approved and Jotun secured Jotun was an early adopter of this new technology. In 1968, the appliances, furniture and automobiles, and investments in oil, the contract, supplying more than 50 tonnes of powder company reached an agreement with a Norwegian chemist and gas and water pipelines, housing, and large-scale real estate The architectural metal work of the dome required a powder coatings to the project. entrepreneur Gunnar Myhre, to help finance the construction and infrastructure projects have created a growing global coatings solution that would keep the interior cool, with of a powder coatings factory in Larvik, Norway. Demand grew demand for powder coatings. Furthermore, powder coatings matched colours specified by the architect that had the correct The dome has been erected and the Louvre Abu Dhabi is steadily, and after establishing a leading domestic market are increasingly recognised as a more environmentally friendly ‘Albedo value’ – a measure of the reflecting power of a surface. scheduled to open to the public in December 2016. position, the company began to export to Europe and the alternative to industrial liquid paints because they are solventMiddle East. In 1977, Jotun opened its first overseas powder free and do not contain VOCs. DECORATIVE PAINTS UNDERSTANDING OUR MARKET 20 By continuing to provide innovative and more environmentally friendly products and solutions that meet the 21 needs of consumers, project owners and contractors, Jotun will continue to grow in the Decorative Segment. OUR BUSINESS OUR BUSINESS Jotun manages the sale of both interior and exterior paints The year was also notable for the launch of new colour selection through a global network of about 7 500 dealer shops, selling tools and the 2015 Global Colour Trends, designed to inspire to consumers and contractors. In 2015, Jotun achieved good consumers with different colours and finishes to create a more results, especially in the Middle East and South East Asia. In harmonious living space. Jotun also continued to run its popular, Turkey, Jotun recovered from a slow start to end the year with global TV ad (‘Jotun, For Iconic Buildings and Beautiful Homes’) double-digit growth. In Scandinavia, Jotun’s growth in the in key markets around the world and develop regionally specific interior segment made up for slow sales in the exterior paints marketing campaigns. market. REACHING OUT TO THE PROFESSIONALS PRODUCT INNOVATION In the project market, the company stepped up its efforts Jotun’s growth in the consumer market has been driven by to work more closely with the professionals. In support of an expanded dealer network, increased focus on improving local sales personnel, Jotun launched a new, B2B user-centric the shopping experience in existing stores, strong marketing website to inspire architects and consultants and make it campaigns and product innovation. In 2015, Jotun launched easier for applicators to find the technical information they a number of medium-range brands to complete the product need. Jotun also launched a new concept (Green Building range. In South East Asia, Jotun introduced the Essence range Solutions) to highlight Jotun’s range of environmentally friendly of interior and exterior paints, while in the Middle East, Jotun coatings. Both the website and the concept were developed in launched the Durosan range of interior and exterior paints. cooperation with Protective and Powder Coatings segments to In Turkey, Jotun launched Fenomastic Güzel Evim, a premium appeal to owners seeking ‘green building’ certification. Going product for interiors. forward, the company recognises that to continue to succeed, it must remain sensitive to increased public concerns about the environment and develop products and solutions that meet evolving trends in colour, finish and usability. JOTUN DECORATIVE PAINTS 23+2+35020M 2% NEA SALES IN BILLION NOK 20% 23% SEAP SCA 2015 2% 2014 SALES WE 2013 PER REGION 3% EECA 2012 50% MEIA 2011 0 3 6 9 DECORATIVE PAINTS COLOURING THE WORLD 22 Jotun’s first breakthrough decorative paint was released in 1953, a product that would help establish a 23 winning formula for innovation, sales and marketing, and building strong relationships with dealers. OUR BUSINESS OUR BUSINESS Jotun’s first serious commercial entry into the decorative segment But effective marketing was only part of Fenom’s success. dates back to the 1950s. At the time, Norway was experiencing Gleditsch and his team also worked to develop good a post-war construction boom, and new, easy-to-use paint relationships with shopkeepers and contractors. Fenom’s success technologies, developed in Europe and the United States, created served as a model for how Jotun would develop, distribute and a strong demand for interior and exterior products. While some market decorative paints for years to come. of Jotun’s competitors chose to license technology, Jotun’s founder, Odd Gleditsch, worked with paint pioneer H. CourtneyHowever, Jotun’s innovations were not limited to laboratory Bryson and chemists from Centro Research Laboratories in the US work or clever marketing strategies. The company was also to get an edge in the development of alkyd resin paints. a pioneer in the development of in-shop mixing machines. Previously, paints were sold in ready mixed tins, but to provide customers with a wider colour selection, Jotun experimented THE FENOM PHENOMENON with various computerised machines that mixed colourants After intensive laboratory work, Jotun’s own chemists produced into base paints in the shop instead of the factory. After years Fenom, one of the first thixotropic alkyd paints in the Norwegian of testing, Jotun launched the Multicolor machine in 1976, a market. Launched in 1953, Fenom was a strong product, concept quickly embraced by dealers. Today, the Multicolor supported by a brand focused nationwide saturation advertising machine – which can be found in about 7 500 shops around campaign. Indeed, Gleditsch ran a Fenom ad in every Norwegian the world – is the bedrock of Jotun’s success in the Decorative newspaper all over the country, everyday. Paints segment. SHANGHAI TOWER – ‘GREEN BUILDING’ As a global player recognised for sustainable paints, Jotun specifications, Jotun tendered for the luxury exhibition hall is having success providing decorative paints to iconic on the 126th floor. Jotun prepared a life-sized sample of a buildings, including the Eiffel Tower in Paris, the Petronas pillar to show how the product could achieve a smooth and Towers in Kuala Lumpur, and the world’s tallest building, the gradient effect, using waterborne, solvent-free paints, which Burj Khalifa in Dubai. Last year, Jotun was selected to supply helped win the contract. specialised paints to the Shanghai Tower project, located at the core of Pudong’s Lujiazui Finance and Trade Area. Opened to the public in 2015, the 632-metre Shanghai Tower, the tallest building in Asia, has become a symbol To help the architect and the contractor qualify for local green for the city’s growing confidence as an emerging global building standard, and comply with the architect’s design commercial and financial centre. PROTECTIVE COATINGS STRONG RESULTS 24 Despite challenges in some regions and markets, Jotun continued its growth trend in the Protective Coatings 25 segment. The company remains confident that growth in this segment will accelerate in the years to come. OUR BUSINESS OUR BUSINESS Jotun markets protective coatings to companies active in by the launch of Steelmaster 1200 WF, a highly efficient thininfrastructure construction (buildings, airports, bridges, etc.), film waterborne cellulosic fire protection coating. When used hydrocarbon processing (refineries, petrochemicals, gas together with Jotun’s Hardtop Eco, a polyurethane topcoat free processing plants, etc.), energy (thermal, wind, nuclear, etc.), and of hazardous air pollutants, users can earn more points toward offshore (mobile rigs, fixed platforms, drilling, etc.) The company a LEED certification. also supplies protective coatings to distributors serving diverse industries in some markets. Despite facing significant challenges RISING DEMAND FOR ENERGY in both the offshore market globally and the general slowdown in the Chinese market, the company managed to record modest Jotun also performed well in the Energy concept, where the overall growth in the Protective Coatings segment. company has had success providing specialised coatings to wind towers and blade coatings in select markets. Rising demand for fuel in some markets has also placed significant pressure TROUBLE IN OFFSHORE on refineries. Combined with improved margins for refined Persistently low oil prices have caused many planned offshore products, this has delayed scheduled maintenance and repair projects to be delayed or cancelled, resulting in fewer orders for work. Early in 2016, Jotun launched Jotachar 1709, a mesh-free new units, particularly in yards in the Asia Pacific region. These passive fire protection coating engineered to safeguard steel trends have and will continue to impact Jotun’s business going structures exposed to pool fires onshore. This should help Jotun forward. To offset expected declines in new construction orders, grow its modest market share in the dynamic hydrocarbon Jotun is devoting more resources to secure offshore maintenance processing industry. and repair projects. Furthermore, Jotun’s premium mesh-free PFP coating (Jotachar JF750) has already helped the company secure a Jotun sees significant growth opportunity serving infrastructure good share of active offshore contracts. The launch of Jotatherm, and hydrocarbon processing projects in the future. The a specialised cold splash coating designed for offshore LNG company is also working more closely with dealers to make assets, will help Jotun strengthen its position over time. protective coatings available to more users. In addition, Jotun is working with distributors in some markets to sell protective In 2015, Jotun recorded excellent overall results in the coatings directly to equipment manufacturers. While market infrastructure concept, especially in the Middle East, South East uncertainties may depress sales of protective coatings in some Asia and India. Today, Jotun is the market leader in China, the concepts and regions in the years to come, Jotun’s regional and Middle East, Poland and Turkey. Growth was supported in part industrial diversity will support long-term growth. JOTUN PROTECTIVE COATINGS 2+8+112120362M 2% 2% AM SCA 8% SALES IN BILLION NOK WE 36% 11% 2015 EECA NEA 2014 SALES 2013 PER REGION 21% 2012 MEIA 2011 20% 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 SEAP PROTECTIVE COATINGS A PROUD HISTORY IN INDUSTRIAL COATINGS 26 Jotun’s entry into the Protective Coatings segment began in the 1960s, when the company started offering 27 specialised coatings to the offshore industry. The company is now recognised as an industry leader in OUR BUSINESS OUR BUSINESS different industrial segments in many markets around the world. In 1969, the giant Ekofisk field was discovered by Phillips platforms. In time, new paint technologies were developed to Petroleum Company on the Norwegian Continental Shelf, offer long-term protection for steel structures operating for holding an estimated 6.4 billion barrels of oil. The discovery decades in harsh environments. These product innovations ushered in a new age of offshore oil and gas exploration in helped Jotun attract customers in other land-based industries. the North Sea. As more and larger discoveries were made over the next decades, Norway quickly developed the offshore As fabrication began to move overseas, Jotun’s global infrastructure to become a major producer of oil and gas. network found success marketing new, ‘Heavy Duty’ coatings for both offshore and land-based projects. By 1988, the company reorganised its business to market FROM OFFSHORE TO LAND-BASED protective coatings as a stand-alone segment. Today, Jotun INDUSTRY provides protective coatings to companies active in offshore, For Jotun, the rapid growth of Norway’s oil and gas industry hydrocarbon processing, energy, infrastructure and mining. represented a genuine opportunity. The company began Considered a promising growth area for Jotun, the sale of providing protective coatings – often modified from marine protective coatings currently represents about one quarter of coatings formulations – to Norwegian yards building offshore the company’s annual revenues. ENI GOLIAT – COATING A GIANT On May 7 2015, the world’s largest cylindrical Floating energy recovery consistent with NORSOK, Norway’s standard Production, Storage and Offloading (FPSO) platform was for operation on the Norwegian Continental Shelf. towed into place at the Goliat field in the Barents Sea. Jotun supplied more than one million litres of paint to the Designed by Sevan Marine and fabricated by Hyundai Heavy project, using nine different coatings systems to protect Industries in Korea, the platform has an oil production topsides, splash zones and submerged elements of the capacity of 100 000 barrels per day, a gas production of platform. 3.9 million square metres of gas per day and an oil storage capacity of 1 million barrels. The contract was secured through close cooperation between Jotun personnel in Norway and South Korea, where Jotun has The platform, which is operated by ENI Norge, has been been active since 1982. designed to ensure environmentally friendly operations and CUSTOMERS AND INNOVATION 28 The substitution principle // 30 29 Green Building Solutions // 32 CUSTOMERS AND INNOVATION CUSTOMERS AND INNOVATION THE SUBSTITUTION PRINCIPLE 30 In addition to supporting Jotun’s growth through product innovation, Jotun R&D seeks to replace 31 potentially dangerous chemicals or compounds in paints and coatings formulations to meet with the CUSTOMERS AND INNOVATION CUSTOMERS AND INNOVATION company’s health, safety and environmental objectives. While achieving Jotun’s HSE vision is the responsibility of the Jotun’s Chemical Policy organises potentially harmful entire organisation, Jotun R&D plays an important role in chemicals and substances into three categories. Examples of fulfilling the company’s goals. Jotun products are designed to substances banned in the last five years include lead chromates, protect assets longer (reducing waste) and the company has formaldehyde and carbendazim, among others. Examples of been successful in developing innovative paints and coatings chemicals and substances to be phased out over the next two that help users reduce fuel costs and corresponding emissions. years include phenol, biphenyl-2-ol and dibutyltin dilaurate, Over the past decade, Jotun R&D has focused on developing among others. Examples of restricted chemicals include less hazardous waterborne paints and coatings. This effort is crystalline silica, acid anhydrides and TGIC, among others. in response to new or existing regulations, but also market Jotun´s chemical policy is constantly evaluated and updated to demand. Users in all segments are seeking products that are reflect new information, and Jotun R&D personnel are active in easier to use and offer improved performance, but don‘t various regional and international working groups that assess contain potentially hazardous substances. the potential risks of certain chemicals and compounds. CHEMICAL POLICY SAFEGUARDING JOTUN’S BRAND Jotun’s HSE vision is also expressed in its internal Chemical By banning, phasing out or restricting the use of potentially Policy, which restricts or seeks to eliminate the use of potentially harmful substances from formulations, Jotun products represent dangerous chemicals or compounds. These include carcinogens, a reduced risk to the environment and the health and safety mutagens, reprotoxins, endocrine disruptors and persistent of workers and the end user. This work remains critical to environmental toxicants. Wherever possible, the company achieving Jotun’s HSE vision, and protecting and strengthening works in the laboratory and with suppliers to substitute any Jotun’s reputation and brand integrity. substance that represents a risk to users, Jotun personnel, or the environment, with more benign replacements. MAKING SENS Developed in response to consumer health concerns regarding solvents, allergens and other potentially harmful substances, Jotun launched SENS in 2008. SENS is a fastdrying solvent-free interior decorative paint that is virtually odourless. The product has been endorsed by the Norwegian Asthma and Allergy Foundation (NAAF). In addition, SENS has been certified by the Nordic Council of Ministers’ eco-label (the Swan), and the EU Flower (a voluntary ecolabel scheme) established by European Commission. GREEN BUILDING SOLUTIONS 32 To meet emerging trends in green building construction, Jotun has introduced Green Building Solutions, 33 a tool to highlight the company’s comprehensive range of more environmentally friendly products. CUSTOMERS AND INNOVATION CUSTOMERS AND INNOVATION The building sector contributes up to 30 per cent of global decorative paints, protective and powder coatings, which annual green house gas emissions and consumes up to 40 are often sold by Jotun as a Single Source Solution to project per cent of all energy. Given the massive growth in new owners seeking one supplier to provide long-lasting protection construction in economies in transition, and the inefficiencies and beautification of assets. of existing building stock worldwide, greenhouse gas emissions from buildings will more than double in the next 20 years. PRODUCT MODIFICATION To comply with green building standards, Jotun has performed MEETING CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS an exhaustive review of all relevant products to verify if they To manage this environmental challenge, governments in match specific provisions, and refined and developed products some parts of the world offer financial incentives to owners when necessary to fill gaps. For example, Jotun now delivers the whose buildings meets specific criteria related to energy use, only globally available and third-party approved intumescent emissions output, materials used, etc. Examples of local and system that contributes towards satisfying credits under international building standards include the Building Research LEED (Penguard WF, Steelmaster 1200WF and Hardtop Eco). Establishment Environmental Assessment Methodology Furthermore, Jotun produces heat-reflective exterior paints (BREEAM), Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design and powder coatings (Jotashield Extreme and Cool Shades) (LEED) and ‘Three Star‘, China’s Green Building Design Label. to help buildings in warm climates save energy related to By providing owners with a complete range of paints and air-conditioning. coatings with low amounts of Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) and other harmful substances, Jotun can help owners Green Building Solutions is likely to be embraced by major win points towards certification. property developers and state-run organisations responsible for large, civic infrastructure projects, giving Jotun a competitive Green Building Solutions is designed to provide global advantage. Jotun can not only serve as a Single Source Solution specifiers and building owners with approved systems that supplier in all segments, but also offer paints and coatings that meet ‘green building’ requirements. The concept includes can help owners reduce their impact on the environment. 34 35 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Managing Corporate Responsibility // 36 High standards of corporate responsibility and governance help drive business performance and market reputation, while securing enduring relationships with all our global stakeholders. The Board fully supports our CR activities, which are defined by our values and clearly aligned with the 10 United Nations Global Compact principles. Morten Fon, President and CEO MANAGING CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY (CR) 36 Companies are defined by how they act. Jotun ensures a strong market reputation, while building lasting 37 relationships with all stakeholders, by engaging in a CR programme that is comprehensive, regulated and CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY firmly embedded within our corporate culture. All of Jotun’s activities are guided by our corporate values of • Provide and promote good labour conditions for employees, Loyalty, Care, Respect and Boldness. As the company grows while encouraging and facilitating their individual these values guide its evolution, helping new employees, offices development and markets stay true to Jotun and the Penguin Spirit. • Act responsibly to the environment (Jotun GreenSteps) • Create long-term and mutually advantageous relationships Our approach to CR is central to this prudent, structured with suppliers growth. It ensures we develop in a way that delivers value • Identify new business opportunities to all stakeholders, while fostering a strong and sustainable international business. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Good corporate governance allows Jotun to operate in an STRUCTURED AND STRINGENT ethical manner, with clear strategic direction and business Our CR strategy is firmly anchored within the Board of Directors transparency. It is central to the administration of our CR and Group Management of Jotun A/S and administered programme, and vital to the on-going, sustainable growth and throughout the organisation, from corporate, to regional and success of the company globally. divisional levels. Jotun develops its approach to corporate governance through Locally it is managed through a combination of business the identification and promotion of best practices. Policies are reviews, financial audits, Human Resources (HR) reviews, Health, developed globally and implemented locally, with a system of Safety and Environment (HSE) audits, supplier audits and CR comprehensive audits and reviews ensuring that expectations reporting activities. This structure ensures that all of Jotun’s are understood and standards upheld. companies and employees, no matter where they are, are united by uniform standards and behaviour. Our evaluation of sound corporate governance includes – • Financial audits Our CR policies and practices are based upon the Human Rights • HSE audits convention of the United Nations (UN), the International Labour • Business reviews Organization (ILO) convention, Organisation for Economic Co• HR reviews operation and Development (OECD) guidelines for multinational • Supplier audits companies, and the UN’s Global Compact principles. The CR function reports twice a year to Group Management In addition, Jotun shall always abide by, and enforce, local laws and once a year to the Board in relation to all anti-corruption in all its places of business. and whistle blowing cases. BENEFITS FOR ALL Our approach to CR ensures we – CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY E-LEARNING • Build a positive reputation in the marketplace In May 2015 Jotun launched a new CR e-learning module company’s efforts to combat corruption, and its interaction • Build a resilient and trusted company – both locally and for new and existing employees to help clarify and define CR with stakeholders. It also features dilemma training to provide globally expectations globally. The module covers a broad range of employees with valuable guidance on how to act when • Are a force for good in the communities where we operate, areas, including Jotun’s work with charities worldwide, the confronted by corrupt practices in a range of business scenarios. supporting development and protecting Human Rights EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE 38 39 EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE Putting people first // 40 Crisis management // 42 HSEQ Management System // 43 Safety at the workplace // 44 Risk and prevention // 45 Developing our dynamic workforce // 46 Competence counts // 47 PUTTING PEOPLE FIRST 40 Jotun sees individuals, not job roles. We hire for the long-term, with a view to helping employees fulfil their 41 potential and contribute to the company in the most mutually beneficial manner. We care for them, and EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE they care for Jotun. THE FOUNDATION FOR SUCCESS KEY ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2015 Good companies need good people. Jotun has implemented a • Continuation of focus on training and certifying HR staff in global recruitment process that is both systematic and scientific. Jotun’s recruitment concept, strengthening a high quality, This reduces the risk of wrong hires and increases the likelihood globally consistent and professional recruiting process of employing people that embody our values, commitment and • Established and implemented JEC (Job Evaluation Course) ambitions. Through on-going development programmes and globally opportunities for new challenges, we encourage our people to • Consolidated the Dynamic Workforce concept with more grow with the business, helping us retain our workforce and formalised requirements for High Level Management attract high quality candidates. positions, including cross functional and international experience • Increased regional accessibility and accountability for Rotation CREATING A POSITIVE ENVIRONMENT and Mobility There are implicit challenges in being a large multinational • Job guarantee for repatriating International Assignees organisation, but also real advantages. When growing, we • ‘Raising the Leadership Bar’ project initiated to strengthen need to ensure that wherever we are in the world, we remain a Jotun’s leadership capability and secure our leadership united organisation. To accomplish this, our global and regional pipeline HR functions collaborate closely to ensure that agreed standards are upheld and processes implemented worldwide. Whilst our PROTECTING HUMAN RIGHTS people come from many different cultures and backgrounds, and are spread over 200 different locations around the world, The cornerstone of Jotun’s HR practices is the protection of we are joined by our common set of values; Loyalty, Care, basic Human Rights. The company’s stringent labour policies Respect and Boldness. By believing that diversity is a strength, are anchored in the UN Human Rights and International Labour and actively promoting it through our hiring process and within Organisation conventions. In addition, all of our operations the workplace, our employees bring the corporate culture to life comply with local laws, international regulations and our own resulting in an even organisation every day. high standards. This ensures that – • Our employees’ rights are respected • Jotun is compliant with Human Rights ATTRACTING FUTURE TALENT • Employees can conduct their work without fear During 2015, HR has been building the framework for a • Equal opportunity is upheld throughout the hiring process, new Employer Branding initiative, set to launch in 2016. while discrimination of all forms is prohibited Working externally, conducting research amongst students and • Employees are fairly compensated Number of employees Female Male Nationalities professionals, and internally, assessing employee engagement • Employees can enjoy freedom of association Jotun total 9 842 1 779 8 063 85 surveys, the team has been striving to pinpoint what people are • Health and safety standards are adhered to Scandinavia 1 108 326 782 31 looking for in an attractive employer and how Jotun matches • All employees receive employment contracts and job West Europe 755 178 577 29 these preferences. This insight will lay the foundation for a descriptions East Europe and Central Asia 645 147 498 8 campaign promoting Jotun as a preferred employer. The main North East Asia 2 032 334 1 698 12 focus of the messaging will highlight how the company’s South East Asia and Pacific 2 411 592 1 819 23 innovations, developments and improvements are realised Middle East, India and Africa 2 682 163 2 519 50 through its employees. Americas 209 39 170 13 CRISIS MANAGEMENT HSEQ MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 42 Effective crisis management systems and procedures ensure that damage is minimised Jotun is committed to delivering high HSE standards across every element of its business – protecting 43 and commercial impact mitigated. employees, safeguarding the environment and continually improving our business performance. EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE Jotun has a well-structured and firmly established crisis Jotun never stands still. It is a growing international business, MEDIA MATTERS SIMPLE, INCLUSIVE AND CLEAR management plan that is embedded throughout the global with an expanding workforce, geographical reach and market organisation. The plan is tailored to cater for both group and Management of the media during a crisis is key. Negative penetration. This positive development can create strain upon Overall responsibility for the system remains with the general local levels, providing clear guidelines on how to handle critical exposure in the media can be detrimental to a company’s the HSE standards of any organisation, which may fragment manager, who ‘owns’ it and runs annual management and situations in a way that prevents, or minimises, harm to people, reputation and commercial success, quickly destroying a under pressure. Jotun is proactively meeting this challenge. tertiary reviews, while the site’s HSEQ manager coordinates the the environment, materials and corporate reputation. position built carefully over many years in business. system locally and provides support. We work hard to mitigate this risk, implementing a clear In 2015, Jotun introduced an internal training programme to structure that is centrally driven and locally executed. This leads To ensure adequate focus, a management representative PREPARED FOR ANYTHING strengthen crisis management media skills. Communication to controlled growth, a clarity of expectation, and a HSE culture is assigned to each individual element, acting as its Crisis situations addressed within the plan include incidents such responsible staff from the Middle East region convened in Dubai that is both uniform and unifying. ‘management sponsor’. as accidents, fire, IT security, terrorist attacks, kidnapping and in November for an intensive, day-long session that covered hostage-taking, sabotage, reputational issues, product failures, both theoretical and practical exercises. 2015 saw a major step forward in our delivery of worldwide, Each element is covered with details and clarity within the environmental issues, allegations of corruption, and personnel/ high-level HSE standards with the introduction of our new HSEQ system, which communicates well-defined requirements, labour matters. Attendees learned the dos and don’ts of interacting with Management System. tools and best practices. The tools and best practices for each journalists, how to tackle difficult issues by conveying clear area are taken from Jotun companies around the world that On a local basis, crisis management teams consist of a core corporate messages, and the value of adhering to the Jotun excel in that regard. This enhances buy-in, as their efficacy A YEAR OF CHANGE group, which can be enhanced with additional internal Media Policy, namely – can be demonstrated, while the procedures are sourced from resources dependent on the nature of a situation. An incident • Be open, but treat confidential issues with care Prior to the development of the system, HSE standards on a local employees/sites themselves, making the whole process of response team leader co-ordinates response personnel and • Be trustworthy level were controlled and maintained by the general managers. change more inclusive. crises management on the ground. The global and regional • Be proactive There was overall responsibility, but no clear structure for a Jotun crisis management team is available to provide further • Be targeted delegation of duties. The new HSEQ system transformed that. DELIVERING IMPROVEMENT support relating to the incident scene, external emergency • Be consistent services and the general implications/management of the crisis. Launched in June 2015, the HSEQ Management System aims By the end of 2015 Jotun’s HSEQ Management System was to divide HSEQ responsibility across the local management rolled out across 80 per cent of the company’s global network organisation, allowing for more individual focus on key of operations. The remaining sites will receive training and elements and making overall standards easier to manage. initiation activities during the first half of 2016. The system covers the following 14 elements – A two-year implementation period has been set to allow for • Management requirements • Occupational health companies to adjust to the new structure. A gap analysis will be • Risk management • Environment carried out at each site after the first annual management review. • Work permits • Product safety • Incident and investigation • Management of change The new system, which is qualified as ISO compliant to • Training • Security standards 9001, 14001 and 18001, strengthens Jotun’s global • Technical safety • Emergency preparedness HSE structure and delivery, staying true to our commitment to • Personnel safety • Quality high standards and continual improvement. Jotun provides media training exercises to help company representatives interact with the press. SAFETY AT THE WORKPLACE RISK AND PREVENTION 44 Jotun is committed to continually developing systems and procedures to ensure that it safeguards Jotun proactively addresses risk throughout its global organisation as part of its continuous effort 45 its people and the environment. to prevent incidents and ensure optimal safety standards. EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE Jotun works actively to provide uniformly high safety standards Jotun invests considerable resources in establishing preventative WORK PERMITS FIRE RISK ASSESSMENTS in all its worldwide operations, while allowing individual measures and procedures that safeguard our personnel, facilities companies the flexibility and resources to focus on the issues Personnel undertaking high risk and non-routine tasks, falling and the environments our people work within. The company In 2015 every one of Jotun’s global sites was charged with that are most important to them. This globally stringent, yet outwith their everyday job responsibilities, must apply for work has contingency plans in place for a variety of risks, such as undertaking a fire risk assessment. This involved mapping the locally responsive, approach allows us to build one strong safety permits. In 2015 Jotun introduced new work permit training, criminal activity or natural disasters, but our greatest focus is individual sites to determine factors such as – culture that is adaptable enough to suit the needs of all our including the development of an e-learning module. This provides centred on our greatest threat – fires. • The location of flammable materials personnel. employees with analysis and information relating to conducting • Potential ignition sources potentially hazardous tasks in the safest possible way. Jotun has a ‘zero tolerance’ regarding fires and a commitment • The positioning and availability of fire fighting equipment to reporting and investigating even the most minor incident. In • Action plans on how to reduce risk ‘I CARE’ GOES LOCAL 2015 our global network of facilities recorded 18 such events. • Emergency response plans NEW SAFETY REQUIREMENTS In 2013 and 2014 Jotun rolled out the ‘I Care’ internal HSE None of these resulted in injury or serious damage to property, campaign worldwide. This year saw an evolution of the As part of our continual process of improvement in safety and none caused interruption to business. The Group HSEQ developed the assessment system and initiative, as responsibility for the activity moved from a global standards, Jotun conducts analysis relating to on-going injury commenced training in June. The site assessments themselves to local level. trends. This informs new systems and procedures to enhance were completed by the end of 2015. They will provide the LESSONS LEARNED our global safety requirements. company with a total picture of fire risk, facilitating greater Each company ran three campaigns of their own choosing. This Each incident is regrettable, but provides an opportunity to understanding and informing new preventative measures. allowed individual sites to focus on the areas of most concern In 2015 the company introduced new Personal Protective learn from our mistakes. Jotun’s stringent reporting of even to them, speaking directly to their own employees to raise Equipment (PPE) requirements to further prevent accidents the smallest event provides the company with a wealth of FURTHER ACTIONS awareness and address specific issues. The campaigns were and injury. From 1 June a requirement was introduced for all knowledge concerning risk. shared internally on a global basis, allowing companies to learn sites stating that safety glasses must be worn in factories at all In 2015 Jotun also – from one another’s initiatives. times, to prevent eye injury, while helmets are now mandatory In 2015 Jotun introduced ‘Lessons Learned’ for all fires, serious • Improved the requirement for electrical inspections and safety between warehouse aisles. injuries and high-risk ‘near misses’. This means that after every walks, in order to reduce the occurrence of electrical fires incident a report is produced including a description of the case, • Carried out inspections of all fire fighting systems as part These new global requirements are enforced and followed up its cause and actions required. of our HSE auditing process, while introducing further throughout the system of on-going safety audits. requirements in our HSEQ management system for fire Our aim is to learn from mistakes and implement preventative fighting actions. The Lessons Learned are distributed to company managers and HSEQ personnel, with required actions followed In 2016 we will – up through the HSE auditing process. • Commence further training of all our electricians to ensure LOST TIME INJURY RATE ABSENCE DUE TO SICKNESS uniform standards worldwide Number of injuries resulting in more than one day absence (In per cent of total working hours) for Jotun Group per million working hours – (H-value) for Jotun Group • Begin work on the classification of fires to differentiate THERMOGRAPHY between the seriousness of incidents and map trends Jotun conducted comprehensive thermography checks across • Introduce improved maintenance procedures for fire fighting 2015 2015 all of its global sites in 2015. This involved highly qualified equipment external contractors examining facilities with thermographic 2014 2014 cameras to detect the areas where fires are most likely to start. 2013 2013 This successful initiative allowed the company to identify issues, 2012 2012 rectify problems and gain a greater understanding of fire risk 2011 2011 potential and prevention. 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 0 0.3 0.6 0.9 1.2 1.5 1.8 DEVELOPING OUR DYNAMIC WORKFORCE COMPETENCE COUNTS 46 Exposing employees to new challenges, cultures and business environments increases Jotun’s competence Jotun sees people as its most important assets. The company is dedicated to helping its employees fulfil 47 and capabilities, while further strengthening its global organisation. their individual potential, as they contribute towards collective corporate success. EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE In 2015, Jotun maintained its strong commitment to investing PEOPLE & LEADERSHIP RETENTION OF LEARNING in the development of employees worldwide. The Competence Jotun has always taken a long-term perspective with regards to Development department implements and supports activities Training is most valuable when it results in lasting positive its employees, as well as its business. Over the years we have throughout all segments and regions. change. In 2015, Jotun has been striving to enhance the made sure we develop the competence of our employees, retention of learning within the organisation and, by doing so, allowing us to fill managerial and specialist positions internally. This year the team focused its efforts on strengthening the secure greater returns on training investment. Today, more than ever, we need to ensure that we develop retention of learning and improving operational competence, competence and capacity to fill open managerial positions that while exploring fresh learning trends to support our drive for Efforts have focused on improving the learning process for are created through growth or replacements. continual improvement. all academies, emphasizing preand post-training work, and embedding the lessons learnt by trainees in the most effective As an organisation, Jotun nurtures a culture of individual and manner. JOTUN ACADEMY professional development. We build employees’ skills and expertise so they are equipped to take on a variety of challenges The Jotun Academy is the hub for company learning. One notable development during the year was the in Jotun, limiting our need to hire externally when new Established in 2006, it has evolved to offer a wide range of implementation of Nano Learning in the Sales Academy. As the management positions are made available. Jotun is growing, valuable courses for employees at all levels and company name implies, this consists of a variety of ‘mini’ online lessons, and we want our people to grow with us. functions. lasting between two and four minutes, designed to refresh and consolidate the principal tools and methods used in training. A variety of initiatives and opportunities aim to give individuals Tailored courses are now available in human resources, a broad-based experience and understanding of Jotun, enabling marketing, sales, purchasing, R&D, operations, technical sales EMPOWERING THE WORKFORCE them to move both horizontally and vertically across the business. support, finance, and management, with an additional range of further stand-alone modules. Jotun’s e-learning programme connects the entire global organisation in one, virtual training environment. It gives the DYNAMIC WORKFORCE In 2015, the Academy launched several new training initiatives, company a platform for both the development of individuals In order to support Jotun’s organic growth ambitions, it is including – and the sharing and promotion of best practice throughout the necessary to stimulate a dynamic workforce. • Credit Manager Training (CMT) to secure desired return of organisation. investment on working capital Jotun must enable its employees to gain cross-department, • R&D Academy level 2 (RDA2) to ensure quality in all In 2015, nine new e-learning courses were launched. These -functional and -country experience, by offering opportunities laboratory work covered areas including Corporate Responsibility, A3 Problem for rotation, exposure and career development at all levels of Mobile employees from China, Norway and Malaysia. • Advanced Management Training (AMT) to further develop Solving, Hull Performance Solutions, HSE, and a variety of the organisation. experienced managers product based initiatives. In 2015, Jotun has focused on developing solutions to enhance The Operations Academy has also undergone a process of The company is now proud to offer over 200 online courses, opportunities for workforce mobility and job rotation. We now updating and restructuring throughout the course of 2015, as giving any employee with access to a computer the opportunity have three Global Mobility programmes, designed to serve Flexible global mobility solutions serve to strengthen it looks to drive the sharing of best practice in the operations to develop their personal competence and enhance business different purposes for the employees and the organisation. collaboration and awareness of Jotun’s culture and values. network, facilitate learning through experience, and create a understanding. They are; Short Term Assignment, Mobile Workforce and more structured career path within operations. International Assignment. Jotun aims to give employees international exposure as early as possible in their careers. This means providing accessible Global In September, Jotun also launched A3 Problem Solving Training Our ambition for 2016 is for more positions to be made Mobility solutions at all levels in the organisation, in all countries. to enhance understanding of how LEAN principles can help the available to candidates from other countries and regions, in In order to achieve this, ownership and accountability to the company work smarter. order to give more employees the possibility to serve abroad. solutions must be shared on a local, regional and group level. ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT 48 49 ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT Jotun GreenSteps // 50 Our carbon footprint // 51 Taking responsibility // 52 A measure of success // 53 DEFINING ACTIONS OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT 50 Jotun GreenSteps is not just a framework for our environmental initiatives, but also a mind-set. It is As a responsible corporate citizen Jotun is committed to limiting the impact of its activities on the natural 51 embedded within Jotun, defining how we act and what we produce. It ensures that every move we make environment and reducing its carbon footprint. ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT leads us towards the goal of a business that is responsible, sustainable and environmentally friendly. Companies can help mitigate environmental impact by CARBON FOOTPRINT REPORT increasing energy efficiency and reducing overall consumption. Jotun GreenSteps programme provides structure for our Sea Quantum X200 Hull Performance Solution (marine) Jotun is focused on both strategies, cutting our energy use per Jotun has reported annually on its carbon footprint for the environmental efforts. It allows us to focus on five key objectives • The removal of formaldehyde from all products in the tonne of product manufactured, while seeking innovative ways Group since 2009. The report tracks total CO2 emissions by that, together, help us reduce our impact on the environment Fenomastic range to enhance the sustainable credentials of our global network of region, detailing the CO2 output of each area and company, and provide greener solutions for customers worldwide. • The continued roll out of the Save Energy campaign facilities. and providing an in-depth picture of our overall environmental • LEED certification of Jotun’s new warehouse and office facility performance. in Cibitung, Indonesia We have built, and continue to develop, a robust culture of BENEFITS FOR ALL • Strengthening of the firm’s ability to deliver Environmental environmental responsibility that unites our people, operations The total emissions from Jotun in 2015 were 87 163 tonnes Jotun’s commitment to producing cleaner, greener and safer Product Declarations according to customer needs and products. CO2-equivalents. The CO2 emissions per tonne produced has products delivers benefits for all our stakeholders. decreased by three per cent compared to 2014. Electricity consumption alone makes up 77 per cent of the total emissions. STEPS TO FOLLOW Greater efficiency and smarter energy consumption makes This is almost identical to the split in 2014. commercial sense for the business, while customers benefit In 2016 and beyond we will – from paints and coatings that offer long-term protection for • Work to ensure that the on-going development of the 14+5+477M their property, while also helping them reduce their own carbon new headoffice including an R&D centre in Norway meets footprint. And, of course, all of society gains from better stringent environmental criteria – including achieving BREEM industrial environmental performance. NOR ‘very good’ certification, installing an energy centre 14% EMISSIONS PER TONNE PRODUCED INTERNAL TRANSPORT (Kg CO2 per produced ton) for Jotun Group utilising seawater for heating and cooling, and carefully A cornerstone of our efforts has been the substitution of recycling materials from the old building 5% ENERGY GENERATION hazardous raw materials for less hazardous ones, while • Invest in factory upgrades to enhance efficiency and reduce 2015 maintaining, or enhancing, final product quality. The company carbon emissions. This will include assessing selected facilities EMISSION 4% CHEMICAL PROCESS 2014 dedicates a substantial part of its R&D resources to the for the installation of more environmentally energy sources, SOURCE EMISSIONS 2013 development of more sustainable products, solutions and such as proposed solar panels at sites in Norway and India technologies. • Work to reach our goal of reducing waste to a level of two 77% 0 20 40 60 80 100 110 per cent of our production volume ELECTRICITY • Continue to reduce TiO2 content in paint without impacting STEPS TAKEN on quality or opacity In 2015, Jotun continued its programme of investing in • Further reduce the use of hazardous chemicals in products continual environmental improvement, undertaking a range of • Continue to reduce the level of solvents per litre in our key activities, including – • Introducing the Green Building Solutions initiative (see marine and protective coatings • Invest in education and engagement programmes to ensure LEEDING THE WAY separate article on page 33) that employees are environmentally aware and responsible in LEEDing the way in Indonesia: Jotun’s new warehouse and • Developing and launching products with enhanced their daily conduct office facility in Cibitung, Indonesia is indicative of the environmental credentials, effectiveness and durability. These company’s commitment to, and investment in, sustainable included, Ultrashine (powder), Hardtop Eco (protective) and industrial development. The recently opened site was LEED certified (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) in 2015, meaning it conforms to stringent standards set by the US Green Building Council. Through a combination of innovative measures, the facility saves resources, reduces operational costs, utilises clean energy, and impacts positively on the health of occupants. TAKING RESPONSIBILITY A MEASURE OF SUCCESS 52 Less waste, more efficiency. Jotun’s commitment to sustainable principles and actions ensures Over the past few years, Jotun has been working with other industry stakeholders and the International 53 that our global business continually enhances its environmental performance. Standards Organization to reach a consensus on a method for measuring hull and propeller performance. ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT Waste is an inevitable bi-product of manufacturing processes. 2015 saw a continuation of our programme to install In 2013, the International Standards Organization (ISO) Poor hull and propeller performance is estimated to account However, Jotun endeavours to reduce the proportion of waste Regenerative Thermal Oxidisers (RTO) at two plants in China established an expert group to start work on a common for around 10 per cent of the world fleet’s energy costs. By to production volumes on an annual basis, using materials with and one in South Korea, where a 50 meter high stack was also industry standard for measuring changes in hull and propeller creating a standard, the industry will have access to proven greater efficiency and recycling wherever possible. This reduces installed to counter odour release. Both these initiatives, in performance. One of Jotun’s employees was appointed by ways to measure speed loss, leading to better decisions about our impact on the environment and, in the long-term, also compliance with local requirements, enable the combustion of ISO to lead the project. The group has since come to include hull coatings and propellers. Improving hull and propeller enables greater cost control through enhanced efficiencies. solvents at much lower concentrations than normally required. representatives from ship owners, ship builders, class societies, performance can reduce the world fleet’s fuel costs by as much The entire investment in this activity amounted to NOK 50 million. paint manufacturers, performance monitoring companies and as USD 30 billion per year and achieve an estimated 0.3 per In 2015, waste accounted for 1.9 per cent of our global various research institutions. After more than two years of work, cent reduction in man-made greenhouse gas emissions. production volume, against 2.1 per cent in 2014. This is in line the ISO’s Marine Environment Protection Sub-committee (ISOA NEW START IN NORWAY with our acknowledged drive to reduce waste vs. production to TC8-SC2) voted in favour of circulating ISO 19030 as a Draft ALIGNING HPS WITH THE NEW STANDARD two per cent by the year 2016. 2015 saw Jotun commence work on a major rejuvenation International Standard. on its new global headquarters at Sandefjord in Norway. In anticipation of final approval of the standard expected This extensive development includes an advanced, efficient, next year, Jotun will update Performance Guarantees offered WATER TREATMENT ENCOURAGING BEST PRACTICES innovative and sustainable R&D centre and offices, due to be as a part of its Hull Performance Solutions (HPS) so that they In 2015, Jotun’s worldwide operations produced 65 702 tonnes completed in 2018/19. The standard, which is expected to go into effect second half are fully compliant with the standard. Jotun’s HPS concept of waste water from the washing of production equipment, and of 2016, will accelerate industry-wide best practices and will combines premium marine coatings (SeaQuantum X200), manufacturing processes. This compares to 64 888 tonnes in Initial stages have focused on the careful dismantling of the offer much needed transparency for buyers and sellers of a priority technical service and on-board monitoring tools to 2014. We are committed to reducing this figure further through old buildings, including the old paint factory, with a firm focus wide range of fuel saving technologies and services, including measure hull performance, covering the entire period between better planning, efficiency and the recycling of water when and on sorting and recycling all waste. This process will deliver cost marine coatings. Previously, the lack of standards, combined dry-dockings. HPS was developed in part to provide the where possible. benefits for our business and stakeholders, while helping us with competing claims by rival paint manufacturers, left owners industry with real time data on long-term hull performance, limit the impact this ambitious project has on the environment. unable to make decisions based on reliable data. At the same and many elements of the HPS methodology informed the time, a renewed focus on operational costs and increasingly new ISO standard. Since the launch of HPS in 2012, Jotun IMPROVING AIR QUALITY strict environmental regulations encouraged owners to view hull has secured contracts for about 400 vessels. The company is The production of solvent-based paints results in emissions and propeller performance as an effective and affordable way to confident that the new ISO standards will generate even more to air. However, Jotun is working hard to manage VOC to air reduce fuel costs and their impact on the environment. interest in the HPS concept. discharge, investing in new technology to limit emissions. +1.5% Improvement Drydocking interval (60 months) out of dock Jotun HPS guaranteed high performance HAZARDOUS AND –4.5% % change in propulsion efficiency caused by NON HAZARDOUS WASTE ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION (Kg waste per tonne produced) for Jotun Group (Per tonne produced) for Jotun Group The average performance drop Non hazardous waste Hazardous waste over the period with Jotun HPS 2015 2015 +15% Performance gain 2014 2014 Average over a 60 month Market average performance bio-fouling and mechanical damage drydock interval 2013 2013 2012 2012 2011 2011 –18% The market average hull performance drop 0 5 10 15 20 25 0 30 60 90 120 150 over the period JOTUN AND SOCIETY 54 55 JOTUN AND SOCIETY JOTUN AND SOCIETY Making a difference // 56 Fighting illiteracy // 57 Responsible purchasing – leading from the front // 58 United on anti-corruption // 60 MAKING A DIFFERENCE FIGHTING ILLITERACY 56 Every year, thousands of people all over the world are killed or injured by landmines and other Explosive With 63 companies all over the world, Jotun is active in a broad range of projects designed to make a 57 Remnants of War (ERWs). Working in cooperation with Norwegian People’s Aid, Jotun is sponsoring a mine difference in local communities. In Egypt, Jotun’s support for primary schools is helping to fight illiteracy. JOTUN AND SOCIETY JOTUN AND SOCIETY detection dog to help clear affected areas. By some estimates, landmines and unexploded ordinance affect releasing up to 800 square meters of land in a single working the lives of people living in 78 countries around the world. Even day. In addition to a breeding programme, the centre trains in countries no longer subject to violent conflict, landmines about 70 dogs every year. and ERWs remain a threat decades after hostilities cease, representing a significant public health risk and slowing postDE-MINING IN CAMBODIA war development and economic recovery. Most of the financing for the NPA Global Training Centre comes from the Norwegian government, but the organisation also TAKING ACTION seeks support from the private sector. In 2015, Jotun agreed to Founded in 1939, Norwegian People’s Aid (NPA) is engaged sponsor a puppy (a nine-month old Belgian Shepherd Malinois), in more than 40 countries offering a broad range of services, and gave him the name ‘Jotun’. Once fully trained, ‘Jotun’ and including de-mining, humanitarian relief, and promoting his handler will join 80 other NPA dogs in Cambodia, where an democracy, the rights of indigenous people, equality and the estimated three to five million mines and ERWs lie hidden under fair distribution of land and resources. At present, NPA operates the soil. de-mining activities in 16 countries, including Cambodia, Angola, Somalia, and Bosnia and Herzegovina, where the The project is consistent with Jotun’s approach to CR activities, organisation operates the largest mine detection dog training especially in regions where the company is active. NPA is a centre in the world. global organisation, but their impact is local and has a direct, measurable and almost immediate positive effect on local While NPA personnel also use mine-detecting equipment, communities. Jotun is proud to support the work of the NPA Students at the Nagaa Selim Sheik Hamad School, Sohag, Egypt, together with representative from Jotun. specially trained dogs can cover more difficult terrain and locate and will follow ‘Jotun’s’ career when he begins to work in a mine 20 times faster than a de-miner using a metal detector, Cambodia, where the company has been active since 2008. Jotun’s community support activities vary by region, local needs To establish the programme, Jotun representatives met with and the size of Jotun’s organisation. In markets new to Jotun, government officials and conducted a survey to identify schools such as Kenya or Myanmar, the scope of activities tends to be in need. Working with local sales personnel and contractors, modest, while in markets where Jotun has been established for Jotun identified five schools, including the Nagaa Selim Sheikh decades, activities are often more extensive. Hamad School in Sohag, in Egypt’s Upper Nile region, where illiteracy rates are high. STRUCTURED CR LONG-TERM SUPPORT In Egypt, where Jotun has operated a factory since 1986 and has a staff of 350, the company has a long tradition of Nagaa Selim Sheikh Hamad School has space for about 240 supporting various causes – from donating paint to orphanages, students and 15 teachers, but until recently, attendance was to raising money to help fight cancer. In 2013, the company poor. By improving conditions at the school, it has become a decided to establish a more structured programme that could more welcoming environment, a place where parents, teachers be followed over time and was more closely aligned with and students all feel at home. Jotun will continue to support the Jotun’s business objectives. The programme (called ‘Paint school and others over time, working with teachers to ensure tomorrow, today!’) provides exterior and interior paints, teacher more students have access to education and the tools they need sponsorships and other materials to improve conditions in to graduate. schools without adequate resources. The goal is to create a good environment that encourages better attendance, so more students learn to read and write. ‘Jotun’ the dog, in training at the NPA Global Training Centre. RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING – LEADING FROM THE FRONT 58 Jotun takes its responsibility to society and the environment seriously. Our efforts to maintain responsible 59 purchasing practices help us ensure we exert a positive influence wherever we conduct business. JOTUN AND SOCIETY JOTUN AND SOCIETY Jotun has high standards and expects its suppliers to meet in 2015, with the last module (Negotiations) scheduled to clear and stringent requirements. By doing so we help spread appear in the first half of 2016. responsible behaviour through the supply chain, encouraging improvement where needed, and supporting positive action The modules are – throughout the network of companies we work with. Price 1. Introduction to purchasing is important, but principles are paramount. If a firm does not 2. Category management raw materials comply with our minimum standards we will not do business 3. Indirect materials with it. 4. Negotiations 5. Operational purchasing TOOLS, POLICY AND PILLARS All participants in the training will take the first module, adding Jotun uses, and has developed, a series of tools to ensure additional modules to best fit their roles and the needs of the our suppliers respect Human Rights, support positive labour organisation. practices, and protect the environment. SUPPLIER AUDITS Key tools include – • The United Nations Global Compact – we aim to use Supplier audits are a way of ensuring our suppliers meet our suppliers that adhere to the principles of the UNGC responsible purchasing expectations, while helping those who • The Jotun Supplier Audit programme – All new suppliers are wish to raise their standards pinpoint and address areas of audited, with re-audits following on a regular basis potential improvement. • The Jotun Purchasing Policy – This defines our approach to purchasing, employee roles and responsibilities, processes, In 2015, we continued work on our new auditing app, anti-corruption principles, and how to treat suppliers in a suitable for both iOS and Android devices, which simplifies transparent and professional manner and empowers the supplier audit process, allowing better accessibility, less paperwork and a more powerful platform for In addition, we have three strategic purchasing goals that act using and sharing recorded data. as the pillars of our business, defining the way we work with all our suppliers. We focus on – In 2016 Jotun will launch version 2.0 of the app and continue • Ensuring continuity of supplies to support Jotun’s growth its roll out, training local purchasers in its use so they can take • Achieving the best terms in the market greater responsibility for their own audits. By eventually uniting • Ensuring value creation through mutually beneficial, longthe whole purchasing/auditing network on a single platform term relationships with suppliers we can drive better efficiency, results and understanding of captured data. REVITALISING TRAINING AUDITING BY THE NUMBERS In 2015, a central focus of the purchasing function has been the revamp of its Purchasing Academy. We have transformed In 2015 we conducted 54 audits, of which 21 were re-audits. the Academy from two training modules, to five, splitting the learning by discipline to allow for a ‘mix and match’ system and In 2016 we expect to conduct an equal number of supplier the building of expertise in specific fields most relevant to the audits, although there will be an increased focus on re-audits participants’ job scope. Four of the five modules were launched over the course of the year. UNITED ON ANTI-CORRUPTION 60 By equipping our people with behavioural training, clear guidelines and a robust reporting structure Jotun 61 protects its business, and its stakeholders, from the dangers of corruption. JOTUN AND SOCIETY JOTUN AND SOCIETY Corruption is bad for business, society and global economic STRUCTURED APPROACH development. It inhibits fair competition, contributes to poverty and damages corporate reputation. Jotun is committed to In 2015, Jotun has focused on enhancing the structure of its fighting corruption in all its forms, while empowering its anti-corruption compliance programme. workforce to speak-up if they are aware of any business practices that go against our policies and principles. The company has – • Strengthened its commitment to, and investment in, antiEmployee engagement: Jotun builds awareness through the Penguin Spirit game in Cambodia. corruption activities PIONEERING STANDARDS • Worked across all territories and companies, against Business cultures vary from country to country, but Jotun’s a backdrop of increasing international anti-corruption standards do not. The company has a clear anti-corruption legislation, to ensure employees are adopting an policy that all its people and affiliated businesses are expected appropriately uniform and robust stance on the issue to adhere to. Furthermore, we endeavour to communicate • Acted to build its whistle blowing procedures, with the aim those standards to the companies we do business with, of increasing awareness, while enhancing our standing as a encouraging them to follow our lead and comply. This ‘ripple transparent and trustworthy business effect’ acts as a positive force of change in countries where • Introduced a new e-learning module standards may not be as stringent. • Strengthened the structure of the programme The UNGC provides a framework for doing business in an ethical, responsible As a member of Transparency International Norway Jotun is committed to zero Jotun is committed to – In 2016 Jotun will – and sustainable manner. It focuses on four key areas – human rights, labour, the tolerance towards all forms of corruption and to work for the implementation environment and anti-corruption – and provides 10 principles within these headings of values, codes of conduct and anti-corruption programmes covering all of the • Complying with laws and regulations • Continue to invest in the creation of one multinational culture that help businesses deliver lasting benefits to people, communities and markets. organization. • Supporting the UN Global Compact and Transparency where corrupt practices will not be tolerated The below table, referring to pages in this report, demonstrates how Jotun conducts International • Continue to build awareness and participation in Jotun’s business in a way that is clearly aligned to these principles. • Promoting an open and transparent business culture Penguin Spirit game, which allows employees to learn • Protecting whistleblowers important issues about anti-corruption, human rights, labour and the environment in a fun, relaxed format HUMAN RIGHTS PAGES • Make training material available for the companies, as well AMBASSADORS FOR GOOD BUSINESS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 36-37, 40, 56, 57, 58, 60 as working to incorporate focused dilemma-based training in Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 40, 58 Every Jotun employee is an ambassador for the company. new companies and in geographical risk areas Their standards must therefore be aligned with ours. We • Introduce reporting and documentation initiatives around risk LABOUR invest heavily in anti-corruption tools and training to achieve evaluation, whistle blowing cases and preventive actions. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to 36-37, 40, 58, 60 this goal, producing compliance manuals, conducting internal collective bargaining; udits of our anti-corruption initiatives, and ensuring that all Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 36-37, 40, 58, 60 GLOBAL GOALS Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and 36-37, 40, 57, 58, 60 new employees are trained in this issue as part of their Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 36-37, 40, 58, 60 induction process. Jotun works hand in hand with international organisations and standards to help guide its corporate responsibility policies ENVIRONMENT For existing employees one of the most powerful tools we and practices. Our association with Transparency International Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 12, 18, 20, 23, 24, 30, 33, 36, 43, 50-53, 58, 60, 64 have at our disposal is dilemma training. By presenting real-life helps to ensure we contribute towards their objective of Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 12, 18, 20, 23, 24, 30, 33, 36, 43, 50-53, 58, 60, 64 scenarios to employees, and demonstrating how to handle fighting corruption, while through the United Nations Global Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 12, 18, 20, 23, 24, 30, 33, 36, 43, 50-53, 58, 60, 64 them, we equip them to make the right decisions in difficult Compact (UNGC) we take part in a long-term initiative to build ANTI-CORRUPTION business situations. a sustainable and inclusive global economy. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 36, 58, 60 This practical training is effective, efficient and memorable, For more information on the Global Compact see www.globalcompact.org helping staff ‘think on their feet’ while upholding our strict standards. FINANCIAL INFO 62 Chairman of the Board // 64 63 Financial info // 65 FINANCIAL INFO FINANCIAL INFO Company overview // 70 Organisation // 72 CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD, ODD GLEDITSCH D.Y. A LEGACY OF SUCCESS FINANCIAL INFO 64 Just as Jotun’s success in 2015 owes much to wise decisions made decades ago, Jotun’s long-term future CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS 65 will be shaped by decisions made today. FINANCIAL INFO FINANCIAL INFO (NOK THOUSAND) 2015 2014 Operating revenue 16 282 314 13 170 781 Share of profit from associated companies and joint ventures 562 013 356 352 Cost of goods sold –8 656 661 –7 118 515 Payroll expenses –2 520 743 –2 191 774 Other operating expenses –3 129 834 –2 566 327 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment –473 118 –336 929 Operating profit 2 063 972 1 313 588 Net financial items –145 916 –12 166 Profit before tax 1 918 055 1 301 423 Income tax –502 011 –355 737 Profit for the year 1 416 044 945 685 Profit for the year attributable to: Equity holders of the parent company 1 338 284 894 920 Board of Directors, from left: Birger Amundsen, Karl Otto Tveter, Einar Abrahamsen, Nicolai A. Eger, Odd Gleditsch d.y. (Chairman), Terje Andersen, Ingrid Luberth and Richard Arnesen. Non–controlling interests 77 760 50 765 Total 1 416 044 945 685 Now celebrating its 90th year, Jotun is stronger than ever. In conceived more than twenty years ago in response to new 2015, the company achieved record-breaking sales, volumes maritime regulations. Lady, introduced in 1983, remains one and profits, achieving growth in every segment and region. of Scandinavia’s leading interior decorative paint brands, is a This year’s results were positively impacted by currency effects product that evolved from Jotun’s pioneering work in alkyd resins and lower raw materials prices, but the Board recognises that in the 1950s. Jotun might not be recognised as a strong market underlying sales and volume growth, and steps taken by the player in the global powder coatings segment had the company CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME organisation to control costs, have also contributed to Jotun’s not chosen to invest in this technology in 1969. (NOK THOUSAND) 2015 2014 excellent performance. Profit for the year 1 416 044 945 685 LESSONS FROM THE PAST A BOLD HISTORY Other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods: It should also be noted that Jotun has learned as much from Actuarial gain / loss (–) on defined benefit pension plans –2 113 1 137 While encouraged by the company’s growth in 2015, neither its mistakes as its successes. New systems and processes have the Board nor the management team can claim all the been developed and implemented to avoid poor business Other comprehensive income to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods: responsibility for Jotun’s achievements. In fact, the seeds of decisions, from imprudent acquisitions or investments, to Translation differences on net investments in foreign operations 98 652 149 202 our success today were planted by previous generations. For products launched before they had been adequately tested. Loss on hedge of net investments in foreign operations –118 563 –120 010 example, Jotun’s strong growth in South East Asia this year has The company’s experience with a catastrophic fire in Norway Currency translation difference 360 846 803 860 its roots in Jotun’s bold decision to build a factory in Thailand as 1976 has kept worker safety and fire prevention a top priority, Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 338 822 834 190 early as 1968. Likewise, the origins of Jotun’s regional strength while repairing environmental damage related to the improper in the Middle East date back to 1975, when the company storage and disposal of chemicals near our factory in Sandefjord Total comprehensive income for the year 1 754 866 1 779 875 opened its first factory in Dubai. Jotun’s ambition is to make the decades ago helped to strengthen our focus on improving same bold and smart decisions today to ensure the company’s Jotun’s environmental performance today. Total comprehensive income attributable to: growth for future generations. The Board is satisfied with the company’s performance, but seen Equity holders of the parent company 1 648 330 1 695 833 This long-term perspective also applies to product development. in the context of Jotun’s 90-year history, our 2015 results are Non–controlling interests 106 537 84 042 In 2015, Jotun celebrated the delivery of the 10 000th vessel only a snapshot of our progress. Now as in the past, the Board Total 1 754 866 1 779 875 coated by SeaQuantum, a marine antifouling product remains focused on the long-term development of the company. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (NOK THOUSAND) 31.12.2015 31.12.2014 (NOK THOUSAND) 2015 2014 ASSETS Cash flow from operating activities Non-current assets Profit before tax 1 918 055 1 301 423 Deferred tax assets 164 287 134 957 Adjustments to reconcile profit before tax to net cash flows: Other intangible assets 312 000 281 508 Share of profit from associated companies and joint ventures –562 013 –356 352 Property, plant and equipment 4 220 218 3 754 514 Dividend paid from associated companies and joint ventures 491 634 378 481 Investments in associated companies and joint ventures 1 839 810 1 491 021 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 473 118 336 929 Other investments 8 248 8 248 Change in accruals, provisions and other 293 375 251 394 Other interest-bearing receivables 165 557 202 855 Working capital adjustments: Total non-current assets 6 710 119 5 873 104 Change in trade and other receivables –709 535 –783 764 Change in trade and other payables 187 758 279 292 66 Current assets Change in inventories –242 651 –195 514 67 Inventories 2 198 483 1 957 519 Tax payments –349 973 –293 336 FINANCIAL INFO FINANCIAL INFO Trade and other receivables 4 757 059 4 047 524 Net cash flow from operating activities 1 499 769 918 552 Cash and cash equivalents 1 520 840 1 421 421 Total current assets 8 476 382 7 426 466 Cash flow from investing activities Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment 46 837 13 585 Total assets 15 186 501 13 299 570 Purchase of property, plant and equipment –856 858 –842 303 Purchase of intangible assets –65 293 –68 326 Net cash flow used in investing activities –875 314 –897 044 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Cash flow from financing activities Share capital 102 600 102 600 Proceeds from borrowings 255 365 1 289 531 Other equity 7 620 141 6 484 811 Repayments of borrowings –295 434 –589 906 Non-controlling interests 209 757 151 356 Dividends paid –513 000 –513 000 Total equity 7 932 497 6 738 767 Dividends paid to non–controlling interests –48 136 –42 775 Net cash flow from financing activities –601 206 143 849 Non-current liabilities Pension liabilities 214 012 193 164 Net currency translation effect 76 169 135 904 Deferred tax liabilities 46 161 32 194 Net increase / decrease (–) in cash and cash equivalents 23 250 165 357 Provisions 32 539 42 006 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 1 421 421 1 120 161 Interest-bearing debt 2 323 512 2 379 037 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 1 520 840 1 421 421 Interest-free debt 31 858 23 934 Total non-current liabilities 2 648 082 2 670 335 Jotun Group had unused credit facilities of NOK 900 million at 31 December 2015 (2014: NOK 900 million). Current liabilities Interest-bearing debt 954 374 946 843 Trade and other payables 1 702 541 1 514 783 Current tax payable 185 275 159 397 Other current liabilities 1 763 731 1 269 445 Total current liabilities 4 605 921 3 890 468 Total liabilities 7 254 003 6 560 803 Total equity and liabilities 15 186 501 13 299 570 Sandefjord, Norway, 9 February 2016 The Board of Directors Jotun A/S Odd Gleditsch d.y. Einar Abrahamsen Birger Amundsen Terje Andersen Chairman Richard Arnesen Nicolai A. Eger Ingrid Luberth Karl Otto Tveter Morten Fon President and CEO CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENT FOR 2015 ATTRIBUTABLE TO PARENT COMPANY EQUITY HOLDERS GENERAL WORKING CAPITAL Non– The consolidated financial statement consists of Jotun A/S Working capital increased to NOK 5 253 million as of Share Other Translation controlling (NOK THOUSAND) capital equity differences Total interests Total equity and 53 subsidiaries, three joint ventures in China and Korea 31 December 2015 from NOK 4 490 million the previous Equity at 1 January 2014 102 600 5 090 499 211 479 5 404 578 110 090 5 514 667 and six associated companies in the U.A.E. and Saudi Arabia. year. The increase is tied to generally higher activity following Dividends –513 000 –513 000 –42 775 –555 775 Subsidiaries are fully consolidated independent of shareholding, the Group’s sales growth, in addition to significant currency Profit of the period 894 920 894 920 50 765 945 685 while joint ventures and associates are accounted for based on translation effects. Other comprehensive income 30 329 770 584 800 913 33 277 834 190 the equity method and share of profit reported in the income Equity at 31 December 2014 102 600 5 502 749 982 063 6 587 412 151 356 6 738 767 statement based on actual shareholding. NET INTEREST BEARING DEBT Dividends –513 000 –513 000 –48 136 –561 136 The net interest bearing debt for the Group was NOK1 591 Profit of the period 1 338 284 1 338 284 77 760 1 416 044 The Jotun Group’s consolidated financial statement has been million at year end 2015 compared to NOK 1 702 million as of Other comprehensive income –22 024 332 070 310 045 28 777 338 822 prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting 31 December 2014, and net interest bearing debt relative to the Equity at 31 December 2015 102 600 6 306 009 1 314 133 7 722 741 209 757 7 932 497 Standards (IFRS) and interpretations as adopted by the operating profit before amortisation and depreciation (EBITDA) 68 69 International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and approved was 0.6 (2014:1.0). The Group’s main source of financing is FINANCIAL INFO FINANCIAL INFO by the European Union (EU). bilateral loans from the Group’s relationship banks and loans in the Norwegian bond market. At year end 2015 Jotun A/S had REVENUE NOK 1 300 million in bonds, of which NOK 1 000 million were Operating revenue for the Group was NOK 16 282 million. The long term, and NOK 1 057 million in non-current bank debt revenue increase of 24 per cent is driven by double digit volume outstanding. External borrowing in the subsidiaries is primarily growth, with all regions and segments reporting higher sales in short-term and through local banks. 2015 than in 2014, but is also ascribable to positive currency exchange effects. Jotun A/S has NOK 800 million of long term credit lines. This committed funding serves as a back stop for certificate loans as OPERATING PROFIT well as a strategic reserve for short-term financing of the Group. Operating profit in 2015 increased by 57 per cent to NOK At year-end these credit lines, in addition to a short term credit 2 064 million compared to 2014, yielding an operating margin line of NOK 100 million, were all unused. of 13 per cent (2014: 10 per cent). The profit improvement is attributable to solid sales growth combined with reduced raw SHAREHOLDER EQUITY material prices, product mix management with increased sale of Total equity including non-controlling interests amounted premium products, and a strong focus on controlling growth in to NOK 7 932 million (2014: NOK 6 739 million) due to the operating expenses. net effect of profit for the year of NOK 1 416 million, other comprehensive income of NOK 339 million mainly relating to Jotun Group’s share of net result after tax in associates and joint currency translation effects, and dividend payments of in total ventures totalling NOK 562 million (2014: NOK 356 million) are NOK 561 million. The equity ratio has increased one percentage reported on a single line of the consolidated income statement. point from 2014 to a solid 52 per cent. The increase is mainly attributable to a sharp increase in newbuilding orders within the Marine Coatings segment in The proposed dividend for Jotun A/S for 2015 amounting to North East Asia, in combination with continued good growth NOK 513 million will not be recognised in equity until finally for the Decorative Paints segment in the Middle East. declared in 2016. PROFIT FOR THE YEAR CASH FLOW The profit for the year amounted to NOK 1 416 million, an Operating activities in 2015 resulted in a net cash flow of increase of NOK 470 million from 2014. Net financing charges NOK 1 500 million (2014: NOK 919 million). The increase from for the year have increased from 2014 mainly due to currency 2014 is mainly due to a stronger pre-tax profit in 2015 and translation effects, net financial costs ended at NOK 146 million higher dividends received from associates, compensating for (2014: NOK 12 million). an increase in working capital and higher tax payments during 2015. The net cash flow from operating activities funded cash INVESTMENTS outflows related to both dividend payments and investments in Total purchase of property, plant and equipment (PP&E) and non-current assets of NOK 875 million. intangible assets amounted to NOK 922 million for 2015 (NOK 911 million for 2014), representing six per cent of WORKFORCE operating revenue. Total investment in PP&E for the purpose of For 2015, Jotun Group had on average 6 794 full-time producing Jotun branded products was NOK 1 153 million. The equivalents related to its on-going business in Jotun A/S and largest investments relate to production facilities and buildings its subsidiaries (2014: 6 644 average full-time equivalents). in Brazil, Oman, Malaysia and Indonesia. Including employees in joint ventures and associates Jotun had in total 9 842 employees at year end 2015. Jotun Group’s share of total equity in associates and joint ventures amounts to NOK 1 840 million (2014: NOK 1 491 million), and is reported as non-current assets in the balance sheet. LIBYA Jotun Libya J.S.Co., Tripoli 80 S MALAYSIA Jotun (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd., Shah Alam 100 P Jotun Powder Coatings (M) Sdn. Bhd., Shah Alam 100 P Jotun Paints (Malaysia) Sdn. Bdh., Nilai 100 P MEXICO Jotun Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Veracruz 100 S MOROCCO Jotun Maroc SARL/AU, C.V. Casablanca 100 S MYANMAR Jotun Myanmar Company Ltd., Yangon 100 S Jotun Myanmar Services Co. Ltd., Yangon 100 S NETHERLANDS Jotun B.V., Spijkenisse 100 S NORWAY Jotun A/S, Sandefjord 100 P 70 Scanox AS, Drammen 100 S 71 COMPANY OVERVIEW COMPANY OVERVIEW Sales office OMAN Jotun Paints Co. L.L.C., Muscat 62 P Production and sales PAKISTAN Jotun Pakistan (Pvt) Ltd., Lahore 100 P Jotun Powder Coatings Pakistan (Pvt) Ltd., Lahore 98 P PHILIPPINES Jotun (Philippines) Inc., Manila 100 S POLAND Jotun Polska Sp.zo.o., Gdynia 100 S COUNTRY COMPANY SHARE HOLDING % ROMANIA Jotun Romania S.R.L., Otopeni 100 S ALGERIA Jotun Algerie SARL, Algiers 70 S RUSSIAN FEDERATION Jotun Paints OOO, St. Petersburg 100 S AUSTRALIA Jotun Australia Pty. Ltd., Victoria 100 P SAUDI ARABIA Jotun Powder Coatings Saudi Arabia Co. Ltd., Dammam 49 P BANGLADESH Jotun Bangladesh Ltd., Dhaka 100 S Jotun Saudia Co. Ltd., Jeddah 40 P BRAZIL Jotun Brasil Imp. Exp. & Industria de Tintas Ltda., Rio de Janeiro 100 P Red Sea Paints Co. Ltd., Jeddah 40 P BULGARIA Jotun Bulgaria EOOD, Sofia 100 S SINGAPORE Jotun (Singapore) Pte. Ltd., Singapore 100 S CAMBODIA Jotun (Cambodia) Ltd., Phnom Penh 100 S SOUTH AFRICA Jotun Paint South Africa (Pty) Ltd., Cape Town 100 P CHINA Jotun Coatings (Zhangjiagang) Co. Ltd., Zhangjiagang 100 P SOUTH KOREA Chokwang Jotun Ltd., Kyungnam 50 P Jotun COSCO Marine Coatings (HK) Co. Ltd., Hong Kong 50 S SPAIN Jotun Ibérica S.A., Barcelona 100 P Jotun COSCO Marine Coatings (Qingdao) Co. Ltd., Qingdao 50 P SWEDEN Jotun Sverige AB, Gothenburg 100 S Jotun Paints (H.K.) Ltd., Hong Kong 100 S THAILAND Jotun Thailand Ltd., Samutprakarn 95 P CYPRUS Jotun Cyprus Ltd, Limassol 100 S TURKEY Jotun Boya San. ve Tic. A.S., Istanbul 100 P CZECH REPUBLIC Jotun Powder Coatings (CZ) a.s., Usti nad Labem 100 P UNITED ARAB EMIRATES Jotun Abu Dhabi Ltd. (L.L.C.), Abu Dhabi 52 P DENMARK Jotun Danmark A/S, Kolding 100 S Jotun Powder Coatings U.A.E. Ltd. (L.L.C.), Dubai 47 P EGYPT El-Mohandes Jotun S.A.E., Cairo 70 P Jotun U.A.E. Ltd. (L.L.C.), Dubai 42 P FRANCE Jotun France S.A.S., Paris 100 S UNITED KINGDOM Jotun Paints (Europe) Ltd., Flixborough 100 P GERMANY Jotun (Deutschland) GmbH, Hamburg 100 S USA Jotun Paints Inc., Belle Chasse, LA 100 P GREECE Jotun Hellas Ltd. Piraeus 100 S VIETNAM Jotun Paints (Vietnam) Co. Ltd., Ho Chi Minh City 100 P INDIA Jotun India Pvt. Ltd., Pune 100 P INDONESIA P.T. Jotun Indonesia, Jakarta 99 P Decorative Paints Marine Coatings Protective Coatings Powder Coatings P.T. Jotun Powder Coatings Indonesia, Jakarta 100 P P Production and sales S Sales office IRELAND Jotun (Ireland) Ltd., Cork 100 S In addition to the companies listed above, the Jotun Group also owns a number of holding and inactive companies. ITALY Jotun Italia S.p.A., Trieste 100 S In addition to legal companies Jotun has branch offices, agents, distributors and licensees in Andorra, Angola, Argentina, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Bosnia & Herzegovina, Botswana, Brunei, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Croatia, Cuba, KAZAKHSTAN Jotun Kazakhstan L.L.P. Almaty 100 S Domenican Republic, Ecuador, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Ghana, Guinea, Haiti, Hungary, Iceland, Irak, Iran, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Kuwait, Latvia, Lebanon, Lichtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Maldives, Malta, Mauritius, Monaco, Montenegro, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Netherland Antilles, KENYA Jotun Kenya Ltd., Nairobi 100 S New Caledonia, New Zealand, Nigeria, Panama, Peru, Portugal, Puerto Rico, Qatar, Rwanda, Saint Vincent & The Grenadines, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Switzerland, Syria, Tanzania, Taiwan, Trinidad, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukraine, Uruguay and Zambia. President & CEO Morten Fon Group Functions CFO Vidar Nysæther Decorative Paints Performance Coatings Bård K. Tonning Geir Bøe 72 ORGANISATION Powder Marine Protective Ram Ramnath Alfie Ong Bjørn Wallentin Middle East, India & Africa North East Asia Esben Hersve Erik R. Aaberg South East Asia & Pacific West Europe Martin Chew Kjell Gundersen Scandinavia East Europe & Central Asia Stein Petter Lunde Sükru Ergün Americas Idar Salvesen BOARD OF DIRECTORS CORPORATE ASSEMBLY Odd Gleditsch d.y., Chairman Anders A. Jahre, Chairman Einar Abrahamsen Richard Arnesen d.y. Birger Amundsen Terje V. Arnesen Terje Andersen Kornelia Eger Foyn-Bruun Richard Arnesen Anne Cecilie Gleditsch Nicolai A. Eger Bjørn Ole Gleditsch Ingrid Luberth Thomas Hammer Karl Otto Tveter Kai Roger Johansen Thomas Ljungqvist Kristian O. Smith Jens Bjørn Staff Espen Wiik CREDITS Copywriting: Alexander Wardwell and Alan Johnstone / Blue-C AS The paper used to print this report Design: Charlotte Jørgensen / Charlotte.no has the Nordic Eco-labeling the Swan Print: BK.no and is also approved by the PEFC Photo: Shutterstock.com (front cover, p. 32 and 62), cover inside Council (Programme for the Endorsement (Getty Images, Luth and Scanpix), iStockphoto.com (p. 6–7 and 22), of Forest Certifications schemes). Svein Brimi (p. 9, 38–39 , 54–55 and 57), NTB scanpix (p. 9 and 25), Morten Rakke Photography (p. 11, 31, 34–35, 37, 48–49, 56, 59 and 64), TDIC, Design: Ateliers Jean Nouvel (p. 18), ENI Norway (p. 26), Atle Møller (p. 41 and 46) and Jotun archive (p. 8–9, 13, 14, 17, 21, 28–29, 38–39, 42, 51 and 61). Jotun A/S P.O. Box 2021 3202 Sandefjord Norway jotun.com
