United Nations Global Compact 2016 Communication on Progress Human Rights Labor Practices Environment Anti-Corruption Experience shared. United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Index of content Statement of continued support by the CEO 03 About Sitel 04 Sitel at a glance 04 Sitel Values 06 Sitel CSR Program 08 About this report 09 The Ten Principles 10 Human Rights 11 Policies 12 Reporting 12 Associate engagement 12 Data privacy 13 Supply chain 13 Sitel Footprints 14 Labor 11 Child, forced and compulsory labor 18 Freedom of association 18 Non-discrimination and equal employment opportunity 19 Professionalism and harassment 21 Open door policy 21 Global diversity and inclusion 22 Training and development 23 Talent management and career opportunities 23 Work and personal life balance 24 Health, safety and wellness 24 Communication 26 Environment 28 Carbon footprint and use of resources 29 Anti-Corruption 32 Sitel Anti-Corruption Program 34 Experience shared. sitel.com United Nations Global Compact p.3 2016 Communication on Progress Statement of continued support by the CEO Dear Stakeholders, For another year, we are proud to be part of the United Nations Global Compact. As an organization present in 21 countries, serving several markets, Sitel believes in its responsibility, as a global corporate citizen, to contribute to the development of the communities in which we operate. We are mindful of our obligation to act responsibly, ethically and with integrity in our interactions with all stakeholders be they our Associates, clients, suppliers, or the communities and environment in which we all live and work. With an emphasis on responsible business practices, the United Nations Global Compact reflects our beliefs. I am pleased to report that our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) program and related United Nations Global Compact initiatives continue to make progress. Over the past couple of years, our focus has been the development of a global CSR program and the implementation of corporate policies to provide a solid foundation for practices that support the ten universally accepted principles. In 2016, we focused on making our global CSR program actionable and accessible to all levels of the organization. Communication and employee engagement have been our watchwords. Experiences are better when shared This year Sitel also introduced our Compass program that engages our Associates on what it means to work for Sitel and what we strive for. Our Great customer experience starts with great people. As a leading global outsourcing service provider of Compass points us all in the same direction and creates a shared customer experience management, Sitel combines experience by showing how our Values and leadership support a knowledge sharing, a ‘People first’ culture and People-First culture that is deeply ingrained in everything we do. unparalleled excellence at both the global and local level. As a people-oriented organization, our efforts have been focused on With our wealth of expertise, we believe that sharing fostering a People-first culture, in which not only the wellbeing and the our knowledge with our clients and striving to grow development of Associates are our priority, but those of all lives affected by our business sustainably is key to our success. Sitel. The United Nations Global Compact, with its I am pleased to confirm that Sitel reaffirms its support of the ten principles thousands of participants from all over the globe, is all about sharing knowledge for a better world. of the Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business operations. Yours sincerely, Bert Quintana President & CEO Experience shared. sitel.com United Nations Global Compact p.4 2016 Communication on Progress About Sitel Keeping the promise of sharing outstanding experiences is Sitel is a leader in the global customer care outsourcing how Sitel is helping the largest brands in the world retain industry and provides world-class solutions from onshore, and grow their customer base. Sitel combines knowledge nearshore and offshore locations across North America, sharing, global operational excellence, global strength and South America, EMEA and Asia Pacific. local flexibility with a ‘people first’ culture a foundational framework to enhance the employee experience. Clients receive the strategic insight, scale and diversity of offerings to ensure the best return on their customer investment through Sitel’s award-winning services. Sitel at a Glance A global leader in outsourced multichannel customer experience North America Europe, Middle East, employees Africa (EMEA) 21% employees 28% Asia, Pacific Latin America (APAC) employees employees 17% 34% Founded Employees Countries Facilities Languages Clients Revenue 1985 63,800+ 21 110 40 230 $1.4b Experience shared. sitel.com United Nations Global Compact p.5 2016 Communication on Progress With over 30 years of industry-leading When the merger was finalized in Sitel’s ability to serve customers and experience, Sitel’s 63,800 passionate January 2007, the newly branded Sitel track customer information across and talented Associates support more emerged as a dominant industry multiple channels, including phone, than 230 clients in 40 languages from leader with the single most diversified email, chat, SMS, etc., enables us to 110 facilities strategically located in 21 client mix, vertical industry expertise consistently provide positive, intelligent countries. Sitel was originally and global footprint in the industry. In service on behalf of our clients. incorporated on June 19, 1985. In 2015, Sitel was acquired by Groupe October 2006, ClientLogic and Sitel Acticall. Sitel’s revenue for 2015 was The omnichannel call center requires announced a definitive merger $1,427M. an organization with the technology, between the two outsourcing firms. processes, and expertise to effectively Sitel provides fully integrated services manage your customer interactions in that focus on customer service, their desired channels. technical support, sales and retention, back office processing services and Visit sitel.com to learn more about the complementary value-add solutions. company. Premium Customer Technical Sales & Technical Service Support Marketing Support • Repeat purchases • Troubleshooting • Inbound sales • Sitel Premium Technical • Cross-sell/Upsell • Hardware support • Outbound sales Support (PTS) offers a • Account change • Software support • Order taking robust delivery platform to • Issue resolution • Internet support • Lead generation monetize “out-of-scope” • Billing information • PC/server support • DRTV/bureau contacts by offering • Reservations • Upsell/cross-sell • Product information customers paid support • Loyalty clubs • Corporate helpdesk • Subscription renewal when they have the need. • Investor inquiries • Warranty • Database management • Warranty calls • Post warranty • Retention & Loyalty programs Experience shared. sitel.com United Nations Global Compact p.6 2016 Communication on Progress Sitel Values Integrity Sitel’s five values are: Open • Accountability; • Teamwork; and Accountability Communication • Integrity; • Service Excellence. • Open Communication; These strong values, along with Sitel’s People First culture, provide us a Service strong foundation to implement our CSR program worldwide and to ensure Teamwork Excellence we respect the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Compass In 2016, we launched Sitel’s Compass™, our company’s guiding message about what it means to work for Sitel and what we strive for as Associates. PLE FIRST Sitel’s Compass™ points Associates all in the same direction and creates a PEO shared experience by showing how our values and leadership create and DERSHIP LEA support a People-First culture. VA LU E S Our Compass is: • Our Values: our values define who we are as a company and what we expect from our Associates and how we do business and interact with everyone around us; • Leadership: our leadership principles demonstrate our support and commitment to everyone; and • People-first: together our values and leadership create a People-first experience, in which everyone can see possibility, feel appreciated, trust each other and belong; Experience shared. sitel.com United Nations Global Compact p.7 2016 Communication on Progress People-first We believe that when we live our values and take actions thorough the right leadership principles we create a culture in which People is our top priority. We call this People-First, which are four commitments we make to all of our Associates across the globe. • Possibility: A culture where our people • Trust: A culture where our people experience future opportunities for experience trustworthy leaders. We want career growth. We aspire to be a to create an environment where our Possibility Associates can trust their leaders and company that provides possibility and Trust future opportunities that will help understand how their work help support people be successful in life as well as in their own personal success and our work; company’s success; and • Belonging: a culture where our people • Appreciation: A culture where our experience and connect with their local people feel appreciated. We want our teams, environment and communities. Associates to know that they matter in a Appreciation Belonging We want to foster a place where our variety of ways and that they make the Associates feel like they belong and help difference in our business; us make other people belong whether it is to our company, to their communities or to the society. We want them to be connected to each other, with their local communities and other Sitel teams across the globe. All those pieces together create our People-first culture. Sitel BOOST In 2016, Sitel implemented BOOST Building on Opportunities From Streamlined Technologies. BOOST platform is an approach for connecting multiple systems, processes and tools into one system, which helps Sitel give its highly valued Associates more visibility of the employee Building on Opportunities from Streamlined Technology related processes. BOOST Human Resources module includes functionalities to support process improvement across many core HR areas. It improves efficiency and gives more transparency for the Associates, both agents and managers. BOOST incorporates automation, self-service, and workflow capability to streamline submitting and executing HR requests and implementing career development processes and tools, among other functionalities. Experience shared. sitel.com United Nations Global Compact p.8 2016 Communication on Progress • Recruiting • Succession Planning • Compensation • Onboarding • Learning & Development • Records Management • Performance & Goal Management • Benefits Sitel CSR Program In 2014, Sitel launched a global Corporate Social Responsibility Program to facilitate improvement of its business practices in the social and environmental arena. While we acknowledge the standards underlying CSR should be part of normal business practice, by formalizing this in a global program, we have made CSR an important element of our corporate identity. Sitel’s CSR is based on four main Pillars: Corporate Social Responsibility Associates Ethics Community Environment Associates Business Ethics Community Environment Ensuring the human rights Cultivating an ethical Supporting social Managing our impact on of our associates by corporate culture by transformation by the environment through providing a fair, safe and defining proper business developing strategic sound environmental healthy work environment policies and practices on partnerships in local practices and decisions, such and promoting a People-first potentially controversial communities through the as reducing the pollution culture, which supports, issues that might arise in a Footprints program, to make and the use of among other things, business environment, such a positive impact on society non-renewable resources at professional development, as anti-corruption and while engaging employees our facilities. wellbeing, diversity and governance policies. in causes they find inclusion. meaningful. Experience shared. sitel.com United Nations Global Compact p.9 2016 Communication on Progress Our CSR Program covers the following provisions: Human Rights & Labor Ethics Health & Safety Environment • Working hours • Business integrity • Wages and benefits • No Improper advantage • Occupational risk management • Environmental risk management • Humane treatment • Disclosure of information • Emergency preparedness • Pollution prevention and resource • Non-discrimination • Intellectual property • Occupational injury and illness reduction • Freely chosen employment • Fair business, advertising and • Waste disposal and recycling • Child labor avoidance competition • Freedom of association • Protection of identity For Sitel, CSR is about taking accountability regarding our impact on the community and the environment in which we operate. Acting with integrity in how we conduct our business, being transparent and communicating openly with our employees and working together with our stakeholders is all part of our responsibility. Sitel’s Global CSR Management System We have designed our Global CSR Management System to foster Sitel’s adherence to the law, ethical standards and international norms, as well as to incorporate social and environmental values into our business model. Sitel’s Global CSR Framework was designed taking into account key industry best practices, and is centered on a “PLAN-DO-CHECK-ACT” methodology of continuous improvement endemic in Sitel’s business culture. Our framework is a management system approach that that we believe will drive sustainable solutions. CSR Policies About this report Sitel has adopted a Global Code of Conduct and This report serves as Sitel Worldwide’s second Ethics, which defines the ethical standards by Communication on Progress to the United which Sitel conducts its business and a Supplier Nations Global Compact initiative. Sitel Code of Conduct, which sets out the standards Ibérica S.A. was the first affiliate company to we expect of our suppliers. As a complement to join the UNGC in 2012 and Sitel, as a global the Global Code of Conduct, Sitel has adopted a organization, joined the initiative in 2015. Corporate Social Responsibility Policy to document Sitel’s commitment to best practices in the area of CSR. Last year we have taken a decision to move from reporting a year in arrears to a current Through our CSR policy, Sitel recognizes the importance of year basis, in line with many of our peers. To establishing a documented CSR program to demonstrate sound: enable this change, our 2015 report reflected our performance and progress towards • Social responsibility to our Associates, by providing safe meeting the Global Compact’s principles working conditions and treating Associates and others during the two calendar years 2014 and with respect; 2015. We are now tracking our progress • Organizational health and safety awareness, by against on a current year basis. recognizing and controlling health and safety hazards across Sitel; Scope of this report • Environmental stewardship, by controlling the impact of This report relates to our global operations waste from business and the other impacts of business including locations where we operate our own activities, products and services on the environment. sites, where we operate from client locations and the 60+ countries to which we provide services. Experience shared. sitel.com United Nations Global Compact p.10 2016 Communication on Progress The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Human Rights Anti-Corruption • Principle 1. Businesses should support • Principle 10. Businesses should work and respect the protection of against corruption in all its forms, internationally proclaimed human rights; including extortion and bribery. and • Principle 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor We believe • Principle 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Sitel believes that conducting effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; business with a high standard • Principle 4. The elimination of all forms of professional conduct, of forced and compulsory labor; ethics and proficiency is • Principle 5. The effective abolition of critical to our success and the child labor; and success of our clients. We • Principle 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment continually strive to improve and occupation. our processes and procedures Environment to achieve the highest quality and the best results for our • Principle 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to clients in accordance with all environmental challenges; applicable laws and • Principle 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental regulations and in respect of responsibility; and the principles of the UN • Principle 9. Encourage the Global Compact. development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Experience shared. sitel.com Human Rights Principle 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Experience shared. United Nations Global Compact p.12 2016 Communication on Progress Sitel is an organization committed to the respect of human rights and upholding labor standards, and to ensuring all internal and external Reporting stakeholders are treated with dignity and respect. Concerns about human rights or other issues can be brought to our attention via EthicsPoint, which is a We are committed to upholding the dignity of all people confidential, integrated toll-free telephone and web-based and oppose human rights abuses. We respect all hotline. international human rights standards throughout our global operations at our 110 locations in 21 nations. Conduct that may be unethical, illegal, in violation of professional standards, or otherwise inconsistent with Sitel’s policies, as well as and anything that may affect Policies the moral or physical integrity of its Associates may be reported. Sitel invests significant effort to promote policies that are consistent with our goals. Our commitments to human EthicsPoint is staffed by an independent third party that is rights are embedded within the company’s policies, available 24 hours a day, seven days a week, with including the Sitel Global Code of Conduct and Ethics, the interpreters available for language assistance. Sitel Supplier Code of Conduct and Ethics, the Sitel Global Corporate Social Responsibility Policy and the Sitel Country-specific guidance is also available through Sitel Anti-Modern Slavery and Child Labor Policy. All Sitel intranet. Reporting procedure and contact information for policies are accessible to the Associates and available in the EthicsPoint is also available on posters on notice the company’s intranet. boards in all sites, in the Sitel Code of Conduct and Ethics and in other relevant policies. All Associates are required to review and certify their understanding of and compliance with the Sitel Global Reports may be submitted anonymously where permitted Code of Conduct and Ethics upon joining Sitel. Relevant by law and Sitel’s Global Code of Conduct and Ethics Sitel Associates undergo code of conduct and ethics strictly prohibits retaliation against any person for making training and annual refreshers. a report in good faith or cooperating in an investigation. The Code of Conduct training takes Associates through the major components of the Sitel Global Code of Conduct & Ethics and educates on how it can be used to guide Associate Engagement decisions and actions in potentially controversial We encourage all Associates to share ideas and work situations, and what actions are appropriate to take when together to make Sitel a great place to work as we strive a violation of the Code of Conduct is suspected. This online to treat all of our Associates with dignity and respect and training also serves to increase our Associates awareness of enable them to achieve personal and professional success. how to deal with everyday situations that challenge their ability to demonstrate respect and inclusion. Sitel conducts a global annual employee survey called Sit & Tell through which we measure progress on our People Sitel has also published a Corporate Social Responsibility strategy against employee engagement, and employee Statement, endorsed by our CEO & President, to stress our Net Promoter Score for all Associates. In 2016, all commitment with social responsibility by providing safe associates from 21 countries were invited to provide their working conditions and treating our Associates and others feedback. We achieved an 85% response rate. The survey with respect and according to the standards of the UN is managed by an external partner, to ensure Global Compact. Copies of the CSR Statement are confidentiality of feedback. available in all Sitel sites around the globe and electronic copies are available both internally in the Sitel intranet, and externally in Sitel corporate website. Experience shared. sitel.com United Nations Global Compact p.13 2016 Communication on Progress The goal is to give our Associates the opportunity to Supply Chain provide feedback on their experience with Sitel, allowing us Our Code of Conduct articulates commitments and the to use the results to create targeted action plans that are efforts that support our ethical standards, and Sitel led by Human Resources in partnership with leaders across Supplier Code of Conduct and Ethics reflects our values the globe. Standard process and tools are utilized on our and expectations for our suppliers. global Sit & Tell platform to ensure consistency in our approach. Suppliers are an important part of our business and we expect the same commitment from them as we do for Each business and function reviews their results with their ourselves. This is why we have established a Sitel Supplier Associates and identifies focus areas for action planning. Code of Conduct and Ethics. In order to do business with They also assign a Results-to-Action (R2A) Champion to Sitel, suppliers are required to review and acknowledge sponsor the action planning process. Each R2A Champion their conformance with Sitel policy. has a team of volunteers who are working to change their focus areas into actionable plans. The goal is to have an As with all aspects of our business, Sitel conducts its action plan charter in place that is shared with all of the procurement using the highest ethical standards and Associates. considerations. Our procurement decisions take into account not only price, quality and reliability of service, but Compared to 2015, our Engagement Index increased also how potential suppliers treat the people, communities, 15%, and we gained a net increase of six points in the and environment in their sphere of influence. likelihood to recommend Sitel as a place to work (eNPS). Sitel vendors must comply with all requirements passed Data Privacy through by Sitel clients and with any CSR requirements or Safeguarding fundamental rights in today’s information policies from time to time adopted and communicated to society is a key issue for Sitel as more and more businesses vendors. use information and communications technologies in their daily operations. However, this growing use of technologies Sitel Global Procurement has developed a Global is creating many challenges in terms of privacy and the Procurement and Vendor Management Policy and potential misuse of personal data. Purchasing Guidelines and Procedures in order to ensure that the way in which we conduct procurement within Sitel Sitel’s Information Security and Privacy are key areas to is transparent and understood by all key stakeholders. address this concern and, for this reason, Sitel has strict processes in place to protect our employee, client and We expect our supplier to comply with our Code and apply customer data. Some of the privacy and security those principles to their own suppliers in the delivery of requirements Sitel complies with include: goods and services for Sitel. These practices align us with our clients’ expectations in terms of social responsibility, • PCI DSS (Payment Card Industry Data Security reflect our operating philosophies and core values and Standard); establish steady support of integrity in all procurement • ISO 27001; activities. • SSAE16 SOC1 and SOC2 (Service Organization Controls 1 and Service Organization Controls 2); • GLBA (Gramm–Leach–Bliley Act, or Financial Services Modernization Act); • SOX (Sarbanes–Oxley Act) • European Union Data Privacy Directive, • EU Member State Privacy Laws, • HIPAA (Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act), • Client Specific Privacy Requirements and many others. Experience shared. sitel.com United Nations Global Compact p.14 2016 Communication on Progress Sitel Footprints Around the globe, we participate in various corporate social responsibility projects: Helping Others Belong Footprints Activities Across the Globe Our CSR efforts include not only what our company does, but also what our Associates do, a commitment that stems Teams of Sitel Associates participated in volunteer and charitable activities in North America, Latin America, Europe, Middle East, Asia from our People-first culture. At Sitel, we call these and the Pacific. Here are some examples: Associate-led programs, Footprints, our way of walking together in our communities across the globe and leaving >> Sitel Nicaragua Associates donated 1 day of their accrued vacation a legacy for future generations. and raised $50,109.38 for a non-profit organization that assists with the rehabilitation and social integration of disabled children and youth in Nicaragua. Our Footprints program is not only about giving back to the society; it’s about building a collaborative and inspired >> In the Philippines, Sitel Manila volunteers completed a service day team that cares about the other and wants a better future repainting and repairing a nearby elementary school in Pasig. for all of us. It’s also a way of making a positive influence, using our expertise to help the communities in which we >> A team of Sitel Portugal volunteers, together with one of Sitel’s clients, rebuilt a school shelter located in the city center of Lisbon. operate. >> Throughout 2015, Sitel UK Associates at the Exeter site took part in Sitel Footprints engages our Associates in campaigns a number of activities and fund-raising events to support their charity across the world, to make the lives of the local partner, Young Devon raising a total of £3,000. communities better through service. Whether it’s painting >> Sitel Brazil organized a toy drive for Children’s Day. A total of 645 a school building, organizing clothing drives, or raising toys were collected and donated to 4 charitable organizations. funds for a good cause, Sitel Footprints can been seen in all corners of the globe. >> Every Christmas, many Sitel sites around the world collects toys, food, clothing and toiletries to be given to children and families in need. Our current Footprints theme is to “help others belong”. We >> Sitel India ran multiple stationery donation drives to support strive to share our experience so that vulnerable groups approximately 1,000 children in Mumbai rural area. More than 150 can more fully belong in and contribute to their local employees volunteered and devoted their time visiting the kids and communities. Specifically, we focus on two criteria that distributing the items. At least 1,300 hours have been dedicated demonstrate our commitment. towards this activity. >> Sitel Philippines raised approximately $1,400 in a fundraiser that • Poor/marginalized communities and youth. For example, included a bazaar and a beauty pageant. The amount was used to education and preparation, tutoring, mentoring, book conduct an activity day with the patients at the Philippine Children's programs, school and training investments. Medical Center in Manila. >> Many sites around the world run regular blood drives. In the last • At risk, underemployed adults. For example, job and skills blood drive, Sitel Colombia collected 70 pints of blood for children with training to increase access to work for excluded or cancer and Nicaragua was able to collect 160 pints to local Red Cross. disadvantaged groups, health and wellness education. Sitel Portugal was able to collect 155 pints. Sitel India ran a Blood Donation Camp wherein 707 Associates participated donating blood and more than half of the donations went to Mumbai kids affected Sitel aims to partner with reputable organizations, with thalassemia. Since one donation has the potential to save as including non-governmental and civil society organizations many as 3 lives, those 4 countries only are potentially saving more than and make meaningful and sustainable contributions to the a 3,000 lives! host countries and communities where Sitel operates. Experience shared. sitel.com United Nations Global Compact p.15 2016 Communication on Progress Using our Expertise to Improve Employability Nicaragua: Free Language Improvement Program Denmark: Business oriented call center training (FLIP) Sitel Nicaragua offers free language improvement training to Sitel Denmark, in collaboration with the local job center, community members who already have some previous created a program to improve opportunities for long-term language knowledge. The training takes 3 months and at the unemployed. The program is tailored in collaboration with end of the third month, the students have the option to apply both the job center and the local college. A call center for a job at Sitel. Since 2014, almost 900 candidates have education training has been specially design, which covers enrolled in our FLIP program. Up to date we have 97% topics such as sales, communication, conflict resolution, success rate. IT-systems, among other relevant skills. The training lasts for 6-8 weeks and is offered by Sitel’s coaches and trainers from the local college. Philippines: Lapis, Papel Project The candidates have the option to apply for a job at Sitel at Sitel Philippines has partnered with the Department of Labor the end of the training period. The knowledge obtained in and Employment to develop the Lapis, Papel (Pencil, Paper) the training is valuable and improves the chances of the Project. The goal of the program is to help send a child laborer candidate landing a job at any other organization. to school by donating educational supplies. India: Student Leadership Program Poland: Sitel Language School Sitel volunteers provide career guidance to underprivileged Sitel Poland offers a program for young people without work students between 8th and 10th grade. Students are taught experience and enough work qualifications, particularly skills in the area of Leadership, Teamwork and Personality. language skills, which prepares them for work at Sitel. The Guidance on behaviour and hygiene is also given to the applicants are taught a foreign language and offered a job students in the 12-week mentoring program. after the graduation exam. Latin America: Orphaned Starfish Foundation UK: A Partnership to Help the Long-Term In Latin America, Sitel supports The Orphaned Starfish Unemployed Foundation (OSF), an organization that gives children the Sitel UK collaborates with Ingeus, an organization that opportunity to develop vocational skills through computer supports people on employability programs back into work. technology and gain employment possibilities that will enable Ingeus’ support is aimed at the long-term unemployed, who orphans, victims of abuse and at-risk youth to overcome the are referred from the local job center. cycle of poverty and abuse. Sitel has made partnerships with the local Our UK recruitment team works closely together with Ingeus organizations supported by OSF to: advisors giving an in-depth detail of our vacancies and working with their applicants to verify if they have any of the • Repaint classrooms in Brazil; necessary skills and experience needed for the role and if any • Carry out donations, volunteering activities and spending of the client could be upskilled to suit the role. quality time at the orphanage with the children in Nicaragua; • Offer customer service and English courses to teenagers, run Sitel recruitment team also provides in depth feedback on fundraisings and donate computers and school supplies in what the applicant needs to do in order to make themselves Colombia; more attractive to the market. Once an Ingeus applicant has • Make in-kind donations to an orphanage in Panama. been offered a role and starts with Sitel they begin their Sitel Colleague Journey, which involves our outstanding and award Experience shared. sitel.com United Nations Global Compact p.16 2016 Communication on Progress winning training program. Since March 2015, when we started Part of his talk show is a series of games where the ultimate this partnership, there have been 100 Ingeus applicants who winner gets to choose a charity where money will be donated have started work with Sitel. by Sitel on his behalf. So far we are able to donate to 4 chosen charities all over the Philippines for 2016. Right after Typhoon Koppu (Lando) hit hard in the city, Sitel UK: Young Devon Baguio volunteers in partnership with Philippine Economic Sitel UK has partnered with Young Devon, a charity that Zone Authority completed a clean up drive to help tidy up the supports young people transitioning out of care, working surrounding communities. towards employment and training opportunities. Sitel Philippines also ran a Relief Assistance Drive to the The Young Devon trainees spend three days per week with affected individuals of the fire that hit several communities in Sitel learning the job, receiving full training in contact center Baguio City, which affected 30 families. A handful of Sitel skills and mentoring by our experienced coaches, and the employees were also affected by the said disaster whose remaining days are spent with the charity learning other work houses got burnt down. Donation (cash and in kind) were skills and obtaining qualifications in English and Mathematics. raised and given to the affected individuals last June 2016. Sitel has a commitment to provide a permanent role at the end of the traineeship provided candidates demonstrate the required standards of performance and attendance. Sitel Charitable Giving Fund In March 2016, Sitel North America spearheaded an expansion of Sitel Footprints initiatives by creating a Relief Work Charitable Giving Fund pilot. The Charitable Giving Fund is aimed at allowing North American sites to apply for a share India: Helping Hand of grant money that is then reviewed by a selected committee of individuals from Operations, Human Resources, and Indian monsoon can generate heavy rainfall that every year Executive Leadership, and granted monthly. This funds displaces families and brings damages and losses to many purpose is for Sitel to give back at a local level from a people. corporate standpoint, ensuring positive impact and showing our communities that Sitel is committed to investing in Sitel India helped 40 families impacted by Chennai floods by well-being and growth. providing some basics needs item, such as groceries, school bags, notebook kits for children and other household items. To date, the Charitable Giving Fund has granted over $30,000 since its inception. Some recipients have included Veterans organizations, schools, and other nonprofits organizations Philippines: Relief Assistance that share Sitel Footprints mission. The Philippines is prone to calamities and since 2013, Sitel The positive impact this fund has given is reflected in Philippines has deployed a financial assistance program. The employee engagement, employee satisfaction, and an program is a suite of employee interventions including, BCP increased outward exposure for Sitel to remain committed transport services, food, accommodation, financial assistance and involved in our communities. and government services. The initiative includes fund raising, the funds collected benefit affected employees and a portion of the collection is donated to the community through the Award for Excellence in CSR Red Cross. India Development Foundation, a leading national NGO One of the venues we use to raise money for chosen charities committed to health, education and development of India, of the different locations in the Philippines is Chill with Craig. awarded Sitel India the Excellence in CSR Award for 2015-16 for its valuable contribution and support to the organization. Experience shared. sitel.com United Nations Global Compact 2016 Communication on Progress Labor Principle 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5. The effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment Experience shared. United Nations Global Compact p.18 2016 Communication on Progress In 2016 Sitel developed an Anti-Modern Slavery and Child Sitel Associates are the core of our business, and Labor policy, which contains guidelines, standards, and we conduct our business with respect for and procedures intended to ensure that Sitel and those acting adherence to principles of diversity and equal on its behalf understand and abide by the applicable employment opportunity. Sitel is further anti-child labor, anti-human trafficking and committed to providing a safe and healthy work anti-modern-day slavery laws, rules, and regulations. environment that minimizes the incidence of As a matter of fact, forced and child labor are not an issue work related injury, is free from harassment, in our operations, as the majority of Sitel’s staff are office discrimination, harsh treatment and acts or based with permanent contracts. threats of violence. It is our goal to promote an environment that Freedom of association encourages open communication, promotes mutual Sitel upholds its Associates’ rights to join or refrain from respect and teamwork, and which encourages individuals joining worker associations in accordance with the law. to develop and learn. Where worker organizations are legally recognized, Sitel recognizes those rights provided by law. Sitel seeks to ensure that representatives of Associates and Child, forced and compulsory labor any personnel engaged thereby, are not subjected to The prohibition of compulsory and child labor has discrimination, harassment, intimidation, or retaliation for always been our company’s practice and is expressly reason of their being members of a union or participating stated in Sitel policies. in trade union activities, and that such representatives are afforded their rights under the law. Sitel does not support child labor in any matter or form. Only the use of legitimate workplace apprenticeship programs, which comply with all laws and regulations, is EWC in Europe supported. Sitel does not expose children to any situations in or outside of the workplace that are Sitel’s European Works Council (EWC) dates back to 2010 hazardous or unsafe to their development. and consists of management and employees representing Sitel affiliates in the European Union. The EWC, through its Sitel condemns all forms of compulsory labor. Sitel does annual meetings, has proven its function as a forum for not condone the use of forced, bonded or indentured constructive dialogue and consultation between labor, involuntary prison labor or the trafficking of management and employee representatives on the persons. Sitel upholds an environment where work is progress of the business and any significant decision at voluntary and Associates are free to terminate their European level that could affect their employment or employment. working conditions. Experience shared. sitel.com United Nations Global Compact p.19 2016 Communication on Progress Non-discrimination and equal employment In the period covered by this report, the following number of opportunity issues were raised in EthicsPoint with respect to discrimination and harassment, which were all investigated appropriately: Sitel’s commitment to equal opportunity is an investment in our people and our future growth. We firmly believe that • EMEA: 0 a company that attracts, selects, develops, and retains the • North America: 10 best people will remain the industry leader. • Latin America: 10 • APAC: 21 We employ a diverse workforce and do not tolerate unlawful discrimination. We seek to provide a work environment free of unlawful discrimination based on race, We are proud of and appreciate our talents. In 2015, more color, age, gender, sexual orientation, ethnicity, disability, than half (51%) of Sitel’s total workforce was composed pregnancy, religion, political affiliation, or marital status. At of female Associates. In 2016, we were able to maintain Sitel, Associates or potential Associates are not subjected the same proportion, favorable to the female gender. to medical tests for any unlawfully discriminatory purpose. Female Associates in leadership position managers and above represented 38.7% in the same period. Sitel endeavors to address non-discrimination by fostering an environment in which everyone is treated equally and given the same opportunities. We are committed to Improving Equality in Sitel ensuring we eliminate discrimination in all forms in our India: Women Empowerment employment. We do so by: Sitel India truly believes that empowering women is key to improve gender equality. Empowered women contribute to the • Evaluating and compensating Associates based on their health and productivity of whole families and communities, qualifications, demonstrated skills, and achievements, and they improve prospects for the next generation. striving to avoid any unconscious bias. All employment On International Women’s Day, Sitel India arranged different decisions such as hiring, discipline, terminations, session for female Associates, which included educational promotions, and job assignments are based on Sitel’s seminars and activities to improve their health and wellbeing, needs and on Associate’s performance and potential. such as a Talk Show by gynecologist on wellness, self-defense These decisions are made without regard to a person’s training on safety and security, a consultation desk by cultural background, ethnicity, personal beliefs, or any nutritionist, among other activities. other characteristic protected by applicable law; This is part of Sitel India Women’s Empowerment program, • Facilitating the ability of Associates to raise issues which helps women to realize their potential and to offers key regarding discrimination (or other matters such as bullying information for their personal development. and harassment) through accessible reporting channels (e.g. EthicsPoint); Spain: Equality Plan • Encouraging participation in the annual survey in which Since 2013, Sitel Spain maintains an Equality Plan, by which Associates are asked to express their views on workplace they commit to ensure effective equality of opportunities to issues anonymously; both male and female employees, to balance the presence of men and women in our staff, to implement practices to avoid gender discrimination, to provide better conditions to allow • Providing annual conduct and ethics trainings to key reduce inequality and to promote awareness of the cause. positions in the company which focus, among other things, on issues around diversity and respect; and In fact, Sitel Spain consistently offers equality training to all its Associates as part of the company program to promote • A robust whistleblower procedure. equality between genders in the Spanish facilities. Experience shared. sitel.com United Nations Global Compact p.20 2016 Communication on Progress The charts below show Sitel workforce by several key metrics1 Employees by Gender Employees by Job Category & Gender Employee Turnover by Gender (worldwide) (worldwide, 2016) (worldwide) 100% 100% 100% 80% 80% 31% 41% 80% 51% 51% 51% 52% 43% 53% 55% 56% 60% 60% 60% 40% 40% 69% 40% 59% 49% 49% 49% 48% 57% 47% 44.9% 44.3% 20% 20% 20% 0% 0% 0% Director Manager Coaches & Other 2014 2015 2016 Agents 2014 2015 2016 Male Female Male Female Male Female New Employees Hires by Gender Employees by Job Category and Age Employee Turnover by Age Group (worldwide) (worldwide, 2016) (worldwide) 100% 100% 7% 7% 7% 100% 6% 5% 5% 80% 80% 30% 80% 34% 31% 29% 53% 54% 56% 35% 53% 60% 60% 60% 82% 69% 40% 40% 40% 59% 60% 64% 66% 20% 47% 46% 44% 20% 40% 20% 0% 0% 2% 11% 0% 2014 2015 2016 Director Manager Coaches & Agents Other 2014 2015 2016 Male Female <30 30-50 >50 <30 30-50 >50 Employees by Gender & Region Full and Part-Time Employees by Gender Employee Turnover by Region (worldwide, 2016) (worldwide, 2016) (worldwide) 100% 100% 100% 80% 80% 80% 30% 29% 30% 39% 50% 50% 50% 60% 60% 66% 60% 60% 10% 12% 13% 21% 18% 17% 40% 40% 40% 61% 47% 50% 50% 50% 20% 20% 40% 20% 39% 40% 40% 0% 0% 0% NA LATAM EMEA APAC Full-time Part-time 2014 2015 2016 Male Female Male Female NA LATAM EMEA APAC 1. Estimated based on existing database platform. Reporting year covers the period between 1-October of the previous year to 30-September of the mentioned year (2016 corresponds to the period between 1-Oct 2015 to 30-Sep 2016). Experience shared. sitel.com United Nations Global Compact p.21 2016 Communication on Progress Professionalism and harassment >> India: Sitel India conducts regular seminars and sessions Sitel Associates are expected to be respectful of others’ with its Associates to improve awareness of the issue. In customs and traditions. We treat each other, our clients addition to the seminars, the Internal Complaint Committee and their customers with respect, courtesy and dignity. (ICC) gives Associates a fair chance to be vocal about any grievances. Each Sitel Associate throughout the world is entitled to work in a professional atmosphere, free from all forms of >> Nicaragua: All Sitel Nicaragua leaders receive Fair Treatment refreshers every 2 months. The refreshers include guidance and harassment. Sitel seeks to provide a work environment reminders on subjects such as empathy, being a leader, how to without harsh and inhumane treatment, including any support their peers, how to deal with conflict, leadership, sexual harassment, sexual abuse, corporal punishment, among other relevant points to ensure all leaders know the mental or physical coercion or verbal abuse of Associates expected behavior, how to lead by example and how to deal or threat of any such treatment. with potential situations that may involve human rights abuse. Sitel supports Associates in reporting any inhumane >> Panama: At Sitel Panama, all coaches and managers treatment without fear of reprisal or intimidation. undergo training on sexual and other types of harassment that Sitel makes available an Ethics hotline (EthicsPoint) which can happen in the workplace. Anti-harassment is also part of enables Associate to report any concerns anonymously. the Track Trainee Program, the succession program, since it Sitel strongly encourages its Associates to report any trains and build Sitel Panama’s new leaders. harassment to appropriate company officials and prohibits retaliation against anyone who reports issues or who >> Spain: Sitel Spain has signed an Anti-harassment Policy with participates in an investigation of such reports. the Unions, in which Sitel commits to fight against harassment not only from managers to employees, but from employees to managers and to employees between themselves. Anti-harassment Training Open door policy >> Brazil: Every year, Sitel Brazil partners with one of the most prestigious Brazilian law firms to offer an anti-harassment Sitel is committed to ensuring a positive work environment training to all its managers and coaches. The purpose of the and to providing the best possible working conditions for training is to bring them awareness on harassment prevention our Associates. and includes topics such as what constitutes harassment, unacceptable conduct, reporting, consequences, and how to Part of this commitment includes encouraging an open deal with a potential harassment situation. and frank atmosphere. Our Associates are encouraged to offer positive input and constructive criticism to help improve relationships and the way we work together. >> Colombia: Sitel Colombia created the Employee Disciplinary Committee to improve communication with its Associates and If any Associate wishes to discuss any matter directly with help preventing issues that may affect the workplace. In the someone at a level higher than their manager, they can do Committee meetings, Associates can discuss about so. Sitel’s Open Door Policy may be used whenever harassment, develop skills to face such harassment situations, job-related concerns or questions cannot be resolved share ideas and share best practices with other teams. directly between an Associate and his or her immediate Everyone is allowed to participate and express its opinion. supervisor, or if the Associate is simply not comfortable bringing the concerns to the supervisor. Our leaders are accessible and are encouraged to walk the floor so that agents may easily ask questions or provide feedback. Experience shared. sitel.com United Nations Global Compact p.22 2016 Communication on Progress Sitel 5-Minute Friday Sitel Work@Home Every week, Sitel’s CEO & President films short video to keep our Associates informed about what is happening across the globe. Solutions TM Following every video, a brief survey is included so that any Our Work@Home business is one of the fastest growing Associate can respond and provide feedback, which is read by our businesses in Sitel. The fact that Work@Home employees work CEO and responded as appropriate. directly from their homes, allows us to recruit more Associates from a larger and more diverse population, that includes war veterans, people with disabilities, with limited mobility or with Global diversity and inclusion other health issues and personal restrictions, that otherwise would be excluded from certain positions due to the fact that At Sitel, we respect cultural differences and recognize the daily commuting becomes a challenge. benefit of a diverse supply chain in our global markets with Associates, customers, and suppliers coming from diverse backgrounds and cultures. Sitel Brazil Disability Inclusion Program We strongly believe that a culture of diversity and inclusion Blind and Visually Impaired Massage Therapists positively affects the workplace and drives superior business performance by bringing multiple perspectives, As a way of providing job opportunities to individuals with disabilities, Sitel Brazil hires blind and visually impaired which allows us to compete successfully in a global massage therapists to offer free massage for the Associates in marketplace. This focus is part of our People-first the office. The trained massage therapists go from Associate Belonging commitment. We want to ensure that all to Associate offering 5 to 10 minutes of massage at their Associates from across the globe and from different desks. Sitel Brazil started the program, back in 2013, with a cultures and backgrounds are welcome at Sitel. small team of therapists, as an opportunity for the blind and visually impaired massage therapists to be included in our company, and as a way to improve the Associates’ wellbeing. Sitel India: Celebrations and Festivals This inclusion program proved so successful, that at the end of 2015, Sitel Brazil had already 26 massage therapists as part of Sitel India respects and recognizes that its Associates come from their workforce. Now, this number increased to 43 therapists! the most diverse backgrounds and makes a point in including all of them in the celebrations. Festivals are an important part of the Indian culture, so Festival Inclusion Workshop are also part of Sitel India activities schedule, which includes the Sitel Brazil held inclusion workshops to its leaders. The first main religious groups: workshop was called “Sensory Experience Workshop”, in which all managers and team leaders participated in activities to • Diwali: the Festival of Light is one of the biggest and most raise awareness of the challenges that people disabilities face auspicious Hindu festivals in India. every day at work. The workshop aimed at preparing the • Eid: the festival of Eid marks the end of Ramadan, one of the leaders to receive and include Associates with disabilities in five pillars of the Islamic faith and is sacred to Muslims. For Eid, their operations more appropriately and included activities to Sitel India runs a weeklong inter process competition. simulate common situations at the workplace and how to • Christmas: compared to other religious festivals, Christmas is facilitate everyday life at work. quite a small festival in India, due to the number of people who are Christians, but Sitel India also includes it in its celebration In the second workshop, called “We Are All Equal”, coaches calendar. and managers were exposed to experiences of prejudice involving disabled people, and had the chance to hear some success stories from disabled employees who had overcome some obstacles, and learned how to deal with challenging every-day situations. Experience shared. sitel.com United Nations Global Compact p.23 2016 Communication on Progress Sitel’s Procurement organization in the United States also Sitel has a dedicated Global Training Leader and has seeks to increase Sitel’s procurement of goods and services invested heavily in its training organization. The focus has from minority, women and disabled business enterprises been on improving the training content and delivery to be owned or controlled by minorities, women, the disabled more effective and efficient for our Associates, for this and military veterans. reason, in 2016, we implemented a new performance, career development and online learning platform. Training and development In 2015, Sitel delivered 4,450,985 hours of online training to its Associates. In 2016, 4,507,309 hours were delivered. Whether it is for advancing in a current role or exploring new avenues, Sitel offers training and development In 2015, we placed a special focus on our top-performing opportunities to extend our Associates’ knowledge and Associates by launching three Global Leadership Councils. skills. These councils link high-potential Associates around the world together for best practice sharing, insight from our We provide learning and development opportunities to executives, and collaborative work. In 2016, we expanded train all Associates in undertaking their jobs effectively and leadership development by launching two high potential efficiently. We also promote the continued growth and programs to prepare leaders for future opportunities. development of their careers. The aim is to identify learning needs, develop training programs and ongoing Talent management and career opportunities evaluation and monitoring of trained staff. All Sitel leading positions are required to undergo a specific leadership Sitel is committed to focusing on recruiting and retaining training plan. our Associates by creating an environment that is positive, nurturing and filled with opportunities. Career With a combination of mixed training, classroom, distance advancement based on individual strengths is strongly and online, Sitel ensures its Associates the opportunity to encouraged at Sitel. The ability to move up within the participate in a learning environment and training organization makes Sitel more than just a stopping point uniform, consistent and effective. in an Associates’ career. Sitel fills open positions by promoting Associates from Sitel University within the company whenever possible, enabling our Sitel University is the company’s global learning management clients to benefit from trained, experienced personnel. system, which provides all Associates with a wide variety of Internal job openings are posted on our corporate online, self-paced, and instructor-led trainings, in multiple intranet and within each site where Associates can submit languages. This learning environment allows Sitel Associates an application for any posted position. all over the world to participate in a centralized and uniform training environment that has proven to be convenient and A formal talent management and succession-planning effective, and gives Sitel the opportunity to report on training program is used to help identify future leaders based on participation globally. knowledge, skills, abilities, work ethic, performance, Sitel University offers hundreds of courses on topics ranging leadership abilities, key competencies and behavioral from Sitel-specific content to compliance, management, characteristics. leadership, team building and professional development. We invest in internal training programs to prepare Sitel University encourages Associates to continue to learn Associates for advancement. Examples include our Track and grow through the benefits of e-learning. And above all, Training programs, designed to prepare Associates to Sitel University is a symbol of the dedication Sitel has to its become managers. Individual e-training courses are Associates, with a purpose of bringing out the true potential available through our learning management system, Sitel of each individual. University. Experience shared. sitel.com United Nations Global Compact p.24 2016 Communication on Progress Our 2016 Associate engagement survey showed a 14 Sitel Track Training percentage points increase, when compared to the Sitel believes in preparing its Associates for taking up previous year, in the question regarding work-life balance challenges that will allow them to successfully launch a for all participating Associates. career. Some of our sites are able to provide flexible work Sitel has developed the Coach Track Training and the schedules to their Associates to accommodate personal Operations Manager Track Training Programs that aim to needs and allowing them to balance their everyday improve the continuity of our leadership by building a pool commitments with work. of trained coaches and senior-level coaches ready to be promoted as opportunities occur. The apprentice program includes a multi-step process that rewards participants as We think we can continue to make progress as we support they achieve designated milestones. The timeline for each flexible working opportunities for our Associates. candidate is flexible and the program tailored to the candidate’s needs, competencies and ambitions. Health, safety and wellness The number of internal promotions are consistently Sitel is committed to providing a safe and healthy increasing over the years. In 2016, internal promotions environment for our Associates, clients, and visitors. to higher positions increased 3.3 percentage points when compared to the previous year. Sitel makes every reasonable effort to promote, create, and maintain a safe and healthy workplace by providing safeguards against injury or hazards through maintaining Excellence Club in Sitel Colombia proper equipment, materials, facilities, and Associate To recognize its Associates, Sitel Colombia created the training. Excellence Club, a group consisting of the top performers that recognizes the top performers. Every month, the group Sitel recognizes that, in addition to minimizing the participates in a VIP lunch with the country and regional incidence of work-related injury and illness, a safe and board of directors and receives prizes. Top performing Associates are always proud to be part of the group and the healthy work environment enhances Associate retention fact that they are able to have a closer contact and speak and morale. openly with the board of directors is a great incentive to drive their careers forward. We are aware that to successfully create a safe and healthy environment we must ensure our Associates understand the risks to their health & safety and work Work and personal life balance together with us to avoid them. At Sitel, as part of our People-first culture, we believe that maintaining a professional/personal life balance and In line with our People-first culture, safety of our people is creating a family culture within our facilities is critical to the first priority and is addressed prior to any employee satisfaction and success. consideration regarding Sitel’s or clients’ business requirements. Therefore, it is essential that our Associates We seek to promote local ways of working so that know how to react during an emergency situation. Associates can have more flexibility and are able to balance their personal lives with their career. In fact, one of our fastest growing businesses is Work@Home, where our agents are able to work directly from their home. To make it happen, we invest in technology so that we can connect with each other no matter where we are located. Experience shared. sitel.com United Nations Global Compact p.25 2016 Communication on Progress >> Nicaragua: Sitel Nicaragua has established a committee Sitel Business Continuity Management that holds semi-annual trainings to all Associates covering points such as first aid, evacuation procedures, among other Sitel has implemented a Global Business Continuity critical point. The Nicaragua committee also holds bi-monthly Management policy to set, deploy, test, monitor and report on seminars in order bring awareness to Associates about having the required standards for emergency preparedness in all sites a safe and healthy work environment. and has assigned a dedicated resource, the Director of Business Continuity Management, to manage the program >> Colombia: Every year, Sitel Colombia promotes a health and ensure its ongoing effectiveness and continuous week to offer Associates information and activities that help to improvement. educate them and offer suggestions for healthier living through a variety of health topics. Health screenings are also offered, such as dental and eye checkups and hearing tests. Sitel is committed to an open communication with all The Associates also go through regular medical check up to Associates on workplace health and safety, encouraging prevent occupational diseases. Healthy feeding is encouraged Associate input and continual education to identify and by collaborating with the onsite cafeteria to make available for solve health and safety issues, or other concerns relating the employees a variety of balanced meals and healthy snacks. Physical activities are also encouraged through the Self Care to working conditions without fear of reprisal or program that offers rumba dancing therapy and employee intimidation. discounts in spas and gyms. All Sitel Associates take our Security & Privacy Awareness >> Denmark: Sitel Denmark has partnered with a stress coach Training in which they learn about Sitel security, privacy in order to offer Associates the opportunity to talk to an and safety policies including, practical examples on how external party, as this often can be easier on the Associate. to apply them both at work and in their personal life. They also learn to identify situations that pose a risk to >> India: Monthly Seminar sessions are arranged for Associates the company’s and their own security. This training on across Sitel India. Talk shows arranged by doctors on Stress requires annual recertification to ensure all Associates Management, Diabetes, Eye checkup Camp, First Aid Training, are aware of the main elements and any changes that Healthy Lifestyle are a few examples of health activities. may have been made to our policies and standards. >> Nicaragua: Every year, Sitel Nicaragua offers free flu vaccinations to all Associates. The vaccination campaign is Health & Safety Activities coordinated with the country Health Ministry. This activity started back in 2012 and every year more and more Associates >> Brazil: Sitel Brazil sites have established a committee to adhere to the campaign after seeing the benefits of this develop preventative solutions and corrective measures for any preventive measure. This year, 450 Associates received from occupational health and safety issues. The committee the free flu shots. members representing the employees are elected by the Associates themselves. The committee members meet >> Panama: Every quarter Sitel Panama invites specialists that regularly and develop risk assessments and plans to reduce will provide information on dental health, nutrition, eye care, accidents, provide training, and other programs related to Spain etc. The health specialist also do some tests, such as blood and health and safety in the workplace. eye tests at the site and advise in case the Associate needs to seek medical support. Experience shared. sitel.com United Nations Global Compact p.26 2016 Communication on Progress >> Philippines: Sitel Philippines keeps its Associates healthy by >> Denmark: All women, who are pregnant, meet with our offering a wide range of health related activities. Examples of Health and Safety representative in order to congratulate them activities are: Flu Vaccine Shots available to employees who on their pregnancy and to find out, if Sitel can do anything to would like to take them at a lower rate compared to market make their pregnancy easier etc. by offering reduced work price, Zumba Day for employees to work out by dancing their hours, the right kind of ergonomic office chair and so on. hearts out, Yoga Day, Sitel HR Café Series on Wellness with Physicians onsite discussing health related topics like heart >> Nicaragua: In addition to the legally mandated paid disease, smoking cessation, stress management, etc. Sports are maternity leave, Sitel Nicaragua allows the female Associates also encouraged through the Sportsfest program, in which to come to work an hour later than normal or leave an hour Associates are given a venue to compete with each other on earlier. This way we ensure that the mothers have time to specific sports like basketball, volleyball, badminton and cheer breastfeed their children and can balance their professional dance. This aims to promote healthy living through physical and personal life. activities, as well as camaraderie, sportsmanship and teamwork among the different teams >> Spain: Allowing more time to rest is very important for pregnant women. At Sitel Spain, pregnant women get 20 >> Poland: Sitel Poland Associates count on many activities to minutes extra break per day if working full time so that they promote a healthier routine at work, such as zumba dance can have a more comfortable shift. classes, anti-stress massage so that every Associate can have a great relaxing massage during the break, fruit days for a healthier diet, among other activities. Sitel Poland also promotes a healthier life by offering to all employees a Communication reduced-price Sport Card to encourage sport activities in their free time. Sitel believes that communication plays a key role in the success of any program or policy and serves as the foundation for consistent workplace practices. Sitel is positive that employee wellbeing is an important We understand that being transparent and keeping our factor for a healthy environment. Our Associates count Associates informed of our business decisions allows us to on leisure areas, anti-stress programs and regular work together to find solutions and points for activities to minimize the stress and cultivate the feeling improvement of the Sitel’s business practices. Sitel has of belonging among our Associates. several established communication channels for our Associates: Maternity Arrangements at Work • Globe Magazine: a quarterly online employee magazine >> Brazil: Sitel Brazil launched an antenatal program called called The Globe that is translated into five languages Sitel 9 months with you . The program included prenatal and and showcases information from across the globe, parenting classes. The future moms learned how to bathe the including Human Resources, leadership and client baby, nutrition, hygiene, and other important tips from health updates, and highlights associates and community professionals. A doctor explained and answered questions on activities, like volunteerism and giving; pregnancy, childbirth and child health. All participants received a small gift and pampering products for the mom-to-be and the baby. Experience shared. sitel.com United Nations Global Compact p.27 2016 Communication on Progress • Five-Minute Friday: a weekly video blog from our CEO, in which he typically chats with another leader from across • Direct communication with HR or management: Sitel about important and timely business updates. Our Associates are encouraged to share ideas, concerns and CEO films these videos across the globe so that events issues directly with their direct superior or with local happening all over Sitel are regularly captured for all Human Resources. Associates. • Suggestion boxes: many of our sites make suggestion • Inside Sitel: an electronic newsletter that provides boxes available in order to be used by site management to relevant information regarding the organization, such as solicit ideas from Associates for improvements. announcements, structure changes, and new staff joining the company. In addition to the traditional above-mentioned communication channels, we also have a variety of touch • Huddle calls: regular conference calls to provide points with our Associates to provide opportunities for company updates, keep teams on course and share dialogue between leaders and Associates: success stories. • Corporate intranet: an internal share point site in which all company policies, procedures and other relevant • Boot Camps: Site Director and Coach boot camps and information are available to Associates. on-boarding trainings where we bring leaders together from across regions to learn best practices and make sure • Meetings, social media, and bulletin board postings: at they have what they need to support our Associates. the local level, each site spends time every week communicating with Associates. We continue to invest in • Team huddles: scheduled team face-to-face and/or our strategy and resources for social media virtual meetings to quickly touch-base, update, listen and communications so that we can more readily access all of generate synergy between the group. our Associates. Communication goes in two directions: transmitting information to another party is one direction, but the other party’s response is also important: • Sit&Tell: engagement survey where you can share your experiences with your leaders on what’s working well and what areas we can improve. • EthicsPoint: an anonymous hotline for reporting concerns or issues that may be unethical, illegal, in violation of professional standards, or otherwise inconsistent with company’s policies. Anyone can report an issue, including associates, clients, suppliers, contractors, visitors, etc. Experience shared. sitel.com United Nations Global Compact 2016 Communication on Progress Environment Principle 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Experience shared. United Nations Global Compact p.29 2016 Communication on Progress We are committed to the concept of sustainable When looking for new locations, we prioritize areas with development, which requires balancing the good good public transportation, since employee commuting of the wider global community, the protection of is also a large contributor to our footprint. human health and the environment with the In fact, one of our fastest growing businesses is need for profitable growth of our operations. Work@Home, in which our Associates are able to work directly from their home, dramatically reducing the need for travel and, consequently, these Associates’ carbon Our strategy to foster environmentally sustainable growth emissions. for Sitel comprises two main areas: running efficient operations and working sustainably. Going Green with Work@Home As a service provider, Sitel activities have little impact on In 2014, Sitel had approximately 1,400 Work@Home the environment when compared to other industries. Associates and in the following year, this figure increased by Nevertheless, Sitel believes in being a responsible, almost 70%, and now we are currently operating with a environmentally aware company, minimizing, wherever headcount of 2,400+ Work@Home Associates. possible, negative effects on the community, environment and natural resources. Considering that an average of 268 gallons of gas is burnt per year by an average commuter in the US, our 2,400 Sitel strives to comply with applicable environmental laws Work@Home Associates can potentially save more than and regulations in the operation of its business and is 643,000 gallons of gas in one year (approximately 5,700 metric tons of CO2). committed to reducing pollutants associated with its business, which may have adverse on the environment, while safeguarding the health and safety of the public. We expect our Associates to be respectful of the environment We are constantly looking for new opportunities to within which we operate. reduce demand and to be more efficient. This includes energy retrofit projects such as LED lighting upgrades and building management system improvements. Carbon footprint and use of resources Sitel’s environmental footprint consists primarily of carbon Energy Efficiency Projects emissions generated from employee travel and electricity. Smart travel saves money and reduces greenhouse gas >> Spain: Sitel Spain replaced all its Seville facility’s 3500 emissions. Where and whenever possible, we promote the fluorescent tubes by low energy LED lighting, which will bring use of virtual collaboration tools and videoconferencing. estimated savings of approximately 172,000 kWh in one year. This avoids unnecessary travel, is more efficient for us, and This represents a reduction of 44% of the electricity is better for the environment. consumption. LED technology has a general life expectancy of 50,000 hours, which will also reduce the need of constant replacing of the lighting, thus reducing hazardous waste Our efforts to encourage the adoption of available disposal and the environmental impact. communication technologies continue to help us manage business travel, even as we have expanded into growth markets and increased our year-end headcount by more than 2,400 employees. Experience shared. sitel.com United Nations Global Compact p.30 2016 Communication on Progress >> Colombia: Sitel Colombia has recently replaced all its facilities lighting by LED technology. A total of 810 fluorescent tubes were replaced by LED lighting, which represents estimated savings of approximately 255,000 kWh per year, or 36% less electricity used in the facility lighting. >> Nicaragua: At least twice a year, Sitel Nicaragua volunteers gather to visit schools and parks to plant trees, clean up and Sitel Serbia: BREEAM certification help beautify those places Sitel Serbia operates from one of the few certified green >> Panama: Sitel Panama volunteers joined Ancon (Asociacion buildings in Belgrade. The building has received the BREEAM Nacional para la Conservacion de la Naturaleza, or Association certification that sets the standard for best practice in for the Nature Conservation), in a beach cleanup day. ANCON sustainable building design, construction and operation and is is a non-profit organization that protects and conserves one of the most comprehensive and widely recognized Panama’s natural resources though various projects and measures of a building's environmental performance. BREEAM programs with the local community and businesses. includes aspects related to energy and water use, the internal environment (health and well-being), pollution, transport, >> Philippines: Sitel joins the neighboring companies in the materials, waste, ecology and management processes. Yearly Clean Up Drive in Baguio. >> Poland: In cooperation with the local ecological waste Additionally, waste prevention and recycling are powerful removal company, Sitel Poland collects waste paper. Once a ways to use less energy, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, month, the eco waste company collects the paper and the and contribute to a healthy climate. Our sites have money generated from recycled paper waste is donated to a recycling programs in place to minimize landfill impact and foundation called VIVA, which supports local animal shelters. the release of harmful gases due to its production and >> Portugal: Sitel Portugal collects all used tonners and send disposal process. them to an organization that recycles them and donates the money generated to charitable organizations. Since 2015, Sitel Portugal collected 80 kilograms of recyclable tonners that were Helping the Environment converted into more than a 1,000 Euros, donated to a local scouting association, a cancer research organization and an >> India: Sitel India volunteers planted 370 sapling trees in animal shelter. support of the Go Green initiative that aims to create environmental awareness among Sitel Associates. Every year, our Sitel Mumbai volunteers run a beach cleanup drive after the India’s annual Festival procession to help tidy up the area. The Festival is a traditional procession in which people go to the streets to celebrate. Experience shared. sitel.com Sitel Work@Home Solutions TM Going Green with @home Agents Saving the Environment with Virtual Agents According to U.S. Census Bureau: ...so, our 2,400 contact center agents GAS working-at-home... and the average commuter burns 26 The average round are saving more than 643,000 trip commute is gallons of gas 24 miles per day per year sitting in traffic gallons of gas per year! 5,700 ... Average car has avoiding the emission of more than 25efficiency MPG metric tons of CO2 which is the carbon sequestered by 5,409 acres of U.S. forests in one year. Experience shared. sitel.com United Nations Global Compact 2016 Communication on Progress Anti-Corruption Principle 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Experience shared. United Nations Global Compact p.33 2016 Communication on Progress Operational adherence is managed through our At Sitel, we value integrity and ethical behavior in Management System that is aligned to the ISO the conduct of our business. Sitel is committed to 27001:2013 standard to ensure that controls for the secure complying with anti-corruption and anti-bribery management of all data required to deliver the services are laws in the countries in which we do business, in place and are assessed on an ongoing basis for effectiveness with a view to continual improvement. and to implement policies and procedures that Relevant management information and reporting are prohibit bribery and corruption by our Associates shared with clients as part of established escalation and anyone representing our interests. management and periodic business review processes. Sitel Global Security team interacts with all sites across the globe to ensure all Associates are aware of and understand Sitel has the privilege of doing business in many countries Sitel security standards and to ensure that actual and and regions around the world. In every single location, potential incidents of fraud and corruption are identified associates at every level have the responsibility to know and managed appropriately. and follow laws and regulations that apply to our business. Sitel does not tolerate any form of bribery or corruption. All Sitel Associates and, where appropriate, third party Under no circumstance shall any Associate or anyone contractors or vendors, are required to report all fraud, acting on Sitel’s behalf give, pay, offer, promise to pay, or security and ethically related incidents. The mandatory authorize the giving or payment of money or any other reporting of suspected or actual fraud or ethical conduct thing of value to any foreign government official or Sitel matters is managed through Sitel’s existing global incident client, vendor or other business partner for any improper reporting procedures, with training developed to maintain purpose or in violation of applicable law, including the local awareness of the incident reporting obligations. laws of any relevant country. For greater awareness of the Sitel EthicsPoint among Sitel has a Compliance and Ethics organization reporting Associates, the company distributed EthicsPoint posters to directly to the company’s Chief Legal Officer. Designated all locations for prominent display promoting the compliance contact persons assist with the reporting of concerns via a 24-hour hotline. In addition to implementation of Sitel’s compliance program. the posters, a brief tutorial was included reminding all Associates about the Sitel’s EthicsPoint. The Legal Department and Sitel’s Compliance Team are responsible for setting enterprise-wide standards with Sitel’s Finance and Accounting organization is responsible respect to anti-corruption laws and interactions with clients for maintaining adequate accounting books and records and government officials. and appropriate controls at all levels of the organization We have achieved compliance with key industry standards that ensure accuracy of our financial reporting, including which provide all Associates with a consistent the investigation of potential fraudulent financial activity management framework to apply to ethical behavior. or results. Such controls provide reasonable assurances that, among other things, transactions have been executed Sitel’s global policies include the Code of Conduct and in accordance with generally accepted accounting Ethics, Supplier Code of Conduct and Ethics, Anti-Bribery principles. and Corruption, Anti-Money Laundering, Risk Management, Fraud Management, Security and Ethics Sitel’s Internal Audit team is responsible for evaluating, Incident Management, Information Classification, User testing and monitoring accounting control systems on an Access & Approval, and other security awareness and ongoing basis to ensure, as far as reasonably possible, that usage policies. the controls in place continue to be appropriate and function properly. As of September 30, 2016, Sitel’s Experience shared. sitel.com United Nations Global Compact p.34 2016 Communication on Progress Internal Audit conducted and reported 18 financial control Proportionate procedures: and compliance audits covering processes that are potentially subject to ethical deviations, such as bribery Our procedures to prevent bribery by persons associated and frauds. Generally speaking, all sites are audited on a 4 with it are proportionate to the bribery risks it faces and to to 7 year cycle, depending on the risk profile of that the nature, scale and complexity of its activities. particular site. Management directives define and clarify the desired Sitel policies require anti-corruption training for Associates behavior of our Associates. The outputs of the control with job responsibilities that are relevant to such training. procedures provide the basis for mitigating business risks In 2016, Sitel trained more than 1,300 applicable according to their potential impact. Examples of activities Associates worldwide, and more Associates will be trained that support these controls in Sitel include: until the end of the training year. In the last training year, • EthicsPoint, where Associates may report any concerns to Sitel Sitel trained 98% of the applicable Associates, which compliance, ethics and whistleblowing hotline; represent 1,600 trainings delivered. • Sit&Tell Associate satisfaction survey with questions on Our Code of Conduct requires that all Associates comply workplace environment; with all laws and regulations governing our company’s behavior. When this is not the case, information is reported • Background checks in accordance with policy and where internally within the organization to senior management permitted by country specific law; and, as appropriate, also shared with the Executive Board and the internal auditors. • Associate handbooks defining fraud and action to be taken; and • FCPA Anti-corruption Policy published on the Sitel intranet to Sitel Anti-Corruption Program employees and incorporated as part of Sitel’s vendor registration As a United States-based company, Sitel’s procedure. anti-corruption program is based around the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act Risk assessment: FCPA. However, it also seeks to set a clear global standard for its approach to honest Sitel assesses the nature and extent of its exposure to and fair dealing, which meets the legislation in all its potential external and internal risks of bribery on its behalf countries of operation such as UK Anti Bribery Act and by persons associated with it. the Brazilian Anti-Corruption Act. The program has 6 key principles: Sitel performs comprehensive risk assessment activities that identify and weigh risks that help define priorities including: Tone at the top: • Management Compliance Questionnaire reviewed quarterly by Sitel’s Finance team; Management’s “tone at the top” is vital for establishing a transparent and company-wide culture against corruption. • Internal Audit reports; The top-level management of Sitel is committed to • Internal Audit annual Enterprise Risk Assessment to identify preventing bribery by persons associated with Sitel. They potential risk areas and collating conclusions; and foster an anti-corruption culture within the organization and send clear messages to all Associates and business • Site Compliance Questionnaire to identify key risk areas. partners that corruption and bribery is unacceptable. Experience shared. sitel.com United Nations Global Compact p.35 2016 Communication on Progress Due diligence: Communication and trainings Sitel applies due diligence procedures, taking a Sitel seeks to ensure that its bribery prevention policies and proportionate and risk-based approach, in respect of procedures are embedded and understood throughout the persons who perform or will perform services for or on organization through internal and external communication, including training that is proportionate to the risks it faces. behalf of Sitel, in order to mitigate identified bribery risks. A key element in the Anti-Corruption Program is capacity-building Sitel has implemented mandatory requirements for and regular training of all Associates. Our training ranges from screening and conducting integrity due diligence online courses, dilemma-training modules and other Sitel assessments of our business partners: awareness activities. Sitel strives to constantly improve and tailor the training program in order to ensure that our commitment • All major suppliers sign up to Sitel’s Supplier Code of Conduct against corruption is known throughout the organization. and Ethics; All Associates are required to review and certify their • All suppliers sign up to the Anti-corruption commitment; understanding of and compliance with the Sitel Global Code of Conduct and Ethics. Additionally, Sitel requires key Associates to • Business credit checks as standard, and Office of Foreign Assets undergo annual code of conduct and ethics training, in which Control (OFAC) as required, to minimize business risk; they learn about the major components of the Sitel Global Code of Conduct and Ethics. The certification process is completed via • Increasing percentage of supplier contracts are centrally a web-based training and certification program. This web-based reviewed and tendered, enabling a standardized and consistent training covers anti-corruption and anti-bribery, among other process. subjects. This online training is provided in the Associate’s local language, is available around the clock, and provides participants Additionally, due diligence procedures in the recruitment with a comprehensive understanding of what is, and is not, process enables Sitel to hire the best candidates. Poor permissible as they undertake their responsibilities each day as hiring decisions can hurt Sitel in a variety of ways Sitel Associate. In addition to the online curriculum, Sitel’s Legal increased turnover, increased burdens on co-workers, Department provides support for Associates should they have compliance problems, and even business ethics issues. questions. Monitoring and review • All major suppliers sign up to Sitel’s Supplier Code of Conduct and Ethics; Sitel monitors and reviews procedures designed to prevent bribery by persons associated with it, and makes improvements where • All suppliers sign up to the Anti-corruption commitment; necessary. Anti-bribery and anti-corruption policies are dynamic and require Sitel to perform ongoing monitoring of its • Business credit checks as standard, and Office of Foreign Assets compliance programs and adapting to changing business Control (OFAC) as required, to minimize business risk; environment in order to remain effective. • Increasing percentage of supplier contracts are centrally Sitel has established internal checks needed to monitor and reviewed and tendered, enabling a standardized and consistent review anti-bribery policies that include financial monitoring, process. bribery reporting, incident investigations, reporting from the Risk and the Audit Committee: Additionally, due diligence procedures in the recruitment process enables Sitel to hire the best candidates. Poor • Policy Working Group: annual review of Sitel anti-corruption hiring decisions can hurt Sitel in a variety of ways policies; increased turnover, increased burdens on co-workers, compliance problems, and even business ethics issues. • Quarterly Audit Committee: report on enterprise level risks; and • EthicsPoint Group: review of current EthicsPoint hotline cases. Experience shared. sitel.com United Nations Global Compact 2016 Communication on Progress ABOUT SITEL As caring for customers becomes the differentiator that drives consumer engagement and spend, Sitel is advancing its position as a world leader in outsourced customer experience innovation. With over 30 years of industry-leading experience, Sitel’s 75,100 passionate and talented associates support more than 400 clients in 48 languages from 146 facilities strategically located in 22 countries. Combining comprehensive customer care capabilities, leading omnichannel solutions and unparalleled expertise across industries, Sitel collaborates with some of the best known global brands to help consistently deliver outstanding customer experiences. Sitel is a subsidiary of Groupe Acticall. Visit sitel.com to learn more. We are We are We are a We are trusted. experts. team. collaborators. © Copyright Sitel Corporation November 2016 All Rights Reserved Sitel Global Headquarters Two American Center 3102 West End Avenue Suite 1000 Nashville, TN 37203 USA Phone: +1 615.301.7100 Toll-Free (in U.S.): +1 866.95.Sitel sales-na@sitel.com www.sitel.com Experience shared.
