Value Talent Readiness Enterprise Execution Agility Integrity Accountability Can Do Value Readiness Collective Strength Safety Innovation Collaboration Talent Value Readiness Collective Strength Preparedness Customer Focus Accountability Talent Execution Value Preparedness Integrity Innovation Collaboration Readiness Collective Strength Collaboration Conservation Can Do Accountability Enterprise Can Do Execution Preparedness Value Customer Focus Agility Enterprise Talent Sustainability Execution Talent Readiness Execution Can Do Accountability Can Do Execution Talent Integrity Preparedness Agility Collaboration CanDo Value Enterprise Innovation Talent Customer Focus Collective Strength Conservation Execution Readiness People Agility Readiness Accountability Enterprise Customer Focus Collective Strength Value Enterprise Readiness Execution Collective Strength Innovation Readiness Execution Collaboration Preparedness Accountability Integrity Preparedness Enterprise Collaboration Value Execution Conservation Value Customer Focus Collective Strength Readiness CommunityAgility Can Do Readiness Innovation Value Integrity Collective Strength Talent Innovation Enterprise Execution ReadinessAgilityValue Customer Focus CanDo Harnessing Strengths Sustainability Report 2015 Vision Operating Principles A leading real estate 1 Best value propositions company, shaping the to customers. best for future generations. 2 Tapping and developing best talents from our global workforce. Mission 3 Cultivating a spirit of Guided by our operating innovation and enterprise. principles and core values, 4 Executing our projects well. Harnessing we will create value for all 5 Being financially disciplined to stakeholders through innovative earn best risk-adjusted returns. real estate solutions. 6 Clarity of focus and operating Strengths within our core competence. 7 Being prepared for the future. The Keppel Group Overview 01 About this Report harnesses and synergises 02 Letter to Stakeholders the distinctive strengths 06 About Keppel Land 08 Sustainability Framework of its multi businesses to 09 Commitment to Stakeholders 10 Managing Sustainability capture opportunities arising 14 Harnessing Strengths from the global demand Sustaining Growth for energy, sustainable 16 Environment urbanisation and connectivity. 38 Innovation and Product Excellence Our strong culture and Empowering Lives enduring values drive our 44 Health and Safety 54 People Matter people to strive for execution excellence and operational Nurturing Communities 64 Community and Society efficiency. With financial Other Information discipline and sharp focus 70 GRI G4 Content Index for on optimising returns, ‘In Accordance’ – Comprehensive 78 United Nations Global Compact we will seize opportunities 79 Independent Assurance Statement as well as innovate solutions 83 International Network and services to build a long-term and competitive position and capture sustainable returns for our stakeholders. Overview / Sustaining Growth / Empowering Lives / Nurturing Communities / Other Information 01 About this Report About this Report* Keppel Land reaffirms its commitment This Sustainability Report demonstrates towards sustainability with the publication Keppel Land’s commitment to keep its of this Sustainability Report 2015. stakeholders, including employees, customers, investors, business partners, Global Reporting Initiative partner agencies and community members Keppel Land’s Sustainability Report 2015 abreast of the Company’s efforts and is prepared in accordance with the developments in Corporate Social Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Responsibility (CSR). G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines at the Comprehensive option. This Report supplements Keppel Land’s Annual Report 2015. Limited copies of This Report focuses on aspects that this Report have been printed to minimise have been identified as material to the impact on the environment. Both Keppel Land’s business and its key Reports can be accessed and downloaded stakeholders, which are detailed in at Keppel Land’s corporate website, the section on Managing Sustainability. www.keppelland.com. This Report has also successfully Independent Assurance completed the GRI Materiality Disclosures An independent CSR consulting company, Service which verifies that the General Ere-S Pte Ltd, was appointed to provide Standard Disclosures G4-17 to G4-27 external assurance on this Report. were correctly located in both the The content of this Report was reviewed GRI Content Index and in the text of and the accuracy and reliability of all this Report. statements validated. Reporting Period and Scope The assurance standard includes the This is Keppel Land’s eighth Sustainability evaluation of the Company’s sustainability Report since 2008. It details the Company’s behaviour and performance, based on the approach and initiatives taken in integrating AA1000 Assurance Standard. All underlying sustainability into its policies, structure systems and processes that support the and daily operations. It provides an Company’s sustainability framework were account of Keppel Land’s sustainability reviewed, in adherence to the AA1000 performance as well as its strategies AccountAbility Principles of inclusivity, and practices, while highlighting the materiality and responsiveness. economic, environmental, and social impacts of the Company’s activities The independent assurance statement and developments across its properties provides a summary of the audit report findings. in Singapore and overseas. Feedback The Report is based on Keppel Land’s Your feedback is valued to help us improve fiscal year from 1 January to on our future reporting. Please send us 31 December 2015, and covers the your feedback and comments at significant changes during the reporting csr@keppelland.com. period in terms of the Company’s size, structure, supply chain and other related aspects. Where possible, the Report provides up to three years of historical information so that there is sufficient basis for comparison. Keppel Land aligns its sustainability strategy and business practices to the ISO 26000:2010 guidance on social responsibility. The Company continues to support the United Nations Global Compact and its 10 universal principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. The Report includes the Company’s * G4-17, G4-18, G4-28, G4-29, progress in these areas in 2015. G4-30, G4-31, G4-32, G4-33 02 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2015 Letter to Stakeholders Ang Wee Gee Chief Executive Officer As a leading green developer, Keppel Land keeps itself at the forefront of sustainable best practices. In 2015, we continued to actively engage our stakeholders, including our tenants, homebuyers, employees and the wider public in our sustainability journey. Overview / Sustaining Growth / Empowering Lives / Nurturing Communities / Other Information Letter to Stakeholders 03 Dear Shareholders, operations, to influence and encourage its suppliers to operate responsibly, I am pleased to present Keppel Land’s improve energy efficiency and reduce Sustainability Report for 2015. overall emissions. This Code of Conduct sets out the Company’s requirements Advances in Sustainability of its contractors in the areas of legal 2015 marked a historic year for climate action. compliance, anti-corruption, human rights, health and safety, as well as environmental The first global consensus on climate management. change was reached at the Paris Climate Change Summit, also known as the Keppel Land has set the goals of achieving 21st Conference of the Parties (COP21), at least the Building and Construction in December 2015. The landmark agreement Authority (BCA) of Singapore Green Mark saw close to 200 nations committing to work GoldPlus and Gold ratings, or their equivalent, together towards a low-carbon path. for all our new projects in Singapore and overseas respectively. Singapore has pledged to reduce its emissions intensity by 36% from 2005 To-date, Keppel Land has a total of 61 BCA levels by 2030, and stabilise emissions Green Mark Awards in its portfolio, of which with the aim of peaking around 2030. eight are Platinum. Total energy savings The signing of the Paris Agreement by from these developments amount to over most nations in April 2016 marked a critical 140 million kWh or $30 million per annum, step forward for the implementation of in addition to water savings exceeding the COP21 vision. 1.6 million m3 and carbon reduction at over 60,000 tonnes. Complementing the Agreement is the United Nation’s 2030 Agenda for Managing Safety Sustainable Development, which was To ensure that our safety framework launched in September 2015. Comprising and strategy remain relevant in a 17 goals, it provides guidance on actions to changing business environment, the fight climate change, eradicate poverty and Keppel Group safety principles were eliminate inequality over the next 15 years. updated in 2016. Along the sidelines of the Paris Summit, The revised principles – every incident the international Financial Stability Board is preventable; Health, Safety and has set up a Task Force on Climate-Related Environment (HSE) is an integral part Financial Disclosures to develop a of our business; HSE is a line responsibility; framework for climate-related financial everyone is empowered to stop any risk disclosures. unsafe work; and a strong safety culture is achieved through teamwork – will guide In Singapore, the stock exchange has us in sustaining a safe and incident-free mandated sustainability reporting for listed workplace for all our stakeholders. companies on a comply-or-explain basis with effect from the financial year ending Recognising the importance of fostering on or after 31 December 2017. a culture of safety in our supply chain, our two Safety Awareness Centres Environmental Stewardship in Johor, Malaysia, and Ho Chi Minh City, The Keppel Group Task Force on Climate Vietnam, provide safety training to Change has been set up to assess and contractors’ employees before they make recommendations on the business are allowed to work on-site. To-date, opportunities and risks to the Group. we have trained a total of more than 34,000 workers. Led by the CEO of Keppel Corporation, the Steering Committee comprises We are also one of only 10 bizSAFE Mentors CEOs of various business units. I am appointed by the Workplace Safety and the deputy head for Corporate Social Health Council in Singapore to lead Responsibility (CSR). contractors in developing and implementing safety initiatives at worksites as well as The Keppel Group is also establishing a provide stewardship and support to Suppliers’ Code of Conduct for all its business other firms. 04 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2015 Letter to Stakeholders 01 01 Keppel Land seeks Nurturing Talents Engaging Stakeholders to nurture communities wherever it operates, In early 2015, we refreshed our Company’s We believe in actively engaging our including in Ho Chi Minh vision and mission to reinforce our aspiration stakeholders in our sustainability journey. City, Vietnam, where to be a leading real estate company that shapes In doing so, we seek innovative solutions it is a sponsor of the the best for future generations. Recognising and collaboration with like-minded partners. Words on Wheels mobile library project. that having the right strategy, people and This reflects the Company’s brand philosophy culture is key to performing well and realising of Thinking Unboxed, to think and see things our vision, we are committed to attract, motivate, from different perspectives. develop and retain strong talents that will drive further growth and create value for the Company. In 2015, Keppel Land successfully held an SG50 Singapore Unboxed exhibition on the Focused on talent management and transformation of Singapore’s landscape, succession planning, we continue to develop to commemorate the nation’s Golden Jubilee. our staff to their fullest potential through job Supported by the Ministry of Culture, Community rotation and role enlargement, mentoring by and Youth, the exhibition showcased landmark senior staff, as well as attracting and recruiting developments which have played a part in talents to complement existing capabilities. transforming Singapore’s precincts. These Localisation continues as we strengthen our included Keppel Land’s developments like platforms overseas. Ocean Financial Centre, Marina Bay Financial Centre, Bugis Junction and the Keppel Bay Building on the open, collaborative, precinct, as well as public buildings like the entrepreneurial and innovative culture Singapore Management University (SMU) that we have built over the last few years, and the National Library. The roving exhibition, we continue to engage our employees which was held for 50 days over five locations through multiple platforms. Opportunities across the Central Business District, are created for staff across business units also featured rare historical documents to work together in taskforces. and photographs. Overview / Sustaining Growth / Empowering Lives / Nurturing Communities / Other Information Letter to Stakeholders 05 In the process, we collaborated with SMU, In Indonesia, we have just completed building National Library Board, National Archives, a community facility for children. It includes a Singapore Press Holdings and the Urban library, football field, playground, nursery and Redevelopment Authority of Singapore. an amphitheatre. It is part of the government’s We also engaged our staff, business partners citywide initiative to build community spaces and the community, including senior citizens for low-income families where community from the Thye Hua Kwan Seniors Activity welfare programmes such as educational, Centre, through video interviews, social literacy and health workshops can be held. media and a photo competition. As an organisation that excels in quality, A limited edition stamp set featuring sustainability and CSR, Keppel Land past and present images of Keppel Land’s continued to garner prestigious international iconic developments was launched in awards in 2015. We ranked 4th in Corporate conjunction with the exhibition. This Knights’ Global 100 Most Sustainable was an initiative of the Can Do, Just Do – Corporations in the World 2015, up from 50 ideas for SG50 campaign to encourage 17th in 2014, topping Asian as well as staff to come up with ideas to boost real estate companies worldwide. We also innovation, CSR efforts and collaboration won the inaugural Singapore Apex CSR Award by providing funding for the execution for the large organisations category. of good ideas. As we continue on our sustainability journey, Community Outreach we look forward to your continued support in We strive to make a positive impact and creating a sustainable future for generations contribute back to communities where we to come. operate, and at the same time, empower lives through education and conservation of the environment. Strategic partnerships with like-minded organisations help us extend our reach and provide opportunities for our employees to serve as volunteers. Employees clocked a total of 5,095 hours of community service in Singapore and overseas in 2015. Ang Wee Gee Chief Executive Officer We successfully completed our three-year 9 June 2016 collaboration with the Singapore International Foundation on the Water for Life project in Yangon, Myanmar, in March 2016. The project provides more than 7,000 villagers in two cyclone-hit districts with access to clean drinking water. More than 50 employees from Singapore and Myanmar participated in seven volunteer trips between 2013 and 2016. A total of 24 tube wells were installed and 16 community education workshops on basic hygiene and healthcare were conducted for the villagers. Through the Words on Wheels mobile library project in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam, Keppel Land reaches out to over 3,000 village children in the Binh Chanh district. Two trips involving volunteers from our Singapore and Vietnam offices were conducted during the year, to promote reading and learning in less accessible villages, thereby increasing opportunities through education. 06 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2015 About Keppel Land Keppel Land is the property as Marina Bay Financial Centre iconic waterfront residences 01 Through its unwavering focus on arm of the Keppel Group, one of and Ocean Financial Centre. at Keppel Bay and Marina Bay sustaining growth in its Singapore’s largest multinational in Singapore. The Company businesses, empowering groups with key businesses in The Company is committed to has also ventured into the lives of its people and offshore and marine, property, grow its commercial portfolio United States with a residential nurturing communities wherever it operates, infrastructure and investments. in key Asian cities. Its portfolio development in Manhattan, Keppel Land continues includes Seasons City in the New York. to shape the best for One of Asia’s premier property Sino-Singapore Tianjin Eco-City, future generations. companies, Keppel Land is Life Hub @ Jinqiao and Park With a pipeline of about recognised for its sterling Avenue Central in Shanghai, 70,000 homes in Singapore portfolio of award-winning China, Saigon Centre in Ho Chi and overseas as well as an residential developments and Minh City, Vietnam, as well as increasing commercial presence investment-grade commercial International Financial Centre in the region, Keppel Land is properties as well as high Jakarta in Indonesia. The Company well-positioned to meet the standards of corporate plans to expand the SM-KL growing demands for quality governance and transparency. Project in the Philippines and residential, office and Keppel Land was privatised develop Junction City Tower mixed-use developments. and delisted from the Singapore in Yangon, Myanmar. Stock Exchange with effect An established property fund from 16 July 2015. A selective Beyond Asia, Keppel Land has manager, Keppel Land has capital reduction exercise to acquired an office building in two property fund management cancel all outstanding shares London, the United Kingdom. vehicles, Keppel REIT Management held by minority shareholders To strengthen the Company’s Limited, the manager of of Keppel Land was approved retail capabilities, Keppel Land Keppel REIT, a pan-Asian at an extraordinary general has acquired a 75% stake in commercial real estate meeting on 13 April 2016 and retail management company investment trust, and Alpha the court on 5 May 2016. Array Real Estate, which has Investment Partners (Alpha). been renamed Keppel Land As at 31 December 2015, The Company is geographically Retail Management. Keppel REIT and Alpha’s total diversified in Asia, with Singapore assets under management have and China as its core markets as Keppel Land is Asia’s premier grown to $20.5 billion when fully well as Vietnam and Indonesia as home developer with world-class leveraged and invested. its growth markets. Keppel Land focuses on a two-pronged strategy of property development for sale 01 and property fund management. The Company’s total assets amounted to about $14.9 billion as at 31 December 2015. Keppel Land was ranked fourth in the prestigious Corporate Knights’ Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the World 2015, placing it first in Asia and among real estate companies worldwide. Keppel Land was a component of the Dow Jones Sustainability World and Asia Pacific Indices, as well as the Morgan Stanley International Global Sustainability and Socially Responsible Indices prior to its delisting. As a leading prime office developer in Singapore, Keppel Land contributes to enhancing the city’s skyline with landmark developments such Overview / Sustaining Growth / Empowering Lives / Nurturing Communities / Other Information About Keppel Land 07 Delivering Value Revenue rose by 6.8% Return-on-equity is one of the highest year-on-year to among Asia’s leading property developers at $1.6b 18.9% per annum over 10 years, from 2006 to 2015 Increased employee participation with Moved up to 5,095 hours of community outreach activities 4 th position in Corporate Knights’ Global 100 4th in Singapore and overseas Most Sustainable Corporations 2015, up from 17th position Total assets grew from Total energy savings of $14.9b $30m $14.6 billion to or 140m kWh per annum year-on-year from 61 BCA Green Mark certified developments Trained Received 34,000 61BCA Green workers Mark Awards to-date at Keppel Land’s to-date for properties Safety Awareness Centres in Singapore in Vietnam and Malaysia and overseas Sustainability Keppel Land is committed to delivering value to all our Framework stakeholders through Sustaining Growth in our businesses, Empowering Lives of our people and Nurturing Communities wherever we operate. Sustaining Empowering Nurturing Growth Lives Communities Our commitment to People are the cornerstone As a responsible corporate business excellence of our businesses. citizen, we believe that as is underpinned by communities thrive, we thrive. an unwavering focus As an employer of choice, on strong corporate we are committed to We give back to communities governance and prudent growing and nurturing wherever we operate financial management. our talent pool through through our multi-faceted continuous training and approach towards corporate Resource efficiency is development to help social responsibility. not only our responsibility, our people reach their but also makes good full potential. We cultivate a green business sense. mindset among our We instil a culture of employees to spur them We will continue to safety so that everyone towards adopting a distinguish our properties who comes to work goes sustainable lifestyle. with strong value offerings home safely. and hallmark quality for greater competitive edge. Pages 16 – 43 Pages 44 – 63 Pages 64 – 69 Overview / Sustaining Growth / Empowering Lives / Nurturing Communities / Other Information 09 Commitment to Stakeholders Commitment to Stakeholders* As a leading real estate company, shaping the best for future generations, we are guided by our operating principles and core values to create value for all our stakeholders through innovative real estate solutions. In determining the key stakeholder groups, we assessed the significance and impact of stakeholders’ interests in sustainability issues as well as the potential impact these stakeholders have on the Group’s businesses. The following six key stakeholder groups have been identified: Our Customers Our Business To develop quality homes Partners and products with good To integrate our strong investment value and regional network and build on our brand equity knowledge with the to enhance our strengths of our competitive edge. partners to capitalise on opportunities. Our Partner Our Investors Agencies To build on strong Value for To team up with regulatory fundamentals to deliver continued earnings All Our and non-governmental agencies to further the growth and maximise shareholder return. Stakeholders cause of achieving higher environmental, health and safety standards. Our Employees To help employees realise Our Community their full potential and To be a committed cultivate knowledge-based and responsible corporate employees with good citizen, contributing to work-life balance communities wherever for a motivated and we operate. dedicated workforce. * G4-24, G4-25 10 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2015 Managing Sustainability As a leading sustainable developer with Benchmarks of Excellence global presence, Keppel Land believes in Recognising that sustainability is an doing well and doing good. It continues to ongoing journey, Keppel Land aligns itself sharpen its focus on sustainability and with internationally-recognised standards, innovation. By operating in an economically, including International Organisation for socially and environmentally responsible Standardisation (ISO) standards such manner, the Company aims to achieve as ISO 9001 on quality management, positive and sustainable outcomes for ISO 14001 on environmental management its businesses, the environment and and OHSAS 18001 on occupational the community at large. health and safety management, as well as ISO 26000 guidance on social responsibility Keppel Land is committed to sound and the United Nations Global Compact. corporate governance practices as well as robust enterprise risk management In terms of sustainability reporting, processes. It also actively builds a Keppel Land has adopted and aligned strong safety culture to achieve a its Sustainability Reports with the Global zero-harm workplace. Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines at the Comprehensive option since 2014. Its Reports The Company strives to be an employer of are also externally assured in accordance choice, nurturing a competent and engaged with the AA1000 Assurance Standard. workforce to drive sustainable growth. Defining Report Content* Sustainability Management Materiality Assessment and Driving Keppel Land’s sustainability Stakeholder Engagement efforts is the Corporate Social Responsibility An external sustainability consultant was (CSR) Committee. Comprising representatives engaged in 2013 to meet with Keppel Land’s from different business units, the Committee CSR Committee members and senior is responsible for formulating the Company’s management from its different business CSR framework, implementing initiatives units to assist them in the identification and monitoring sustainability performance. and prioritisation of issues that are most relevant and significant to the Company The CSR Committee reports to the and its stakeholders. These issues are Board of Directors, which has oversight then linked to the overall strategy and of sustainability matters. risk management approach. * G4-18 CSR Committee Structure Board of Directors CSR Committee Singapore RISK MANAGEMENT CSR Champions corporate ServiceS & Keppel Land China corporate social responsibility Regional Investments FINANCE & ADMINISTRATION Workplace Safety & health HUMAN RESOURCES Property Management GROUP INTERNAL AUDIT PROJECT MANAGEMENT & SUSTAINABLE DESIGN Overview / Sustaining Growth / Empowering Lives / Nurturing Communities / Other Information Managing Sustainability 11 Keppel Land’s Material Issues** Material Aspects Aspect Boundary and Impact Level 1: Key Material Issues Economic performance Sustainable financial performance; occupational and customer health Health and Safety and safety; as well as compliance with national or international standards Compliance in areas including corporate governance, environment, safety, product responsibility and society, are material to both internal (employees) and external stakeholders (customers, investors, business partners, partner agencies and the community). This applies to the Group’s operations in Singapore and overseas. Level 2: Highly Critical Issues Environmental Impact Environmental aspects, including the use of environmentally-friendly • Materials use materials, energy and water conservation, reduction in carbon emissions, • Energy efficiency efficient effluents and waste management, as well as sustainable • Water management performance of products and services are important elements in addressing • Carbon emissions reduction climate change. These aspects are relevant to the Company’s internal and • Effluents and waste management external stakeholders. Environmental guidelines relating to these areas • Sustainable products and services apply in all geographical locations where the Company operates. Labour Practices Positive employment practices are critical in attracting, retaining and • Employment developing its talent pool as the Company strives to be an employer • Training and education of choice. They impact employees in the Group’s offices in Singapore • Labour-management relations and overseas. Social Responsibility The Company strives to be a responsible corporate citizen, contributing • Community engagement to and enriching the lives of local communities wherever it operates. • Business ethics Community engagement as well as business ethics are material to all internal and external stakeholders, and apply to the Group’s operations in Singapore and overseas. Level 3: Emerging or Moderately Material Issues Market presence As Keppel Land seeks to integrate sustainable policies, strategies and Marketing communications practices into its business operations, its market presence, as well as Anti-child labour compliance to regulations relating to marketing communications, Non-discrimination adherence to standards relating to prohibition of child labour and policy of non-discrimination, are important and relevant to all its operations. These aspects have an impact on all six of the Company’s stakeholder groups. ** G4-19, G4-20, G4-21, G4-23 12 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2015 Managing Sustainability 01 01 Keppel Land is Adopting a matrix-based approach, Sustainability-Related Key committed to creating sustainable live-work-play materiality was assessed based on Performance Indicators (KPIs) environments of two criteria, namely, the importance of Keppel Land has put in place systems to enduring value. an issue to both internal and external link the remuneration of senior executives stakeholders. The most material issues and relevant employees to the achievement were then placed on a 5x5 matrix with of pertinent sustainability-related goals clearly defined threshold criteria. and performance. These criteria are based on AA1000 For staff from the Project Management Standard’s five-part Materiality and Sustainable Design unit, as well as Test comprising: project managers across the Group, between 5% and 30% of their individual 1. Issues that have direct short-term performance appraisal is linked to financial impact; environmental targets covering multiple 2. Issues where the Company has agreed aspects such as improving energy efficiency policy statements of strategic nature; and reducing carbon emissions. 3. Issues that comparable organisations consider material; All employees have 2% of their KPIs linked to 4. Issues important to stakeholders; and corporate sustainability. For project managers, 5. Issues that are considered to be safety accounts for an additional 10% to social norms. 20% of their KPIs. Of this, safety performance, including accident frequency rate and accident This allows Keppel Land to review the severity rate, as well as fatal accidents, significance of such issues periodically, accounts for 50%. Any fatality at the end of based on changing stakeholder expectations. the supply chain will also affect the bonuses The materiality workshop was attended by CSR of key staff. Committee members and senior management from the different business units. Innovation and change, collaboration and teamwork, as well as risk management, In 2015, the external consultant reviewed and form part of executives’ competency conducted a gap analysis of Keppel Land’s assessment in the staff appraisal and Sustainability Report 2014 with the performance management framework, CSR Committee. which carry a 30% weightage. Overview / Sustaining Growth / Empowering Lives / Nurturing Communities / Other Information Managing Sustainability 13 Knowledge Management Keppel Land has processes in place to build organisational intelligence, develop new projects 10 Principles of or work programmes based on best practices, The United Nations harness the vast experience and knowledge of employees as well as prevent the loss of critical Global Compact knowledge caused by staff attrition. The Knowledge Sharing Portal, implemented in 2014, Human Rights facilitates appropriate sharing and protection of knowledge assets among business units in Principle 1 Singapore. This is part of a long-term plan to Businesses should support and respect the support operational needs, promote collaboration protection of internationally-proclaimed among staff and build organisational effectiveness. human rights. Sustainability Data Management Principle 2 Keppel Land, together with other business units Make sure that they are not complicit in within the Keppel Group, has a data management human rights abuses. system in place to streamline the management and reporting of sustainability metrics across its Singapore and overseas operations. Labour The system has been implemented for the Principle 3 Company’s projects in Singapore, China, Indonesia, Businesses should uphold the freedom of Vietnam and Myanmar. association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Environmental as well as workplace healthand safety-related data are collected every month. Principle 4 Streamlining of data collection, analysis and reporting Elimination of all forms of forced and processes reduces manpower costs as well as compulsory labour. improves business intelligence. Regular measuring and monitoring also enables Keppel Land to better Principle 5 manage its sustainability performance. Effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6 United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Elimination of discrimination in respect of Since 2011, Keppel Land has been a signatory employment and occupation. to the UNGC, a United Nations initiative to encourage businesses worldwide to adopt sustainable and socially responsible policies, as well as report on their implementation. Environment Sharing the same conviction that business Principle 7 practices which are rooted in universal principles Businesses should support a precautionary help the global marketplace to be more socially approach to environmental challenges. and economically inclusive, Keppel Land has pledged its commitment to the UNGC’s 10 universal Principle 8 principles in the areas of human rights, labour Undertake initiatives to promote greater standards, environmental protection and environmental responsibility. anti-corruption. The Company reports on its Principle 9 progress in implementing these principles in its Encourage the development and diffusion Communication on Progress to the UNGC annually. of environmentally-friendly technologies. Keppel Land is also a Gold member of the Global Compact Network Singapore, the national focal Anti-corruption point for the UNGC and platform for promoting CSR in Singapore. A member since its formation in 2005, Keppel Land supports its belief in the Principle 10 importance of integrating social values and Businesses should work against corruption in mission with business decision-making to all its forms, including extortion and bribery. achieve positive and sustainable outcomes. Innovation Value Talent Enterprise Readiness Collaboration Integrity Safety Customer Focus Enterprise Readiness Can Do Agility Harnessing Value Conservation Innovation Execution Integrity Accountability Customer Focus Strengths Can Do Customer Focus Collective Strength Value Can Do Integrity Value Enterprise Talent Innovation Sustainability Value Readiness Talent Innovation Execution Talent Can Do Integrity Collaboration Enterprise Accountability Agility InnovationTalent Customer Focus Customer Focus Enterprise Value Talent Enterprise Integrity Can Do People Execution Customer Focus Accountability Conservation Readiness Collaboration Talent Focus Agility Integrity Customer Focus Accountability Innovation Collaboration Discipline Execution Can Do Readiness Collective Strength Integrity Community Talent We will leverage platforms for Agility collaborations within the Company Value and across the Group to harness Collaboration Agility Innovation Can Do strengths, human capital and Accountability Integrity Customer Focus innovation to continually drive sustainability and provide solutions Talent Collective Strength to the challenges brought about by rapid urbanisation. Safety With safety as a core value and a top priority, Keppel Land strives Sustainability for a zero-harm workplace. We encourage all stakeholders to embrace By operating in an economically, safety as a personal and collective responsibility, socially and environmentally and have processes and systems in place to responsible manner, we aim to constantly remind all stakeholders on safety at the workplace. achieve positive and sustainable outcomes for our businesses, the environment and community at large. We believe in doing good as we do well. Through a multi-faceted approach towards corporate social responsibility, we commit to giving back to communities wherever we operate. Community Keppel Land believes that as our communities thrive, we thrive. We engage and nurture communities wherever we operate, with the aim of achieving a People sustainable future together. We align our community outreach efforts We recognise that people with our focus areas of environment and are our greatest asset and education, while continuing to support are committed to nurturing various community programmes including the arts, healthcare initiatives and other a diverse, competent and charitable causes. dedicated talent pool that will drive growth and create value for the Company. As an employer of choice, we continue to nurture a skilled and competent talent pool through training while creating opportunities for career growth and development of our employees. 16 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2015 Sustaining Growth Environment As a responsible green developer, Keppel Land is committed to the highest standards of environmental protection. The Company also strives to continually improve its environmental performance. Ranked 61 Green 4 th Mark Awards Keppel Land ranked 4th in Corporate Knights’ To-date, the Company has garnered a total Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in of 61 BCA Green Mark Awards, including the World 2015 – the highest position in Asia eight Platinum, eight GoldPlus, 39 Gold and and also in the real estate sector worldwide. six Certified Awards. 01 Overview / Sustaining Growth / Empowering Lives / Nurturing Communities / Other Information 17 Environment 01 The vertical garden at As one of Asia’s leading property Ocean Financial Centre companies, Keppel Land strives is one of the many innovative eco-features to create sustainable and optimal Environmental Vision of the development. live-work-play environments of enduring value for the community. A premier developer committed to Focused on creating properties that harmonise with and enhance the designing, building and operating environment, the Company adopts properties that harmonise with the a holistic and proactive approach environment as well as enhancing towards environmental management. It undertakes rigorous measures to the quality of life of communities ensure that both new and existing where we operate. developments comply with regulatory requirements and are aligned with internationally-recognised Key Eco-Principles environmental guidelines. Environmental Vision, Policy and Eco-Principles ECOllaboration Keppel Land’s approach towards environmental management is Work with stakeholders as well as guided by its environmental vision, policyand decision-makers to its Quality, Environmental, Health and build a sustainable future. Safety Policy, as well as its four key eco-principles. ECOnomy Endorsed by top management, these are communicated to all staff through Balance commercial viability with various platforms such as the Company’s environmental sustainability. intranet and newsletters. Climate Change Climate change has affected Singapore, ECOmmitment with steady increases in the annual average temperature from 26.6ºC in Promote environmental awareness 1972 to 27.7ºC in 2014, and the annual and support green initiatives. average rainfall from 2,192mm in 1980 to 2,727mm in 2014. The annual sea level in the Singapore Strait also rose at a rate of 1.2mm to 1.7mm annually from ECOmmunity 1975 to 2009. Create a sustainable future for Singapore’s National Environment generations to come. Agency has projected that Singapore’s daily mean temperature will continue to increase by up to 4.6ºC and mean sea level will rise by 0.25m to 0.76m by the year 2100. The intensity and frequency of rainfall are expected to increase as a result of global warming. With climate change dominating global agendas, increased reliance on non-renewable resources for energy and the cost of energy expected to rise in the long term, there is an even greater need for environmental consciousness. 18 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2015 Sustaining Growth Environment Environmental Objectives Objectives Develop environmentally-friendly Adopt an integrated approach Meet national or international properties that minimise pollution in the design, construction and standards on environmental and other adverse impacts to development of sustainable protection. the environment. properties. Targets Achieve at least the Green Mark Reduce carbon footprint and Achieve an Integrated Management GoldPlus Award by the Building and implement sustainable practices System (IMS) for the Group’s Construction Authority (BCA) of when developing new buildings operations. Singapore for its new projects in and managing existing properties. Singapore, and the BCA Green Mark Gold Award or its equivalent for new projects overseas. Performances in 2015 • Clinched the BCA Built • Set up Keppel Group Task Force • Implemented the IMS in Singapore and 2016 Environment Leadership on Climate Change. and China. (Gold Class) Award. • Establishing a Suppliers Code • Achieved ISO 9001 certification • Achieved six BCA Green Mark Awards of Conduct to influence and for property development and for commercial and residential encourage its suppliers to project management services developments in Singapore. operate responsibly, improve in Singapore. • Attained another five BCA their energy efficiency and • Achieved ISO 14001 recertification Green Mark Awards for overseas reduce overall emissions. in Singapore, China, Vietnam properties in China and Myanmar. • Conducted annual reviews and Indonesia. • Achieved a total of 61 BCA Green to track the progress of Mark Awards in Singapore and Environmental Operations and overseas to-date, including Carbon Management Plans eight Platinum, eight GoldPlus, to ensure the sustainability of 39 Gold and six Certified Awards environmental benefits. in Singapore, China, Indonesia, • Expanded the scope of the Vietnam, India and Myanmar. Environmental Operations Plan to include completed commercial buildings overseas in addition to those in Singapore and hospitality properties overseas. Plans Ahead • To attain the minimum rating of • To reduce carbon emissions • To continue to roll out IMS to BCA Green Mark GoldPlus Award intensity by 16% below 2010’s the Group’s overseas operations. for all new projects in Singapore. levels by 2020. • To attain at least the • To implement guidelines BCA Green Mark Gold Award comprising stretched targets or its equivalent for new in the areas of environmental developments overseas. certification, energy, water, landscaping and materials use in new developments in Singapore and overseas. Overview / Sustaining Growth / Empowering Lives / Nurturing Communities / Other Information 19 Environment Raise awareness of Underscore importance of Develop green capabilities, Preserve biodiversity in environmental sustainability waste minimisation, resource knowledge and skills to enhance local environments. among stakeholders through conservation and environmental building performances. the Go Green with Keppel Land ownership amongst stakeholders. outreach programme. Engage and raise ecoPromote green practices among Leverage green building Preserve biodiversity and maintain consciousness among staff, tenants and staff through technology and build a high standards of environmental tenants and the wider public the Eco-Office programme core team of in-house green protection to ensure a balanced through regular activities in its corporate offices. building specialists through and intact ecosystem. and events. sustainability training. • Partnered Royal Philips on • Awarded the BCA Green Mark • Keppel Land’s General Manager • Implemented green initiatives a zero-capital expenditure Pearl Award for Marina Bay for Singapore Projects was such as enhancing water scheme to replace existing Financial Centre Tower 3 and awarded the Green Building quality, increasing plant lights with light emitting Ocean Financial Centre. Individual Commendation density and natural habitat diode (LED) lighting to reduce • Achieved the Green Mark for Award in the BCA-Singapore areas at Eco-City International energy consumption in its Office Interior Awards for the Green Building Council (SGBC) Country Club in Tianjin, China. office premises by up to 60% Group’s corporate office as Green Building Individual and extended the scheme to well as management offices Awards 2015. tenants. The scheme was also at Bugis Junction Towers and • About 34% of the Company’s rolled out in Saigon Centre, Ocean Financial Centre. project managers in Singapore Vietnam, in 2015, and will • Attained recertification and overseas have been yield energy savings of about of the Eco-Office Programme trained and equipped with US$34,000 per annum. by the Singapore Environment BCA Green Mark certifications • Renewed adoption of Jurong Council for Keppel Land’s to-date. Lake under PUB’s Water and Keppel REIT’s offices • Participated in the US Green Adopters programme from for 2015-2017. Build International Conference 2015 to 2017. • Replaced all lightings in its and Expo 2015 led by BCA. • Shared best practices in offices with energy-efficient sustainability and green LED lamps. building technologies at • Provided complimentary energy green conferences. gap analysis to tenants at • Encouraged tenants to support selected buildings to encourage green initiatives through sharing the adoption of green initiatives. of eco-practices in the Green Tenants Committee, which comprises staff and tenants. • To continue to contribute • To achieve optimal levels • To have all project managers • To partake in good stewardship to the green scene through of energy, paper and toner to be certified as Green Mark of the natural environment partnerships with related usage at its corporate office. Managers within two years as well as adopt best practices agencies and bodies in • To encourage more tenants of joining the Company, so as and policies that support Singapore and overseas. to renovate their premises to develop a pool of in-house healthy ecosystems, • To continually engage and in accordance with the professionals with expertise in promote biodiversity and inculcate a green mindset requirements for BCA Green sustainable design processes, sustain natural resources. among stakeholders Mark for Office Interior. encourage integrated designs through the sharing of best and enhance building practices at environmental performances. conferences, organising outreach programmes, and supporting eco-related events. 20 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2015 Sustaining Growth Environment Environmental Sustainability Strategy Recognising key environmental challenges and risks, Keppel Land Key Challenges Strategies and Actions has adopted an environmental sustainability strategy which focuses on five main areas. Climate change and global warming Set up Keppel Groupwide Task Force This includes the formulation of More stringent regulatory on Climate Change corporate policies and programmes, requirements to address carbon Legal compliance development of new projects, emissions are expected. Carbon management plan management of completed Minimum Green Mark standards buildings, implementation of for new developments management systems, as well as organisation of outreach initiatives. Environmental design guidelines The Corporate Social Responsibility Limited natural resources Legal compliance (CSR) Committee oversees the Cost of energy is expected to Minimum Green Mark standards Group’s CSR efforts which include rise in the long run, leading to for completed buildings environmental management higher expectations to source for Environmental operations plan and protection. materials responsibly. Green procurement policy Supply chain management Comprising representatives from the different business units, the Ecological conservation Legal compliance Committee formulates the Group’s Greater emphasis is placed on ISO14001 Environmental eco-policy, principles, targets and the protection of ecosystems and Management System framework for action, implements well-being of the community. green initiatives, as well as sets CSR outreach programmes performance benchmarks for Stakeholder engagement programmes continuous improvement. Public communications plan The Committee also leads the Group’s implementation of the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System (EMS) as well as the Eco-Office and property development and ISO 9001 and OHSAS 18001 Go Green with Keppel Land property management operations standards on environmental outreach programmes. in Singapore in 2008 and 2009 management, quality and respectively. The scope of occupational health and safety Environmental certification was extended management into a single Management System to its property development framework for its Singapore Keppel Land has implemented operations in China and and China operations in 2014 an EMS in accordance with the Vietnam in 2009, which obtained and 2015. internationally-recognised independent certifications in ISO 14001:2004 (ISO 14001) 2011 and 2013 respectively. Supply Chain standard for managing and As a sustainable property developer, controlling corporate activities to In 2013, the scope was further Keppel Land is committed to achieve continuous improvement extended to include Keppel Land’s managing its supply chain in environmental performance. property development operations across the whole life cycle of the in Indonesia. project from its initiation and The EMS identifies aspects of design development stages to the Company’s activities that The Company renewed its subsequent construction and may have significant impact on certification for its operations in operation stages. This allows the environment. Targets are then Singapore, China, Vietnam and the Company to effectively established, with procedures and Indonesia in 2014. manage its consultants, main processes in place to achieve contractors and subcontractors, these objectives. To further enhance its management as well as diverse services, performance, Keppel Land has materials and equipment ISO 14001 Certification implemented an Integrated required to deliver large-scale The Company achieved the Management System (IMS), developments in a complex ISO 14001 certification for its which combines the ISO 14001, supply chain environment. Overview / Sustaining Growth / Empowering Lives / Nurturing Communities / Other Information 21 Environment In selecting its main contractors for Aligning itself with the Keppel Group, the Group’s new projects in Singapore, Keppel Land is also currently establishing contractors are assessed under stringent a Suppliers Code of Conduct for all its criteria. These include track record, financial operations, which will set out minimum strength as well as commitment towards criteria in terms of legal compliance, high quality, environmental and safety anti-corruption, human rights, health standards. Contractors with ISO 9001, and safety as well as environmental ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certifications management required of its contractors. are preferred. Through such efforts, Keppel Land aims For all project sites covered under the to influence and encourage its suppliers scope of Keppel Land’s EMS, contractors to operate responsibly, improve energy are required to conduct an impact efficiency and reduce overall emissions. assessment based on activities at the project site prior to construction. The Compliance assessment covers potential negative In 2015, one of Keppel Land’s Singapore environmental impacts, including depletion residential projects was fined a total of of resources, biodiversity disturbance $9,000 for two incidences of mosquito as well as air, water and noise pollution. breeding at its construction site. Contractors are required to establish These fines were imposed on the and implement appropriate measures appointed main contractor and to mitigate and/or prevent significant mitigating actions have since been environmental impacts identified. taken to prevent recurrence. Supply Chain Management Project Initiation Design Development Tender Construction Operation Sustainable Concept & Schematic Tender Construction Procurement Design Brief Design Review Documentation Set minimum Green Appoint consultants Select contractors Ensure Environmental State ISO 14001 Mark target for new to conduct based on their track Aspects Impact specifications in developments. environmental record, financial Assessment is the contracts for impact assessment. strength as well as conducted to identify procurement Issue Environmental commitment towards environmental issues. of services. Design Guidelines to high quality, as well design team and as environmental and Encourage consultants. safety standards. contractors to source green-labelled Preference for materials responsibly ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 and regionally. certified contractors. Monitor contractors’ Set out standards energy, water of conduct for and construction contractors including materials usage. legal compliance, health and safety, and environmental management. State environmental and ISO 14001 specifications in tender documents. 22 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2015 Sustaining Growth Environment 01 Keppel Land garnered Benchmarks of Excellence Ocean Financial Centre, with The Group attained a total of a slew of awards at 11 BCA Green Mark Awards Keppel Land adopts a proactive 850,000 sf of column-free Grade A the BCA Green Mark Awards 2015, including approach towards environmental office space, is a showcase of for its residential and commercial the coveted BCA Built protection through harnessing innovative eco-breakthroughs. projects in Singapore and Environment Leadership human capital, technology overseas in 2015 and 2016. Award (Gold Class). and innovation. It has set the These include a large photovoltaic benchmark for all new projects (PV) system for high-rise buildings In 2015, Seasons Residence in in Singapore to achieve at least in Singapore’s central business Shanghai, Central Park City (Plot C2) the BCA Green Mark GoldPlus rating, district, an energy-efficient in Wuxi, Waterfront Residence in as well as the minimum BCA hybrid chilled water system and Nantong, Stamford City (Plot A) Green Mark Gold certification an integrated paper recycling in Jiangyin, and Nassim Woods or its equivalent, such as the facility. Its 2,125 sm green wall in Singapore received the Green United States’ (US) Leadership was named the World’s Largest Mark Gold Award. 8 Park Avenue in Energy and Environmental Vertical Garden by the Guinness in Shanghai was also certified to Design (LEED), for all its new World Records in 2013. the Green Mark standard in the projects overseas. same year. Bca Green Mark Leed Platinum To-date, Keppel Land has In 2016, Marina Bay Financial Ocean Financial Centre is the garnered a total of 61 BCA Green Centre Tower 3 was recertified as a first high-rise office development Mark Awards for its properties Green Mark Platinum development, in Southeast Asia to achieve the in Singapore, China, Indonesia, and Sedona Hotel Yangon’s Inya highest LEED Platinum certification Vietnam, Myanmar and India. Wing won the Green Mark GoldPlus from the US Green Building Council. They include eight Platinum, Award. Keppel Land’s corporate eight GoldPlus, 39 Gold and office received the Green Mark for LEED is the globally-recognised six Certified Awards. Office Interior Platinum Award, benchmark for the design, while the management offices construction and operation of Total energy savings from of Ocean Financial Centre and high-performance green buildings. these properties is estimated Bugis Junction Towers won the Buildings certified under the LEED at over 140 million kWh, Green Mark for Office Interior Platinum rating have to meet translating to cost savings of GoldPlus Awards. stringent standards on sustainability, about $30 million per annum1. energy and water efficiency, Total annual water savings Launched in 2005, the BCA Green materials, resources, indoor amount to over 1.6 million m3, Mark scheme drives Singapore’s environmental quality, design while total annual emissions construction industry towards innovation and regional priority. reduction exceed 60,000 tonnes. achieving a sustainable built 01 Overview / Sustaining Growth / Empowering Lives / Nurturing Communities / Other Information 23 Environment environment by incorporating best practices International Financial Centre Jakarta Tower 2 in environmental design and construction was also the first office building in Indonesia to as well as encouraging the adoption of achieve the BCA Green Mark Platinum rating green building technologies. It provides a in 2012. Expected annual energy savings comprehensive framework for assessing the is about 31% or 3.4 million kWh annually. overall environmental performance of new The development boasts state-of-the art and existing buildings in terms of energy and eco-friendly features including a highly water efficiency, indoor air quality, as well as efficient chiller plant system, regenerative other green and innovative features. elevators and naturally-ventilated sky gardens. The BCA Green Mark for Office Interior was introduced in 2009 as a user-centric scheme BCA Awards to further encourage users and occupants In 2015, Keppel Land won the BCA Built to incorporate more environmentally-friendly Environment Leadership Award. This award features and adopt sustainable practices in recognises outstanding firms which have their premises. demonstrated excellence and leadership in shaping a safe, high quality, sustainable Green Mark Platinum and friendly built environment in Singapore. To-date, Keppel Land has garnered eight It also serves as a comprehensive roadmap Green Mark Platinum Awards, including for the building and construction industry Marina Bay Financial Centre Tower 3, to level up and spur organisations towards Ocean Financial Centre, Bugis Junction Towers, a higher degree of professionalism with Keppel Bay Tower and Keppel Datahub 2 in enhanced capabilities and competitiveness. Singapore, and International Financial Centre Jakarta Tower 2 in Indonesia. Keppel Land’s General Manager for Singapore Projects was conferred the Green Building In 2016, Marina Bay Financial Centre Tower 3 Individual Commendation Award at the was recertified as a BCA Green Mark Platinum BCA-Singapore Green Building Council (SGBC) building. Some of its energy-efficient features Green Building Individual Awards 2015. This include district cooling system, LED lightings, award recognises individuals from across the regenerative lifts, heat recovery wheel building and construction value chain for their and motion sensors. The building is consistent contribution and outstanding expected to save over 11 million kWh achievements in the development of a green of energy annually. and sustainable built environment. In the same year, Keppel Land’s corporate In recognition of its commitment and office at Bugis Junction Towers also won collaboration with tenants to achieve the BCA Green Mark for Office Interior environmental sustainability, Keppel Land Platinum Award. The extensive use of was also conferred the new BCA Green Mark energy-efficient LED lightings resulted Pearl Award for Marina Bay Financial Centre in its low energy efficiency index. The entire Tower 3 and Ocean Financial Centre in 2015 installation, which includes Bugis Junction and 2016 respectively. Launched in 2015, retail mall, is one of the largest for an this Award recognises developers with integrated mixed-use development in a substantial number of Green-Mark Singapore. It is expected to generate certified tenants under the Green Mark 200,000 kWh of clean energy for the occupant-centric schemes within a base development, which is sufficient to power building which is certified Green Mark GoldPlus approximately 50 homes in Singapore or higher. for a year. The lightings also mitigate 110 tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions Energy and Cost Savings annually. Total energy savings for When fully completed, the total reduction in the development is estimated at energy consumption from all of Keppel Land’s $30,000 annually for the next 25 years. BCA Green Mark-certified projects will be 1 Energy cost: 1kWh = $0.2035 over 140 million kWh per annum, translating (Source: SP Services, 4Q 2015) Ocean Financial Centre, the first office to cost savings of about $30 million annually. 2 Average consumption of a Housing Development Board building in Singapore’s CBD to attain the These savings are enough to power more five-room flat is 471 kWh/month BCA Green Mark Platinum award in 2008, than 24,000 homes in Singapore for one year2. (Source: SP Services) was successfully recertified in 2016. In terms of greenhouse gases, these projects 3 Energy conversion ratio: 1kWh electricity = 0.4322 kg CO2 Expected energy savings for the development will achieve an annual reduction of more (Source: National Environment Agency, is about 35% or $9 million1 annually. than 60,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide3. Dec 2015) 24 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2015 Sustaining Growth Environment BCA Green Mark Awards (Singapore) Project Location Category Year Singapore Residential Nassim Woods1 Singapore Gold 2015 Highline Residences Singapore GoldPlus 2014 The Glades Singapore GoldPlus 2013 Corals at Keppel Bay Singapore GoldPlus 2013 The Luxurie Singapore Gold 2013 The Lakefront Residences Singapore Gold 2012 Marina Bay Suites Singapore Gold 2009 Sixth Avenue Residences Singapore Gold 2009 The Promont Singapore Gold 2009 Madison Residences Singapore Gold 2008 Reflections at Keppel Bay Singapore Gold 2008 Marina Bay Residences Singapore Gold 2007 The Tresor Singapore Gold 2006 Commercial Marina Bay Financial Centre (Tower 3)3 Singapore Platinum 2016 Keppel Datahub Singapore GoldPlus 2015 Keppel Bay Tower1,3 Singapore Platinum 2014 Keppel Datahub 2 Singapore Platinum 2014 Keppel Datahub 2 Singapore BCA-IDA Platinum 2014 Bugis Junction Towers1,3 Singapore Platinum 2014 Prudential Tower1,3,6 Singapore GoldPlus 2013 Keppel Digihub Singapore Certified 2013 Marina at Keppel Bay1 Singapore Gold 2011 Equity Plaza1,6 Singapore Gold 2010 Keppel Towers & Keppel Towers 27 Singapore Gold 2010 One Raffles Quay1 Singapore Gold 2009 Ocean Financial Centre2 Singapore Platinum 2008 Marina Bay Financial Centre (Towers 1 & 2) Singapore Gold 2008 Office Interior Keppel Land Corporate Office Singapore Platinum 2016 Ocean Financial Centre Management Office Singapore GoldPlus 2016 Bugis Junction Towers Management Office Singapore GoldPlus 2016 Overview / Sustaining Growth / Empowering Lives / Nurturing Communities / Other Information 25 Environment BCA Green Mark Awards (Overseas) Project Location Category Year Overseas China Seasons Residence Shanghai Gold 2015 8 Park Avenue Shanghai Certified 2015 Central Park City (Plot C2) Wuxi Gold 2015 Waterfront Residence Nantong Gold 2015 Stamford City (Plot A) Jiangyin Gold 2015 Serenity Villa Chengdu Gold 2014 The Seasons Shenyang Certified 2014 Stamford City (Block 5) Jiangyin Gold 2014 Stamford City (Blocks 1,2,3-1,3-2) Jiangyin Certified 2014 Hill Crest Villa Chengdu Gold 2013 The Springdale (Plot 2) Shanghai Gold 2012 Park Avenue Heights Chengdu Gold 2012 Hill Crest Residence Kunming Gold 2012 Seasons Park4 Tianjin Gold 2012 Serenity Villa4 Tianjin Gold 2012 Central Park City (Plot C1) Wuxi Gold 2011 The Arcadia Tianjin Gold 2009 Spring City Golf and Lake Resort (La Quinta villas) Kunming Gold 2009 The Springdale (Plot 1) Shanghai Gold 2009 The Springdale (Plot 3)4 Shanghai Gold 2009 Villa Riviera Shanghai Certified 2009 Vietnam Saigon Centre (Retail Podium)4 Ho Chi Minh City Gold 2012 Saigon Centre (Office Tower)4 Ho Chi Minh City Gold 2012 Riviera Point4 Ho Chi Minh City Gold 2012 Riviera Cove Ho Chi Minh City Gold 2009 The Estella Ho Chi Minh City Gold 2008 Indonesia International Financial Centre Jakarta Tower 24 Jakarta Platinum 2012 Jakarta Garden City (Phase 1)5 Jakarta Gold 2011 India Elita Garden Vista5 Kolkata Certified 2012 Myanmar Sedona Hotel Yangon (Inya Wing) Yangon GoldPlus 2016 Sedona Hotel Yangon1 (Garden Wing) Yangon Gold 2014 1 Projects awarded BCA Green Mark certifications under the existing building category. 2 Ocean Financial Centre also received the Platinum level LEED-CS (core and shell) precertification in 2009, which was converted to certification in 2012. 3 Recertification award. 4 Provisional awards – the final certificates will only be issued upon verification of the green features at the project completion stage. 5 Keppel Land divested its stakes in Jakarta Garden City and Elita Garden Vista in 2013 and 2014 respectively. 6 Keppel Land divested its stakes in Prudential Tower and Equity Plaza in 2014. 7 Formerly known as Keppel Towers & GE Tower. 26 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2015 Sustaining Growth Environment Marina at Keppel Bay reducing overall carbon the PUB, Singapore’s national Testament to its continuous efforts emissions by approximately 40%. water agency, in October 2015, in nurturing an environmentallyThe tri-generation technology while Bugis Junction Towers friendly marina and advocating has garnered the office building received the Silver certification. eco-friendly practices to boat a 5-star rating by the National owners, Marina at Keppel Bay Australian Built Environmental At the ASEAN Energy Awards was named Asia’s first Fish Rating System for its energy and 2015, which was held in Friendly Marina by the Marina water efficiency. conjunction with the ASEAN Industries Association (MIA), Ministers on Energy Meeting, the top body representing the Keppel Land is a partner in Ocean Financial Centre marina industry in the Asia the Green Buildings Innovation was named Winner in the Pacific. The MIA’s Fish Friendly Cluster (GBIC) programme, Large Green Building category. Marinas programme recognises initiated by the BCA in 2014. Organised by the ASEAN Centre marinas which actively work to Comprising academic institutions, for Energy, the Awards promotes improve the habitat of marine developers and other professionals projects demonstrating energy life within their waters. The in the green building industry, efficiency and sustainability. programme is an extension of the GBIC serves as the central MIA’s International Clean Marinas focal point to reinforce the Keppel Land’s listed fund Level 3 programme, for which the national drive towards greater management arm, Keppel REIT, marina has been re-accredited energy efficiency as well as to topped the Global Real Estate for the second time in June 2015. streamline, coordinate and Sustainability Benchmark disseminate building energy (GRESB) 2015, ranking first in Green Innovation efficiency-related activities. Asia across all diversified entities To enhance overall building It will be a one-stop hub to and sectors, first in Asia among performance in environmental experiment, exhibit and exchange listed real estate companies, as sustainability, Keppel Land has knowledge on promising building well as first among entities listed embarked on a joint research energy-efficient solutions with in the Asia Pacific Real Estate programme in 2015 with the industry stakeholders. Composite Indices. It is the first National University of Singapore’s REIT in Asia to maintain its top (NUS) Centre for Integrated Sustainability Benchmarks ranking as the Regional Leader Building Energy and Sustainability Keppel Land continues to gain for Office Sector in Asia for in the Tropics (CiBEST) in the recognition, both regionally and two consecutive years and is areas of building energy efficiency internationally, for its commitment also among the top three for and energy management. to high environmental standards, the office sector as well as CiBEST, developed to support incorporation of green technologies across all diversified entities the nation’s goal to develop and features in its properties, as and sectors globally. GRESB cutting-edge expertise in well as environmental education measures the environmental designing energy-efficient and outreach programmes. and social performances of and sustainable buildings for real estate companies and tropical climates, will partner At the inaugural Singapore Apex funds based on sustainability Keppel Land for the test-bedding, CSR Awards held in August 2015, data gathered from property evaluation, development and Keppel Land took top honours companies and funds around commercialisation of the in the Large Organisations the world. developed solutions. category. Co-organised by Global Compact Network Keppel Land continued to Leveraging innovative technology Singapore, Singapore Business participate in the Carbon to improve environmental Federation and The Business Disclosure Project (CDP) on performance, Keppel REIT’s Times, the Awards honour a voluntary basis in 2015. office building in Sydney, Singaporean companies which The CDP is an international 8 Chifley Square, has installed exhibit the highest levels of non-profit organisation that a tri-generation plant which is CSR excellence. It also provides encourages companies and one of the largest decentralised a benchmark for other companies cities to disclose and share energy networks in the world. aspiring to improve their vital environmental information. It is the first of its kind in Sydney sustainability practices. It currently holds the largest that is able to export excess global collection of self-reported electricity generated to another Lauded for its water-efficient climate change, water and property, allowing the plant features, Ocean Financial Centre forest-risk data, and is a to operate at a higher capacity and Marina Bay Financial Centre key source of environmental over longer periods, thereby were awarded the Water Efficient performance database for improving efficiency and Building Gold certification by many partners worldwide. Overview / Sustaining Growth / Empowering Lives / Nurturing Communities / Other Information 27 Environment Stakeholder Engagement* Recognising the need for stakeholder engagement to inculcate a green mindset, Keppel Land continues to reach out to its stakeholders in Singapore and overseas with its Go Green with Keppel Land environmental education and outreach programme. Employees Tenants and Residents Public Inculcate Green Mindsets Commemorate Key Eco Dates Promote Environmental Awareness • Sponsored the Green Corridor Run • Keppel Land’s 34 commercial, • Adopted Tiong Bahru as a Bright Spot in 2015 and 2016 with the Keppel Land residential and hospitality developments under Public Hygiene Council’s Water Challenge event held in conjunction in Singapore and overseas participated Keep Singapore Clean Movement. with World Water Day. in Earth Hour 2015. • Collaborated with Southwest Community • Pledged to conserve energy at Ricoh’s • Held eco-awareness drives at six of Development Centre on its 1,000,000 Eco-Action Day 2015 and 2016, where Keppel Land and Keppel REIT’s office Native Plants @ South West and Keppel Land was the strategic partner. buildings during Ricoh’s Eco Action Recycle-a-Bulb programmes. • Organised a sharing session by Day 2015. • Donated 20 bicycles to the Bangkaew sustainability leader DHL on embedding Subdistrict Administrative Organisation sustainability in the supply chain for Engage and Collaborate on in Thailand for residents’ use as part Singapore and overseas staff. Green Initiatives of a carbon emissions reduction • Keppel Land’s office in Vietnam • Extended partnership with Royal Philips campaign. organised a beach cleanup activity to replace existing lamps with LED for staff in Vung Tau. lightings on zero capital expenditure Share Best Practices scheme to tenants in Singapore • Shared on Keppel Land’s sustainability Commemorate Key and Vietnam. journey at the World Green Building Environmental Dates • Formed Green Tenants Committee with Council (WGBC) Congress 2015. • Sponsored the National Butterfly tenants of various office buildings to • Shared critical skills for implementing Campaign organised by the Nature share green initiatives. sustainability at the Ricoh-IBM World Society (Singapore) to raise awareness Environment Centre’s World Environment on protecting the environment. Encourage Green Properties Day roundtable session. • Organised a lunchtime talk for • Produced Green Fit-Out and Green Office • Keppel REIT shared its best practices staff on the importance of balancing Operation Guides for tenants and residents. in sustainability at the GRESB-APREA urbanisation and maintaining • Produced Green Guide at Sedona Hotels Masterclass series. biodiversity to ensure a healthy Yangon and Mandalay for hotel guests • Engaged suppliers and contractors on ecosystem. to encourage environmentally-friendly greening the supply chain through a • Organised litter-picking activity at practices during their stay. sharing session on sustainability issues. Tiong Bahru, Keppel Land’s adopted • Provide complimentary environmental • Sino-Singapore Tianjin Eco-City organised Bright Spot, under Public Hygiene Council’s gap analysis services to encourage the Varsity Eco-Innovation & Green Action Keep Singapore Clean Movement on tenants to adopt the BCA Green Mark competition and showcased projects on World Environment Day for staff for Office Interior initiative. green technology by students. in Singapore. • Successfully encouraged three tenants • Keppel Land China’s offices celebrated at Ocean Financial Centre to adopt Promote Cooperation for National Tree Planting Day and World green office operational standards. Environmental Protection Environment Day with tree planting, These tenants were conferred the • Gold Sponsor of the International Green book exchange and recycling activities. BCA Green Mark for Office Interior Award Building Conference 2015 and Platinum in 2016. Sponsor of the Building Energy Efficiency Cultivate Green Habits • Set up a one-stop Good Earth Centre for Solutions Students’ Competition. • Implemented Eco-Office practices recycling dry materials and food waste • Founding member of the WGBC Corporate in Singapore, China and Vietnam. generated by residents using food waste Advisory Board. • Obtained recertification as Green composting machines at Taman Sutera • Board member of the Singapore Green Offices under the SEC Eco-Office integrated township in Johor, Malaysia. Building Council. programme for 2015-2017 for Keppel Land and Keppel REIT’s offices. Learn from Industry Experts Nurture the Young in Green Education • In Thailand, Keppel Land rolled • Organised lunchtime talks with invited • Taman Sutera collaborated with students out the KARE green campaign tenants and industry leaders to share on a one-year project to reduce and in 2015, which comprised daily innovative business solutions to drive recycle food waste generated. energy-saving tips for employees resource efficiency. • Keppel Land’s office in Shanghai and a contest for staff to come up • Held small sharing sessions and commemorated Children’s Day by with practical and innovative fostered knowledge exchange on organising recyclable craft-making energy-saving ideas. sustainability and the supply chain. activities with residents and their children. * G4-26, G4-27 28 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2015 Sustaining Growth Environment Eco-Office Programme measures to minimise inconvenience to In recognition of the Group’s continuous residents wherever possible. For instance, efforts to implement green initiatives at the Company will proactively inform residents its offices and encouraging staff to be of any upcoming construction works in the eco-conscious, the Singapore Environment vicinity during the design and construction Council has recertified the corporate offices stage of its new developments, as well as of Keppel Land and Keppel REIT as Green obtain feedback from them. Offices for another two years from 2015. Green Business Associations Within its offices, eco-friendly products such Keppel Land is a founding member as Totally Chlorine-Free (TCF) or Elemental of the WGBC Corporate Advisory Board, Chlorine-Free (ECF) printing paper and working with the global network of Energy Star-labelled computers are used. Green Building Councils to implement A recycling company has been contracted strategies, ideas and projects for a green to collect and recycle waste paper. built environment. During the year, Keppel Land replaced all The Company is also on the Board of the lightings in its offices with energy-efficient Singapore Green Building Council, which light emitting diode (LED) lamps, which propels Singapore’s building and construction consume less than half the energy of industry towards environmental sustainability fluorescent tubes. Energy consumption by promoting green building design, practices was reduced to 342,000 kWh in 2015, with and technologies, integrating eco-initiatives energy usage per gross floor area falling to into mainstream design, construction and 60 kWh/m2 as compared to 82 kWh/m2 in 2014. operation of buildings, as well as building industry capabilities and professionalism to In 2015, paper usage fell to about 10.1 reams support wider adoption of green building per employee, from 11.0 reams in 2014, development and practices. The Council while toner usage remained at 0.74 tonereq4 complements and supports the government’s per employee. efforts to accelerate the greening of the city’s buildings by 2030. Green Capabilities Keppel Land is committed to inculcating a Sustainability Reporting sound understanding of green technologies Keppel Land adheres strictly to the discipline and knowledge of sustainable management of disclosure and communication with its in its employees, to help enhance the stakeholders on its ESG performance. Company’s environmental performance. Believing that what is measured gets done, the Group started detailing its environmental To-date, about 34% of all project and initiatives as part of its Annual Report from property managers in Singapore and overseas 1997. It produced its first CSR report online have been trained as either Green Mark in 2008. Managers, Green Mark Facilities Managers or Green Mark Professionals, or have undergone Keppel Land has adopted the internationallythe Singapore Certified Energy Manager recognised Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) programme organised by the NUS Energy framework in its sustainability reporting Sustainability Unit. since 2009. The Company’s level of disclosure improved from Level C to Level B+ and To keep employees abreast of green business included external assurance in 2010. strategies and best practices, key management staff attended the US Greenbuild International This was followed by assurance in accordance Conference and Expo 2015 led by BCA. with the internationally-accepted AA1000 The event provided insights into the latest in Assurance Standard based on the accountability green buildings and technologies, as well as principles of inclusivity, materiality and innovative building and construction materials. responsiveness in 2011. The Group further adopted the GRI Construction and Real Public Communications Plan Estate Sector Supplement guidelines for To ensure the well-being of the community, its report in 2012. Keppel Land has developed a Public Communications Plan which will be In 2013, Keppel Land further raised its 4 Tonereq refers to the equivalent toner implemented for future projects. The plan disclosure standards and achieved a that prints 6,000 copies. includes gathering feedback and mitigating Level A+ rating. Overview / Sustaining Growth / Empowering Lives / Nurturing Communities / Other Information 29 Environment From 2014, the Company adopted the GRI G4 Total Energy Consumption (million kWh) Guidelines at the Comprehensive option and completed the GRI Materiality Disclosures Services. 80 60 This eighth and current Sustainability Report has been reviewed and approved by the 40 CSR Committee, which ensures that all material aspects are addressed. 20 0 Environmental Performance* 2012 2013 2014 2015 This section reports on Keppel Land’s energy and water use, waste discharged and recycled, Corporate Office 0.5 0.5 0.4 0.3 materials used and emission to air for major Singapore Commerciala,b 22.7 23.4 23.6 21.4 properties in Singapore and overseas. Overseas Commerciald 14.4 15.1 15.9 15.6 Overseas Retaile 9.9 8.9 6.1 0.0 It covers data for its corporate office, Singapore Hospitality Propertiesf 24.0 21.9 22.7 19.4 and overseas properties under Keppel Land and Total 71.5 69.8 68.7 56.7 Keppel REIT’s portfolios, as well as hospitality developments managed by Keppel Land Hospitality Management. Residential developments have been excluded Energy Intensityk (kWh/m2) unless otherwise stated, as they are trading properties which the Company eventually does 600 not own. 450 Energy Use 300 In 2015, total direct energy consumption from the use of diesel was about 12,800 GJ5, while total 150 indirect energy consumption from electricity use 0 was about 205,000 GJ6. 2012 2013 2014 2015 Keppel Land’s total diesel consumption, contributing Corporate Office 96 85 82 60 to its direct energy usage, was about 387,000 litres. Singapore Commerciala,b 92 94 101 97 Total electricity consumption, contributing to Overseas Commerciald 183 164 173 170 its indirect energy usage, was 56.7 million kWh, Overseas Retaile 64 58 53 0 down 17.5% from 68.7 million kWh in 2014. The Hospitality Propertiesf 95 101 123 105 lower energy consumption was partly due to the divestment of Prudential Tower and Equity Plaza. Energy productivity, defined as revenue per energy use, was about $7,300/GJ in 2015. This is Energy Intensity at Completed Construction Sitesg (GJ/m2) almost 30% higher than the $5,700/GJ recorded in 2014, attributable to higher revenue and lower 0.48 energy consumption. 0.36 Corporate Office 0.24 Keppel Land’s corporate office occupies about 58,000 sf spread across four floors at Bugis 0.12 Junction Towers. The Company continues to ensure 0 the use of energy-efficient and green-labelled Ocean Reflections Madison Lakefront office equipments. Employees are constantly Financial at Keppel Residences Residences reminded to switch off lights, computers and other Centre Bay office equipment when not in use. By 2015, all its Year of Completion 2011 2011 2012 2014 office lightings were replaced with energy-efficient Direct Energy LED tubes to further reduce energy consumption. (Diesel) 0.19 0.45 0.28 0.37 Indirect Energy 5 1 litre of diesel = 0.0331 GJ (Electricity) 0.09 0.12 0.13 0.00 6 1 kWh of electricity = 0.0036 GJ * G4-22, G4-23 30 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2015 Sustaining Growth Environment Total Water Consumptionk (‘000 m3) As a result, energy intensity or the energy use per floor area at the corporate office fell 1,200 more than 25% from 82 kWh/m2 in 2014 to 60 kWh/m2 in 2015. 1,000 800 Singapore Investment Buildings Singapore investment buildings include 600 Ocean Financial Centre, Keppel Towers and Keppel Towers 2, Keppel Bay Tower, as well 400 as Bugis Junction Towers. 200 Electricity consumption at these buildings 0 was about 21.4 million kWh or 97.4 kWh/m2 2012 2013 2014 2015 in 2015, down 4% from 23.6 million kWh or Corporate Office 3 3 3 3 101.4 kWh/m2 in 2014. Singapore Commerciala,b 251 233 217 168 Overseas Commerciald 149 126 131 130 Overseas Investment Buildings Overseas Retaile 91 94 70 0 Overseas investment buildings include Saigon Centre and International Centre7 in Hospitality Propertiesf 417 306 271 343 Vietnam, International Financial Centre Total 911 762 692 644 Jakarta in Indonesia, as well as 77 King Street8, Keppel REIT’s office tower in Sydney, Australia. Total energy consumption at these buildings Water Intensityk (m3/person) amounted to about 15.6 million kWh or 170 kWh/m2 in 2015, marginally lower 90 than 173 kWh/m2 recorded in 2014. 75 Hospitality Properties 60 Keppel Land Hospitality Management manages Sedona Hotel Yangon and Sedona 45 Hotel Mandalay in Myanmar, Sedona Suites Hanoi9 in Vietnam, as well as Spring City Golf 30 & Lake Resort (Spring City) in Kunming, China. 15 In 2015, total energy consumption at these 0 properties was about 19.4 million kWh or 2012 2013 2014 2015 105 kWh/room-night. Energy intensity for Corporate Office 9.1 9.1 9.1 9.1 Spring City was about 340 kWh/room-night, Singapore Commerciala,b,c 18.3 19.5 18.7 17.5 about 30% lower than 517 kWh/room-night in Overseas Commerciald 23.1 19.8 20.8 20.6 2014. Energy intensity for other properties was Overseas Retaile 2.4 2.4 2.3 0 86.6 kWh/room-night, lower than 91.9 kWh/ room-night in 2014. Hospitality Propertiesf 1.6 1.4 1.5 1.9 Construction Projects To account for the variation in the type, number and construction stages of projects undertaken every year, Keppel Land measures the energy consumption of each project over the period of its entire construction. The information is disclosed upon the completion of the project to allow more meaningful comparisons among developments. 7 Keppel Land announced the divestment of Water Use its stake in the property on 26 January 2016. Water Consumption 8 Keppel REIT divested its 100% interest in In 2015, Keppel Land’s total water consumption 77 King Street on 29 January 2016. 9 Keppel Land announced the divestment was about 644,000 m3, lower than 692,000 m3 of its stake in the property on 4 April 2016. recorded the year before. Overview / Sustaining Growth / Empowering Lives / Nurturing Communities / Other Information 31 Environment Water productivity, defined as revenue per Total Carbon Emissionh,k (tonnes CO2) water use, was about $2,500/m3 in 2015, about 14% higher than the $2,200/m3 48,000 recorded in 2014, partly due to the lower 36,000 water consumption and increase in revenue over the year. 24,000 Estimated water consumption at 12,000 Keppel Land’s corporate office is about 0 3,000 m3 per annum or 9.1 m3/person 2012 2013 2014 2015 per annum, based on the recommendations set by the Singapore Standard SS CP48:2005 Fuel (scope 1)i 2,200 2,450 1,100 1,100 for water services. Refrigerants (scope 1)i 700 750 750 750 Electricity (scope 2)i 37,700 36,500 35,100 27,000 In Singapore, water is drawn from public Business Travel (scope 3)i 3,200 3,050 1,500 1,600 supply sources such as local catchment Staff Commuting (scope 3)i 200 200 200 200 areas, imported water, reclaimed water Water Consumption (scope 3)i 300 300 250 250 (NEWater) and desalinated water. Potable Total 44,300 43,250 38,900 30,900 water is consumed at Keppel Land’s investment properties for drinking, sanitary, irrigation and general washing. In 2015, total water consumption at Overall Carbon Emission Intensity (kg/m2) the Group’s investment properties in Singapore was about 168,000 m3 or 80 17.5 m3/person, about 6% lower than 60 18.7 m3/person recorded in 2014. Measures to conserve water at its 40 buildings include the use of water-efficient fittings approved under the PUB Water 20 Efficiency Labelling Scheme (WELS), 0 self-closing taps and flow regulators. 2012 2013 2014 2015 All of Keppel Land’s local investment buildings have won the PUB Water Efficient Total 71.3 70.3 69.3 67.9 Building Silver Award for outstanding efforts in water conservation. In 2015, Ocean Financial Centre was upgraded to the Gold rating in the PUB’s Water Efficient Embodied Carbon Emission Intensity at Completed Construction Sitesj (kg/m2) Building certification. 1,000 Overseas, total water usage at Keppel Land’s 750 investment buildings was about 130,000 m3 in 2015. Water intensity, or water used per 500 person, remained at about 20.6 m3/person. 250 Water usage at the hotels was about 0 343,000 m3 in 2015, higher than 271,000 m3 Ocean Reflections Madison Lakefront recorded in 2014. Water intensity was about Financial at Keppel Residences Residences 1.9 m3/room-night in 2015, about 25% higher Centre Bay than 2014. Year of Completion 2011 2011 2012 2014 Embodied Carbon Water Discharge arising from Energy Water drawn from public utilities at the Use (Direct & Indirect) 27.7 51 40 31 construction sites of Keppel Land’s Embodied Carbon developments in Singapore is generally arising from recycled and reused for washing vehicles. Materials Use 510 860 920 970 With appropriate earth control measures, discharged water contains a lower amount of total suspended solids than the legal allowable limit of 50 mg/litre. 32 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2015 Sustaining Growth Environment In Singapore, discharged water is 01 To-date, Keppel Land has garnered eight conveyed by a network of pipelines Green Mark Platinum nationwide to waterworks or Awards for its buildings in wastewater treatment plants Singapore and overseas, where it is chemically treated, including Keppel Bay Tower (pictured). filtered and disinfected. The treatment frees the water of harmful bacteria and makes it clear, odourless and colourless. The treated water is then pumped into the distribution system and service reservoirs for consumption. Similarly, waste water is recycled for use whenever possible overseas. Waste Management Waste Recycled Total waste generated at Keppel’s completed properties in Singapore and overseas was estimated at over 3,900 tonnes in 2015. Of this, about 310 tonnes of waste including paper, plastics and cans was recycled. Waste productivity, defined as revenue per waste generated, was about $410,000/tonne. Tenants at Keppel Land’s investment buildings are also encouraged to recycle. For instance, at Ocean Financial Centre, a central paper recycling chute, complete with a paper shredder for disposing confidential documents within their premises, enables tenants to recycle used papers. 01 In 2015, Keppel Land and Keppel REIT’s corporate offices recycled almost 12,000 kg recycling bins placed at hotels, as well as other indirect of waste paper in total. Waste convenient locations in all emissions arising from water generated at Keppel Land’s departments. A recycling usage at investment properties, corporate office consists mainly company has been contracted business travel and employees of paper. The Company has a to collect used paper from commuting to and from systematic paper management the Company’s corporate the workplace. and recycling programme, office regularly. which includes setting printers In 2015, total carbon emission to print double-sided by default, Direct and Indirect Emissions was about 30,900 tonnes. The encouraging the use of e-mail Emission to Air largest source of emissions and intranet for the publication The Company’s carbon emissions was the use of electricity in its and storage of documents, include direct emissions from investment buildings, which utilising smaller printouts, fuel used in power generators accounted for near 90% of the as well as switching to electronic and loss of refrigerant in air Company’s carbon footprint. greeting cards. conditioning systems, indirect emissions due to purchased Carbon productivity, defined Employees are encouraged electricity consumed at as revenue per greenhouse to recycle used paper, with investment properties and gas emission, was about Overview / Sustaining Growth / Empowering Lives / Nurturing Communities / Other Information 33 Environment $55,500/tonne in 2015. This is about 35% Materials Used at Completed Construction Sitesi (tonnes) higher than 2014, mainly due to the increase in revenue and a lower emission level. 4,000 3,000 Keppel Land is on track to meet the emissions intensity reduction target of 16% below 2010 2,000 levels, as set out in its Carbon Management Plan. 1,000 Normalising the carbon emissions by the 0 total floor area of all investment properties, Ocean Reflections Madison Lakefront its carbon intensity in 2015 was 67.9 kg/m2 Financial at Keppel Residences Residences gross floor area (GFA). This is 9.5% below Centre Bay 2010 emission levels. Year of Completion 2011 2011 2012 2014 Materials Intensity Implementation of energy conservation (kg/m2 GFA) 2,200 2,900 3,600 3,800 measures, including the upgrade and Emission Intensity optimisation of chiller plant systems, as well (kg/m2 GFA) 510 860 920 970 as replacement of conventional lightings with LED tubes at its investment properties, a Energy data for Singapore commercial buildings includes energy for mechanical and electrical services such as air-conditioning, lifts and lightings in all common areas, but excludes have improved the Company’s environmental tenants’ energy consumption as tenants are charged separately for use of electricity within performance. Keppel Land will continue to their tenanted space. adopt similar energy conservation measures b Includes Ocean Financial Centre, Keppel Towers & Keppel Towers 2, Prudential Tower (divested in 2014), Equity Plaza (divested in 2014) and Keppel Bay Tower. in all its properties, including those overseas. c Water intensity figures for Singapore commercial buildings are computed based on the number of occupants in each respective year. The Company advocates communication via d Includes Saigon Centre in Ho Chi Minh City and International Centre in Hanoi, Vietnam, as well as International Financial Centre Jakarta in Indonesia. audio or video conferencing where possible, e Includes BG Junction in Surabaya, Indonesia (divested in 2014). to minimise overseas travel. f Energy and water intensity for Hospitality Properties are expressed in terms of kWh/roomnight and m3/room-night respectively. Includes Hotel Sedona Manado in Indonesia (divested in 2013), Sedona Hotel Yangon and Sedona Hotel Mandalay in Myanmar, and Sedona Suites Construction Projects Hanoi in Vietnam. While emissions due to construction activities g Data for construction sites are disclosed on project basis instead of by year, to allow for that occur within the boundaries of a meaningful comparison. Energy data represent the total energy consumed during the entire development site are a result of the contractor’s construction period of the project. h Energy conversion ratio for 2015 : 1kWh electricity = 0.4322 kg CO2 direct and indirect emissions, Keppel Land (Source: National Environment Agency, Dec 2015). recognises the significant environmental i Scope 1 emissions include direct emissions from fuel used in power generators and loss of impact of construction activities. The Company refrigerant in air-conditioning systems. Scope 2 emissions include indirect emissions due to purchased electricity consumed at measures and monitors energy and emission investment properties and hotels. data from its construction sites. Scope 3 emissions include other indirect emissions arising from water usage at investment properties, business travel as well as commuting to and from the workplace of employees from corporate office. The total direct and indirect emissions of j The emission data represent the project’s total embodied carbon from materials used and The Lakefront Residences, Madison Residences, energy consumed at the construction site. Embodied carbon index of materials are sourced Reflections at Keppel Bay and Ocean Financial from The Inventory of Carbon and Energy 2011, based on cradle-to-grave boundaries. k Figures for 2012 have been restated to exclude tenants’ energy consumption at Saigon Centre Centre were about 1,350 tonnes or 31 kg/m2 GFA; and BG Junction, and include Spring City Golf & Lake Resort in the scope. 410 tonnes or 40kg/m3 GFA; 10,000 tonnes or 51kg/m2 GFA; and 2,600 tonnes or 28kg/m2 GFA respectively. Construction Materials Materials Use The construction and real estate sector consumes a considerable amount of materials. However, the amount of materials used within a reporting year is not comparable over the years as the number of projects varies every year and the construction stages of each project differ. To track such data meaningfully, Keppel Land discloses the usage of materials over the entire construction period of a project instead of on a yearly basis. For comparison purposes, total materials used per project is reported upon project completion. 34 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2015 Sustaining Growth Environment Environment Protection Expenditure Estimated Description Expenditure ($) Total cost of green building features in all Green Mark-certified projects in Singapore and overseas* 140,000,000 In 2015: Green building features in Green Mark-certified projects awarded in 2015 11,355,000 Training (environmental courses, seminars, conferences) 7,000 External certification (ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001) 70,000 Outreach programmes^ Environmental education 78,000 Gold Sponsor of International Green Building Conference 2015+ 50,000 Sub-total 11,560,000 * Total cost includes cost of projects developed in joint ventures which will be borne by Keppel Land and joint-venture partners. ^ Excludes Keppel Land’s share of contribution at Keppel Group level. + Includes contributions from Keppel Group. A total of 10 most commonly Environmental including consultants as well as used materials in building Protection Expenditure in-house sustainability and project construction have been identified Keppel Land adopts a proactive managers, work together to adopt and measured. These include and holistic approach in the way new strategies, systems and products cement, sand, concrete, aggregate, it designs, constructs and right from the initial design stage to bricks, steel, aluminum, glass, operates its developments. create sustainable developments. paints, as well as ceramic tiles This will enable the Group to achieve and granite. The total cost incurred for its goal of obtaining at least the incorporating green features BCA Green Mark GoldPlus and Gold The total amount of materials used for all its Green Mark-certified standards for all new properties in at The Lakefront Residences, residential and commercial Singapore and overseas respectively. Madison Residences, Reflections projects in Singapore and overseas at Keppel Bay and Ocean Financial is estimated at over $140 million. Environmental Operations Plans Centre were about 170,000 tonnes This amount includes its partners’ Keppel Land has implemented or 3,800 kg/m2 GFA; 36,000 tonnes share for jointly developed projects. Environmental Operations Plans for or 3,600 kg/m2 GFA; 564,000 tonnes the management of the respective or 2,900 kg/m2 GFA; and Targets completed commercial buildings in 200,000 tonnes or 2,200 kg/m2 GFA Recognising the twin benefits of Singapore and hospitality properties respectively. In terms of embodied environmentally-friendly business overseas since 2012. In 2014, carbon emissions, about practices on the environment the scope was expanded to 42,800 tonnes or 970 kg/m2 GFA; and its bottomline, Keppel Land include completed commercial 9,500 tonnes or 920 kg/m2 GFA; has set strategic plans for buildings overseas. 167,000 tonnes or 860 kg/m2 GFA; continuous improvement. and 47,000 tonnes or 510 kg/m2 GFA The individualised plans outline were emitted respectively. Environmental environmental targets and Design Guidelines programmes to yield measurable Keppel Land aims to reduce Keppel Land has in place a set of reductions in waste as well as materials intensity and embodied Environmental Design Guidelines energy and water usage at each carbon emissions, as well as for its new developments. These property. These include adhering to conserve global resources. The include stretched targets in the the Group’s environmental policy Company has set the target of areas of environmental certification, and green procurement guidelines. using at least 30% of building energy, water, landscaping and materials with recycled content, materials use. Since 2013, these Annual reviews are conducted low carbon emissions, or certified guidelines have been included in to track the progress of the plans by recognised environmental the design brief to consultants for implemented, as well as the organisations such as the Forest new projects undertaken. corresponding cost savings. These Stewardship Council or the measures helped the Company Singapore Green Building Council, The Group adopts an integrated achieve its goal of meeting at least for its new projects. design approach where teams, the BCA Green Mark GoldPlus rating Overview / Sustaining Growth / Empowering Lives / Nurturing Communities / Other Information 35 Environment for all its completed commercial buildings up to 2020. Beyond 2020, annual savings of in Singapore by 2015. As at end-2015, Ocean about $2.75 million are expected. Financial Centre, Marina Bay Financial Centre Tower 3, Bugis Junction Towers and Keppel Overseas Bay Tower were all certified as Green Mark Keppel Land’s commitment towards Platinum buildings. the management and protection of the environment goes beyond Singapore to Carbon Management Plan countries overseas where it has operations. Keppel Land’s Carbon Management Plan outlines the initiatives and programmes Hospitality Management that the Company will undertake to reduce Keppel Land Hospitality Management, which its emissions. operates and manages a portfolio of properties including hotels, serviced residences as well as Adopting a holistic approach towards reducing golf courses, resorts and marinas across Asia, carbon emissions, the Group has set the is committed to good environmental stewardship target of reducing its emissions intensity by at all its properties. 16% below 2010’s emission levels by 2020. All its hotels and serviced residences adhere to Carbon reduction measures to be undertaken an environmental policy and a set of guidelines include developing high-performance on energy and water conservation, green commercial buildings, upgrading chiller plant procurement, as well as usage of biodegradable systems in existing buildings and replacing cleaning products, energy-efficient office existing lightings with energy-saving LED tubes. appliances and equipment. Energy conservation measures at its properties include the This will result in a reduction of about 23,000 installation of timer switches and energy-saving tonnes of carbon dioxide emission, which will fluorescent bulbs, as well as a recycling yield potential savings of over $12.4 million programme for paper, plastic, glass and linen. Environmental Targets 2020 2015 • To reduce carbon emissions intensity • Committed to by 16% below 2010’s 2013 maintain at least emission levels. • Adhered to a set the BCA Green Mark 2012 of Environmental GoldPlus standard • Committed to achieve Design Guidelines for completed 2007 at least the BCA Green for new project commercial buildings • Committed to Mark GoldPlus Award developments. in Singapore. environmental for new developments sustainability with in Singapore. the formation of 2017 the Environmental • Committed to • To achieve at least Management train all Project one BCA Green Mark Committee. Managers as Green Pearl Award. Mark Managers. 2008 • Committed to achieve at least the BCA Green Mark Gold Award or its equivalent for new developments in Singapore and overseas. 36 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2015 Sustaining Growth Environment Preserving Biodiversity plant density along the water’s envisioned to be an economically Conscious efforts are made to edge, conserving water through thriving city that is socially preserve the biodiversity in better controls, as well harmonious, environmentallyKeppel Land’s properties. as increasing the natural habitat friendly and resource-efficient, areas and migration corridors. where 350,000 residents can live, Its golf courses such as Spring work and play. City and Ria Bintan Golf Club Audubon Certification (Ria Bintan) in Indonesia were The Company operates three With a development period sculpted along the natural contours Audubon International-certified spanning 10 to 15 years, it will of the undulating landscape. golf courses in China and Indonesia. showcase how ecological ECICC was the first in the world to challenges can be tackled with Originally an arid and mountainous achieve the prestigious Audubon the integration of eco-solutions site afflicted by poor surface Classic Sanctuary status in 2009, through careful master-planning. drainage and severe soil erosion, followed by Spring City and It has a Start-Up Area (SUA) of Spring City is home to two Ria Bintan in 2010. four sq km, which will be home world-class golf courses today. to about 26,500 households Audubon is a global environmental when fully completed. Indigenous flora like the eucalyptus organisation which champions trees and wildflowers were carefully wildlife protection as well as The master developer for preserved during and after provides education and Sino-Singapore Eco-City is construction to ensure that the conservation assistance for Sino-Singapore Tianjin Eco-City ecosystem remained balanced responsible management of Investment and Development Co., and intact. Many species of trees natural resources. The Audubon Ltd (SSTEC), a 50/50 joint were also planted at Spring City Classic Programme is targeted venture between the Singapore to help in the habitation of wildlife at existing golf courses that are consortium, led by the Keppel such as songbirds, squirrels, being redeveloped or going Group, and a Chinese consortium, butterflies, insects and rabbits. through refurbishments while led by Tianjin TEDA Investment maintaining its use. Holding Co., Ltd. Spring City also features a 1.7-km nature trail with over 300 plant To achieve the status, certified Keppel Land China is an investor, species, most of which are native courses must meet the stringent developer and project manager to the Yunnan province. Information programme requirements as of the Keppel Group’s 36.6-ha boards have also been placed well as any additional site-specific site within the SUA. Keppel along the trail to help spread the requirements identified by Audubon. Corporation and Keppel Land message on the importance of These include environmental China hold 45% and 55% preserving biodiversity. planning, wildlife and habitat interests respectively in this site. management, outreach and The development of Keppel The architecture of the Ocean education, reduction of Group’s 36.6-ha site in the and Forest Courses at Ria Bintan chemical-use and safety, SUA is carried out in phases. Golf Club is constructed around water conservation as well as It is expected to yield about existing natural contours so as water quality management. 4,350 homes, as well as to preserve wildlife corridors. commercial developments, The integrated design allows Towards Sustainable including office and retail space, a one-with-nature theme Development when completed. throughout the resort. Sino-Singapore Tianjin Eco-City, China Over the years, Sino-Singapore Ria Bintan has also embarked on a Sino-Singapore Eco-City is a Eco-City has been steadily programme to reduce water usage flagship bilateral project between transformed into a modern and fertilisers in maintaining its golf the governments of Singapore and eco-township with offices, courses. Local species of shrubs China to jointly create a practical, commercial hubs, schools and and groundcovers are planted to scalable and replicable model of other amenities. It has transformed minimise maintenance work. sustainable urban development from a former wasteland into a for other cities in China and the thriving eco-city with more than At Eco-City International Country rest of the world. 50,000 people working and living Club (ECICC) in Sino-Singapore as well as about 3,500 registered Tianjin Eco-City (Sino-Singapore Located on non-arable, companies in the city. Eco-City), new initiatives such as water-scarce land with limited enhancing water quality with natural resources in the Tianjin Sino-Singapore Eco-City has additional re-circulating streams Binhai New Area, the 30-sq km been designated as China’s first were introduced so as to increase Sino-Singapore Eco-City is national green development Overview / Sustaining Growth / Empowering Lives / Nurturing Communities / Other Information 37 Environment demonstration zone and will serve as Comprising 1,672 homes, 99% of the units a test-bed for new models of green have been sold as at end-March 2016. development in China, such as low-carbon developments and green transport. Some of the innovative green technologies Green Building incorporated at Seasons Park include a Evaluation Standard In recognition of its outstanding achievements building envelope thermal system which in the area of green building development, can achieve energy savings of up to 70% Sino-Singapore Eco-City was also selected compared to normal standards, a solar hot Achieve at least 70% as a National Green Building Base by water system that supplies 60% of all units’ reduction in building hot water consumption and a pneumatic energy consumption the China Green Building Council. compared to buildings waste collection system. designed to local design In addition, the Low Carbon Living Lab (LCLL), standard; developed by SSTEC in the Eco-Business Park, Seasons Garden has been awarded both the China Green Meet 5% of total building Seasons Garden, Phase 2 of the residential energy demand from Building Operation Label 3-Star Award component, comprises 1,190 midand renewable energy sources; from China’s Ministry of Housing and low-rise apartments. Some 89% of the Urban-Rural Development and the China 326 launched units have been sold as at At least one room in all Green Building Design Label 3-Star Award apartment units will end-March 2016. receive at least two hours by China’s Green Building Design Label in of sunlight during winter; recognition of its outstanding contributions Waterfront Residences in the areas of green building and Situated within the SUA and close to the Green ratio of at least 40%; environmental protection. future city centre of the Sino-Singapore Reduce wastage of Eco-City, Waterfront Residences comprises construction materials The 3-Star rating is the highest rating 341 landed units. Since its launch in April 2015, through optimal design; conferred by Green Building Design Label, 96% of the 188 launched units have been and China’s national green building evaluation sold as at end-March 2016. Source more than 70% system, which is accredited by the Ministry of construction materials of Housing and Urban-Rural Development. Seasons City (by weight) from within Seasons City, also known as the commercial a 500-km radius. The LCLL was also the first to receive the sub-centre, will comprise three office towers BCA Green Mark Platinum rating awarded and retail premises with GFA of about 162,000 sm. to a building located in a temperate zone. Phase 1 will feature an office tower and a retail complex with total above-ground GFA Green Building Evaluation Standard of 81,300 sm. Work has commenced and is All developers in Sino-Singapore Eco-City targeted for completion in 2019. have to comply with the Green Building Evaluation Standard (GBES). The GBES is Leveraging its extensive experience as a combination of China and Singapore’s a developer of prime office buildings, green building standards. Keppel Land strives to create vibrant, integrated and quality live, work and play Under the standard, a building is evaluated environments which can meet the demand in six areas, namely land savings and for premium office space from multinational outdoor environment, energy efficiency, corporations looking to participate in the materials savings, water savings, indoor rapid growth of Tianjin and northern China. environment quality, as well as operations and maintenance. Developers may choose to exceed the mandatory standards to qualify for the Silver, Gold or Platinum Awards. Seasons Park Seasons Park is the first collection of homes in the Keppel Group’s four-phase residential development in the SUA. Phase 1 of Seasons Park has obtained the BCA Green Mark Gold Award as well as the ISO 14001 certification for its environment management system standards. 38 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2015 Sustaining Growth Innovation and Product Excellence Keppel Land is committed to creating live-work-play environments of enduring value for its homeowners and tenants. IMS Framework 6 Awards In 2015, Keppel Land extended its Integrated The Company clinched a total of six awards Management System (IMS) beyond Singapore at the Euromoney Real Estate Awards 2015. to its projects in China and Vietnam. 01 Overview / Sustaining Growth / Empowering Lives / Nurturing Communities / Other Information 39 Innovation and Product Excellence 01 Keppel Land’s Sustainable Benchmarks Integrated Management System Innovation* properties have become iconic landmarks Keppel Land aligns with and The Group has implemented The Innovation Culture Taskforce celebrated for their benchmarks its business the Integrated Management and the Product/Service Innovation innovative designs and practices against global System (IMS) in Singapore Team, set up in 2013, continued to thoughtful features. standards, including the and China. This combines lead efforts to help the Company Leadership in Energy and ISO 9001 with the ISO 14001 stay abreast of market trends Environmental Design (LEED) environmental and the OHSAS in 2015. by the United States Green 18001 occupational health and Building Council, the Green Mark safety management systems To instil an innovative culture scheme by the Building and into a single framework. within the organisation, the Construction Authority (BCA) Innovation Culture Taskforce of Singapore, the Audubon This streamlines procedures, launched the Keppel Land Post International certification, reduces time and resources in 2015 to encourage staff the ISO 9001, ISO 14001, needed to administer and audit to post ideas or submit OHSAS 18000 and ISO 26000 the projects, as well as increases suggestions. All ideas submitted standards, the Global Reporting overall operational efficiency. were reviewed by Management Initiative guidelines and the and voted by staff for potential AA1000 Assurance Standard. A Quality, Environmental, implementation. Health and Safety (QEHS) In doing so, the Company Policy endorsed by the CEO has continually strives towards also been adopted since 2014. * G-26, G-27 excellence in quality, environmental protection, occupational health and safety, social responsibility and sustainability reporting. ISO 9001 Keppel Land has adopted the ISO 9001:2008 quality management system standard for all its projects. The internationally-recognised standard provides organisations with guidance and tools to ensure quality products and services that meet customers’ requirements. Companies are also encouraged to constantly improve on their product and service offerings. The standard focuses on the eight principles of customer focus, leadership, involvement of people, process approach, system approach to management, continual improvement, factual approach to decision-making and mutually beneficial supplier relations. The Company achieved the ISO 9001 certification for its projects in Singapore and China in October 2014 and December 2015 respectively. Certification for its Vietnam projects is ongoing. 40 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2015 Sustaining Growth Innovation and Product Excellence Type of Sustainability Number of Certification and Ratings Developments Type of Development Location LEED Platinum 1 Commercial Singapore Total 1 BCA Green Mark – Platinum rating 5 Commercial Singapore 1 Commercial Jakarta, Indonesia 2 Data Centre Singapore – GoldPlus rating 4 Commercial Singapore 3 Residential Singapore 1 Hospitality Yangon, Myanmar – Gold rating 10 Residential Singapore 5 Commercial Singapore 17 Residential Shanghai, Chengdu, Jiangyin, Wuxi, Tianjin, Nantong, Shenyang and Kunming, China 3 Residential Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam 2 Commercial Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam 1 Residential Jakarta, Indonesia a 1 Hospitality Yangon, Myanmar – Certified 1 Data Centre Singapore 1 Residential Shanghai, China 1 Residential Jiangyin, China 1 Residential Shenyang, China 1 Residential Kolkata, India a Total 61 Audubon Classic Sanctuary 3 Golf Course Tianjin and Kunming, China, and Bintan, Indonesia Total 3 a Keppel Land divested its stakes in the residential developments in Jakarta and Kolkata in November 2013 and June 2014 respectively. Sustainability Management Standards Development b Location ISO 14001 Residential Singapore Commercial Singapore Residential Shanghai, Wuxi, Tianjin, Jiangyin, Zhongshan and Chengdu, China Residential Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam Commercial Jakarta, Indonesia OHSAS 18000 Residential Singapore Commercial Singapore Residential Shanghai, Shenyang, Wuxi, Kunming, Jiangyin, Tianjin, Zhongshan and Chengdu, China Commercial Beijing, China Residential Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam Commercial Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam b With the exception of commercial developments in Singapore, which have been completed, all other developments are currently under development. Overview / Sustaining Growth / Empowering Lives / Nurturing Communities / Other Information 41 Innovation and Product Excellence 01 In 2015, Keppel Land’s Three sessions of the lecture series, 50 Years of Transforming Singapore’s Skyline Innovation Culture Taskforce K’onversations, were held in 2015. stamp collection set. A total of 1,000 sets were commissioned a stamp set featuring Keppel Land’s Guest speakers from within the Company, produced and distributed to all Keppel Land buildings that contributed to as well as industry experts, shared their staff in Singapore, Keppel Corporation shaping Singapore’s skyline. experiences on innovation and championing management, as well as business partners. change. These sessions, which were held at the staff lounge and open to all employees, Another project, Bento Demonstration and provided a lively platform for staff to engage Making at Ren Ci Nursing Home, initiated with and be inspired by the speakers. by the Project Management and Sustainable Design team, fostered inter-department In 2015, a campaign, Can Do, Just Do – staff collaboration and bonding while 50 Ideas for SG50, was conducted to engaging Ren Ci Nursing Home residents in encourage staff to come up with ideas to a bento-making lunch workshop in December. boost innovation, corporate social responsibility and collaboration. Through this, shortlisted In addition, Keppel Land also invited external ideas were implemented and funded by the speakers to share their experiences. Among Company. A team from Risk Management them included the founder of retail chain conceptualised the Keppel Land Celebrates 77th Street, who shared on being innovative 01 42 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2015 Sustaining Growth Innovation and Product Excellence in businesses, as well as a eighth consecutive year, development and construction, 01 At the Euromoney Real Estate Awards 2015, representative from Unilever, as well as Best Residential finance and marketing, as well Keppel Land garnered who shared on the company’s Developer and Best Investment as environmental impact and six awards, including sustainable business practices. Manager (Overall) in Singapore. community benefit. Best Residential and In Indonesia, it was named Best Office/Business Developer in Vietnam. Innovation is part of employees’ Best Office/Business Developer, Compliance Pictured is Estella Heights competency assessment while in Vietnam, it clinched the Keppel Land is committed to in Ho Chi Minh City, appraisal. It is assessed as part titles of Best Residential and best practices and complies Vietnam. of a group of six to eight other Best Office/Business Developer. with the relevant legislations key competency areas which and requirements. There were carry a 30% weightage in their In recognition of its excellence no instances of non-compliance individual performance appraisal. in design and architecture, with laws, regulations and Marina Bay Suites was voluntary codes concerning Outstanding Developments conferred the Silver Award in the provision and use, as well as Keppel Land’s developments the Residential (High Rise) health and safety of its products have gained regional as well as category at the highly acclaimed and services. international recognition. FIABCI Prix d’Excellence Awards. Marina Bay Financial Centre The Company abides by the The Company clinched a total of Phase 1 was also awarded the Singapore Code of Advertising six awards at the prestigious FIABCI Singapore SG50 Special Practice (SCAP) set out by the Euromoney Real Estate Awards Award in the Office category at Advertising Standards Authority 2015, which recognises the best the Singapore Property Awards. of Singapore, which seeks in the real estate industry globally. Participants were evaluated on to promote high standards of It was named Best Office/ aspects such as concept, ethics in advertising through Business Developer for the architecture and design, industry self-regulation. 01 Overview / Sustaining Growth / Empowering Lives / Nurturing Communities / Other Information 43 Innovation and Product Excellence Number of Homes Handed Over by Customer Focus Unit Country 2015 Singapore 620 China 2,657 Vietnam 349 Total 3,626 Its basic premise is that all advertisements As part of the Company’s continuous should be legal, decent, honest and efforts to promote sustainability and truthful. The SCAP was formulated raise environmental awareness, events to be in line with national as well as such as commemorating Earth Hour, international law and practices, including World Environment Day and recycling the International Code of Advertising initiatives were held in Keppel Land’s Practice published by the International commercial and residential projects in Chamber of Commerce. Singapore. These events have been well-supported by tenants, homeowners In 2015, there were no incidents of and staff over the years. non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing To further cultivate lasting relationships communications efforts, including with tenants and residents of its commercial advertising, promotion and sponsorship. and residential projects, regular events such as golf tournaments, festive celebrations and There were no instances of non-compliance residents’ gatherings are held to engage them. with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information SERVICE QUALITY SURVEYS* and labelling during the year. There Annual service quality surveys are conducted were also no complaints regarding at Keppel Land’s residential and commercial breaching of customer privacy and loss buildings. These were conducted at 16 of customer data. completed projects in 2015, namely Ocean Financial Centre, Reflections and Customer Focus* Caribbean at Keppel Bay, as well as The Company has a dedicated Customer The Lakefront Residences in Singapore, Focus Unit (CFU) which seeks to provide Springdale (Plot 1, Plot 2-1, Plot 3-1) and good after-sales support. This has Seasons Residence in Shanghai, Serenity Cove, yielded results through repeat purchases Seasons Park and Seasons Garden in Tianjin, by customers over the long run. Customer Spring City Golf & Lake Resort in Kunming, focus is one of the eight Keppel core values. Central Park City Plot C in Wuxi, Stamford City (Plots A and B) in Jiangyin, and The Seasons in Through the CFU, the Company continually Shenyang, in China, as well as Riviera Cove in engages its customers to ensure a high Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam. level of satisfaction for its products and services. Regular feedback obtained Through these surveys, the Company from customers on issues including gathered feedback on matters such as design, fittings and materials used are cleanliness, security, carparks, building reviewed, with relevant improvements maintenance and management personnel, incorporated during design reviews as well as green features and facilities. of new projects. On average, more than 94% of the respondents were satisfied with the services rendered. Residents can also log in to a Central Defects Management System (CDMS) In 2015, the CFU handed over 3,626 homes for defects within their units. As an in Singapore, China and Vietnam. extension of the CDMS, a Customer Service System was launched in 2015 to facilitate online bookings for collection of keys for new homeowners in Singapore. * G4-26, G4-27 44 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2015 Empowering Lives Health and Safety Keppel Land is committed to creating a safe workplace and encourages all its stakeholders to embrace safety as a personal and collective responsibility. 5 Safety 34,000 Principles Workers In 2016, the Keppel Group refreshed To-date, more than 34,000 workers its five key safety principles. have been trained at Keppel Land’s Safety Awareness Centres. 01 Overview / Sustaining Growth / Empowering Lives / Nurturing Communities / Other Information 45 Health and Safety 01 Management and Strong Safety Culture staff of Keppel Land affirm their commitment At Keppel Land, safety is a core value to safety during the and forms an integral part of its Safety First Company’s Annual business operations. Contractors and Consultants Health & Safety Meeting 2015. The Company is committed to creating a safe workplace and encourages all its Vision stakeholders, including its employees and contractors, to embrace safety as a A safe and healthy workplace personal and collective responsibility. where everyone goes home safely Regular exchange of experiences and every day knowledge is encouraged to foster positive behavioural changes in working towards achieving a zero-harm workplace. Strategy Safety is a top priority and key focus of Proactive Actions senior management. The Company has Implement an effective safety processes and systems in place to management system constantly remind and educate all stakeholders on the importance of safety Communication at the workplace. Communicate safetyand health-related matters regularly Keppel Land’s Workplace Safety and Health (WSH) unit formulates and oversees Training the implementation of the health and Equip employees with safety and safety (H&S) programmes. The Company health knowledge adopts a top-down approach towards H&S, with its policy and action plans endorsed Rewards and Recognition by the CEO. Honour and recognise employees and contractors Safety issues rank first on the agenda for safety excellence at the Company’s quarterly Board of Directors meetings, a testament of senior management’s commitment towards Strategic Outcomes workplace safety. • Strong safety culture Keppel Land is committed to the Keppel • Safety – an integral part Group WSH 2018 strategy, which is in line of business with the National WSH 2018 strategy. • Reduction in incidents The initiative aims to reduce occupational injury rates and inculcate best practices in H&S through four key thrusts, namely: • Implement an effective safety management system; • Communicate H&S-related matters regularly; • Equip employees with safety and health knowledge; and • Honour and recognise employees and contractors for safety excellence To guide the Group on its safety journey, five key safety principles were developed in 2008 to encourage and drive the right behaviour in employees’ daily operations across the Group. To ensure that the safety framework and strategies remain relevant in an ever-changing business environment, and as part of the regular review of 46 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2015 Empowering Lives Health and Safety Keppel Land Board Safety Committee Singapore Projects Secretary Keppel Land China Management Safety Committee Regional Investment Property Management WSH Unit Hospitality Management Project Management and SustainabLE Design Retail Management Human Resources Vietnam Indonesia the Group’s safety practices and measures, to ensure that they are effective and aligned with the safety principles were refreshed in 2016: industry best practices. Monthly safety reports on the Company’s operations in Singapore and 1. Every incident is preventable overseas are submitted to the BSC. 2. HSE is an integral part of our business 3. HSE is a line responsibility The Committee convenes quarterly to discuss 4. Everyone is empowered to stop safety standards, practices and any related any unsafe work matters that may have strategic, operational 5. A strong safety culture is achieved and reputational implications on the Group. through teamwork The Management Safety Committee (MSC), All new employees are required to undergo formed in 2006, supports the BSC. It comprises a safety initiation course as part of the 12 representatives from key business units Company’s orientation programme. They are and spearheads all safety initiatives. also regularly updated on matters such as the Company’s key safety principles, action plans, As part of the Keppel Group Inter-Strategic accident and/or incident reporting procedures Business Unit Safety Committee, Keppel Land and relevant training programmes, as well as participates in regular dialogue sessions related articles via the intranet and quarterly with other business units in the Group to safety e-newsletters, HSE Matters and WSH Link. promote the exchange of safety knowledge and experiences. This includes site visits Board Safety Committee (BSC) where business units take turns to host Formed in 2007, Keppel Land’s BSC reviews safety personnel from across the Group and develops safety policies and management and share their respective safety systems. systems. It currently comprises three independent Directors. Mr Tan Yam Pin, During the year, the BSC visited International a member of Keppel Land’s Board of Directors, Financial Centre Jakarta Tower 2 in Indonesia, chairs the BSC. The BSC has oversight of the Corals at Keppel Bay in Singapore and Sedona safety programmes and budget for 2015. Hotel Yangon’s Inya Wing in Myanmar. The BSC regularly monitors and evaluates The MSC visited the worksites of Tanah Sutera the Group’s compliance and effectiveness of in Malaysia, Saigon Centre and Estella Heights its H&S policies and safety management system in Ho Chi Minh City (HCMC), Vietnam, Overview / Sustaining Growth / Empowering Lives / Nurturing Communities / Other Information 47 Health and Safety Sino-Singapore Tianjin Eco-City its consultants, suppliers and All worksites in Singapore and (Sino-Singapore Eco-City) contractors for all its development overseas have a Site Safety in China, as well as The Glades, projects in Singapore and overseas. and Health Committee helmed Highline Residences and Corals by the main contractor’s project at Keppel Bay in Singapore, Workers at construction sites manager and supported by to better align safety practices are encouraged and rewarded Keppel Land’s project team across the Company’s operations. for coming up with innovative members, who serve as advisors ideas to improve safety. In 2015, and observers. These visits provide the a total of 17 projects were Committees with a better conferred the Company’s Safety An average of about 7.8% of the understanding of the operating Innovation Awards. These include total workforce is represented on environment, as well as the the i-Safety Management System, the Committee for all Singapore effectiveness of the safety Passenger Hoist Door Automatic and overseas projects. initiatives, while reinforcing Closing and Self-Closing Device, the importance of safety at Adjustable Height Working The Committee monitors and the worksites. Platform, as well as Scissors Lift submits monthly safety reports. Height Limit Sensor. Members meet at least once Safety Management System a month to discuss safety Safety management is A comprehensive design checklist inspection findings, incidents incorporated at the earliest is provided at the start of every and injuries, work activities and development stage of all of project. Rigorous assessments coordination as well as organise Keppel Land’s projects and are carried out to identify and onsite H&S events. continues through the design, analyse potential hazards and construction and management risks for each project. Project All accidents and near stages. This inculcates a strong teams also have controls in misses are investigated and safety mindset in all employees place to eradicate or minimise findings are discussed at the and stakeholders, including exposure to hazards. BSC meetings. 01 01 Walking the safety talk, Keppel Corporation and Keppel Land’s Board Safety Committees conduct regular site visits to projects in Singapore and overseas. 48 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2015 Empowering Lives Health and Safety 01 01 Keppel Land believes Any incident of non-compliance operations and significant accident/incident investigation, in partnering contractors with safety standards and suppliers are not involved in internal and external audits, as and suppliers who share its commitment to accidents involving employees unethical labour practices such well as safety improvements. quality and high or subcontractors are also as child or forced labour, a human Legislations and standards as standards in HSE. reported to management on a rights clause on the prohibition of well as performance measurement timely basis. Lessons learnt from child labour has been incorporated indicators are also incorporated. incidents and near misses are since 2012 in all H&S specifications shared with other business units to contractors. To ensure that all its contractors to prevent recurrence. remain vigilant and comply with The H&S specification is a the specifications as well as Keppel Land also believes comprehensive document for relevant regulatory requirements in partnering contractors contractors which includes a and safe work practices, the WSH and suppliers who share its safety policy and its objectives, unit visited projects at Keppel Cove commitment to quality as well as as well as information about the in Zhongshan, China; International high standards in environmental, organisation and its responsibilities. Financial Centre Jakarta Tower 2 health and safety issues. Planning and implementation and West Vista in Jakarta, guidelines including hazard Indonesia; Sedona Hotel Yangon’s A set of stringent criteria is identification and risk assessment; Inya Wing in Myanmar; Saigon followed and adhered to when information, training and Centre Phase 2 and Estella selecting contractors for each of supervision; safe work systems; Heights in HCMC, Vietnam; the Company’s projects. In 2015, hazard controls; permits to work; The Seed at Tanah Sutera in Johor, a total of 51 contractors in equipment inspection, testing Malaysia; as well as the SM-KL China were evaluated based and maintenance; personal project in Manila, the Philippines, on Keppel Land’s Contractors’ protection equipment; first-aid in 2015. Pre-Qualification Evaluation. facilities and emergency plans Of these, 90% met the Company’s are also included in the guide. In addition, quarterly MSC meetings evaluation criteria. were conducted during the year It also details monitoring and to update senior management on Compliance measuring mechanisms, such as the latest regulations and codes In keeping with the Company’s workplace inspections, accident/ of practice revisions relating to commitment to ensure that its incident recording and reporting, health and safety at work. Overview / Sustaining Growth / Empowering Lives / Nurturing Communities / Other Information 49 Health and Safety Proactive Actions Over the years, Keppel Land has implemented numerous initiatives to inculcate a strong Safety in Action safety culture. Business Unit HSE Action Plan The Company has in place a Business Unit Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Action Plan with set targets and benchmark indicators that address the areas of safety leadership, structure and work processes. The plan aims to inculcate safety characteristics among its employees and contractors. These include setting safety targets, visible leadership The inner red core of the commitment through regular visits Keppel Safety Logo represents to worksites by its BSC and MSC, regular senior management site visits the five key safety principles and audits of project sites, as well as while the outer strokes raising safety awareness through training and communication. The plan focuses demonstrate its action plan. on specific areas such as High Impact Risk Activities, major hazard prevention, incident and near miss reporting and 5 Key Safety Principles investigation, as well as rewards and recognition for good safety performance. 1. Every incident is preventable 2. HSE is an integral part of Safety Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) our business Remuneration of management is linked 3. HSE is a line responsibility to sustainability-related KPIs, which 4. Everyone is empowered to includes safety. Safety is also a KPI in stop any unsafe work the performance appraisal of the relevant 5. A strong safety culture is managers. Any fatality at the end of the achieved through teamwork supply chain affects the bonuses of key executives and staff. 5 Key Actions All employees have 2% of their KPI tagged to an online corporate sustainability quiz. 1. Board/management leadership Participation in safety-related activities 2. Safety as a line function such as site safety inspections, meetings 3. Stakeholder involvement and innovation, make up another 30% 4. Leading safety indicators of the project manager’s safety KPI. The 5. Positive reinforcement remaining 20% relates to safety training. In 2015, the performance appraisal for project managers and property managers included additional KPIs such as attending training courses on safety design and incident investigation. OHSAS 18001 Keppel Land received the Occupational Health and Safety Management System (OHSAS) 18001 certification for the successful implementation of the system at all its development projects and properties under management in Singapore, China and Vietnam in 2012. An international standard, OHSAS 18001 enables organisations to manage, control and improve its occupational H&S performance. 50 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2015 Empowering Lives Health and Safety Projects in Singapore, China and Vietnam ConSASS is an audit tool that provides an 01 Keppel Land has extended its safety currently account for 70% of Keppel Land’s independent assessment on the effectiveness management audits total ongoing developments. All of its and development status of a worksite’s to its overseas projects workforce in these countries are in WSH management system. It is administered such as the Waterfront compliance with the OHSAS 18001. by the WSH Council and supported by Residence project in Wuxi, China. the Ministry of Manpower (MOM) for the In 2015, independent third-party audits construction industry in Singapore. Since were carried out at projects sites in August 2011, all construction sites with a 02 The Company was conferred the bizSAFE Singapore, China and Vietnam to ensure contract sum of $30 million and above are Mentor status for the compliance with OHSAS 18001. In China, required to have its WSH management system third consecutive term. an internal audit was conducted for the audited every six months. Company’s projects to ensure that various parameters pertaining to OHSAS 18001 Conducted by MOM-approved WSH auditors, are met. The system has also been the audit involves document reviews, site integrated with the ISO 14001 standard inspections and interviews with key personnel. for all of the Company’s projects in China. A total of 17 elements are assessed, with each All projects in Singapore are in compliance being graded on a scale of four bands with scores with the Integrated Management System, of between 1 and 100. MOM requires sites to which combines the ISO 9001, ISO 14001 meet a minimum score of 75% at Band III. and OHSAS 18001 systems into a single framework. In 2015, Keppel Land conducted quarterly audits for its Singapore worksites, including ConSASS Corals at Keppel Bay, Highline Residences Keppel Land has conducted the Construction and The Glades. The Company conducts Safety Audit Scoring System (ConSASS) two additional ConSASS audits on top of the audit at all its development projects in two mandatory audits per year, bringing the Singapore and China. total number of audits to four a year. 01 Overview / Sustaining Growth / Empowering Lives / Nurturing Communities / Other Information 51 Health and Safety 02 The Group has also implemented As a bizSAFE Mentor, Keppel Land Under the SHARe programme, the ConSASS audit for 12 of its leads and guides contractors in teams are formed for each project worksites in China since developing and implementing project, including a Keppel Land April 2013, three of which have safety initiatives at workplaces, representative as well as the since been completed. as well as provides stewardship contractor’s management and and support with regards to safety personnel. The teams monitor The ConSASS assessment tool meeting the safety standards WSH implementation in the allows cross-comparison of set by the WSH Council. Company’s projects and organise project teams’ effectiveness in exchange visits to worksites to managing WSH risks at worksites. Since 2010, as part of Keppel share and learn best practices. This helps management better Land’s tender requirement, allocate resources in order to main contractors have to be Behavioural Management elevate standards and improve certified as bizSAFE Partners. of Safety (BMOS) its effectiveness in managing This in turn requires that their Keppel Land also has in place the safety and health risks subcontractors have at least the BMOS programme to at worksites. bizSAFE Level 3 certification, integrate behavioural strategies which entails the implementation and processes into its H&S Completed Buildings Audit of risk management plans, management system. Keppel Land also conducted including the WSH management audits for all of its completed system to eliminate or reduce BMOS promotes safe behaviour buildings for the fifth consecutive injuries and illnesses at worksites. and positive environmental year. All of the Company’s 17 conditions to deliver continuous commercial and hospitality Communication* improvement in health, safety establishments in Singapore, SHARe Programme and business performance, thus China, Vietnam, Indonesia and Keppel Land has in place the reducing the risk of work-related Myanmar were audited by the Safety and Health Active Review injuries. It stems from the belief WSH unit in 2015. (SHARe) programme for its that the personal adoption of safe projects in Singapore and China. working practices, through the bizSAFE Mentor They include The Glades, inculcation of a set of defined Keppel Land is one of only 10 Corals at Keppel Bay and Highline behaviours, reduces the risk companies in Singapore to be Residences in Singapore, as well of work-related accidents and named the bizSAFE Mentor for as 8 Park Avenue in Shanghai, strengthens a company’s safety its exemplary WSH management Sino-Singapore Eco-City, culture. This is achieved through and performance. This is the Hillcrest Residence in Chengdu data collection on the frequency highest recognition under WSH and Waterfront Residence Council’s bizSAFE programme. in Wuxi, China. * G4-26, G4-27 52 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2015 Empowering Lives Health and Safety 01 Keppel Land’s Safety Awareness Centres in Vietnam and Malaysia have trained more than 34,000 workers to-date. 01 of safety critical behaviours as were set up in 2011 and 2013 of safety training in 2015. well as providing feedback respectively, to improve the safety Workers in China, Vietnam, and counselling to reinforce performance of contractors’ Myanmar, Indonesia and safe behaviour. employees. Some 4,374 and Malaysia committed a total 14,029 workers were trained in of 5,220 hours, 28,971 hours, In 2015, the programme was HCMC and Malaysia respectively 1,084 hours, 5,518 hours and implemented at all of the Group’s in 2015, bringing the total 34,631 hours of training respectively. worksites in Singapore and number of workers trained Yangon, Myanmar. at the two SACs to more than Training topics included 34,000 to-date. first aid, safety induction, Safety Talks site regulation, HSE risks, Keppel Land actively engages The SACs were set up to increase safety awareness, construction its consultants and contractors safety awareness among safety, risk management through various modes of contractors’ employees on implementation, as well as communication to instil the pertinent topics such as working specialised subjects, such as importance of safety at the at heights, lifting procedures, safe use of electrical equipment workplace. working within confined spaces, and working at heights. proper use of equipment, risk All workers undergo safety assessment and managing Sharing Best Practices orientation courses. Weekly talks scaffolds. All workers have to The Company provides various on different topics, including the attend the mandatory safety platforms to facilitate the control of mosquito breeding training before they are allowed sharing of best safety practices and working at heights, are also to work onsite. and experiences across the conducted by the main contractors Keppel Group. Among these, for their workers. In China, articles Training and Education an e-safety portal has been on worksite safety are distributed Employees undergo training set up for the Group’s safety quarterly to workers. courses and seminars to champions, key management enhance their knowledge and and operations personnel to Training skills in managing H&S risks. access, contribute and share Safety Awareness Centres (SAC) Staff at Keppel Land’s corporate information efficiently through Keppel Land’s two SACs in HCMC, headquarters in Singapore forums and links to other Vietnam, and Johor, Malaysia, underwent a total of 1,049 hours web resources. Overview / Sustaining Growth / Empowering Lives / Nurturing Communities / Other Information 53 Health and Safety In 2015, WSH Link, an online publication on In 2015, more than 150 consultants, safety performance and H&S-related news contractors and staff attended the was launched. A quarterly publication, HSE event to exchange safety best practices. Matters, which focuses on H&S related news The Gold Award (Top Performer) was across the Keppel Group, is also disseminated conferred to the project team for to all staff, contractors and workers. The Lakefront Residences and their main contractor, Woh Hup. The latter also Rewards and Recognition won a Gold Award for its work at Corals Keppel Land collaborates with its main at Keppel Bay. Tiong Seng, the main contractors to ensure that all stakeholders contractor for The Luxurie, and Lum Chang, and workers are committed to maintaining for The Glades, attained a certificate high safety standards at all project sites. of merit. Tiong Aik, the main contractor Safety programmes that reward and for Highline Residences, also received encourage safe work practices are organised a certificate of merit. to promote safer work environments. A similar convention was held in China Safety Performance in April to share best practices as well as Despite our best efforts to improve safety, recognise contractors with good safety we deeply regret one fatality in 2015. Lessons records. Over 240 employees, consultants learnt were shared across business units. and contractors exchanged experiences and This incident has reinforced our resolve to ideas to strive for an incident-free workplace. strengthen our safety standards. A total of three Gold Awards, ten Silver Awards as well as seven Safety Innovation Awards Accident frequency rate was 0.27 reportable were conferred. cases for every million man-hours worked in 2015, compared with 0.55 in 2014. Accident Safe Worksite Awards severity rate was 166.81 in 2015, compared to In China, a total of 10 out of 16 active project 6.86 in 2014. Total man-days lost was 6,175 sites received the Safe Worksite Award 2015 in 2015 due to a fatal accident, compared to from the Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural 212 man-days lost in 2014. Development Bureau, a testament to Keppel Land China’s continual efforts to Annual Consultants and ensure safe environments. Contractors H&S Meeting The annual Consultants and Contractors International Safety Award H&S Meeting reinforces the importance Keppel Land was conferred the prestigious of safety training and practices amongst International Safety Award (Winner) projects teams, contractors and workers. by the British Safety Council in 2015, The event also recognises and rewards in recognition of the Company for its project teams and contractors with excellent commitment to the health, safety and safety performance. well-being of its workforce. Keppel Land’s Cumulative Accident Frequency Rate (per million man-hours) 1.2 1.0 0.8 0.6 0.4 0.2 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2012 2013 2014 2015 54 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2015 Empowering Lives People Matter Keppel Land is committed to nurturing a diverse, competent, and dedicated talent pool that will drive further growth and create value for the Company. $1,345 56% per employee locals In Singapore, average training investment In its overseas offices, 56% of all department per employee was $1,345. heads were locals in 2015. 01 Overview / Sustaining Growth / Empowering Lives / Nurturing Communities / Other Information 55 People Matter 01 Keppel Land organises The Company recognises that Evolution of Employment various activities to people are its greatest asset promote teamwork among its employees and that every staff represents 5,000 and inculcate good values the Keppel Land brand. As such, at the same time. 4,000 the Group is committed to nurturing a diverse, competent 3,000 and dedicated talent pool that will drive further growth and 2,000 create value for the Company. 1,000 Talent management and 0 succession planning rank highly 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 on Keppel Land’s priority list. Singapore 540 565 493 497 443 The Company continues to International* 3,555 3,557 3,476 3,429 3,652 bolster its bench strength in its key markets of Singapore, China, Total 4,095 4,122 3,969 3,926 4,095 Vietnam and Indonesia through * Including Keppel Land and Sedona Hotel International operations staff promotion, redeployment and selective new hires. contract staff. About 10% of Regional Distribution Keppel Land also actively Keppel Land’s Singapore-based engages staff through various staff are from the minority initiatives such as post-results ethnic groups. communication sessions, lunches and tea with the CEO and senior A total of 3,652 staff are based management, as well as employee overseas, of which about 3,334 perception surveys. or 91% are permanent staff. Of these, 49% are located in Profile of Board of Directors China, 27% in Myanmar, The Company has a total of 7% in Indonesia, 9% in Vietnam, nine Directors on its Board, 4% in Malaysia and 4% in India, who contribute with experience the Philippines, Thailand, % and competency in areas such Sri Lanka, Japan, Korea, Singapore 10.8 as industry knowledge, legal, Taiwan and Australia. Of the finance and risk management. overseas permanent staff, China 40.9 1,054 staff are employed under India 0.3 The Board has two female joint-venture companies. They Vietnam 11.5 Directors, providing gender are attached to the hotels and Indonesia 6.5 diversity. Mrs Koh-Lim Wen Gin resorts which are managed was appointed as an Independent by Keppel Land Hospitality Philippines 0.6 Director on 20 January 2010, Management in Vietnam Thailand 1.8 while Mrs Oon Kum Loon was and Myanmar. Malaysia 3.6 appointed as a non-Independent Myanmar 23.4 Director on 1 September 2010. The proportion of female to Others 0.6 male employees in Singapore All Directors are over 50 years is at 62%:38%. Overseas, Total 100 of age. There is no minority ethnic 45% of employees are group representation on the Board. female, while 55% are male. The senior management team Profile of Employees at Keppel Land comprises Keppel Land employs 4,095 staff 17 members, of which 15 are male. across its 14 countries of operation. In Singapore, 67% of its Some 443 employees are based at workforce is aged between Keppel Land’s corporate office 31 and 50 years, with 36% in Singapore, of which 327 or and 31% in the 31–40 and 74% are executives and 116 41–50 years age groups or 26% are non-executives. respectively. Overseas, 70% About 421 or 95% are permanent of its employees are aged employees, while 22 or 5% are 40 years and below. 56 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2015 Empowering Lives People Matter Gender Profile In terms of educational profile, 69% of its (Singapore) % Singapore-based employees have tertiary qualifications and above. Of these, 55% hold a Bachelor’s degree, professional Male 38.1 certification or graduate diploma, while 14% Female 61.9 have a Master’s or post-graduate degree. Total 100.0 Overseas, about 45% of its staff hold a Bachelor’s degree, professional certification or graduate diploma, and about 4% have a Master’s or post-graduate degree. The overall turnover rate for Keppel Land in 2015 was about 13% or 514 employees, compared to 11% or 550 staff in 2014. The turnover rate for the Company’s headquarters in Singapore in 2015 stood at 9.4% or 41 staff, Age Profile (Singapore) below the national average of 22.8%. Of the % 514 employees, about 60% or 305 staff were below 30 years old, while another 36% or Less than 31 years 14.7 187 staff were aged 30-50 years. The remaining From 31 years to 40 years 35.9 4% or 22 staff were over 50 years old. From 41 years to 50 years 30.5 Turnover by gender was at 253 (49%) males and From 51 years to 62 years 17.2 261 females (51%). More than 62 years 1.7 Total 100.0 Policy of Non-Discrimination In support of human rights principles, Keppel Land adheres to fair employment practices and provides equal opportunities with regards to recruitment and career development of its employees. Educational Profile The Company is a signatory of the Employers’ (Singapore) % Pledge of Fair Employment Practices with the Tripartite Guidelines on Fair Employment Practices (TAFEP). Master’s Degree/Post-Graduate 14.0 Bachelor’s Degree/Professional The Group adheres to the principles of nonCertification/Graduate Diploma 55.0 discriminatory and merit-based employment Diploma/GCE ‘A’ Levels 16.3 practices. It is committed to the five guiding GCE ‘O’ Levels/Industrial principles of fair employment, namely: Certification 11.3 Others 3.4 a. Recruit and select employees on the basis of Total 100.0 merit (such as skills, experience or ability to perform the job), regardless of age, race, gender, religion, family status or disability; b. Treat employees fairly and with respect and Professional Profile implement progressive human resource (HR) (Singapore) % management systems; c. Provide employees with equal opportunity to be considered for training and development Executive 73.8 based on their strengths and needs, to help Non-Executive 26.2 them achieve their full potential; d. Reward employees fairly based on their ability, Total 100.0 performance, contribution and experience; and e. Abide by labour laws and adopt Tripartite Guidelines which promote fair employment practices. There were no reported incidences of discrimination by employees in 2015. Overview / Sustaining Growth / Empowering Lives / Nurturing Communities / Other Information 57 People Matter Remuneration and Benefits Gender Profile Staff at the corporate office enjoy the benefits (Overseas) % stipulated in the Singapore’s Employment Act which is the key legislature governing Male 55.2 employment contracts. It includes the basic terms and conditions of employment that Female 44.8 organisations must abide by. Total 100.0 Central Provident Fund (CPF) Scheme The CPF is a comprehensive national social security savings plan that ensures working Singaporeans have a secure retirement fund. Keppel Land and its employees contribute to its employees’ CPF on a monthly basis. CPF contributions go into the Ordinary, Age Profile Special and Medisave Accounts. Savings (Overseas) % in the Ordinary Account can be allocated for housing, approved investments, CPF insurance and education purposes, while those in the Less than 31 years 26.2 Medisave Account can be used for hospitalisation From 31 years to 40 years 43.6 as well as approved medical and insurance From 41 years to 50 years 22.6 expenses. Special Account savings are for old age, contingency purposes and investment in From 51 years to 62 years 7.4 retirement-related financial products. More than 62 years 0.2 Total 100.0 Together with employees’ contribution of 20% of monthly wages into CPF, the total contribution by both employers and employees is 36%. Contributions are lower for employees aged above 50 years as well as those earning monthly wages of below $1,500. The CPF monthly Educational Profile salary ceiling remained at $5,000 in 2015. (Overseas) % Staff Benefits Master’s Degree/Post-Graduate 4.1 Besides the mandatory CPF contributions by both employer and employees, Keppel Land Bachelor’s Degree/Professional Certification/Graduate Diploma 45.2 offers all full-time employees a comprehensive benefits package including health and welfare Diploma/GCE ‘A’ Levels 13.3 allowances, maternity and paternity leave GCE ‘O’ Levels/Industrial entitlements as well as coverage under the Certification 3.0 Company’s group health insurance plan. Others 34.4 Information on these entitlements is Total 100.0 disseminated to all staff via the Welfare and Benefits portal on the Company’s intranet. The portal serves as a one-stop virtual centre for information on employee benefits and Professional Profile entitlements in healthcare, insurance, leave, (Overseas) % welfare, telecommunications, loan facility, transport and recreation. Executive 36.1 Valuing the knowledge, experience and expertise Non-Executive 63.9 of exemplary staff beyond the retirement age Total 100.0 of 62, Keppel Land retains and extends their employment annually on a contract basis, taking into account the employee’s health, productivity and performance. These employees enjoy the same benefits as full-time employees. In 2015, a total of eight of its employees in Singapore were above retirement age. 58 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2015 Empowering Lives People Matter 01 Remuneration consistent leadership potential assessment 01 The Company ensures that all employees have In Singapore, the ratio of basic salary of male model is applied for all executives across the equal opportunities to female in the executive category is 1.3, while various business units. for career growth the ratio for the non-executive category is 0.76. and development. The ratio of the entry level salary of male to Keppel Land fosters a performance-based female in the executive category is 0.93 and reward culture. Compensation includes a base non-executive category is 0.94. salary that commensurates with skills and experience, along with an incentive bonus The ratio of the entry level salary of male to programme based on the performances of female in the executive category in China the Company via Corporate Scorecard, and the and Vietnam are 1.21 and 1.02 respectively. individual employee’s performance via Balanced For non-executives in China, the ratio is 1.04. Scorecard or the performance appraisal form. There are no female non-executives at entry level in Vietnam. The Corporate Scorecard was introduced in 2015 to holistically assess Keppel Land’s corporate Career Planning and Recognition performance. Besides financial performance, Performance Management System achievements in areas such as people Keppel Land has a structured staff appraisal development, process management and and performance management system stakeholder engagement are evaluated. in place which allows all staff to receive regular performance feedback and career Staff performance appraisals are conducted development reviews. online. This is part of the Company’s ongoing efforts to automate work processes and drive The Keppel Competency model allows for productivity. Overseas employees can also greater consistency across the business access the system via the intranet. units in areas such as succession planning and talent management, while the Keppel An integral part of the performance appraisal Leadership Potential model ensures that a is the employee’s exemplification of the Overview / Sustaining Growth / Empowering Lives / Nurturing Communities / Other Information 59 People Matter Group’s core values which are LEAD 1 seeks to develop high scholars in November and Can Do, integrity, customer focus, potential executives to become December 2015. The programme people-centredness, safety, effective people managers, provides a framework for agility and innovation, collective while LEAD 2 aims to groom participants to assess and align strength and accountability. promising people managers their principles of effectiveness, as Alignment with these core values to become effective functional well as develop skills to effectively is assessed based on observed and operational leaders. lead themselves, influence, behaviour in daily interactions with engage and collaborate with supervisor, peers, subordinates A stringent selection process, others to continually improve as well as other stakeholders to which includes psychometric their capabilities. achieve work goals. testing, has been instituted to ensure rigour and objectivity Five networking lunch sessions Keppel Land also has in place in identifying staff for the were also organised between two share-based incentive plans, programme. In 2015, a total July and November 2015 namely the Restricted Share Plan of 23 staff were selected for for senior staff to share with (RSP) and Performance Share the LEAD Programme, of which high potential executives Plan (PSP), to strengthen the 19 staff were for selected on their career growth with link between reward and LEAD 1 and four staff for Lead 2. the Company. long-term performance. They include employees from the Group’s offices in Singapore, The LEAD 3 development The RSP, which is distributed China and Indonesia. roadmap for senior staff includes equally over three years, is awarded a coaching component with a to employees who have achieved Participants in the LEAD 360° assessment, as well as pre-determined targets at the programme will progress through enrolment in structured courses end of a one-year performance a structured learning roadmap, and programmes. In 2015, a period. The 2014 RSP grant has including taking on stretched total of 23 Singapore-based and met the vesting criteria with assignments, overseas postings overseas-based leaders went one-third of the award released and job rotations to help them through 360° assessments, to the awardees annually over a develop core competencies followed by executive coaching. three-year period from 2015 to aligned with the Company’s In addition, four leaders 2017. A total of 368,500 RSP strategic thrusts. They are also attended a two-week executive shares or one-third of the award guided by trained mentors who development programme were credited to 92 recipients in will coach and share experiences, organised by Temasek Group. March 2015. as well as provide insights and perspectives throughout Management Associate The PSP is awarded to a select the programme. Programme (MAP) group of key senior management The two-year MAP comprises staff. It encompasses greater In 2015, selected high-potential job rotation opportunities, core stretched targets with emphasis employees attended the inaugural training and mentoring for fresh on strategic goals that directly Emerging Leaders Programme (ELP) graduates. Candidates benefit impact the Company’s long-term organised by Keppel Leadership from the exposure, knowledge and growth. If the pre-determined Institute, Keppel Group’s first networks necessary to embark on targets are achieved, the grants global leadership development a fulfilling and rewarding career will be vested at the end of the centre. The ELP focuses on with Keppel Land. three-year performance period. developing potential leaders who exemplify the Keppel Group’s In 2015, Keppel Land received The 2012 PSP grant has met the core values and operating more than 700 applications for MAP. vesting criteria. A total of 301,600 principles, and display good Two out of the 23 shortlisted PSP shares or 88.9% of the award leadership skills. The programme candidates were admitted into were given to four recipients in aims to accelerate growth of the programme after rigorous March 2015. the Company’s emerging talent, rounds of interviews. equipping them with key skills Leadership Development (LEAD) and the mindset to become Localisation Strategy Programme better team leaders. To strengthen the quality of The LEAD programme, comprising Keppel Land’s local staff overseas, LEAD 1 for Emerging Leaders and A workshop on 7 Habits of the Company hired HR heads LEAD 2 for Operational Leaders, Highly Effective People was for Vietnam and Indonesia to aims to accelerate the development organised for the LEAD 1 spearhead attracting and of strong performing employees and LEAD 2 staff as well as grooming of local talents to regardless of nationality. management associates and take on leadership roles. 60 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2015 Empowering Lives People Matter In view of the Company’s expansion Training Expenditure Distribution overseas, a number of mid-career (Singapore) % locals have also been hired to helm key positions, as well as Conference 10.3 to enhance the capability of its overseas management team. Industry-related and job specific external courses 46.0 Keppel Land also participated in university career fairs and talks to Skills Training 3.3 attract fresh graduates for MAP. Leadership Courses 14.1 The selected employees were Language Courses 26.3 rotated to different departments Total 100.0 to gain more on-the-job training. In order to better manage and monitor the career development of our local talents, a local Career Review Committee was set up, developmental interventions for from around 7.1 in 2014 to 9.2 in with leadership training provided high-potential employees based on 2015. Average training investment for the local managers. the Company’s shortand long-term per employee decreased from business needs. Career plans for $1,413 in 2014 to $1,345 in 2015. In 2015, locals accounted for 56% 46 high potentials were reviewed of all department head positions at in 2015. There were also 30 staff Employees at the executive level its key overseas offices of China, rotations to various business clocked an average of 56 training Vietnam and Indonesia. units to familiarise staff with hours in 2015. Non-executive different aspects of the business. staff attended an average of To facilitate staff deployment 23.8 hours of training in 2015. across cities, a uniform global At the same time, the New Hires grading structure has been Milestone Programme helps new Overseas, the average training established for employees employees assimilate into the places per employee was 5.3 in based overseas. organisation. It includes various 2015. Executive and non-executive workshops to familiarise them staff attended an average of 27.7 The progress of localisation with the Group’s businesses, and 20 training hours respectively. is reviewed annually by top core values, functions of different management. In China, the MAP departments, the real estate Employee Engagement* continues to attract young talents industry, as well as the Company’s Staff Engagement Platforms from reputable universities to join performance management The CEO takes the lead in encouraging the Company. An Employee Value framework. A two-hour sailing staff to adopt an entrepreneurial Preposition branding exercise was experience with Keppel Bay Sailing mindset, to be open and agile in also launched to attract local Academy was also included to adapting to change, as well as to talent there. The Company also foster greater staff interaction. innovate for growth. Employees reaches out to Vietnamese and are updated on the Company’s Indonesian students in Singapore Recognising the importance performance and strategic directions who are keen to work in their of continuous training and at regular staff communication home countries upon graduation. development, various training sessions by the CEO. Overseas roadmaps and courses are made staff participate in the session Training and Development available to employees. Each through a live webcast of the event. In 2015, Keppel Land adopted staff is encouraged to attend at the Keppel Group’s leadership least three learning programmes The HR department, the Corporate potential assessment framework. per year. The HR department Social Responsibility (CSR) All Keppel business units use this works closely with unit heads to Committee and the Welfare framework to assess potential recommend relevant courses for Committee work together closely leadership and facilitate their staff. Efforts are also made to foster an open and collaborative deployment of talent across to identify learning programmes culture among employees. the Group. for non-executive staff, including both soft and functional skills. Various engagement platforms are A Career Review Committee (CRC) Course materials are also made used throughout the year as part of identifies and grooms promising available on the intranet. Keppel Land’s continuous efforts employees for future leadership to improve management-staff positions. Helmed by the CEO, In Singapore, the average training communication and interaction. the CRC focuses on specific places per employee increased These include breakfast and * G-26, G-27 Overview / Sustaining Growth / Empowering Lives / Nurturing Communities / Other Information 61 People Matter 01 01 Keppel Land provides afternoon tea sessions with the CEO and governance, safety, customer and platforms for staff senior management. A total of seven breakfast stakeholder focus, CSR, staff engagement, to engage with senior management, such as the and 10 tea sessions were held in 2015. people development and communication. Annual Staff Conference. Other informal platforms include interaction Based on the results of the EES conducted in at the staff lounge, Kloud, Company-wide staff August 2015, HR conducted five focus group get-togethers, as well as Mid-Week Chill-Out sessions to gain deeper insights of the sessions to foster greater interaction and survey results. rapport among staff from across the Singapore business units. The findings highlighted three main areas for improvement, including improving Through KLink, a bimonthly eNewsletter, communication within each department employees are kept informed with features on on relevant operational decisions and the latest developments within the Company, the encouragement of prompt and open as well as interviews with management and staff. information sharing among colleagues; enhancing collaborations among Employees from Keppel Land’s HR department departments and relevant stakeholders attended the inaugural Keppel Group Global to facilitate effective and efficient decision HR Conference in July 2015, with the objective making, as well as providing insights to of creating a One Keppel, One HR mindset in high-potential employees on their career alignment with Vision 2020. The conference growth within the Company. offered insights and perspective on HR management from both internal and external The consolidated findings and recommendations expert speakers. were shared with the heads of respective business units for further improvement Employee Engagement Survey in their management and communication Keppel Land conducted its third Keppel among the employees. Group-wide Employee Engagement Survey (EES) in August 2015. Conducted in seven Inculcating Core Values languages across 10 countries, 3,523 employees To align employees with the Group’s eight core were invited to take part in the EES and values, creative activities that expound these 98.4% responded to the online survey. values were organised every quarter. The survey enabled staff to provide feedback The Values-In-Action programme was also and suggestions on 14 areas, including included as one of the orientation events 62 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2015 Empowering Lives People Matter The Keppel Core Values for new hires since 2011. It aims to help staff Attendees of the plenary sessions included understand the values through experiential non-executives in Singapore. activities. At the same time, the core values portal on the intranet helps sustain awareness The ASC facilitates strategic collaboration and promote the actualisation of the values and exchange of best practices and new ideas, in a fun and interactive manner. The portal as well as cross-learning opportunities and features the behavioural attributes, pledges networking among staff. It also serves as a key by staff in support of the values, as well as the platform for Management to share the Group’s Hall of Fame Awards to recognise employees strategic directions and provide updates on who are exemplary role models. A total of the various business units. Overseas staff also 12 staff and four teams received the Hall attended customised training sessions for of Fame awards at the Annual Dinner and programmes that are not readily available in Dance in 2015. their home countries. To heighten awareness of the core values In 2015, an inaugural teambuilding segment among staff, quarterly activities focusing on was introduced to encourage bonding and each value were conducted. The documentary, teamwork among employees from different Steve Jobs One Last Thing, was screened to business units. The ASC was well-received by staff in June to highlight innovation as a key staff, culminating in the Company’s annual driver of the Company’s growth. In December, Dinner and Dance. when the focus was on health and safety, a relevant video clip and hand sanitisers Promoting Work-Life Balance were distributed to all staff to reinforce the Recognising that work-life balance is importance of observing workplace and imperative in developing a motivated and personal hygiene. dedicated workforce, Keppel Land continues to implement initiatives that promote Annual Staff Conference (ASC) family cohesiveness. The ASC 2015 held in May was attended by over 500 Singapore-based staff and key The Singapore government encourages and executives from its overseas operations. supports Singaporeans to work towards Overview / Sustaining Growth / Empowering Lives / Nurturing Communities / Other Information 63 People Matter fulfilling their marriage and and the government. In 2015, Employees also participated parenthood aspirations. In 2015, Keppel Land was granted a actively in the annual Keppel the government introduced total of $51,329 for 49 eligible Games including badminton, the Jubilee Marriage and employees under the governmentdragonboating, golf, track and Parenthood Package in support paid childcare leave scheme. field, table-tennis and bowling. of a pro-family environment in Singapore. These include: Employees with children who Awards for Best Practices are citizens aged between 7 and In 2015, Keppel Land was a. Enhanced Maternity Protection 12 are entitled to two days of recognised for Leading HR for Pregnant Employees; extended childcare leave annually. Practices in Talent Management, b. Shared Parental Leave to allow In 2015, Keppel Land was granted Retention and Succession Planning, fathers to utilise up to one week a total amount of $14,188 for and accorded special mention for of the mothers’ maternity leave; 22 eligible employees under the Performance Management at the c. Enhanced Paternity Leave extended childcare leave scheme. Singapore HR Awards organised for working fathers to receive by the Singapore Human 1 additional week, on top of Workplace Health Promotion Resources Institute. existing 1 week, of governmentIn 2015, Keppel Land adopted paid paternity leave; the Workplace Health Promotion Labour Relations d. Each parent is entitled to (WHP) Programme by the Ministry In 2015, Keppel Land engaged 6 days of paid childcare leave of Health in collaboration with the the Singapore Industrial and for children aged below 7 years Health Promotion Board and the Services Employees’ Union (SISEU) and extended paid child care Singapore National Employees through dialogues and other leave of 2 days for children Federation. The programme communication modes. All aged 7-12 years; encourages employees to take non-executive staff at its Singapore e. Provision of 4 weeks of responsibility for their own health headquarters are covered under government paid adoption and promote workplace health. the collective agreement signed leave for adopted infants aged Companies have to assess and between SISEU and the Company. below 12 months. evaluate staff needs for their To-date, a total of 17 employees physical and mental development. are members of the SISEU. In line with the government’s Grants are provided to companies pro-family legislations and the to help them develop a healthier Under the collective bargaining Child Development Co-Saving Act, workplace, which will in turn agreement signed with the SISEU, employees who have been with improve productivity. the notice period for consultation the Company for more than three and negotiation between the months are eligible for parental and Keppel Land received a $15,000 Company and the Union shall be childcare leave benefits. Female grant under WHP to roll out no later than six months prior to employees with Singapore citizen programmes on general health, the expiry of the agreement. births are entitled to 16 weeks of targeted intervention and government-paid maternity leave. mental health for employees. The Union will be advised before In 2015, Keppel Land was granted The Company organised six changes in the general conditions a total amount of $69,559 for five workshops relating to general of employment, such as rates eligible female employees. health, seven sessions of mass of pay, hours of work and other exercises such as Zumba and general terms and conditions of Male employees with Singapore Yoga, as well as lunch talks on employment, are put into effect. citizen births are entitled to two topics such as stress management, weeks of government-paid better sleep and office ergonomics In addition, the agreement also paternity leave. In 2015, there were to improve mental health. covers medical benefits including no eligible male employees under annual coverage limit, extension the scheme. Keppel Land grants In addition, the Company signed of coverage to dependents, as one day paternity leave to its male a new corporate membership well as Group Term Life and employees with non-Singapore with California Fitness, in place Group Critical Illness insurances citizen births. In 2015, one male of the Clark Hatch Fitness Centre. for corporate office employees. employee enjoyed this benefit. It is conveniently located at Bugis Junction Towers, where Besides forging closer relations In addition, employees with Keppel Land’s headquarters with the Union, the agreement children who are Singapore is located. Subsidies ranging reinforces the Company’s citizens and aged below seven from $10 to $50 were given commitment to fair remuneration years are entitled to six days of to staff to encourage them to and employee retention. There paid childcare leave per year, engage in competitive and were no grievances reported by borne jointly by the Company non-competitive sports. employees in 2015. 64 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2015 Nurturing Communities Community and Society The Company is committed to be a responsible corporate citizen and continues to contribute to communities wherever it operates. 5,095 hours 7,000 villagers Staff committed a total of 5,095 hours Over 7,000 villagers had better access to various community outreach activities in to clean water through the Keppel LandSingapore and overseas in 2015. supported Water for Life (Yangon) project. 01 Overview / Sustaining Growth / Empowering Lives / Nurturing Communities / Other Information 65 Community and Society 01 The Words on Wheels As a responsible corporate citizen, Water for Life materials, it is the first full-fledged project in Ho Chi Minh Keppel Land continues to engage In Myanmar, where Keppel Land community library to be housed City provides over 3,000 village children with and contribute to communities owns a 40% stake in Junction within Sutera Mall, the retail access to books and wherever it operates. City Tower as well as owns and component of Keppel Land’s educational materials. Taman Sutera integrated operates two hotels – Sedona Adopting a multi-faceted Hotel Yangon and Sedona Hotel township in Johor. My Library approach towards Corporate Mandalay, an estimated 70% has an average of close to Social Responsibility (CSR), of the population reside in rural 40,000 visitors per month. the Group aligns its community areas with limited access to outreach efforts with its focus clean water sources and basic Words On Wheels areas of environment and health facilities. As one of Vietnam’s largest and education, while continuing pioneer real estate developers, to support various community Keppel Land partnered the Keppel Land strives to enrich the programmes including the arts, Singapore International lives of the local communities. healthcare initiatives and other Foundation (SIF), non-profit charitable causes. organisation Mingalar Myanmar Following the success of its Words and the Singapore Red Cross, on Wheels (WOW) mobile library To nurture a spirit of volunteerism to provide over 7,000 villagers project in Hanoi, Keppel Land and cultivate an engaged in the cyclone-hit townships of again partnered SIF to extend workforce, employees are given Kaw Hmu and Kungyangon with the project to Ho Chi Minh City two days of volunteer leave better access to clean drinking (HCMC), Vietnam, in May 2014. annually to participate in water through the Water for Life This is the Company’s third community-related activities. project in Yangon (WFL Yangon). partnership with SIF following This encourages staff to be WOW Hanoi and WFL Yangon. socially responsible and to The three-year project from 2013 embrace Keppel’s core values to 2016 saw the installation of Together with its Vietnamese joint of Can Do, people-centeredness 24 tube wells and water storage venture partners for The Estella, and collective strength, while shelters in the two townships. Riviera Point, South Rach Chiec playing an active role in the Some 16 educational programmes and Villa Riviera residential development of the beneficiaries. on basic hygiene and healthcare developments, Keppel Land is were also conducted for the the main sponsor of WOW HCMC. In 2015, Keppel Land staff villagers. In addition, five hospitals An initiative by SIF in partnership committed a total of 5,095 hours and two rural health centres were with the General Sciences Library, to various community outreach refurbished and medical staff at WOW reaches out to rural activities in Singapore and overseas. these facilities were provided with communities by promoting a training on basic healthcare skills. culture of reading and self-learning. The CSR Committee assesses Over three years, the mobile library strategic partnerships and A total of 51 employees from will provide over 3,000 children support of outreach programmes across Keppel’s business units aged between six and 15 in the based on a detailed set of criteria. participated in seven volunteer Binh Chanh district access to These include alignment with the trips for the project. educational materials, IT resources Company’s CSR focus, continuity and learning facilities. and scalability of the initiative, Empowering Through Education extent of stakeholder engagement, Embracing the belief that In 2015, two volunteer trips as well as the track record of the knowledge is fundamental in involving over 10 employees from organisation. Other key guiding equipping communities with Keppel Land’s Singapore and principles include reaching out to skills for a sustainable livelihood, Vietnam offices were conducted. the local communities in countries Keppel Land collaborates with Volunteers travelled with the of Keppel Land’s operations, strategic partners on various mobile library to engage children opportunities to involve and reading initiatives and programmes from the schools in rural villages leverage the skillset of its in Singapore and overseas. through reading and games. employees, as well as ensuring that activities undertaken have My Library Keppel Volunteers long-term positive impact on In Malaysia, My Library, a Keppel Land also reaches out to the communities. collaboration between the the less-privileged through Keppel National Library Board and Volunteers, a Keppel Group-wide Currently, about 40% of Tanah Sutera Development, volunteer movement. Established Keppel Land’s operations have has been operational since 2013. in 2000, Keppel Volunteers has implemented local community Spanning 35,000 sf with a wide harnessed the Group’s diverse engagement programmes. collection of books and audio-visual resources, strengths and talents 66 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2015 Nurturing Communities Community and Society 01 in spearheading regular activities Supporting Community Causes past was produced. Keppel Land that positively impact local SG50 Singapore Unboxed also hosted a group of 40 seniors communities, social institutions To commemorate Singapore’s from THKSAC at the National Library and non-profit organisations. Golden Jubilee, Keppel Land leg of the exhibition. Community Keppel Volunteers works closely held the SG50 Singapore engagement through lunchtime with beneficiaries in the areas Unboxed exhibition on the events, Facebook and a photo of the environment, the elderly Transformation of Singapore’s competition saw the public sharing and special needs children. Financial Landscape from their memories of these areas. With its wide ranging programmes, 26 October to 18 December 2015. Keppel Volunteers caters to the On a separate occasion, varied interests of employees Supported by the Ministry of Keppel Land also hosted and fosters a robust culture Culture, Community and Youth, THKSAC seniors on a charity of volunteerism. the roving exhibition showcased cruise around Singapore’s waters. the transformation of Singapore’s In 2015, Keppel Volunteers landscape in Raffles Place, Green Corridor Run partnered Thye Hua Kwan Bedok Bras Basah, Bugis and Keppel Bay, Keppel Land sponsored $20,000 Radiance Seniors Activity Centre, as well as landmark developments in support of the Green Corridor Care Corner Family Service Centre, in these areas, including Ocean Run in March 2015. Over 7,000 Bright Hill Evergreen Home and Financial Centre, Bugis Junction people from 69 countries took Ren Ci Nursing Home to organise Towers, Keppel Bay and Marina part in this third instalment of the various activities for the elderly Bay Financial Centre, in addition run, which also marked the launch and the needy. It also joined to public buildings such as of the inaugural Keppel Land Yayasan Mendaki in delivering the National Library at Water Challenge. In this segment food hampers to low-income Victoria Street and Singapore of the run, participants were able households during Hari Raya Management University. to experience the challenges in July. faced by those in developing Through the exhibition, the countries who have to walk long In support of the National Blood Company engaged its stakeholders distances daily to fetch clean Programme by Health Sciences in various ways. A two-part water for safe-drinking and Authority and the Singapore Red video involving interviews with domestic uses. Staff participated Cross, blood donation drives were management, partners and senior in the run, which stretched over organised at Keppel’s worksites citizens from the Thye Hua Kwan 10.5 kilometres from the historic including Keppel Bay Tower for the Seniors Activity Centre (THKSAC) Tanjong Pagar railway station to eighth consecutive year in 2015. on their recollection of Singapore’s the Bukit Timah station. Overview / Sustaining Growth / Empowering Lives / Nurturing Communities / Other Information 67 Community and Society 01 Keppel Land staff Green Pledge Fund Raising for Charities volunteers hosted seniors from Thye Hua Kwan In January 2015, Keppel Land pledged to In November 2015, Keppel Care Foundation Seniors Activity Centre plant over 200 native trees at The Lakefront sponsored $10,000 through Keppel Land during a charity cruise Residences in support of South West Community in support of Singapore Disability Sports around Singapore’s waters. Development Council’s (CDC) 1,000,000 Council’s Reindeer Walk-A-Wheelathon. Native Plants @ South West initiative. Keppel Land’s employees also joined the 02 Marina at Keppel Bay Under this initiative, a million trees will two-kilometre charity walk at Marina Bay. supported Mission Row be planted by some 13,000 residents in Marina at Keppel Bay supported Mission Around Singapore Island, a 24-hour rowing mission, South West CDC over a ten-year period Row Around Singapore Island, a 24-hour to raise funds for from 2008, to reinstate the district’s rowing mission, to raise funds for underunder-privileged seafarers. natural heritage and take a stand in privileged seafarers. fighting climate change. Keppel Land’s listed fund management arm, Keppel Land is also one of the first corporate Keppel REIT, was the Silver Sponsor for the partners of South West CDC’s Recycle-A-Bulb Mindset Challenge, a vertical marathon initiative. Into its second year, the programme organised by Jardine Ambassadors held has been expanded to include corporate and at Marina Bay Financial Centre Tower One in community partners to pledge used light November 2015 in support of the Singapore bulbs in exchange for new energy-efficient Association for Mental Health. Keppel REIT ones for low-income families. The initiative staff also took part in the individual and team aims to collect 50,000 light bulbs over the next categories of the vertical marathon, scaling five years, which will benefit 12,500 families the 33-storey building. with an estimated $3.7 million savings in electricity bills. Keppel REIT also organised various activities at its properties to engage the community, Keppel Land pledged over 3,000 light bulbs including monthly lunchtime performances by collected from its commercial buildings young musicians from the Lasalle College of including Keppel Towers 1 and 2, Ocean the Arts and the Nanyang Academy of Fine Arts, Financial Centre and Bugis Junction Towers, as well as a musical showcase by winners of for recycling. Symphony 92.4FM’s Young Talents Project. 02 68 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2015 Nurturing Communities Community and Society Donation Drives change and improvement, creating positive 01 Volunteers from Keppel Land China (Tianjin) During the Lunar New Year period, Keppel Land and meaningful impact on the overseas have been organising collaborated with the Metropolitan YMCA to communities in which it operates. regular activities for sponsor and distribute necessities and festive children at Xiangyu Grooming Talents Autism Mutual Aid items to over 100 underprivileged families. Association since 2013. In collaboration with local tourism institutions Keppel Land also supported the South in Myanmar such as Star Resources Academy, West CDC’s Eco Clean-Out initiative, where Temasek International College as well as the 02 Keppel Land Vietnam officially adopted employees donated clothes, which were Hospitality and Catering Training Academy Vinh Son Primary School exchanged for packets of rice for low-income under the Daw Khin Kyi Foundation, a total in Ho Chi Minh City, families residing in the South West district. of 31 students underwent internships with Vietnam, in 2015. A total of 220 kilograms of old clothes Sedona Hotel Yangon between April and was collected from staff, which were November 2015. Six students were offered exchanged for over 70 packets of rice full-time jobs at the hotel at the end of for the less fortunate. their internships. Alpha Investment Partners, Keppel Land’s Together with its main contractor for Saigon private equity fund management arm, Centre, Hoa Binh Construction & Real Estate continued to support its adopted charity, Corporation, Keppel Land Vietnam pledged a AWWA School for children aged seven total of $11,500 to An Phu Secondary School to 18 with multiple disabilities and from in HCMC. This includes scholarships for low-income families. Staff also volunteered 20 underprivileged students who have in AWWA’s National Day celebration in excelled academically. August 2015, during which they helped organise activities for the children. Community Engagement To aid in the learning and development Reaching Out to Overseas Communities of autistic children, staff volunteers Beyond philanthropic efforts, the Company from Keppel Land China’s Tianjin office seeks to empower lives for sustainable organised regular outings with children 01 Overview / Sustaining Growth / Empowering Lives / Nurturing Communities / Other Information 69 Community and Society 02 from Xiangyu Autism Mutual In Thailand, 60 staff volunteers Fire Department and Public Aid Association. This included collaborated with Chet Khot-Pong Security Bureau. Keppel Land tree-planting at the Tianjin Kon Sao Nature Study Centre in China’s Tianjin office also Eco-City International Country Khao Yai National Park in Saraburi organised a charitable Club in conjunction with province to build check dams and physiological counselling China’s tree-planting day in salt licks in the park. The dams session for the residents. March, as well as celebrating help to prevent soil erosion in Thanksgiving Day with the the area during the rainy season, Spring City Golf & Lake Resort in children in November 2015. while the salt licks preserve Kunming raised funds for Cao Dian minerals on the forest floor Nursing Home and donated monies Staff volunteers from Keppel Land which the wild animals depend to the less fortunate through the China’s Shanghai office engaged on for nutrients. Kuangyuan sub-district office of the elderly residents of Changning Yiliang County, while Keppel Land District Second Welfare Institution In November 2015, the Company China’s Nantong office raised funds in April, while the Chengdu office also supported the Duang Prateep for the Nantong Social Welfare screened a film on Singapore’s Foundation, a private non-profit Home through a charity football history for residents at the organisation operating over 20 tournament held in March 2015. Nuan Chao Ren Jia Nursing Home, projects in the fields of education, in conjunction with Singapore’s child abuse and welfare of the Sedona Hotel Mandalay organised Golden Jubilee celebrations. elderly and youths at Klong Toey, a week-long donation drive for the biggest slum in Thailand. villagers of Kant Ba Lu Township, Keppel Land Vietnam officially The Company donated exercise which was severely hit by the adopted Vinh Son Primary School, equipment from its clubhouse monsoon. Besides monetary aid, a school for underprivileged to the Foundation’s fitness centre food supplies, clothes and daily children in District 7 of HCMC, for their residents’ use. necessities were donated. Similarly, in April 2015. It pledged to staff at Sedona Hotel Yangon provide each student with Donation Drives donated clothes and necessities a bottle of milk every day, In support of relief efforts following to affected children through the and donated school uniforms, the explosions that occurred at the Myanmar Red Cross Society and backpacks, electronic equipment, Port of Tianjin, China in August 2015, the Wai Lu Kyaw Foundation textbooks, as well as books to the Sino-Singapore Tianjin Eco-City respectively. The hotel also donated the school. It also sponsored the Investment and Development Co. monies as well as furniture to two school’s utility bills from April to Ltd donated more than $31,400 to orphanage schools under Ministry December 2015. the Sino-Singapore Tianjin Eco-City of Social Welfare in April 2015. 70 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2015 GRI G4 Content Index For ‘In Accordance’ – Comprehensive Level of Reporting, External External ISO 26000 Page Reference and/or Assurance Assurance Clauses Explanation for Omissions Yes (Y)/No (N) Reference General Standard Disclosures Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker 4.7, 6.2, 7.4.2 3-5 Y 79-82 of the organization G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 4.7, 6.2, 7.4.2 Annual Report (AR) at N – www.keppelland. com page 37 Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization – 6 Y 79-82 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services – 6 N – G4-5 Location of organization’s headquarters 6.2 6 N – G4-6 Number and names of countries where the – AR (75) N – organization operates G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form – 6 N – G4-8 Markets served – AR (75) N – G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization – 6 N – G4-10 Employees Profile – 56-57 Y 79-82 G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by 6.3.10 63 Y 79-82 collective bargaining agreements G4-12 Organization’s Supply Chain 6.4.1, 6.4.2 21,47 Y 79-82 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period – AR (2) N – G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach – AR (35-37) Y 79-82 or principle is addressed by the organization G4-15 Externally-developed economic, environmental and 6.4.3, 6.4.4, 6.4.5, 10, 13 Y 79-82 social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which 6.8.5, 7.8 the organization subscribes or which it endorses G4-16 Memberships of associations 6.4.5 13, 28 Y 79-82 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 List all entities included or not included in 7.3.2 1 Y 79-82 organization’s financial statements G4-18 Process for defining report content How the 5.2, 7.3.2 1, 10 Y 79-82 organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the 5.2, 7.3.2 11 Y 79-82 process for defining report content G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the 7.3.3, 7.3.4 11 Y 79-82 Aspect Boundary within the organization G4-21 Report the Aspect Boundary outside 7.3.3, 7.3.4 11 Y 79-82 the organization G4-22 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements – 29 Y 79-82 of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting – 11, 29 Y 79-82 periods in the scope and Aspect boundaries Legend Fully reported Partially reported – Do not report Overview / Sustaining Growth / Empowering Lives / Nurturing Communities / Other Information 71 GRI G4 Content Index Level of Reporting, External External ISO 26000 Page Reference and/or Assurance Assurance Clauses Explanation for Omissions Yes (Y)/No (N) Reference Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged 5.3 9 Y 79-82 by the organization G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of 5.3 9 Y 79-82 stakeholders with whom to engage G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement, 5.3 27, 43, 51, 60 Y 79-82 including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised through 5.3 27, 43, 51, 60 Y 79-82 stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period for information provided – 1 Y 79-82 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report – 1 Y 79-82 G4-30 Reporting cycle – 1 Y 79-82 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding 7.5.3 1 Y 79-82 the report or its contents G4-32 Report on ‘In accordance’ option, GRI Content 7.5.3, 7.6.2 1, 70-77 Y 79-82 Index, reference to External Assurance G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard 7.5.3, 7.6.2 1 Y 79-82 to seeking external assurance for the report Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the organization 6.2 AR (31) N – G4-35 Process for delegating authority for economic, 6.2, 7.4.3 10 N – environmental and social topics from the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees G4-36 Whether the organization has appointed an 6.2, 7.4.3 10, AR (31) N – executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body G4-37 Processes for consultation between stakeholders 6.2, 7.4.3 AR (34) N – and the highest governance body on economic, environmental and social topics G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body 6.2, 7.4.3 AR (31) N – and its committees G4-39 Whether Chair of the highest governance 6.2, 7.4.3 AR (29) N – body is also an Executive Officer G4-40 Nomination and selection process for the 6.2, 7.4.3 AR (30) N – highest governance body and its committees, and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members G4-41 Processes in place for the highest governance 6.2, 7.4.3 AR (33-34) N – body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided G4-42 Highest governance body’s and senior 6.2, 7.4.3 AR (29, 31-32) N – executive’s roles in the development, approval and updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental, and social impacts G4-43 Measures taken to develop and enhance 6.2, 7.4.3 AR (29) N – the highest governance body’s collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social impacts Legend Fully reported Partially reported – Do not report 72 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2015 GRI G4 Content Index For ‘In Accordance’ – Comprehensive Level of Reporting, External External ISO 26000 Page Reference and/or Assurance Assurance Clauses Explanation for Omissions Yes (Y)/No (N) Reference G4-44 Processes for evaluating the highest governance 6.2, 7.4.3, 7.7.5 AR (31) N – body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance G4-45 Highest governance body’s role in the identification 6.2, 7.4.3 AR (29, 31-34) N – and management of economic, environmental, and social impacts, risks and opportunities. Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the highest governance body’s identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks and opportunities G4-46 Highest governance body’s role in reviewing 6.2, 7.4.3 AR (35-37) N – the effectiveness of the organization’s risk management processes for economic, environmental and social topics G4-47 Frequency of the highest governance body’s review 6.2, 7.4.3 AR (29) N – of economic, environmental and social topics G4-48 Highest committee or position that formally 6.2, 7.4.3 29 N – reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered G4-49 Process for communicating critical concerns 6.2, 7.4.3 61, AR (34) N – to the highest governance body G4-50 Nature and total number of critical concerns 6.2, 7.4.3 61, AR (34) N – that were communicated to the highest governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them G4-51 Remuneration policies for the highest 6.2, 7.4.3 AR (31) N – governance body and senior executives G4-52 Process for determining remuneration 6.2, 7.4.3 AR (31) N – G4-53 How stakeholders’ views are sought and 6.2, 7.4.3 AR (31) N – taken into account regarding remuneration, including the results of votes on remuneration policies and proposals G4-54 Ratio of the annual total compensation for the 6.2, 7.4.3 – Information is N – organisation’s highest-paid individual in each confidential country of significant operations to the median total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid) individual in the same country G4-55 Ratio of percentage increase in annual total 6.2, 7.4.3 – Information is N – compensation for the organization’s highest-paid confidential individual in each country of significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and 4.4, 6.6.3 AR (33-34) N – norms of behaviour such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking 4.4, 6.6.3 AR (33-34) N – advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting 4.4, 6.6.3 AR (33-34) N – concerns about ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines Legend Fully reported Partially reported – Do not report Overview / Sustaining Growth / Empowering Lives / Nurturing Communities / Other Information 73 GRI G4 Content Index Level of Reporting, External External ISO 26000 Page Reference and/or Assurance Assurance Clauses Explanation for Omissions Yes (Y)/No (N) Reference Specific Standard Disclosures – Material Aspects Category: Economic Economic Performance G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) 6.2, 6.8 AR (5) N – G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 6.8.1, 6.8.2, 6.8.3, AR (2) N – 6.8.7, 6.8.9 G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and 6.5.5 22-23, 34 Y 79-82 opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change and other sustainability issues G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined 6.8.7 57 Y 79-82 benefit plan obligations G4-EC4 Significant financial assistance received – 63 Y 79-82 from government Market Presence G4-DMA DMA 6.2, 6.8 55 Y 79-82 G4-EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage 6.4.3, 6.4.4, 58 Y 79-82 by gender compared to local minimum 6.8.1, 6.8.2 wage at significant locations of operation G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired 6.8.1, 6.8.2, 59-60 Y 79-82 from the local community at significant 6.8.5, 6.8.7 locations of operation Category: Environmental Materials G4-DMA DMA 6.5.1, 6.5.2 33-34 Y 79-82 G4-EN1 Materials used by weight, value or volume 6.5.4 33-34 Y 79-82 G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that 6.5.4 33-34 Y 79-82 are recycled input materials Energy G4-DMA DMA 6.5.1, 6.5.2 29-30 Y 79-82 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation 6.5.4 29-30 Y 79-82 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside the organisation 6.5.4 29-30 Y 79-82 CRE1 Building energy intensity 6.5.4 29-30 Y 79-82 G4-EN5 Energy Intensity 6.5.4 29-30 Y 79-82 G4-EN6 Reduction of Energy Consumption 6.5.4, 6.5.5 22-23 Y 79-82 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements 6.5.4, 6.5.5 22-23 Y 79-82 of products and services Water G4-DMA DMA 6.5.1, 6.5.2 30-31 Y 79-82 G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 6.5.4 30-31 Y 79-82 G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected 6.5.4 30-31 Y 79-82 by withdrawal of water G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of 6.5.4 Amount of water Y 79-82 water recycled and reused recycled mainly for irrigation use is insignificant. CRE2 Building water intensity – 30 Y 79-82 Legend Fully reported Partially reported – Do not report 74 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2015 GRI G4 Content Index For ‘In Accordance’ – Comprehensive Level of Reporting, External External ISO 26000 Page Reference and/or Assurance Assurance Clauses Explanation for Omissions Yes (Y)/No (N) Reference Emissions G4-DMA DMA 6.5.5 31-33 Y 79-82 G4-EN15 Direct Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions 6.5.5 31-33 Y 79-82 (Scope 1) G4-EN16 Energy Indirect GHG Emissions (Scope 2) 6.5.5 31-33 Y 79-82 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions 6.5.5 31-33 Y 79-82 (Scope 3) CRE3 Greenhouse gas intensity from buildings 6.5.5 31-33 Y 79-82 CRE4 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity from 6.5.5 31-33 Y 79-82 new construction and redevelopment activity G4-EN18 GHG Emissions Intensity 6.5.5 31-33 Y 79-82 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions 6.5.5 31-33 Y 79-82 and reductions achieved G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting 6.5.5 – Disclosure is not Y 79-82 substances by weight applicable as the Company does not have ozone-depleting substances. G4-EN21 NO, SO, and other significant emissions 6.5.3 – Disclosure is not Y 79-82 by type and weight applicable as the Company is not regulated by national laws, regulations or environmental permits to report significant air emissions for its operations. Effluents and Waste G4-DMA DMA 6.5.3 32 Y 79-82 G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality 6.5.3 31-32 Y 79-82 and destination – Partial disclosure as wastewater is discharged into the public sewerage system or sewage treatment plant. G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and 6.5.4 32 Y 79-82 disposal method – Partial disclosure as wastewater is discharged into the public sewerage system or sewage treatment plant. G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills 6.5.3 – Disclosure is Y 79-82 not applicable as Keppel Land does not have significant spills. G4-EN25 Weight of transported, imported, exported, 6.5.3 – Disclosure is not Y 79-82 or treated waste deemed hazardous under applicable as waste the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, on-site are managed and VIII, and percentage of transported waste by the main shipped internationally. contractors and the Company does not transport, import, export or treat hazardous waste. Legend Fully reported Partially reported – Do not report Overview / Sustaining Growth / Empowering Lives / Nurturing Communities / Other Information 75 GRI G4 Content Index Level of Reporting, External External ISO 26000 Page Reference and/or Assurance Assurance Clauses Explanation for Omissions Yes (Y)/No (N) Reference G4-EN26 Identity, size, protected status, and 6.5.3, 6.5.4, – Disclosure is not Y 79-82 biodiversity value of water bodies and related 6.5.6 applicable as waste habitats significantly affected by the reporting water is discharged organisation’s discharges of water and runoff. into the public sewerage system or sewage treatment plant. Products and Services G4-DMA DMA 6.5.3, 6.5.4, 22-23 Y 79-82 6.7.5 G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental 6.5.3, 6.5.4, 22-23 Y 79-82 impacts of products and services 6.5.5, 6.7.5 G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging 6.5.3, 6.5.4, – Disclosure is not Y 79-82 materials that are reclaimed by category 6.7.5 applicable as input building materials including packaging are purchased directly by the main contractors. Compliance G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines 4.6 21 Y 79-82 and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Category: Social Labour Practices and Decent Work Employment G4-DMA DMA 6.4, 6.3.10 55 Y 79-82 G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee 6.4.3 55 Y 79-82 hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees 6.4.4, 6.8.7 57 Y 79-82 that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after 6.4.4 63 Y 79-82 parental leave, by gender Labor/Management Relations G4-DMA DMA 6.4 63 Y 79-82 G4-LA4 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant 6.4.3, 6.4.5 63 Y 79-82 operational changes, including whether these are specified in collective agreements Occupational Health and Safety G4-DMA DMA 6.4 45 Y 79-82 G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented 6.4.6 47 Y 79-82 in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Legend Fully reported Partially reported – Do not report 76 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2015 GRI G4 Content Index For ‘In Accordance’ – Comprehensive Level of Reporting, External External ISO 26000 Page Reference and/or Assurance Assurance Clauses Explanation for Omissions Yes (Y)/No (N) Reference G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational 6.4.6, 6.8.8 53 Y 79-82 diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities by region and by gender CRE6 Percentage of the organization operating in verified 6.4, 6.4.6 49-50 Y 79-82 compliance with an internationally recognized health and safety management system G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk 6.8.8 52 Y 79-82 of diseases related to their occupation G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal 6.4.6 63 Y 79-82 agreements with trade unions Training and Education G4-DMA DMA 6.4 28, 52, 60 Y 79-82 G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee 6.4.7 60 Y 79-82 by employee category G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong 6.4.7, 6.8.5 28, 52, 60 Y 79-82 learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular 6.4.7 58 Y 79-82 performance and career development reviews Human Rights Non-discrimination G4-DMA DMA 6.3 56 Y 79-82 G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination 6.3.6, 6.3.7, 56 Y 79-82 and corrective actions taken 6.3.10, 6.4.3 Child Labour G4-DMA DMA 6.3 48 Y 79-82 G4-HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 48 Y 79-82 as having significant risk for incidents of 6.3.5, 6.3.7, child labour, and measures taken to contribute 6.3.10, 6.6.6, to the effective abolition of child labour. 6.8.4 Society Local Communities G4-DMA DMA 6.3 65 Y 79-82 G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local 6.3.9, 6.5.1, 65 Y 79-82 community engagement, impact assessments, 6.5.2, 6.8 and development programmes. G4-SO2 Operations with significant potential 6.3.9, 6.5.3, 65-69 Y 79-82 or actual negative and positive impacts 6.8 on local communities. CRE7 Number of persons voluntarily and involuntarily – – Disclosure is not Y 79-82 displaced and/or resettled by development, applicable as broken down by project. impacts on local communities in the countries that Keppel Land operates in are guided by the respective authorities’ land planning regulations. Legend Fully reported Partially reported – Do not report Overview / Sustaining Growth / Empowering Lives / Nurturing Communities / Other Information 77 GRI G4 Content Index Level of Reporting, External External ISO 26000 Page Reference and/or Assurance Assurance Clauses Explanation for Omissions Yes (Y)/No (N) Reference Compliance G4-DMA DMA 4.6 42 Y 79-82 G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and 4.6 21 Y 79-82 total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Product Responsibility Customer Health and Safety G4-DMA DMA 6.7 45 Y 79-82 G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and 6.7.1, 6.7.2, 50 Y 79-82 service categories for which health and 6.7.4, 6.7.5, safety impacts are assessed for improvement 6.8.8 G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance 4.6, 6.7.1, 21 Y 79-82 with regulations and voluntary codes 6.7.2, 6.7.4, concerning health and safety impacts of 6.7.5, 6.8.8 products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Marketing and Communications G4-DMA DMA 6.7 42-43 Y 79-82 G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products – – Disclosure is not Y 79-82 applicable as the Company does not sell banned or disputed products. G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance 4.6, 6.7.1, 43 Y 79-82 with regulations and voluntary codes 6.7.2 concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Compliance G4-DMA DMA 6.7 42-43 Y 79-82 G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for 4.6, 6.7.1, 43 Y 79-82 non-compliance with laws and regulations 6.7.2, 6.7.6 concerning the provision and use of products and services. Legend Fully reported Partially reported – Do not report 78 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2015 United Nations Global Compact 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact Principles Report Page Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally 13, 48, 56 proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 13, 48, 56 Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition 13, 48, 63 of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 13, 48 Principle 5 Effective abolition of child labour 13, 48 Principle 6 Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 13, 56 Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 18-23, 34-35 Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 18-23, 34-36 Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 20-23, 34-36 Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery AR (33-34) Overview / Sustaining Growth / Empowering Lives / Nurturing Communities / Other Information 79 Independent Assurance Statement Independent Assurance Statement To the Management and Stakeholders of Keppel Land Limited Keppel Land Limited (“Keppel Land”, the “Company”) engaged Ere-S Pte Ltd (“Ere-S”) to provide independent assurance of its Sustainability Report 2015 (the “Report”). Scope and Limitations The assurance scope includes all figures, statements and claims related to sustainability during the reporting period January 2015 to December 2015. It did not cover information related to financial performance, technical descriptions of equipment, buildings, resorts, software and production processes. The assurance also excluded historical information and performance data already verified in previous sustainability reports and information not related to sustainability or already supported by existing documents, such as third-party audits or certifications (e.g. BCA Green Mark, ISO, Green Office) and Keppel Land’s Annual Report. At the Company’s request, the scope of verification of the “Environment” and “People” sections of the report was limited to quantitative information and critical disclosure of management approach only. Type of Assurance and Criteria The assurance process was conducted under a moderate (or limited) level of assurance in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000). A moderate assurance is limited to desktop review and management-level evidence gathering and data verification with restricted sampling at lower levels in the organisation. The assurance also conforms to the AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008) Type 2, which requires evaluating the company’s overall sustainability framework with regard to material issues assessment and stakeholder engagement. This was conducted using the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles (AA1000APS 2008) of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness. AA1000 Assurance Standard also requires an evaluation of the quality of the reported sustainability performance information. For this, Ere-S employed the GRI G4 Reporting Principles (reliability, accuracy, balance, comparability, timeliness, clarity, sustainability context and completeness). Assurance Methodology The assurance procedures and principles used for this engagement were organised into a methodology developed by Ere-S, which consists of the following steps: 1. Identify and classify statements and data sets according to the scope, data ownership and type of evidence required for the verification process. 2. Carry out interviews with key functional managers and data owners at Keppel Land’s corporate office in Singapore to verify data. During this engagement, over 15 people were interviewed. The verification of the information was done through the following activities: • Enquiring about the quantitative and qualitative aspects of the Report disclosures, including performance information, policies, procedures and underlying management systems. • Requesting evidence of the data sources and explanation of relevant collection and calculation methods to substantiate the figures and claims. • Sampling quantitative data originating from multiple sources. • Challenging claims made in the Report and, where possible, confirming the presented evidence, including calculation methods, criteria and assumptions, with multiple data owners and other documentation from internal and external sources. • Crosschecking data with previous Keppel Land sustainability reports and Keppel Land’s latest published financial results. 3. Assess the collected information and develop recommendations for immediate correction (where required) or future improvement of the Report content. 80 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2015 Independent Assurance Statement Responsibility and Independence This statement represents the independent opinion of Ere-S. The management of Keppel Land was responsible for the preparation of the Report and all statements and figures contained within it. The responsibility of Ere-S was to provide the assurance, to express conclusions in relation to the agreed scope and to prepare the assurance report and this assurance statement for the management of Keppel Land alone and for no other purpose. Ere-S was not involved in the development of the Report or the disclosed management processes; neither has Ere-S been engaged by Keppel Land for other projects. The activities of Ere-S are independent of Keppel Land and entail no financial interest in Keppel Land’s business operations. Ere-S is not responsible for any actions taken by other parties resulting from the findings presented in this assurance statement. Findings and Observations Keppel Land’s management approach to sustainability has made reasonable progress since our previous assurance engagement last year, particularly in the areas of safety framework and supply chain management. As for the environment and safety performance figures, we observed that quality and traceability of evidence have improved. This gave us more confidence in the reliability and accuracy of the underlying data, as well as the calculation processes. However, some performance disclosures in labour and community engagement activities of overseas units required additional evidence to confirm accuracy. In terms of content, this year’s report has been streamlined compare to previous years’. This has been done without compromising the clarity of data presentation or the coverage of key material issues. The historical data provided enables comparison and assessment of progress made by the company. Minor data inaccuracies have all been corrected during the verification process. Ere-S has confirmed the revisions made. Evaluation of the Adherence to AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Inclusivity – How the organisation engages with stakeholders and enables their participation in identifying issues and finding solutions. Evidence obtained across the different interviews suggests that a wide range of channels are made available to Keppel Land’s key stakeholder groups. The Company has continued its effort to engage its employees through management-staff meetings, surveys, its intranet, newsletters and a new post box. Relevant departments have implemented various measures to engage customers, contractors and the community, such the regulatory Public Communications Plans for new projects in Singapore. In the area of safety, the company introduced a “High Impact Risk Activities” (HIRA) programme, to better engage and communicate with workers, in multiple languages, on key onsite safety practices. This was done in addition to existing platforms such as EHS training sessions, regular site visits, meetings and the sharing of innovative ideas across global operations. However, we found limited evidence to ascertain active stakeholder engagement processes in other aspects of sustainability and in overseas operations. Overview / Sustaining Growth / Empowering Lives / Nurturing Communities / Other Information 81 Independent Assurance Statement Materiality – How the organisation recognises issues that are relevant and significant to it and its stakeholders. We observed that the Company regularly reviews its policies and seeks to identify new key issues affecting its businesses. The materiality test conducted during the previous reporting cycle is still effective, with no or little change in the Company’s priorities. In its sustainability agenda, the Company’s top material issues remain safety, environment and employee relations, and to lesser extent supply chain and the community. The Company’s policies continue to be guided by these priorities, and have been implemented and tracked in sustained manner. The Company’s overseas business units could exercise the same rigour in identifying local sustainability priorities as its Singapore operations, in formulating policies and overseeing their implementation and tracking. Responsiveness – How the organisation responds to stakeholder issues and feedback through decisions, actions, performance and communication. Disclosure of the Company’s responsiveness focuses primarily at headquarters-level operations. The outcome of the stakeholder engagement measures improved existing policies and initiatives. For example, worksite safety proposals from projects around the region were collected and rewarded, to help generate a culture of safety and innovation. At its headquarter, a new Customer Service System was introduced. In a broader context, the Company has responded to Singapore’s national drive for innovation in a number of ways. In addition to innovative ideas on safety shared across the operations, we found evidence of the Company’s participation in cross sectoral collaboration on green buildings and smart homes. Response to issues and performance data are also shared with stakeholders through diverse communications channels, such as internal portals, newsletters, social media and external publications. Disclosures and evidence of response given to stakeholders relevant to overseas operations is however still limited in comparison to Singapore. Conclusion On the basis of a moderate assurance engagement according to the above-listed criteria, nothing has come to our attention that causes us not to believe that, in all material respects, Keppel Land’s Sustainability Report 2015 provides − a credible and fair representation of the organisation’s sustainability profile and a reasonable application of the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles, and − statements and figures that achieve an adequate level of reliability and accuracy. Within the scope of the assurance, the findings also provide confidence that the Report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Reporting Principles. 82 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2015 Independent Assurance Statement Moving Forward For further improvement of sustainability reporting by Keppel Land, Ere-S recommends the following: • While Keppel Land demonstrates a good level of data tracking and management system in the environment and safety areas, more can be done to enhance its data management of overseas operations and other aspects of sustainability disclosure. This will help ensure consistency in data quality and strengthen data reliability throughout the assurance process. • Disclosures on the overseas performance and processes related to social aspects could be more comprehensive as to align with the content on activities in Singapore. • Greater disclosure on gaps and negative performances would also provide readers a more balanced overview of the Company’s sustainability journey. • Keppel Land’s overall stakeholder engagement appears to be inclusive and comprehensive. However, more efforts can be made to encourage stakeholders to participate actively in decision-making processes, particularly in the social dimension of sustainability throughout the Company’s supply chain. For example, the introduction of the Group’s new Suppliers Code of Conduct may serve as a stepping stone to better engage with suppliers. It will also help the Company identify new issues on labour conditions and other social concerns pertinent to each location. The above findings and additional suggestions for improvement have been presented to the management of Keppel Land in a more detailed assurance report. Singapore, 19 May 2016 Min Ju Kim Partner, Lead auditor and Certified Sustainability Assurance Practitioner Jean-Pierre Dalla Palma Director and Lead Certified Sustainability Assurance Practitioner Ere-S Pte Ltd is a consulting company specialising in business sustainability and provides services in the domains of sustainability reporting, sustainability report assurance, stakeholder engagement and CSR training. Our assurance team is composed of assurance practitioners with expertise in CSR and each member is required to follow Ere-S’ assurance code of conduct, which can be found at http://www.ere-s.com/assurance-code-of-conduct/. Overview / Sustaining Growth / Empowering Lives / Nurturing Communities / Other Information 83 International Network International Network Singapore Jiangyin Shenyang Jiangyin Evergro Property Co Ltd Keppel Township Development Keppel Land Limited #7 Clubhouse, Stamford City (Shenyang) Co Ltd 230 Victoria Street Wenhua Lu (Opposite Jiangyin No. 26 Puxin Road #15-05 Bugis Junction Towers Tianhua Cultural Centre) Shenbei New District Singapore 188024 Jiangyin Shenyang Tel: (65) 6338 8111 Jiangsu Province, China 214400 Liaoning Province, China 110135 Fax: (65) 6337 7168 Tel: (86) 510 8683 9999 Tel: (86) 24 8972 7567 Fax: (86) 510 8641 0780 Fax: (86) 24 8972 7466 Keppel Land Retail Management Pte Ltd Jiangyin Yangtze International Tianjin 1 Fifth Avenue Country Club Co., Ltd Keppel Hong Da (Tianjin Eco-City) #02-06/07 Guthrie House No. 1 Longtao Road Property Development Co., Ltd Singapore 268802 Jiangsu 214431 No. 2018 Zhong Tian Da Dao RBO Tel: (65) 6466 2555 Jiangsu, China Block 13, Fax: (65) 6466 0578 Tel: (86) 510 8685 5333 Level 1 Unit 101, Fax: (86) 510 8685 8060 Eco-Business Park, Sino-Singapore Tianjin Eco-City, Australia Kunming Tianjin 300467, China Spring City Golf & Lake Resort Tel: (86) 22 6633 1088 Tangchi, Yiliang, Fax: (86) 22 6537 6025 Alpha Investment Partners Kunming Australia Pty Limited Level 9, 1 Alfred Street Yunnan Province, China 652103 Wuxi Tel: (86) 871 6767 1188 CityOne Development (Wuxi) Sydney New South Wales 2000 Fax: (86) 871 6767 1119 Co., Ltd Australia Tel: (61) 2 9240 0312 South of Gaolang Road & Fax: (61) 2 9240 0300 Nantong East of Nanhu Avenue Keppel Lakefront (Nantong) Central Park City Sales Gallery Property Development Co. Ltd. Wuxi 10 Shanghai Road Jiangsu Province, China 214131 China NETDA Tel: (86) 510 8283 2208 Jiangsu Province, China 226010 Fax: (86) 510 8283 2213 Beijing Tel: (86) 513 8919 9798 Beijing Kingsley Property Fax: (86) 513 8919 0788 Zhongshan Development Co. Ltd. Sunsea Yacht Club (Zhongshan) Unit 706 Shanghai Co Ltd China World Office 2 Keppel Land China Limited 1203 12/F Tower 2, The Summit No. 1 Jian Guo Men Wai Avenue (Head Office) 88 Zhongshan Fourth Road Chaoyang District 39th Floor Wheelock Square East District, Zhongshan, Beijing, China 100004 1717 Nanjing West Road Guangdong Province, China 528403 Tel: (86) 10 6505 0866 Shanghai, China 200040 Tel: (86) 760 8892 6108 Fax: (86) 10 6505 0865 Tel: (86) 21 6171 2121 Fax: (86) 760 8892 6178 Fax: (86) 21 6171 2122 Beijing Aether Property Development Co. Ltd Keppel Land (Shanghai) Block A, Room 701, Hanwei Plaza India Management Co., Ltd No. 7 Guanghua Road Room 3601 Park Place Chaoyang District Bangalore 1601 Nanjing West Road Beijing, China 100004 Keppel Puravankara Development 200040 Shanghai, China Tel: (86) 10 6561 8822 Pvt Ltd Tel: (86) 21 6288 3066 Fax: (86) 10 6561 3322 No. 39, 8th Main, 1’A’ Cross Fax: (86) 21 6288 2799 Vasanthnagar Chengdu Bangalore 560052, India Alpha Investment Partners Tel: (91) 08 4150 5000 Chengdu Hillstreet China Limited Development Co., Ltd. Fax: (91) 08 4150 5008 Room 1006 Shui On Plaza Unit 903 New Hope Tower 333 Middle Huai Hai Road 45 Ren Min Nan Lu Section 4 Shanghai, China 200021 Chengdu Tel: (86) 21 6333 9696 Sichuan Province, China 610041 Fax: (86) 21 6333 7338 Tel: (86) 28 8702 6688 Fax: (86) 28 8701 5599 84 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2015 International Network Indonesia Malaysia Taiwan Batam Johor Bahru Taipei PT Nongsa Point Marina Tanah Sutera Development Alpha Investment Partners Jl. Hang Lekiu Sdn Bhd Taiwan Limited Nongsa, Batam 29432, Batam, No. 2 Jalan Sutera Merah 2 Room G 10 Floor Indonesia Taman Sutera No. 1, Songzhi Road, Xinyi Dist., Tel: (62) 778 761 333 81200 Johor Bahru, Malaysia Taipei 11047 Fax: (62) 778 761 330 Tel: (60) 7 289 9009 Taiwan Fax: (60) 7 289 9119 Tel: (886) 2 7737 8558 Bintan Fax: (886) 2 7737 8559 PT Ria Bintan Jl. Perigi Raja Myanmar Lagoi North Bintan Vietnam Kepulauan Riau Bintan Resorts Mandalay Indonesia 29152 Sedona Hotel Mandalay Hanoi Tel: (62) 770 692 868 No. 1 Junction of 26th & 66th Street Keppel Land Vietnam Company Ltd Fax: (62) 770 692 837 Chan Aye Tharzan Township (Hanoi Branch Office) Mandalay, Myanmar Unit 04-05, 5th Floor, International Centre Jakarta Tel: (95) 2 36 488 17 Ngo Quyen Street, Hoan Kiem District PT Keppel Land Fax: (95) 2 36 499 Hanoi, Vietnam PT Kepland Investama Tel: (84) 4 3936 7745 PT Harapan Global Niaga Yangon Fax: (84) 4 3936 7680 International Financial Centre 17th Floor Sedona Hotel Yangon Jl. Jend. Sudirman Kav. 22-23 No. 1 Kaba Aye Pagoda Road Ho Chi Minh City (HCMC) Jakarta 12920, Indonesia Yankin Township Keppel Land Vietnam Company Ltd Tel: (62) 21 571 2238 Yangon, Myanmar (Head Office) Fax: (62) 21 571 1813 Tel: (95) 1 666 900 Unit 2, 8th Floor, Saigon Centre Fax: (95) 1 666 911 65 Le Loi Boulevard, District 1 Surabaya HCMC, Vietnam PT Sentral Tunjungan Perkasa Tel: (84) 8 3821 8000 Jl Kenari 3-5 Surabaya 60275, Indonesia The Philippines Fax: (84) 8 3821 3540 Tel: (62) 31 532 7261 Ortigas, Manila Keppel Land Watco Co. Ltd Fax: (62) 31 531 4957 Keppel Philippines Properties, Inc. 4/F Saigon Centre Units 2203-2204 65 Le Loi Boulevard, District 1 Raffles Corporate Center Building HCMC, Vietnam Japan F Ortigas Jr. Avenue Tel: (84) 8 3823 2500 Ortigas Center Fax: (84) 8 3822 9822 Tokyo Pasig City 1605 Alpha Investment Partners Tel: (63) 2 584 6170/71 Sedona Suites Ho Chi Minh City Japan Limited Fax: (63) 2 584 3915 Saigon Centre, Fukoku Seimei Building 21F 65 Le Loi Boulevard, District 1 2-2-2 Uchisaiwaicho, Chiyoda-ku HCMC, Vietnam Tokyo 100-0011, Japan Tel: (81) 3 5510 7551 South Korea Tel: (84) 8 3822 9666 Fax: (84) 8 3822 9229 Fax: (81) 3 5510 7552 Seoul Alpha Investment Partners Korea Private Limited Unit 3608 Trade Tower 511 Yeongdong-daero Gangnam-Gu Seoul, Korea 06164 Tel: (82) 2 551 3387 Fax: (82) 2 551 3380 Keppel Land Limited (Incorporated in the Republic of Singapore) 230 Victoria Street #15-05 Bugis Junction Towers Singapore 188024 Tel: (65) 6338 8111 Fax: (65) 6337 7168 www.keppelland.com Co Reg No: 189000001G
