What you see is what you get At DIMO we deeply value the qualities of trust, loyalty, faith and confidence. That is why we have spent years building our reputation and inspiring these powerful emotions in the hearts of our stakeholders across the island and beyond. Today, we are very proud of the belief our stakeholders have in us, that we will always serve every one of them with dependability, empathy and care. 'Creating value responsibly’ is how we describe our corporate purpose. Inherent in those simple words is also our belief that such value must be inclusive and sustainable, achieved with integrity, reliability and transparency. We are deeply committed to being a responsible corporate citizen, following global best practises in good governance and disclosure not only in our annual integrated reports, but right through to the simplest of the thousands of transactions we perform every day. This premium placed upon absolute probity is what drives the success we enjoy today as a respected and valuable business enterprise that is strongly positioned, consistently profitable and above all, perfectly transparent. Because with DIMO, you can be sure that what you see is always what you get. DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 is what you get At DIMO we deeply value the qualities of trust, loyalty, faith and confidence. That is why we have spent years building our reputation and inspiring these powerful emotions in the hearts of our stakeholders across the island and beyond. Today, we are very proud of the belief our stakeholders have in us, that we will always serve every one of them with dependability, empathy and care. 'Creating value responsibly’ is how we describe our corporate purpose. Inherent in those simple words is also our belief that such value must be inclusive and sustainable, achieved with integrity, reliability and transparency. We are deeply committed to being a responsible corporate citizen, following global best practises in good governance and disclosure not only in our annual integrated reports, but right through to the simplest of the thousands of transactions we perform every day. This premium placed upon absolute probity is what drives the success we enjoy today as a respected and valuable business enterprise that is strongly positioned, consistently profitable and above all, perfectly transparent. Because with DIMO, you can be sure that what you see is always what you get. DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 Value Creation at DIMO Responsible value creation is the fundamental we bring together in the integrated report we A brief introduction precedes each section promise we make to all our stakeholders. We produce at the end of each year. describing the information that follows, in order aim to build an organisation and resources to bring clarity and connectivity to the multiple that will deliver this promise today and over The process by which we create value is a processes that result in the value we create for the long term. Every day we strive to improve complex one. That’s why we have sectioned the thousands of stakeholders we serve. our economic, social and environmental this book to make it easier for our readers to performance, in order to deliver results of understand the various aspects of our value holistic value, the diverse elements of which creation. MAKING THINGS CLEAR We are very pleased to present this, our sixth integrated Annual Report to all our stakeholders today! This first section makes things clear, starting with a short guide to reading this report. This is followed by an overview of DIMO, our history and our financial and operational highlights for the year, giving the reader a frame of reference for the detailed disclosures that follow. Welcome to Our Sixth Integrated Annual Report 6 Highlights of the Year 2015/16 7 The DIMO Legend 8 The Group Structure 10 PERFECTLY TRANSPARENT A perfectly transparent look at who we are and how we work. This section includes an introduction to the Board of Directors, senior management and leadership. The pages following also include the message from the Chairman/Managing Director, AR Pandithage and the Group Chief Executive Officer AG Pandithage’s statement analysing DIMO’s performance in the year under review. Importantly, this section also provides an introduction to the performance and conformance dimensions of DIMO’s Enterprise Governance. Chairman’s Statement 12 Chief Executive Officer’s Review 16 The Board of Directors 20 The Group Management Committee 24 Enterprise Governance 26 A CLEAR-CUT DELIVERY We pride ourselves on a clear-cut delivery of value. In this key section of the report we discuss the DIMO value creation model and overall strategy in detail. You will also learn more about how we engage with our stakeholders to receive their feed-back, because this is important to DIMO in relation to stewardship, as a capital and for sustainability and risk management. Value Creation Model 28 Strategy 30 Stakeholder Engagement 31 A VISIBLE OPERATION Our operations are completely above board and visible to everyone. Here we look at the capitals that provide inputs, the performance of diverse business segments and our value creation activities. We also describe the economic, social and environmental impacts of our value creation activities and Risk Management which together form part of the performance dimension of Enterprise Governance at DIMO. The Capitals Report 36 Business Report 54 Impact Management Report 62 Risk Management Report 76 2 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 A VERY CLEAR PICTURE This is where we present a very clear picture of how DIMO implements responsible and transparent governance across the Company at every level. The conformance aspects of Enterprise Governance are presented in detail in the pages that follow, together with the relevant confirmative statements and reports. Senior Independent Director’s Statement 82 Conformance 83 Committee Reports 91 Responsibility Statement of Chairman/ Managing Director, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer 95 AN UNAMBIGUOUS RESULT The year’s monetised results are clear and unambiguous. DIMO is proud to present another excellent performance to our stakeholders this year. In this section we present our financial statements and details relating to our financial position and performance, followed by other supplementary information. Annual Report of the Board of Directors 98 Board of Directors’ Statement on Internal Controls 102 Statement of Directors' Responsibilities for Financial Statements 103 Financial Calendar 104 Independent Auditors’ Report 105 Financial Statements Section 1 106 Corporate Information Section 2 112 Basis of Accounting Section 3 113 Specific Accounting Policies and Notes Section 4 116 Other Disclosures -Section 5 145 AT A GLANCE The final section can be read at a glance and includes information supplementary to the main body of this report. Appendix I Share Information 148 Appendix II Code of Best Practice on Corporate Governance Detailed Disclosure 150 Appendix III GRI Content Index for ‘In accordance” Comprehensive 166 Appendix IV Independent Assurance Statement on Non-Financial Reporting 170 Appendix V Ten Year Summary 173 Appendix VI Glossary 174 Corporate Information 175 Notice of Meeting 176 Form of Proxy 177 3 Vision To be the corporate role model that inspires and touches the life of every Sri Lankan, every day. Our Mission To create value responsibly. DImo is aware of the environmental impact of the plastic used in the production in this report. In the interests of minimising this impact, Dimo pledges to recycle twice the total amount of plastic used for the production of this report. All employees at Dimo will be engaged in this initiative. Shareholders may return this annual report to any Dimo outlet for recycling. ONLINE REFERENCES: The HTML version of the Annual Report 2015/16 can be read at http://www.dimolanka.com//investors/financial-reports Supplementary information of the Annual Report 2015/16 can be read at http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ 4 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 Making things clear We are very pleased to present this, our sixth integrated Annual Report to all our stakeholders today! This first section makes things clear, starting with a short guide to reading this report. This is followed by an overview of DIMO, our history and our financial and operational highlights for the year, giving the reader a frame of reference for the detailed disclosures that follow. 6 Welcome to Our Sixth Integrated Annual Report 7 Highlights of the Year 2015/16 8 The DIMO Legend 10 The Group Structure G4-17 G4-20 G4-22 G4-18 G4-21 G4-23 Welcome to Our Sixth Integrated Annual Report Sustainable Development (WBCSD) has been This report is organised around DIMO’s story of value creation. The used to measure and report on the Group’s carbon footprint. key aspects of our value creation process are the different forms of capital that provide the inputs, and the value creating activities This report also acts as a Communication on that result in outputs, outcomes and impacts, while the entire Progress (COP) for the United Nations Global process is driven by enterprise governance. Compact. The information content of the report covers the economic, social and environmental impacts Here is a description of the context and in accordance with the applicable Sri Lanka resulting from the value creation activities of framework of our reporting. Accounting Standards. the Company and its subsidiaries operating across the island, and includes a reasonable The Companies Act No.7 of 2007 and the Listing The Company is in compliance with the laws and assessment of potential impacts. This report Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange require regulations, the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 also contains the objectives set by the that the Company publishes its annual report and the subsequent amendments, and the Listing Sustainability Committee, which are formulated within a specified period after the end of its Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE). We based on material aspects identified. The test financial year. They also stipulate specific have followed the 2013 version of the Code of of materiality embedded in our processes has requirements and disclosures that must be Best Practice on Corporate Governance issued ensured that we report on all material issues incorporated in the annual report. In parallel, jointly by The Institute of Chartered Accountants relating to sustainability with regard to aspects the Board's commitment to stewardship of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka) and the Securities and internal and external to the organisation within demands transparency on matters relevant Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka (SEC) . Details the sphere of influence of the Company. The to stakeholders. Potential investors also seek of compliance with this code are provided from DIMO stakeholder identification process ensures information relating to the value creating page 82 to 95. stakeholder inclusiveness. The Sustainability ability of the company. This Annual Report is Committee has approved all the information produced primarily to address and fulfil these The Company is a member of the business and data relating to sustainability objectives requirements. network of the International Integrated that are contained in this report. Reporting Council (IIRC). The Council's This is the Company’s sixth integrated Annual Integrated Reporting Framework has been This Annual Report relates to the activities Report. This report is organised around DIMO’s applied to this, the Group’s sixth integrated of Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC and its story of value creation. The key aspects of our report for 2015/16. subsidiaries, collectively referred to as the DIMO value creation process are the different forms Group, spanning a 12-month period ending of capital that provide the inputs, and the The report also contains the GRI G4 key 31st March 2016. There have been no changes value creating activities that result in outputs, performance indicators required by the in reporting scope and/or boundaries from the outcomes and impacts, while the entire process Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the previous year. Non-financial information in this is driven by enterprise governance. DIMO’s Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). A soft copy of report pertaining to the previous year has not value creation model aims to create value this Annual Report and key information relating been restated, unless otherwise stated. The nonwhile balancing the Company’s responsibilities to sustainability are available on the Company financial information contained in this report towards its diverse stakeholders, including its website: www.dimolanka.com. This information was audited by DNV Business Assurance Lanka shareholders and the environment. How the relating to sustainability is prepared “In (Pvt) Ltd according to the AA1000 Assurance Company achieved this over the past financial accordance– comprehensive” of the GRI (G4) Standard. The Assurance Statement is available year through performance and conformance guidelines. The GRI (G4) index is available from under appendices from page 171 to 172. is discussed comprehensively through the page 166 to 169. different sections of this report. The Independent Auditor’s opinion on the The Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Financial Statements is available in the The Financial Statements of the Company up Standard published by World Resources Independent Auditors' Report on page 105. to and as at 31st March 2016 were prepared Institute (WRI) and World Business Council for + This report can be viewed on Internet Explorer 9.x or higher, Mozilla Firefox® 32.x or higher, Safari 6, or higher, Chrome 23 or higher 6 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 Making things clear 6 Welcome to Our Sixth Integrated Annual Report 7 Highlights of the Year 2015/16 8 The DIMO Legend 10 The Group Structure Highlights Monetised Capital 37.7 947 28.0 2014/15 596 2014/15 106.64 27.00 67.15 2014/15 20.00 2014/15 Revenue (Rs. billion) PAT (Rs. million) EPS (Rs.) DPS (Rs.) Relationship Capital Customer Business Partners 60 57 2014/15 88% 90% 2014/15 95 77 2014/15 5.3 4.3 2014/15 Customer Interaction Customer Satisfaction Number of Foreign Payments to Local Points Index Principals Suppliers (Rs. billion) Human Capital Economic Impact 1,573 26,735 14,254 10,222 1535 2014/15 24,037 2014/15 9,547 2014/15 5,789 2014/15 Number of Employees Number of Knowledge & Monetised Value Added Taxes and Tariff Paid to Skill Development Hours (Rs. million) Government (Rs. million) Environmental Impact Social Impact 7,224 44 6,771 2014/15 40 2014/15 68 63 2014/15 389 320 2014/15 Total Carbon Energy Consumption per Community Development Number of Apprentices Footprint (tCO2e) Employee (GJ) Investments (Rs. million) enlisted for training 7 The DIMO Legend How it all began 1939 1960 In 1939, four young men Stephen Peries, Pandithage Don Alexander, Cyril Algama and Harold Algama launched their own workshop in a rented premises off Prince of Wales Avenue, Panchikawatte. It was from this tiny company that the massive conglomerate of Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC or DIMO, originated. By 1945 DIMO was incorporated as a private, limited liability company and in 1949, DIMO went into partnership with Mr. F. K. Heller, a representative of a German company, Lohmann & Company. Mr Heller had launched Heller and Company in Sri Lanka in 1932, with the distributorship of several great German brands Mercedes Benz, Bosch and Siemens. His active partnership with the DIMO led to a significant expansion of the business. By 1952 a showroom, stores and workshop were all open for business. A powerful partnership 1960 1970 TATA Motors, India ventured into the international market starting with Sri Lanka by partnering with DIMO in 1961. Thus began one of the most successful business relationships which paved the way for years of mutual trust and success. 1964 – Listing with the Colombo Brokers’ Association DIMO diversifies 1970 1990 In spite of having to work in a planned economy, DIMO endured, due in large part to a focus on after-sales service and a reputation for always putting their customer first. DIMO began producing radiators, brake linings, gaskets and kingpins which were very rare, due to the import restrictions in place at the time. 8 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 Making things clear 6 Welcome to Our Sixth Integrated Annual Report 7 Highlights of the Year 2015/16 8 The DIMO Legend 10 The Group Structure World class quality standards 2000 2008 The new millennium saw DIMO reach a pivotal milestone by achieving ISO 9001:2000 for operational practices and ISO 14001: 2004 for environmental management practices, certified by Det Norske Veritas Inc. (DNV). In 2008, the Company’s logistic operations were relocated to Weliweriya which is situated in the Gampaha district. Developing talent and skills 1990 2000 DIMO realized that Sri Lanka was experiencing a ‘brain drain’, and it became vital to develop human resources. The dawn of the 90s witnessed the launch of the DIMO Automobile Training School (DATS) established in collaboration with Daimler AG, Germany, to develop a program of international standards. The school became the first in the private sector to offer training in automotive technology as a social service. In 1996, the Company relocated its after dales and service workshops of commercial vehicles. Construction Machinery and Power Systems to Siyambalape, Biyagama. The workshop complex is equipped with state of the art machinery and equipment. Moving to a new level 2008 -to the present Years of responsible behaviour and a strong focus on service quality enabled DIMO to achieve global recognition. A new era of business diversification was set in motion after the war ended in Sri Lanka. In 2014 DIMO opened a state of the art Mercedes-Benz Sales & Aftercare Centre designed to showcase the Mercedes Benz Experience. Today DIMO is truly a global yet local company, one that has always reflected the enduring spirit of Sri Lanka on its seventy-six year journey to success. 9 G4-17 The Group Structure Company Division Segment Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Vehicle Automobile Founded 1939 Sales Inc. 1945 Vehicles After-Services DIMO Industries Marketing, (Private) Marketing & 100% Projects & Distribution Limited Inc.1979 Travels DIMO Construction Travels (Private) & Material 100% Limited Handling Inc.1975 Equipment ElectroDIMO Mechanical, (Private) Industrial 100% Bio-Medical Limited Solutions & Marine Inc.1980 Engineering Board of Directors Company Name Name of the Directors Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC A.R. Pandithage (Chairman/Managing Director), A.G. Pandithage (Group CEO), A.N Algama, S.C. Algama Dr. H. Cabral, B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne, Prof. U.P. Liyanage*, A.M. Pandithage, R. Seevaratnam, R.C. Weerawardane DIMO (Private) Limited A.R. Pandithage (Chairman), S.C. Algama (Managing Director), R.H. Fernando, B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne, A.G. Pandithage, W. Pushpewala, C. Ranawana, R.C. Weerawardane DIMO Travels (Private) Limited A.R. Pandithage (Chairman), S.C. Algama, M.V. Bandara, E.D.C. Kodituwakku DIMO Industries (Private) Limited A.R. Pandithage (Chairman), S.C. Algama, A.C.G. Dias**, B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne, A.G. Pandithage, R.C. Weerawardana * Ceased to be a Director with effect from 10th August 2015. ** Ceased to be a Director with effect from 31st July 2015. 10 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 Perfectly transparent A perfectly transparent look at who we are and how we work. This section includes an introduction to the DIMO Board of Directors, senior management and leadership. The pages following also include the message from the Chairman/Managing Director, AR Pandithage and the Group Chief Executive Officer AG Pandithage’s statement analysing DIMO’s performance in the year under review. Importantly, this section also provides an introduction to the performance and conformance dimensions of DIMO’s Enterprise Governance. 12 Chairman’s Statement 16 Group Chief Executive Officer’s Review 20 The Board of Directors 24 The Group Management Committee 26 Enterprise Governance What you see is always what you get A statement from the Chairman, Mr A. R. Pandithage Perfectly transparent 12 Chairman’s Statement 16 Chief Executive Officer’s Review 20 The Board of Directors 24 The Group Management Committee 26 Enterprise Governance Chairman’s Statement This year we chose transparency as the theme of our Annual Report because it is an important facet to the way we do business. The practice of transparency is to fulfill our stewardship obligations as well as to build-up our stakeholders’ trust in us. 947 Mn What You See is Always What You Get Yet, we had mixed fortunes In this year’s Annual Report, we discuss One would expect industry volumes to decline precisely how we ‘create value responsibly’, by in such an environment. Yet, we had mixed analysing and describing in detail the work we fortunes. Except in the construction and material do to elaborate the protocols of responsibility, handling equipment segment our industry Profit After Tax accountability and transparency. These three volumes increased with an overall growth increased by 59% from Rs. 596 million fundamentals govern everything we do. for the year 2015/16. However, following the to Rs. 947 million. imposition of the mandatory Loan to Value DIMO has long been a benchmark of corporate (LTV) ratio for vehicle leases the total industry excellence. The premium we place on absolute volume of the vehicles segment declined during probity guarantees that what our stakeholders the last quarter. Dividend Per Share see is always what they get. Rs. Sense of Achievement 40 Transparency Builds Trust Against a backdrop of favourable industry 40 This year we chose transparency as the volumes, the DIMO tribe brought in positive theme of our Annual Report because it is an financial results which gives us a sense of 32 27 important facet to the way we do business. achievement. The practice of transparency is to fulfill our 24 20 stewardship obligations as well as to build-up • The EBIT increased 46% from Rs. 1,270 our stakeholders’ trust in us. Trust is a premillion to Rs. 1,850 million 16 requisite to build business partnerships and • The budgeted profit before tax for the year 10 10 human capital. was achieved 8 • The profit after tax increased 59% from Rs. A Not so Helpful Economic Background 596 million to Rs. 947 million 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Overall, the external factors did not seem helpful for our business during the year. • The ROE increased from 6.43% to 9.46% • Monetised value added grew by 49% • The AWPLR increased from 7.01% in April • Carbon footprint tCO2e per Rs. 1.0 million 2015 to 9.12% by end of March 2016. turnover reduced from 0.2413 tCO2e to • The Rupee depreciated against the US 0.1917 tCO2e. dollar by 8.28% during the financial year. • The GDP growth rate for the calendar year Dividends 2015 reduced to 4.8% from previous year’s The Board declared a first and final dividend of 4.9%. Rs. 27.00 (Rs. 20.00 2014/15) per share for the year ended 31st March 2016, which will be paid This was in contrast to the conducive on 10th June 2016. environment that existed during the previous financial year. 13 Chairman's Statement My Tribe Frequent changes in government policy in these areas, we realise that it is equally I have visited every key location and felt towards vehicle imports and tariff structures important to subject these to scrutiny by overwhelmed by the commitment I saw in my have meant that the competitive strategies we independent parties with the requisite expertise tribe members. Their passion and pride affirms devise become obsolete in a short period of and industry knowledge. We seek certification our ethos “DIMO Tribe – Living with values and time. We have witnessed frequent changes in and assurance for our quality and environmental pride”. valuation systems, tariffs and import conditions management systems. We are also humbled relating to vehicles during the past few years. by the recognition received for our Corporate Sustainability Therefore, we seek consistency in government Citizenship, Human Resource Management and We are committed to sustainable development. policy towards vehicle imports and tariff. We Reporting Practices. We have pledged to act responsibly when are also of the strong opinion that the existing carrying out our business activities and system for deriving the value for import tariff Innovation and Beyond to be responsive to the expectations of needs careful re-consideration. We are aware that cost centred competition our stakeholders. We will also participate alone will not make us successful. Therefore, voluntarily in activities beyond the boundaries There remains a scarcity of technically skilled the search is always on for multiple strategies of our entity, taking on our share of collective labour in vocations related to our businesses. focused on delivering an enhanced customer responsibility. This endeavour is driven through This is perhaps due to the shortage of high experience, which will be our differentiating the management of economic, societal and quality technical colleges and the absence of factor. This requires our differentiation strategy environmental impacts discussed in more detail suitable long term courses relating to technical to be well supported by innovation. I always from page 63 to 74 in this report. and vocational education in areas such as encourage my tribe members to be innovative automobile engineering. We are paying close in our offering, its delivery and in the entire Investment in Jaffna Giving Returns attention to opportunities in technical training. value chain. We opened our branch in Jaffna in 2009 shortly after the cessation of hostilities. In keeping As I said last year, the increasing demands Technology as a Differentiator with our strategy for market leadership in from our foreign principals for investments to We are excited by what modern technology commercial vehicles in the Northern Province, support their product portfolios need careful offers us and enjoy a competitive advantage we made a substantial investment in our newly planning and consideration. It is imperative as an early adopter of new technologies. This relocated Jaffna Branch, which was opened in that we meaningfully assess the viability of year too we have invested on upgrading in June 2014. I am pleased to inform you that after such expectations and take all aspects into new technology and equipment to expand the a slow start, our commercial vehicles sales in consideration when drawing up our investment value we offer to our customers. Our foreign the North have now reached maturity and are plans. principals are among the leading innovators contributing to the Group’s profitability. in modern technology and we are privileged to The Millennial Mindset collaborate with them. Our adaptation to state A Home in Kurunegala Soon Your Company has now entered a phase of the art technology is a contributory factor It was in 2007 that we commenced business of inducting young future leaders with a when introducing new products, and has helped at our present branch premises in Kurunegala. “millennial mindset”. Their aspirations and us to attract new principals. Since then, the business volume has grown behaviour seem to test many beliefs and significantly. The present location is now assumptions that we hold. This same applies to Pursuing New Growth Sectors inadequate to serve our customers in the manner the new generation customers. Helping all tribe Your Company has always been closely that we would like. Kurunegala also can serve members become accustomed to the millennial associated with the automobile industry, but as a regional centre due to its unique location. mindset needs careful attention. This aspect will over the last few years we have diligently We have just commenced constructing our remain an important priority of our leadership pursued expansion into new sectors such new Kurunegala Branch on a 05 acre free hold coaching. as infrastructure development, mechanical property and expect it to be functional during and electrical engineering, building services the current financial year. Once completed it A Sustainable Entity and allied areas. These strategic additions to will have showroom facilities for 23 vehicles, It is important that we build an organisation our portfolio allow us to position ourselves 19 working bays, 03 washing bays and will be a that has the internal strength and resilience as an integrated solutions provider for vehicle yard for more than 06 vehicles. to be a meaningful citizen and a sustainable the construction industry, and I note with entity in the long term. Therefore we prioritise satisfaction that even in a difficult year for the Ready to overcome Challenges aspects such as living our values, building our industry, we have had a reasonable performance, I lead a tribe that I feel has mastered their art knowledge, retaining our talent, adopting in the electro-mechanical engineering business. and I am confident that DIMO has what it takes best practices, systems and procedures, and to sail through tough challenges. establishing robust governance mechanisms. While being satisfied with our multiple efforts 14 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 Perfectly transparent 12 Chairman’s Statement 16 Chief Executive Officer’s Review 20 The Board of Directors 24 The Group Management Committee 26 Enterprise Governance Employee First The organisation takes care of its employees and We have invested significantly in expanding the capacity of the they in turn take care of our customers and other vehicles business island wide. We are now reaping the benefits stakeholders. This is the principle behind our “Employee First” approach. A content, engaged, of such investments and expect their contributions to augment motivated, empowered and rightly skilled overall profitability. workforce will always drive value creation. Feel privileged I have been humbled by the many accolades that Looking Forward we received during the year. Last year’s Annual We have invested significantly in expanding Report was adjudged the best Annual Report the capacity of the vehicles business island by The Instituted of Chartered Accountants of wide. We are now reaping the benefits of such Sri Lanka; Association of Chartered Certified investments and expect their contributions Accountants (ACCA) named us the overall to augment overall profitability. We are also winner for Sustainability Reporting; DIMO hopeful that present dialogue between the was named one of the best workplaces in the government and stakeholders will result in a country by the Great Places to Work Institute; robust vehicle import policy and a level playing TATA Motors named us the best distributor field. We are looking forward to an improved amongst all their partner countries. These are a performance from the vehicles business. few among many other accolades we received. I feel privileged to lead a tribe that brings home The development in the electro-mechanical such recognition. business is set to increase the contribution to profitability from that segment as well. Collaborating to Deliver Differentiation and Value Overall, an improved performance is expected Collaboration and differentiation drive our in the ensuing year. corporate strategy. Our diverse synergies and collaborations with business partners and Acknowledgements employees set us apart from the competition This year’s results have been satisfactory and help us in our efforts to deliver better value and it is due to the committed hard work by to our stakeholders. Our corporate strategy is each member of the DIMO tribe. They have discussed in greater detail on page 30. embraced the shared belief in responsibility and transparency and are the driving force behind Integrated Reporting the value we create. My deep appreciation goes Our pioneering efforts in integrated reporting to our foreign principals, who have trusted us has given a new dimension to our corporate as their preferred Sri Lankan partner. Finally, I reporting. This has also given us an opportunity say thank you to my colleagues on the Board, to go beyond monetised value creation to look who have readily supported me with their at the organisation more holistically, particularly counsel and advice. the aspects of nonmonetised value. This harmonises well with our stakeholder centred business philosophy, where nonmonetised value is given due importance. Late Professor Uditha Liyanage We made an announcement last August at the Colombo Stock Exchange about the demise of our colleague Professor Uditha Liyanage, who A.R. Pandithage made a remarkable contribution to the growth Chairman/Managing Director of the Company during his tenure of almost nine years. I have benefited immensely from his 24th May 2016 counsel and advice. Thank you Uditha. May you Colombo attain eternal bliss. 15 Strongly positioned, consistently profitable, perfectly transparent A Review of Operations by the Director/Group Chief Executive Officer, Mr A. G. Pandithage Perfectly transparent 12 Chairman’s Statement 16 Chief Executive Officer’s Review 20 The Board of Directors 24 The Group Management Committee 26 Enterprise Governance Overall Economic Background The Group supplies capital goods such as Among the many capitals and resources that DIMO is blessed vehicles and machinery & equipment that with, our own tribe members have a unique place. It is they who serve transport, construction, roads, healthcare and infrastructure development sectors. use all other resources and power all the value creating activities. These investments are often funded through It is they who enable responsible value creation. Thus, they are borrowings. Therefore, borrowing rates and the soul of DIMO. the performance of the sectors concerned have a considerable influence on the demand for these goods. In addition, other macroeconomic aspects such as inflation and exchange rates influence on our business. rates. However, the imposition of 'Loan to Value The table below shows vehicle registrations (LTV) Ratio' during the second half for vehiclesduring calendar 2015 for the vehicle segments The weekly AWPLR which hovered around 7% related lending saw a reduction in demand for that we serve. plus or minus 25 basis points during the first vehicles in the fourth quarter. The application half of the financial year, commenced a gradual of the stipulated LTV ratio required a lender to Against the back-drop of higher demand during increase from 7.01% at the commencement of limit lending for the purchase of a vehicle to the first three quarters of the financial year, the the second half to close the year at 9.12%. The 70% of its value. Despite this set-back during number of vehicles sold by DIMO during the US dollar (middle rate) which was Rs. 133.33 the second half, the overall vehicle registrations year increased by 33% over the previous year per dollar at the beginning of the financial year, in the country for the calendar year saw a and the segment revenue increased by 45% closed at Rs. 144.69 at the end of the year; significant increase compared to the previous to Rs. 27,283 million from Rs. 18,798 million similarly the Euro which stood at Rs. 143.59 per year. previous year. Euro as at 01st April 2015, closed at Rs. 163.95 on 31st March 2016. The GDP growth rate for the calendar year 2015 was 4.8% compared to 4.9% during the previous year. The rate of Currency Rate at Year End vs Inflation Registration of Motor Vehicles Rs % of Specific Categories inflation for the financial year was 2%. Nos: 200 8 120,000 Financial Results The Group achieved its budgeted profit before 160 6 96,000 tax for the year. Group turnover increased to Rs. 37.5 billion from Rs. 27.8 billion in the previous 120 72,000 year. The largest contribution to this 35% 4 increase came from the vehicle sales segment. 80 48,000 The profit before tax increased by 63% to Rs. 2 40 1,380 million from Rs. 847 million previous year. 24,000 Vehicles Sales 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 There was steady growth in vehicle sales during US$ Euro Inflation Buses Private Cars Goods Transport Vehicles Land Vehicles the first half backed by supportive interest Registration of Motor Vehicles vs Vehicle Sales of the Group Class of Vehicles Registration of Motor Vehicles Vehicles Sales of the Group 2015 2014 Growth 2015 2014 Growth Rate % Rate % Motor cars 105,628 38,780 172 1,778 736 142 Buses 4,140 3,851 8 405 407 -1 Dual purpose vehicles 39,456 20,799 90 11,287 9,045 25 Goods transport vehicles 7,142 5,121 40 1,316 1,102 19 Land vehicles 12,105 9,082 33 794 410 94 Total 168,471 77,633 117 15,580 11,700 33 17 Review of Operations by the Director/Group Chief Executive Officer Mr A. G. Pandithage We are on a constant search for areas of growth to build a strong platform that can propel the Group in to the future. Whilst enjoying the growth experienced in the auto sector, we are focusing on opportunities available in the nonauto sector, preferably in related diversification. TATA commercial vehicles sales increased by Marketing & Distribution this segment therefore came from multiple 23%. We expect TATA commercial vehicles to The segment revenue increased by 15% and directions. However, the power engineering bring similar revenues during the ensuing year. the segment result decreased by 13%. Whilst and building technologies businesses did not all businesses except for lighting projects perform as expected due to the slow progress TATA passenger vehicles sales grew by 211%, contributed to the increase in segment revenue, in some infrastructure projects. Forecasts show driven by changes to the product offering and losses made by the lighting business adversely that the building technologies business will consequent re-positioning. With the gradual affected the segment result. Future plans for overcome this situation during the ensuing year. increase in the country’s per capita income tyre and consumer businesses together with the and investments being made, we expect this power tools and original equipment spare parts Monetised Value Creation business to grow and do well in the future. businesses are expected to guide the growth of Monetised capital, a key capital from a this segment. management point of view and a transparent TATA commercial and passenger vehicles medium through which we gauge our businesses are earmarked for significant Construction and Material Handling performance, continues to receive our close investments providing us with an opportunity Equipment attention. Aspects relating to monetised to consolidate and strengthen our market The construction and material handling capital, management of monetised capital and position. equipment business offers solutions for monetised value creation are discussed and infrastructure, road, building and warehousing presented from page 37 to 40. Sale of tractors and harvesters made the second projects in the country. highest contribution to the segment’s result The XFactor with a 93% increase in the number of tractors The construction sector of the country We are of the strong belief that the long term sold and a phenomenal increase in harvester contracted by 0.9% during the calendar year success of DIMO will depend largely on a pool sales. 2015. Against this backdrop, the segment of resources that does not get reflected in revenue too declined by 11%. The fortunes of our balance sheet. These resources provide us Mercedes Benz vehicle sales increased by 24% this segment for the ensuing year will depend the “X-Factor” when competing. In integrated and also made a significant contribution to the largely on the level of public sector road and reporting parlance, we call these the nonsegment. infrastructure investment and private sector monetized capitals. Our long term sustenance investment in logistics and warehousing. depends on how well we manage and nurture Vehicles – After Service these non-monetized capitals. They include our The segment revenue increased by 22% ElectroMechanical, Bio Medical and customers and business partners, whom we compared to the previous year. Investments Marine Engineering call our relationship capital, human capital and such as a workshop at Tissamaharama and The segment revenue and result increased intellectual capital. More information on these new paint booths at Siyambalape and Matara by 22% and 82% respectively. The medical capitals may be found in the Report of Capitals helped increase the capacity of vehicles after engineering business which has been a consistent presented from page 37. service during the second half of the year. The contributor to Group profitability, made its workshop under construction in Kurunegala usual contribution this year too. Participation Growing in to the future and the proposed investments in workshops in a major infrastructure project boosted the We are on a constant search for areas of growth in Polonnaruwa and Batticaloa are expected revenues of the fluid management business. The to build a strong platform that can propel the to increase the capacity in the near future. marine engineering business was propelled by Group in to the future. Whilst enjoying the Revenue from the sale of TATA spare parts its small craft repair business and contributed growth experienced in the auto sector, we are increased by 28% (-3% 2014/15). its share towards the segment revenue and focusing on opportunities available in the nonthe result. The successful performance of auto sector, preferably in related diversification. 18 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 Perfectly transparent 12 Chairman’s Statement 16 Chief Executive Officer’s Review 20 The Board of Directors 24 The Group Management Committee 26 Enterprise Governance With the success achieved in the agricultural Sustainable Development Goals The budgets prepared taking the above and inputs sector in the form of sale of tractors and Responsible corporate behaviour is a preother forecasts into consideration show that the harvesters, we have now taken the first steps condition to our value creation. Therefore, ensuing year will deliver a better performance to explore other opportunities in agricultural we seek responsible behaviour towards than the year under review. inputs, particularly in the form of consumable stakeholders and the environment from all our inputs. employees. Whilst such behaviour is embedded in our processes and activities, we also play our Other areas identified for growth include part in sharing the collective responsibility on businesses connected to construction industry aspects that reside outside the boundaries of our and infrastructure development. business. Based on this collective responsibility, we have become involved in issues relating to The Soul of DIMO the society at large and to the environment. Among the many capitals and resources that The Impact Report appearing from page 63 DIMO is blessed with, our own tribe members A.G. Pandithage to 74, which mainly covers management of have a unique place. It is they who use all other Director/Group Chief Executive Officer impacts arising from our business, also deals resources and power all the value creating with matters where we participate in sharing activities. It is they who enable responsible 24th May 2016 our collective responsibility. However, going value creation. Thus, they are the soul of Colombo forward, it is our intention to extend our DIMO. Employees figure prominently in every collective responsibility by participating within aspect of our business, be it the strategy or the our means and reach in the United Nations’ value creation model or in conformance. Our Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted 'Employee First' policy and our Employee Value in 2015. Proposition (EVP) 'Making Work Enjoyable and Rewarding' are not just slogans but reflections Outlook of our mindset. The TATA commercial vehicles business will continue to serve our customers with our timeDIMO Auto Training School (DATS) tested traditional models whilst invigorating DATS has been our flagship technical training this market by introducing cost effective program for over twenty five years, providing fleet solutions with vehicles of contemporary quality and widely accredited training to designs. Customer reach will be enhanced youth in the country. More than 500 youth by focussing on more 3Ss (sales, spare parts, have graduated from DATS to date. Over the service) customer interaction points. years we have continuously upgraded the course content and training methods to keep During the forthcoming year, the focus will in line with technological demands. DATS was be on improving and effectively utilising the revamped and relocated to our more spacious capacity of after services. Investments are facility at Weliveriya during the year, increasing planned in this area. its capacity in the process. The state infrastructure development Technical Competence Development programmes did not pick up as expected during Technical competence is a key source of the year under review. However, we are hopeful competitive advantage for most of our of a resurgence during the second half of the businesses. Developing technical competence ensuing year, which should have a positive and retaining it in the organisation require impact on the demand for our construction and a carefully planned structured approach. In material handling equipment segment. order to fulfil these needs and to facilitate the upgrading of DATS, the Company acquired Based on the pipe-line of impending business full time services of a foreign expatriate from opportunities, electro-mechanical, bio-medical Germany who counts many years of service in and marine engineering segment is expected to technical competency development. register an improved performance. 19 Board of Directors 7 5 9 8 20 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 1 4 2 6 3 21 Board of Directors 01 A.R. Pandithage 02 A.G. Pandithage 03 A.N. Algama Chairman & Managing Director Group Chief Executive Officer Joined the Company in June 1973. Joined the Company in September Joined the Company in June 1973. Appointed to the Board in June 1977. 1986. Appointed to the Board in Appointed to the Board in November Appointed as joint Managing Director December 1995. Fellow of the Chartered 1984. Past Chairman of The Ceylon in November 1984 and as Managing Institute of Management Accountants, Motor Traders’ Association and Sri Director in 1986. Appointed as the Chief UK. Appointed as the Deputy Chief Lanka Tyre Importers’ Association. Executive Officer in 1994. Appointed as Executive Officer with effect from April Executive Committee member of the the Chairman, Managing Director and 2006 and appointed as Group Chief Ceylon Motor Traders’ Association CEO in July 2004 and continues to be Executive Officer from April 2012. representing the Company. Chairman and Managing Director since April 2012. Holder of Dip.Ing.from Germany. Member of the Institute of Engineers, Germany (VDI). Director of Dial Textiles Ltd. Director of Board of Investment of Sri Lanka. Vice President of Sri Lanka Germany Business Council of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce. 04 S.C. Algama 05 Dr. H. Cabral ** 06 B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne Appointed to the Board in November Appointed to the Board in October 2006. Joined the Company in January 2001. 1984. Appointed as an Executive President’s Counsel, PhD in Corporate Appointed to the Board in April 2006. Director in 1994. Fellow of the Institute Law (Australia),Commissioner-Law Fellow Member of The Institute of of Incorporated Engineers (SL). Council Commission of Sri Lanka, Member – Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka Member and Chairman-Transport and Advisory Commission on Company and holder of Master of Business Automobiles Industries Committee of Law, Council Member – University of Administration degree from the the National Chamber of Commerce, Colombo, UGC nominee – PGIM (Post Postgraduate Institute of Management, Sri Lanka. Graduate Institute of Medicine), Council University of Sri Jayewardenepura. Non Member-the Council of Legal Education, Executive Director of Hunas Falls Hotels Member Academic Board of StudiesPLC. The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka ,Member – Corporate Governance Committee,Senior Lecturer and Examiner-University of Colombo, Senior LecturerIALS Sri Lanka Law College, ICLP. Senior Practitioner in the fields of Corporate Law, Intellectual Property Law, International Trade Law,Commercial Law and Commercial Arbitration. Chairman –Tokyo Cement Co (Lanka) PLC , Tokyo Super Cement Co Lanka (Pvt) Ltd, Tokyo Cement Power (Lanka) Ltd,Tokyo Eastern Cement Co Ltd,Tokyo Super Aggregate Ltd, Director – Hayleys PLC , Alumex PLC , Lanka Orix Finance PLC ,Browns Investments PLC, Lanka Orix Life Assurance PLC , Richard Pieris Distributors Ltd ** Independent Non-Executive Director 22 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 Perfectly transparent 12 Chairman’s Statement 16 Chief Executive Officer’s Review 20 The Board of Directors 24 The Group Management Committee 26 Enterprise Governance 07 A.M. Pandithage * 08 R. Seevaratnam ** 09 R.C. Weerawardane Appointed to the Board in September Appointed to the Board in January Joined the Company in February 1990. 1982. Chairman and Chief Executive 2007. Fellow member of The Institute of Appointed to the Board in June 2002. Officer of Hayleys PLC and Group Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka and Certificate holder of the Chartered Companies. Fellow of the Chartered England & Wales and holder of General Institute of Marketing, (UK). Institute of Logistics and Transport (UK), Science Degree from the University of Honorary Consul of United Mexican London. Former senior partner of KPMG States (Mexico) to Sri Lanka, Committee Ford, Rhodes, Thornton & Company. Member of the Ceylon Chamber of Non-Executive Independent Director Commerce, Council Member of the of Acme Printing & Packaging PLC, Employers’ Federation of Ceylon, Acme Packaging Solutions (Pvt) Ltd, Member of the Maritime Advisory Tea Smallholders Factories PLC, Tokyo Council of the Ministry of Ports and Cement Company Lanka PLC, Lanka Shipping, Member of the Advisory Aluminium Industries PLC, Metecno Council of the Ceylon Association of Lanka (Pvt) Ltd, Green Farms (Pvt) Ltd, Ships’ Agents, Member of the National Colombo Fort & Land Building Co PLC, Steering Committee on Skills Sector Omega Line Ltd, Sirio Ltd, Banji Ltd, Development of the Department of Alpha Apparels Ltd, Hayleys Agricultural National Planning, Corporate Excellence Holdings (Pvt) Ltd, Hayleys Consumers Leadership Recognition by the Institute (Pvt) Ltd, Nestle Lanka PLC, Distilleries of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka Company of Sri Lanka PLC, Lankem in 2015. Ceylon PLC, Darley Butler & co. Ltd * Non-Executive Director ** Independent Non-Executive Director 23 Group Management Committee 8 10 4 7 6 2 01 A.R. Pandithage 02 A.G. Pandithage 03 S.C. Algama Chairman & Managing Director Director/Group Chief Executive Officer Executive Director 04 M.V. Bandara 05 B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne 06 E.D.C. Kodituwakku Chief Operating Officer TATA Vehicles Executive Director General Manager Finance & Controlling Sales & Service 24 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 1 9 11 3 5 07 D.N.K. Kurukulasuriya 08 N. Mudannayake 09 S.R.W.M.C. Ranawana General Manager Human Resources General Manager IT Chief Operating Officer Construction & Material Handling 10 W. Pushpawela 11 R.C. Weerawardane Chief Operating Officer DIMO (Pvt) Ltd Executive Director 25 Enterprise Governance Enterprise Governance at DIMO Performance Enterprise governance is at the heart of Performance encompasses many things and everything we do, because we know that the includes providing strategic direction and key ingredients for long term prosperity lie ensuring the efficient management of our in its two dimensions of conformance and capitals, risks, value creation and impacts. performance. Conformance ensures that Ultimately, we seek responsible and sustainable DIMO is compliant with laws and regulations, value creation for all stakeholders. In view of transparent in its practices and ethical in its the diversity and the length of discussion that operations. Performance requires that we these aspects demand, they are presented formulate strategy, deliver value consistently in different places of the Annual Report and and are sustainable in our operations. include stakeholder engagement, the capitals report, the business report, impact management Stewardship and Value Creation and risk management. Stewardship directs us on the path of Enterprise Governance, which leads us to successful outcomes through conformance and performance. The illustration presented Diffusion of Stewardship provides a summarised view of how stewardship helps DIMO realise the expected outcomes Capital envisaged in corporate strategy. Management Conformance Value Creation Conformance ensures that we are compliant Performance Management and transparent. We seek to go beyond the Strategy Expected Outcomes mandatory aspects of compliance and embrace Risk ‘voluntary adherence’. This has enabled DIMO to Management enhance its levels of accountability, transparency Impact and credibility; all of which have a positive Enterprise Stewardship Management impact on value creation. Our comprehensive Governance framework of conformance helps to identify the relevant oversight and supervisory mechanisms, Mandatory legislation, regulations, compliance guidelines, Compliance management systems and controls and processes. This aspect of enterprise governance Conformance Voluntary is covered from page 82 to 95. Adherence 26 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 A clear-cut delivery We pride ourselves on a clear-cut delivery of value. In this key section of the report we discuss the DIMO value creation model and overall strategy in detail. You will also learn more about how we engage with our stakeholders to receive their feed-back, because this is important to DIMO in relation to stewardship, as a capital and for sustainability and risk management. 28 Value Creation Model 30 Strategy 31 Stakeholder Engagement Value Creation Model At DIMO we have been relentlessly fine-tuning created. The final element in our value chain is our value creation process and delivery for the responsible corporate citizenship that we many years. Because, however big we grow, have always prioritised from 1939 to this day, the creation of value for every one of our not just because we know that our stakeholders’ stakeholders remains our primary purpose. belief in us depends upon it but because it is the Our value creation activities use inputs standard of governance we live by. These are the key or contributions from our four capitals capitals that provide Monetised Capital (which includes financial In the end the cycle is a perfect one, in which inputs for our value capital, property, plant and equipment), our capitals or value stores provide inputs for creation activities Relationship, Human and Intellectual Capital. the value creation activities, leading to outputs, The efficient and productive management of impacts and outcomes affecting our capitals. All our capitals and processes is what we pride this is governed by conformance. ourselves upon, for therein lies the key to the efficient and continuous delivery of rising value. And that is how we add value through every activity we undertake, however great or small. In our model there are three activities that lie In short, it is how we seek to leverage our core at the heart of our value-creating enterprise. strengths, our expertise and our resources to Securing, nurturing and preserving the capitals produce a win-win result for both DIMO and we own while simultaneously managing the every stakeholder who trusts us to deliver on Monetised economic, social and environmental impacts of every promise we make. Capital our processes. The second demands precision and efficiency in the management of the value creation activity, in order to maximise the value Relationship Capital Vision Mission Pg Pg Human 36-53 61-74 Capital Pg 56-61 Pg 37-40 Pg 56-60 Pg Pg 56 36-53 Intellectual Capital Pg Pg 57 41-46 Pg 4 Pg 4 Pg 61 Pg 58 Pg Pg 59 47-51 Pg Pg 60 62-74 Pg 52-53 Pg 81-95 Pg 34-80 28 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 A clear-cut delivery 28 Value Creation Model 30 Strategy 31 Stakeholder Engagement The value creation process gives rise to outcomes that alter capitals and to economic, social and environmental impacts Re deployment Business Domain Business Segments Sourcing Altered Capitals Warehousing Vehicles – After Services Outcomes Customer Marketing and Distribution engagement Support Services INPUTS OUTPUTS Solution mapping Vehicles Sales Engineering Construction and Impacts Material Handling Equipment Delivery Economic, Social and Electro Mechanical, Bio Medical Environmental After care and Marine Engineering Impacts Positive or negative impacts on capitals depending on the level of responsible behaviour Enterprise Governance Conformance – Mandatory and Voluntary Performance – Strategy and Management of Capitals, Value Creation, Risks and Impacts 29 Strategy Corporate Strategy The overarching corporate strategy of DIMO We have sought to entrench our strategy of differentiation in the focuses on two key aspects Collaboration and areas of technological excellence, innovation, aftercare, customer Differentiation. relationship management, market presence and responsible Both internal and external collaboration are behaviour, as described below. We are committed to continue sought to support the Group’s differentiation making significant investments in these areas. strategy. Employee engagement is considered as a key aspect of collaboration, which will lead to competitive advantage. Our firm belief is that engaged employees deliver far more responsible behaviour, as described below. We We go the extra mile to ensure that we act in qualitative and quantitative terms, thereby are committed to continue making significant responsibly in everything we do – this builds becoming a key force that drives the strategies investments in these areas. trust with customers and all stakeholders. of differentiation. Similarly, partnering with the best gives us access to best in class products, DIMO has an inherent resolve for excellence in While we seek competitive advantages in our solutions and technology, which can be technology which is supported by our partners existing business segments as described, we are leveraged upon to compete more aggressively. who are among the technological leaders of the progressively pursuing related diversification. world. These collaborations, together with the Our collaboration strategies are aimed at competencies and expertise built over the years, Our customers place much value on Vehicles increasing returns to our shareholders and provide us with the platform to execute the -After Services and over the years, we have enhancing our value stores our capitals. The differentiation strategy. experienced the vast opportunities that come way we do business will help us to project with reliable and responsible aftercare. ourselves as a responsible corporate citizen. We have sought to entrench our strategy of The resulting outcomes and impacts will in turn differentiation in the areas of technological Our market presence helps us to enable easier help us to boost our ability to create value in the excellence, innovation, aftercare, customer access for our customers thereby enhancing the medium and long term. relationship management, market presence and intimacy of our relationship with them. Collaboration Business Domain Differentiation Outcomes & Impacts Vehicles Sales Improved ROE Business Partners – Partner with the best Customer Relationship Management Vehicle Parts and Employees Employee Engagement Increased Stakeholder After Services satisfaction Altered Technological Excellence Responsible Behaviour Capitals Market Presence Marketing and Enhanced Brand through Innovation After Care Distribution Reputation Value Created Construction and Business Partner Material Handling of Choice Equipment Positive Electro Mechanical, Responsible Economic, Social Bio-Medical and Corporate Citizen and Environmental Marine Engineering Impacts Related Diversification 30 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 A clear-cut delivery G4-18 G4-20 G4-24 G4-19 G4-21 G4-25 28 Value Creation Model 30 Strategy 31 Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Engagement At DIMO, engagement with stakeholders is intrinsic to the way we use our capitals to build The stewardship role played by the Directors demands that they value. Feedback from stakeholders helps to act responsibly towards stakeholders. Whilst the management develop strategies that generate sustainable value. Their expectations and needs, which of stakeholder expectations is a key aspect of sustainability, the emerge from the engagement process, help us management of stakeholder issues is equally important from a refine our products and services to ensure that risk management perspective. we deliver sustainable value. The stewardship role played by the Directors demands that they act responsibly towards stakeholders. Whilst the management of The following criteria were used to identify Stakeholder Feedback stakeholder expectations is a key aspect of stakeholders: We engage with stakeholders on a periodic basis sustainability, the management of stakeholder with a view to identifying their expectations. The issues is equally important from a risk • Those who exhibited all three of the frequency and methods of such engagement are management perspective. Stakeholders such identified characteristics are regarded as detailed in the table below. The major concerns as customers, business partners and employees the most important for engagement. (a) raised through the stakeholder engagement also form part of the non-monetized capitals. • Those who exhibited two of the identified process are shared with the Group Management Therefore stakeholder engagement is a process characteristics are regarded as the next most Committee and Sustainability Committee. No that is key to many facets of our business. important for engagement. (b,c and d). major concerns warranting Board consideration • Those who exhibited only one or none of or review emerged during the past year. Stakeholder Responsiveness the identified characteristics are not, as a We use our quality management system, The methodology we adopt to identify rule, considered for periodic engagement. environmental management system and stakeholder issues and expectations is detailed However, the Sustainability Committee may customer relations management system in the stakeholder engagement process decide to include any party for periodic to assess and then respond to stakeholder presented from page 32 to 34. engagement. (e, f, g and h) expectations. Such responses are closely monitored and corrective or preventive action The stakeholder identification process is is taken where we fail to deliver on these revisited every five years, to determine whether expectations. any new stakeholders should be included. Stakeholder Identification DIMO’s stakeholders were identified by the Sustainability Committee following a comprehensive analysis of data independently obtained from various stakeholder groups. h Persons or a body of Persons or a body persons who are e d g of persons who likely to influence are affected by a DIMO’s performance c b operations of DIMO f Persons or a body of persons who have legal, financial, operational responsibilities towards DIMO 31 G4-24 G4-26 Stakeholder Engagement The table below illustrates how we engage with our important stakeholder groups. Stakeholder Engagement Method Frequency Shareholders • One-to-one interviews (by independent parties) • Once in every 3 years • Owners • Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity to review the • Once a year • Providers of financial capital past year’s performance and engage in discussions with the management • Annual Report • Once a year • Quarterly Financial Statements providing the quarterly • Every quarter Performance. • Company website • Online • CSE website • Online Customers • One-to-one interviews • Once in every 3 years • Principal source of sustenance • Customer Relationship Management process (CRM) enables the • 24 hours, 7 days Company to keep in touch with the customer on a daily basis. It helps to respond to queries and problems from the customer. ‘Problem solving’ for challenges the customer faces is also done through the CRM process • A Customer Satisfaction Index maintained by each business unit • Once a month/quarter provides an assessment of satisfaction levels and helps to improve problem solving capacities within the Company • Loyalty customer club (TATA Emperor, Mercedes-Benz Club & Jeep • Continuous club) • 24 hour roadside assistance • 24 hours, 7 days Business Partners & Suppliers • One-to-one interview (by independent parties) • Once in every 3 years • Critical link in the supply chain • A high speed 24 x 7 online link enables constant dialogue with • Continuous principals. Issues discussed include product quality, marketing, customer satisfaction, ‘problem solving’ and employee motivation • On-site visits from principals and on-site visits to principals’ • Continuous locations facilitate engagement. Employees • One-to-one interviews (by independent parties) • Once in every 3 years • The key resource for competitive • Focus group discussions (by independent parties) • Once in every 3 years advantage and sustainable growth • Employee Council Meetings • Once a month • Employee Portal of the Company network accessible to every • Continuous employee. • Annual strategic planning meeting • Once a year • Company’s ‘Open Door’ policy encourages direct employee – • Continuous management dialogue • Annual Employee Surveys voluntary and confidential • Once a year • Individual Performance Reviews – bi-annually • Bi Annual • HR Clinics • Continuous • Employee reward and recognition • Continuous Society • One-to-one interviews (by independent parties) • Once in every 3 years • Local immediate communities • Focus groups discussion (by independent parties) • Once in every 3 years • Stakeholders in sustainable • Dialogue with Religious Dignitaries • Continuous development • Written and oral communications initiated by stakeholders • Continuous • Regulatory and Government • Company website • On line agencies • One-to-one interview • Once in every 3 years 32 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 A clear-cut delivery G4-18 G4-20 G4-19 G4-21 28 Value Creation Model 30 Strategy 31 Stakeholder Engagement Materiality of Stakeholder Issues Expectations and issues identified during the stakeholder engagement were rated, assigned and prioritised as shown below, Stakeholder Issues Prioritisation Matrix Issues indicated in this area are of high 2 11 3 4 significance and impact both the stakeholders H and the organisation. All indicators shown 1 13 16 6 in this area are fully discussed in the Annual Report and/or in the corporate website. 17 7 10 M Issues indicated in this area have a relatively 12 18 19 5 14 15 moderate impact on our business. They too Likely level of were addressed during the reporting period stakeholder and are fully or partially reported in the priority Annual Report and/or in the corporate website. 8 9 L Issues found in this area of the grid have only a minor impact thus may only be reported in the corporate website. L M H Likelihood of current or potential impacts on the H High M Medium L Low Group 1 Emissions, effluents and waste 8 Materials consumption 14 Mutually beneficial relationships with suppliers 2 Technical education for youth 9 Anti-corruption 15 Energy consumption 3 Customer health and safety 10 Procurement practices for local suppliers 16 Employee remuneration and benefits 4 Economic performance 11 Customer privacy 5 Employee training and education 17 Product and service labelling 12 Ethical marketing communications 6 Occupational health and safety 18 Water 13 Local community development 7 Compliance 19 Employee relations Aspect boundary within the organisation Aspect boundary outside the organisation 33 G4-18 G4-27 Stakeholder Engagement Status of Material Issues Stakeholder concerns (both positive and negative) are taken into account when updating the list of ‘material issues’. The materiality analysis was updated by adding key inputs based on feedback received from stakeholders. This analysis traces the issues raised, their materiality status (whether it increased, decreased, remained unchanged from the previous year, or emerged anew in the current year), the reasons for the shift of status and the Company’s response. Status of Material Aspects 2015 vs 2016 Issues Raised Status of Possible Reason for the Material Aspect Response by Material Aspect shift in status Emissions, Effluents and Society Not applicable Our Environment Management System is constantly Waste working towards minimising emission levels and effluents. Continuous improvement is sought in these areas. Technical Education for Society The ratio between More opportunities were given to apprentices. Youth numbers of apprenticeship opportunities given to number of employees (average) increased to 25%. Customer Health and Customer Not applicable We will continue to strictly comply with health and Safety safety aspects relating to our product portfolio. Employee Training and Employee Training hours per employee Continuous training and development programmes Education increased to 17 hours conducted for the employees improved this aspect. Occupational Health Employee Not applicable Employee health and safety receives due importance and and Safety comes under the preview of the Head of Operational Compliance. Employee health and safety is covered in the Quality Management System. Procurement Practices Local suppliers/ Not applicable Local suppliers should abide by the Supplier Code. for Local Suppliers Subcontract workers Water Society Not applicable Procedures are in places to increase the level of water recycled/reused. Stringent waste water management systems are in place. Ethical Marketing Customer Due care is taken in Corporate communications policy ensures strict Communications designing and executing compliance with regulations and codes concerning marketing communications. ethical marketing communication practices Mutually Beneficial Suppliers Not applicable Constant interactions and sharing of information Relationships with continues. Reports to Principals will address Principals expectations of Principals. Energy Consumption Society Reduction in energy usage The Energy saving measures are implemented across due to energy management the organisation. Two major buildings are LEAD certified green buildings (Gold Category) Employee Benefits Employee The Company follows Annual wage survey revealed that DIMO wages level are a policy of market at competitive levels compared to others in the industry. competitive remuneration. Materiality of issues increased Materiality of issues decreased Materiality of issues remains same New Issues identified 34 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 A visible operation Our operations are completely above board and visible to everyone. Here we look at the capitals that provide inputs, the performance of diverse business segments and our value creation activities. We also describe the economic, social and environmental impacts of our value creation activities and Risk Management which together form part of the performance dimension of Enterprise Governance at DIMO. 36 The Capitals Report 54 Business Report 62 Impact Management Report 76 Risk Management Report The Capitals Report 37 Monetised Capital 41 Relationship Capital Customers 45 Relationship Capital Business Partners 47 Human Capital 52 Intellectual Capital A visible operation 36 The Capitals Report 54 Business Report 62 Impact Management Report 76 Risk Management Report Monetised Capital Key Performance Measures Aspect Measure 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13 2011/12 Revenue Turnover (Rs. million) 37,750 28,037 20,884 27,711 39,863 Profitability Gross profit ratio (%) 17.43 18.25 20.87 15.21 18.23 Net profit ratio (%) 2.52 2.14 1.90 1.70 6.81 Working Capital Current ratio (times) at the year end 1.47 1.45 1.50 1.71 1.60 Management Quick asset ratio (times) at the year end 0.56 0.75 0.70 0.72 0.36 Asset Utilisation Fixed asset turnover (times) 4.79 3.51 3.10 4.98 8.55 Capital Structure Debt/Equity (%) – at the year end 13.03 17.29 23.15 10.10 13.40 Interest cover (times) 3.93 3.00 2.42 2.24 15.67 Management Approach monetised value during the year under review Monetised capital is a medium through which and the status of such monetised capital as at Debt to Equity Ratio we transact with many stakeholders and the end of the financial year. % thus remains a carefully managed capital. It 25 23.15 represents financial, manufactured and natural The following illustration depicts the different capital, which are monetised and stated in aspects relating to monetised capital and the monetary terms in the financial statements. manner in which this review has been structured 20 to address each of these aspects. 17.29 The importance and easily identifiable nature of this capital requires close monitoring and In order to bring more clarity and connectivity management. Monetised capital, its inputs 13.03 to the discussion, matters relating to the 15 13.40 and the monetised value created from it are “management of monetised capital” have been 10.10 used to plan, manage and communicate our financial performance, management actions dealt with throughout the report, in addition to and financial position. discussions on the management approach and 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 management actions. Monetised capital is a pre-requisite for both value creation and the sustainability of our Review of Financial Position Capital Structure The long term debt reduced by 18% during the business and therefore, its possession, use, The capital structure consists of both equity year (13% in 2014/15). Equity increased by 8% management and accumulation are carefully and debt. Equity includes stated capital, other (17% in 2014/15). Consequently, the Group’s scrutinised. The discussion relating to financial components of equity and revenue reserves. debt to equity ratio as at the year end, which performance, management actions and Debt consists of interest bearing borrowings. is calculated as a proportion of interest bearing financial position that follows presents a long term borrowings to equity, reduced to 13% detailed description of how DIMO has created from 17% previous year. Monetised Capital Building Capital Structure Rs: Mn Rs: Mn Monetised 2,000 10,000 Capital Review of Financial Position 1,500 9,000 Management 1,000 8,000 of Monetised Management Approach and Capital Management Actions 500 7,000 0 6,000 Monetised 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Value Borrowings Shareholders Creation Review of Financial Performance 37 Monetised Capital Borrowings Working Capital A significant part of borrowings consists of Inventory at the end of the year increased to Rs. Working Capital 2016 short term borrowings, including short term 7,607 million as compared to Rs. 4,779 million % bank loans obtained to finance working capital. in the previous year, mainly to support the 57.9 Short term borrowings outstanding as at 31st increase in turnover and due to higher imports March 2016 increased to Rs. 5,180 million during March 2016. Trade and other receivables 29.5 from Rs. 3,657 million in the previous year. This reduced to Rs. 3,877 million at the year-end from increase was partly to support the increase in a corresponding figure of Rs. 4,119 million inventory at the yearend. Working Capital 2015 The long term debt as at yearend reduced to % Rs. 1,302 million from Rs. 1,597 million. Details 43.9 12.5 of long term and short term borrowings are 37.9 presented in note 4.21 appearing from page Inventory Trade payables Receivables 136 to 138. Management Actions Borrowings The following table presents results of the % management actions taken during the year. 80 80 18.2 70 70 Inventory Trade payables Receivables Capital Expenditure 60 Rs: Mn % 50 1,500 100 40 30 1,200 60 30 20 20 900 20 10 600 -20 2015 2016 Long Term Borrowings Short Term Borrowings 300 -60 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Capital Expenditure Capital expenditure increase/Decrease Management Action Remarks Investments in Property, Plant • Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment during the year was Rs. 284 million, compared to Rs. and Equipment 733.2 million the previous year. The construction of the Kurunegala showroom and service facility is expected to elevate capital expenditure for the year 2016/17. Treasury Management • The Group operates a central treasury function which controls decisions in respect of cash management, the utilisation of borrowing facilities, banking relationships and foreign currency exposure management. The centralised treasury function enables effective cross utilisation of funds among Business Units. Cash Flow Management • Cash flow from operating activities was a net usage of Rs. 837 million (net generation of Rs. 648 million 2014/15), which was mainly due to the increase of inventory by Rs. 2,835 million (Reduction of Rs. 86 million in 2014/15). Investing activities and financing activities recorded a net cash usage of Rs. 223 million (Usage of Rs. 677.4 million 2014/15) and Rs. 495 million (Usage of Rs. 341 million 2014/15) respectively. Working Capital Optimization and • The current ratio marginally improved to Rs. 1.47 times from 1.45 times in the previous year. Maintaining Strategic Liquidity Risk Management Process • Risk management aspects relating to monetised capital are discussed on page 78 of the Risk Management report. Lowering of Cost of Capital • At the year end, our weighted average cost of capital was 6.76% (6.61% in 2014/15). 38 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 A visible operation 36 The Capitals Report 54 Business Report 62 Impact Management Report 76 Risk Management Report Review of Financial Performance Profitability Improved Return on Equity (ROE) The gross profit margin declined from 18.2% Improved ROE is a key strategic outcome in financial value creation. It serves as an indicator of the to 17.4% in 2015/16. The Construction and effectiveness of the management approach. Material Handling Equipment segment was the main contributor to this reduction. The Group The traditional breakdown of the ROE into net profit margin, asset turnover and financial leverage gross profit however increased to Rs. 6,537 indicates favourable outcomes in all three areas compared to the previous year, as shown below: million from Rs. 5,072 million the previous year, consequent to the increase in Group turnover. ROE Net Profit Margin Asset Turnover Financial Leverage Finance expenses Finance expenses increased by 11% to Rs. 470 million from Rs. 423 million in the previous year. 2015/16 1.84 2.04 2.52% The increase was mostly due to higher short 9.46% times times term borrowings, mainly to finance inventory. The gradual increase in interest rates during the year also contributed to the higher interest charge. The Group’s interest cover improved to 3.93 times from 3.0 times in the previous year. 2014/15 1.55 1.94 2.14% times times 6.43% Finance expense and Interest cover Rs: Mn Times 800 20 640 Financial Leverage Group Turnover 15 Times Rs: Mn % 480 2.5 40,000 100 10 320 32,000 60 5 2.06 160 2.03 2.04 24,000 20 2.0 1.94 16,000 -20 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 1.71 Finance expense Interest cover 8000 -60 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Group Turnover Growth Turnover The following table provides a comparison of segment and Group turnover. 2015/16 2014/15 % change Segment (Rs. billion) (Rs. billion) Vehicles Sales 27.3 18.8 45% VehiclesAfter Services 2.9 2.4 21% Marketing and Distribution 3.8 3.3 15% Construction and Material Handling Equipment 1.5 1.7 (11%) Electro-Mechanical, Bio-Medical and Marine Engineering 2.2 1.8 22% Group Turnover 37.7 28.0 35% 39 Monetised Capital Taxation Earnings per share (EPS) was Rs. 106.64 Income tax expense for the year under compared to Rs. 67.15 at the end of last year. review was Rs. 433.4 million (Rs. 250.9 The computation of EPS is given in Note 4.7 to million-2014/15). The effective tax rate the Financial Statements. The net profit after tax (including deferred tax expense effect) on Net increased by 59% (51% 2014/15) to Rs. 947 profit before tax increased to 31% against 30% million (Rs. 596 million 2014/15). in the previous year. The rate of income tax applicable to the Company and the subsidiaries Dividends was 28%. A reconciliation of accounting profit The Directors have approved a first and final with the tax expense is available in Note 4.6 dividend of Rs. 27 per share (first and final to the Financial Statements. The tax expense dividend of Rs. 20 per share 2014/15) for the includes a tax charge of Rs. 62 million on account year ended 31st March 2016, which will be paid of deferred tax (Rs. 98.3 million 2014/15). A on 10th June 2016. The gross dividend amounts summarised computation of deferred tax is to Rs. 239.7 million (Rs. 177.5 million 2014/15). given in Note 4.23 to the Financial Statements. The dividend payout ratio for 2015/16 is 25.3% compared to 29.8% in 2014/15. The dividend Earnings cover applicable to the financial year was 3.95 Earnings before interest and tax increased times (3.4 times in 2014/15). significantly to Rs. 1, 631.3 million from Rs. 1,176 million the previous year. The profit before The Company has access to necessary funds taxation increased by 63% (65% 2014/15) to finance the payment of the first and final to Rs. 1,380 million from Rs. 847 million. The dividend. administrative and distribution expenses totalled Rs. 4,991 million compared to Rs. 3,948 Financial Priorities million in 2014/15. Rapid economic development will present many opportunities and it is important that the Group is in a state of readiness to harness these. The Earnings following have therefore been identified as Rs: Mn financial priorities for the Group in the medium 5,000 term: 4,000 • Financial investment in capacity-building, in order to drive growth. 3,000 • Optimising profitability through value addition and the efficient utilisation of 2,000 resources, particularly through prudent working capital management. 1,000 • Striking a balance between growth and immediate profitability in allocating 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 financial resources EBIT EBITDA Profit Before Tax • Maintaining a healthy Statement of Financial Position. 40 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 A visible operation 36 The Capitals Report 54 Business Report 62 Impact Management Report 76 Risk Management Report Relationship Capital – Customers Key Performance Measures Aspect Measure 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13 2011/12 Customer service No. of CRM personnel 35 39 30 35 42 Customer convenience No. of customer interaction points 60 57 56 52 40 No. of business locations in the North and East 6 7 7 8 4 Customer satisfaction Average Customer Satisfaction Index (%) 88 90 88 86 89 Management Approach Customer Profile Relationship capital made up of customers Individual Small & Government Leasing Channel and business partners has an important role customers Large Private Organizations companies Partners in the DIMO value creation process. % organizations % % % % Customers, and our interactions with them, thus have a strong influence on sustaining and enhancing DIMO’s relationship capital. We believe that the new business environment Vehicles Sales 74 18 7 1 requires companies to shift from being product-centric to being customer-centric. Vehicles After Services 77 16 6 1 At DIMO, customer capital thus goes beyond long-term customer relationships to be viewed as an asset that is a source of organizational Marketing and Distribution 10 3 2 85 competitiveness. The contribution of customers to current and Construction and Material future revenues is therefore fundamental Handling Equipment 16 8 76 to assessing how successful DIMO is at transforming customer relationships into a sustainable competitive advantage. Electro Mechanical, Bio-Medical and Marine What we offer Engineering 12 20 68 Our approach to sustaining and enhancing customer capital involves managing customers' experiences and superseding their expectations Customer Capital Building Model with our products and services. Understanding customer needs and aspirations allows us to Reaching the gear our supply chain better to ultimately Customer deliver products that satisfy the customer. This is underpinned by our focus on regular engagement, product safety and ethical marketing. Building Building Responsible Competencies DIMO serves customers with a varied, Customer Customer to Serve the differentiated, technologically advanced and Care Capital Customers diversified product portfolio representing 95 top global brands from 85 principals, some of whom are Fortune 500 companies. 98% of the Company’s customer base are direct customers Customer Relationship while 2% are channel partners. Management Reaching the Customers DIMO reaches its existing and potential customers across multiple platforms. Our nationwide branches, dealerships and service points make up one of the largest, most modern automobile networks in Sri Lanka. This network is supported by a mobile sales team, which reaches customers who do not have close access to our customer points. 41 Relationship Capital – Customers Customer Interaction Points Western Province North Western Province Northern Province Head Office 011-2449797 3S Kurunegala 037-4697800 3S Jaffna 021-4923672 3S DIMO Mart 011-4360014 S FMC Project/Holcim Quary0773 602883 SER Vavuniya 024-4925009 S MB Center 011-4448989 3S Puttlam 032-4930526 3S Mannar 023-4920459 S Medical Engineering & Power Engineering 011-4607100 3S Nikaweratiya 037-4944378 S Solutions Chilaw 032-4501367 S Eastern Province Total Marine Solutions 011-4602000 3S Kuliyapitiya 037-4501009 S Trincomalee 026-4641020 3S Tyres,Power Tools sales & tools service 011-4645141 3S Wennappuwa 031-2254866 S Batticaloa 065-4927345 S Siyambalape Complex 011-2400670 SER Ampara 063-4923406 S DIMO Logistics Centre 033-4934753 3S TATA Passenger Car Workshop 011-4645487/88 SER Central Province DIMO Tyre Mart 011-4501035 3S Kandy Branch -Katugastota 081-4940829 S Gampaha 033-4641034 S Kandy Branch Work Shop -Balagolla 081-4950445 SER Yakkala 033-4641004 S Northern Dambulla 066-4928283 S Awissawella 036-4641002 S Piliyandala 011-4376943 S Sabaragamuwa Province Horana 034-4947836 S Kurana 031-4641026 S Rathnapura 045-4928620 3S Moratuwa 011-4645735 S North Central Embilipitiya 047-4931050 S Kegalle 035-4641007 S Agri Machinery sales 011-2449797 S Bosch Service Centre 077-3399933 SER Komatsu & KSB Sales 011-2449797 S Uva Province North Western Mathugama 034-4941129 S Monaragala 055-4641012 S Eastern Padukka 011-4645754 S Mahiyanganaya 055-4641022 S TATA Showroom 011-2449711 S Central Welimada 057-4200100 S TATA Spare Parts Showroom 011-4602100 S Construction Spare parts Sale center 011-4645384/5 S Southern Province Uva DIMO Lighting 011-4501270 S Matara 041-4929378-9 3S Western Sabaragamuwa Na Sevana Technical Institute 047-4641022 SER Ambalangoda 091-4941158 S North Central Province Tissamaharama 047-4932442 3S Anuradhapura 025-2223025 3S Southern Ambalantota 047-4934019 S Padaviya 025-4928867 S Galle 091-4501004 S Polonnaruwa 027-4641008 S Moravaka 041-641060 S Tambuttegama 025-4641015 S Head office Branches 3S Sales, Service & Spare Parts Anuradhapura TATA Work 025-2223025 SER Display Points Customer Contact Point shop-Accident Repair S Sales SER Service Building Two-Way Communication Responsible Customer Care and Management DIMO has forged several strategic initiatives to understand market dynamics and to hone in on what Product responsibility Taking responsibility really matters to customers. We delve deep into what drives customers' decisions and actions, their ‘pain for our products and for customer Health and points’, the differences among customer segments, and the changes in markets and consumer behaviour. Safety We use many tools to create interaction, including requests for feedback, online and offline customer Product Labelling surveys, e-newsletters, and social media engagement. Our online presence encompasses a state-ofAll products carry comprehensive labelling the-art web site and Facebook page; we have noted a steady growth in the visits to both pages, as which, at a minimum, conforms to all shown in the online access statistics below: statutory requirements. Such product related information includes catalogue references, Period Website (Visits During the Year) Facebook (Likes as at 31st March) user manuals, diagrams, pictographs, expiry 2015/16 1,338,061 318,097 dates, standardization code numbers and warnings on possible environmental impacts as 2014/15 1,219,446 201,469 well as quality certification stamps. We adopt 2013/14 700,074 141,543 the guidelines of our principals and globally 2012/13 514,253 18,965 accepted best practices to ensure the highest levels of safety in our after care process . There 24 x 7 Assistance to Our Customers were no reported cases of breaches of product Our 24 x 7 roadside assistance patrols are available to help customers in any part of the country. A Mobile and service labelling regulations during the year. Tyre and Battery team is available to assist customers 24 x 7 in the case of a flat tyre or low battery. 42 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 A visible operation 36 The Capitals Report 54 Business Report 62 Impact Management Report 76 Risk Management Report Customer Relationship Management Partnerships 1. Coordination with Customer 1. Daily data analysis with Global regard to customer Relations and generated from the Brands complaints Experience call centre 2. Validation of the 2. Bulk SMS customer data 3. Customer data base Comprehensive base cleansing Product Related 3. Coordination and 4. Compiling of daily Information co-operation the weekly and monthly customer centric Customer reports events CRM Insights Analysis Satisfying 4. MB Credit card 1. Customer sales inquiry Statutory 5. Branch visits and handling Requirements educating the 2. Follow up on all staff on complaint customer inquiries handling and 3. Conducting surveys management Call Centre 4. CSI & SSI processes Marketing and Communications 5. Campaigns Our marketing communications are guided 6. Documentation of customer 6. General inquiries by the principles of ethical business and must complaints and 7. RSA call handling & always be transparent, accurate and honest, feedback follow up in keeping with the DIMO Communications Policy. We strive to build trust and protect brand value through our communications and draw We invested further in enhancing our customer service capability by establishing a central customer guidance from best practices observed by our contact centre which operates 24 x 7. principals. Customer rights are ensured through the legitimate use of customer-centric data and Customer Complaints secure data storage. There were no breaches During the year under review the CRM division received 697 customer complaints. Of this, 609 were of policy or any instances of statutory nonresolved within three working days. The remaining cases were also resolved, even though the level of compliance in the year under review. complexity resulted in resolutions taking more than three days. Ensuring the Highest Levels of Safety Our products carry the highest levels of safety and conform to industry standards on Monthly Customer Complaints for 2015/16 health and safety. The Group’s ISO 9001:2008 Number of Complaints accredited Quality Management System ensures 80 Monthly Daily that safety levels are stringently followed across Incoming Calls 8,880 Incoming Calls 296 70 Outgoing Calls 26,490 Outgoing Calls 883 the organisation. As a policy, we partner with 60 suppliers reputed for high safety standards and product testing. These measures have ensured 50 that there were no breaches of health and safety 40 standards in the year under review. 30 Annually Incoming Calls 108,040 20 Customer Relationship Management Outgoing Calls 322,295 The Customer Relationship Management team 10 is DIMO’s frontline interface for customers Apr-15 May-16 Jun-16 Jul-16 Aug-16 Sep-16 Oct-16 Nov-16 Dec-14 Jan-15 Feb-16 Mar-16 and business partners. The team's operations Complaints Solutions within 03 days have expanded over the years from conducting customer voice surveys to handling customer inquiries, customer complaint handling and feedback, routing of after sales queries, telemarketing campaigns and other market/ customer oriented surveys. 43 Relationship Capital – Customers Repeat Purchases Customer Association and Loyalty A customer who transacts with DIMO more than once during a four-year period, is considered a DIMO has implemented a customised customer repeat customer. association and loyalty programme. While seeking customer goodwill these programmes, Repeat Purchases also offer rewards to customers. Some of the Description 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 prevailing customer association programmes that promote loyalty are the Mercedes-Club of Total base-unique customers 15,570 9,879 10,907 17,749 10,676 Sri Lanka, Jeep Club of Sri Lanka, and the TATA Repeat-same year 47 39 25 44 339 Emperor Customers & Driver’s club. Repeat-from 2011 302 254 225 525 Repeat-from 2012 403 327 356 Repeat-from 2013 294 248 Repeat-from 2014 414 Total repeat (Excl. Same year repeat) 1,413 829 581 525 Repeat (Excl. Same year repeat) 9.08% 8.39% 5.33% 2.96% Level of Customer Satisfaction This year too we conducted rigorous research to understand our customers’ individual needs and preferences. We listen closely to what our customers tell us and track and monitor their opinions to unravel their expectations. In order to measure satisfaction levels, our CRM team gauges customers’ overall perception of our products and services while internal surveys are conducted to measure customers’ experience when dealing with DIMO directly. Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) Market Segment Weighted Average CSI (%) 2015/2016 2014/2015 2013/2014 Vehicles Sales 88 87 90 Vehicles After Services 85 84 85 Marketing & Distribution 86 91 86 Construction & Material Handling Equipment 90 88 90 Electro Mechanical, Bio Medical & Marine Engineering 92 93 88 Building Competencies to Serve the Customers DIMO’s human resource strategy is focused on building customer-centric teams. Upon joining DIMO and during orientation, every employee is introduced to ‘Customer Focus’ as a key corporate value. This value is reiterated as the employee progresses up the ladder of responsibility. It is constantly emphasised through employee training for both in-house and external training modules which dwell on the value of responding to and engaging with customers. Extensive training is carried out to equip our tribe members to serve the customer better. Given below are statistics related to training in this area. Training of Sales and Service Staff Year Sales staff Service Staff Number of Number of Number of Number of Persons Trained Training Hours Persons Trained Training Hours 2015/16 703 6,284 2,592 20,451 2014/15 1,224 7,297 2,432 16,739 2013/14 638 3,873 1,900 16,146 2012/13 717 4,480 1,677 14,779 44 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 A visible operation 36 The Capitals Report 54 Business Report 62 Impact Management Report 76 Risk Management Report Relationship Capital – Business Partners Key Performance Measures Aspect Measure 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13 2011/12 Relationship with Principals No. of principals 95 77 77 81 78 No. of relationships above 50 years 7 7 7 6 6 No. of relationships between 25 to 50 years 9 9 8 10 9 No. of relationships between 01 to 25 years 60 52 54 58 55 No. of new relationships commenced during the year 19 9 8 7 8 Relationship with local suppliers Payments to local suppliers (Rs.billion) 5.3 4.3 5.3 4.7 4.5 Management Approach consequently, generates more effective and Relationship building is central to building Relationships with our business partners are a sustainable outcomes for DIMO. We add further Business Partner Capital. This is preceded by key driver of value and an important part of our value to the products and solutions supplied identifying their expectations and identifying corporate strategy. Business partners constitute by our business partners and this enables the processes through which those expectations one part of our relationship capital, the other us to offer unique value propositions to our are best met. This is explained in greater detail in part being the customer relationships. We customers. the model below. consider relationship capital as one of our nonmonetized capitals. We partner only with those who share our Our corporate strategy then focuses on core values. Once we begin a relationship with nurturing and growing this capital as a strategic Our relationship with business partners is a business partner, high priority is given to resource. Products and solutions responsibly part of our corporate strategy, as shown more managing every aspect of that relationship in sourced from responsible providers and blended clearly in the ‘strategy illustration’ on page a mutually beneficial manner. This approach has with DIMO’s expertise enable us to offer unique 30. Collaboration with our business partners enabled DIMO to secure enriching relationships value propositions to our diverse customer base. produces the differentiation we strive for and with local and global business partners. Business Partner Capital Building Model Business Expectation Business Strategic Relationship Conflict Delivery of Partner of Business Partner Fit Building Resolution Expectation Evaluation Partner Capital SelfEvaluation Business Partner Feedback Building Long-Term Relationships partner. Apart from financial benefits, there All our business relationships must seek to Building long-term relationships is a key aspect must be a congruence of business philosophies create value responsibly. We seek relationships of how we grow our relationship capital. Over and a meeting of business minds. with those who are leaders and who provide our 76 year history, DIMO has built strong the ingredients for enduring relationships with relationships with several business houses: all Three important ideas have shaped our relations customers. trailblazers in their respective fields. We consider with our business partners: Shared Values, Trust it essential that we find a ‘strategic fit’ when and Longevity. These values have been the basis commencing a relationship with a business of long-term mutually rewarding partnerships. 45 Relationship Capital – Business Partners It is important that our local business partners We partner only with those who share our core values. Once share our business values and meet the same environmental and social standards we set for we begin a relationship with a business partner, high priority is ourselves. We seek partners who share our given to managing every aspect of that relationship in a mutually commitment to doing business responsibly. We beneficial manner. This approach has enabled DIMO to secure seek their compliance with our Supplier Code enriching relationships with local and global business partners. commitments, including those on occupational health and safety at their workplaces. Periodic health and safety evaluations are carried out to ensure that our sub-contractors observe the requisite health and safety standards at their Strong relationships cultivated over many years sample of business partners, designed to respective workplaces. with the world’s best, have enabled us to deliver measure their satisfaction levels. on our strategic approach of collaboration As of 31st March 2016, 22 out of 38 major while offering unique solutions and products to DIMO's value creation process includes the use suppliers had committed to upholding the diverse groups of customers. of independent third-party stakeholder surveys DIMO supplier code. A total of Rs. 5.3 billion was such as interviews with business partners. These paid to local suppliers during the year 2015/16 9 of our Business Partners are featured in the surveys are aimed at generating candid feedback (Rs. 4.3 billion in 2014/15) in aspect of goods “Fortune 500” list published in 2015. on the state of the relationship between the and services provided. partner and the company, and on how these Technological Excellence relationships could be further developed and Technological excellence is a vital factor in strengthened. creating differentiation and consequently, in Payments to Local Suppliers building value. Over the years, DIMO has sought Grievance Management in the Supply Rs: Mn to partner with technologically accomplished Chain and sophisticated businesses. Such partnerships Grievances, if any, are resolved speedily. We 6,000 5392 5305 5272 enable us to deliver the most advanced have reduced the space for conflict through 4714 4,800 4512 products, state-of-the-art solutions and the regular feedback and open communication with best of modern technology to our customers. partners. The company has a constructive and 3,600 critical engagement with all of its partners. It Ethical Business Needs Ethical Business is an engagement that is forward looking and 2,400 Partners solution-oriented and aims at strengthening DIMO’s commitment to ethical and responsible and growing the relationship. A report submitted 1,200 business has meant that we have always sought by DIMO annually, provides a platform and an business partners with a similar outlook. Our opportunity to identify and discuss expectation business partners are law-abiding, compliant, gaps. 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 responsible to their stakeholders, and share our corporate values. Our business partners are Local Suppliers committed to environmental protection, respect We prize local value addition as it makes a Longevity of the Relationship with labour standards, promote human rights, foster positive impact on the country’s economy. Business Partners equal opportunity, do not condone corruption Similar to our relationships with foreign The table below summarizes the length of the and anti-competitive behaviour, and ensure principals, we seek enduring long-term relationships with our Local Business Partners: occupational safety at the workplace. These relationships with our local business partners values have been integrated in DIMO’s Supplier who are leaders in their respective fields. Code and our suppliers are required to conform to these values and integrate them into their own supply chains. Longevity of Relationships with Foreign Principals Managing Expectations Relationship in number of years 2015/16 2014/15 We ascertain the expectations of business Relationship more than 50 years 7 7 partners at the beginning of the relationship Relationship between 25 to 50 years 9 9 and at periodic intervals thereafter. This is Relationship between 1 to 25 years 60 52 supplemented by an annual survey with a New Relationships 19 9 Total Business Partners 95 77 46 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 A visible operation 36 The Capitals Report 54 Business Report 62 Impact Management Report 76 Risk Management Report Human Capital Key Performance Measures Aspect Measure 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13 2011/12 Employee attrition ratio Employee turnover as percentage of average 17.5 17.10 17.20 21.81 21.10 employees (%) Gender distribution Female employees as a percentage of total 11 11 10 10 11 employees Age distribution Percentage of employees below 40 years of age 78 81 79 79 81 Employee satisfaction Employee Satisfaction Index (%) 62.04 62.38 61.10 53.46 62.7 Knowledge and skills Average training hours per employee 17 15.65 13.10 16.00 13.52 development Management Approach Employees are our Human Capital. Human The Company has multiple initiatives in place to attract, capital provides vital inputs for value creation develop and retain talent, and thereby building the capacity at DIMO, as shown in our value creation model. The impact that human capital has on value and quality of our human capital. We will continue to improve creation depends largely on its skills, levels of these initiatives and their effectiveness. We will also continue motivation and level of engagement with the investing in improving employee engagement . A special effort Company. To maximise the impact of human will be made to increase the number of female employees to capital, we have focused on growing capacity, narrow the gender ratio. triggering motivation and securing higher engagement process. Human Capital is also an important part of Understanding employee demands and aspirations, and ensuring transparency in our dealings with DIMO's collaboration strategy as shown in the employees, are fundamental to maximizing the potential of human capital. These two aspects are strategy illustration, appearing on page 30. We accorded high priority at DIMO. In fact, our strategic principles include ‘Making work enjoyable and seek collaboration with our employees as part rewarding’ and ‘Ensuring that ‘employees come first’. of our corporate strategy. Human Capital Building Model Employee Health & Employee Safety Satisfaction Special Rewards & Recognition Employer Talent Talent Employee Employee Building Branding Attraction and Development Relationship Participation Employee Acquisition Management Capital Development Performance Management Compliant Tribe and a Safe Workplace 47 Human Capital Employee Demographics There were 1,573 employees on our payroll as at the end of March 2016. This was a 2.48% increase over the previous financial year. Our employees represent all geographical regions and all social groups. The male: female ratio is 9:1 and is an area identified for improvement. Number of Employees by Age Group and by Gender Age Description <20 21-30 31-40 41-50 51< Total 2015/16 2014/15 2015/16 2014/15 2015/16 2014/15 2015/16 2014/15 2015/16 2014/15 2015/16 2014/15 Board of Directors M 7 7 7 7 F Group Management M 3 4 2 2 5 6 Committee F 1 1 1 1 Senior Management M 1 1 22 20 15 13 8 6 46 40 F 3 2 1 4 2 Middle Management M 65 66 105 88 27 27 17 17 214 198 F 11 9 14 16 5 5 5 4 35 34 Executive M 126 140 195 177 66 61 43 34 430 412 F 30 32 15 14 6 7 6 5 57 58 Clerical/Supervisory M 10 8 209 200 103 104 29 24 13 13 364 349 F 58 59 5 6 2 1 65 66 Manual M 3 6 173 161 85 85 24 23 9 11 294 286 F Non ExContract M 4 5 18 27 3 11 6 10 18 20 49 73 F 1 1 1 2 2 3 Total 17 19 691 695 551 524 185 176 129 121 1573 1,535 Employees by Segment Our flagship Automobile Training School (DATS) Segment 2015/16 2014/15 produces talent for the automobile and allied Vehicle Sales 324 330 industries such as construction machinery. Vehicle Parts and Services 556 535 Trainees who pass through DATS have the Marketing & Distribution 237 245 option of joining DIMO or seeking employment Construction & Material Handling Equipment 106 78 Electro-Mechanical Bio-Medical & Marine Engineering 144 160 elsewhere. The Company also provides training Shared Services such as Finance, HR, IT, Corporate Communications, 206 187 to students from professional institutes, CRM, Legal Services and Stakeholder Interactions universities and vocational training institutes. Total 1573 1,535 Such trainees are a good source of human talent once they complete their studies. Employer Branding Talent Attraction and Acquisition The Group encourages the organic growth In the present operating environment, Several strategic programmes are in place to of its human capital and provides multiple attracting and retaining the right talent is a attract the best talent into our human resource opportunities for our employees to grow constant challenge. At DIMO we respond to pool. Our management trainee programme ‘D and enhance their careers. Employees are this by branding the Company positively as a Flash’ is an exclusive programme designed to encouraged to apply for vacancies that arise model employer and an employer of first choice. create a pipeline of future leadership. Selected within the Group. . Internally, we focus on activities to project young candidates are offered 24 months of every employee as a brand ambassador for the structured exposure to every division of DIMO Our talent acquisition process is transparent Company. Externally, we position DIMO as an to learn the DIMO way of life and the different and free of bias. We aim to attract and retain enjoyable and rewarding workplace. DIMO is facets of enterprise governance and value the best by providing them with opportunities a regular participant at career fairs and career creation. to grow as individuals and members of the guidance programmes while our Facebook DIMO Tribe. page remains an important medium for communication with prospective candidates. 48 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 A visible operation 36 The Capitals Report 54 Business Report 62 Impact Management Report 76 Risk Management Report Retaining Talent form the basis of the respective supervisor's ‘Lift Off’ is a programme designed to help DIMO Retaining talent is the second component and HR division's response to support the employees hone in on their personal goals and of our human capital strategy. A number employee's growth and aspirations. suitable career paths. Under the programme, of programmes are in place to encourage employees are advised on job learning talented employees to grow with the Group. During the year under review, 26, 735 training opportunities, job rotations, and offered Career guidance, advice on personal growth, hours (24,037 training hours in 2014/15) shadowing and mentoring opportunities. The personality development, counselling and were provided to employees through 248 programme provides employees with a range grievance handling, are some of the measures programmes, both local and overseas. The of hard and soft skills that support career we employ. We give due consideration to training programmes are conducted by internal development. feedback from exit-interviews when fine-tuning and external resource persons and our foreign our strategies for employee retention. principals. Supervisors carry out a follow-up evaluation to gauge the impact of such training. Training Hours by Category Talent Development Where relevant, employees who have undergone Training Hours Our online ‘Performance Evaluation System’ training are invited to share those experiences 12,000 tracks the growth of each employee as they with their colleagues. The overall goal is to evolve within the Group. The system helps to maximize the benefits of the training experience 9,600 identify gaps and training needs, which then and disseminate it to a broader group. 7,200 Employees by Service Period 4,800 Service Period 2015/16 2014/15 2,400 (Year) Male Female Male Female 1-5 977 124 954 124 6-10 221 15 209 14 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 Board of Directors Clerical/ Supervisory Executive 11-15 57 7 60 7 Manual & Contract Middle Management Senior Management 16-20 70 4 65 4 21-25 52 7 49 6 26-30 12 3 10 3 31-35 10 2 18 5 More than 35 10 2 6 1 The chart below details training hours by category and gender No. of No. of Training Per Employee Training Hours Per Year Category Gender Employees Hours 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13 Board of Directors M 7 93 13.29 4.78 75.92 23.79 F Senior Management M 51 1,434 28.12 31.48 14.28 65.01 F 5 154 30.80 25.66 16.00 46.00 Middle Management M 214 4,006 18.72 26.11 26.82 23.53 F 35 619 17.69 10.48 20.90 24.18 Executive M 430 7,741 18.00 19.90 14.57 17.12 F 57 975 17.11 18.28 25.75 25.99 Clerical/ Supervisory M 364 5,255 14.44 8.79 7.96 10.88 F 65 610 9.39 11.87 9.13 15.13 Manual & Contract M 343 5,845 17.04 10.64 6.47 9.16 F 2 4 2.00 4.66 5.25 Total M 1,409 24,373 17.30 15.86 12.62 15.37 F 164 2,362 14.40 13.97 17.38 22.49 1,573 26,735 16.99 15.65 13.10 16.00 49 Human Capital Employee Relationship Management Recognizing Innovation and Our Employee Relationship Management (ERM) process ensures that we stay connected with our Commitment employees and remain sensitive to their needs and expectations. Managing employee expectations, Employees who make a special contribution managing their grievances, ensuring transparency in our processes, and effective communication are to value creation at DIMO are recognised at key aspects of DIMO’s ERM. The following table highlights the key aspects of the process: our annual ‘Employee of the Year’ awards. The winner is singled out for a unique contribution Employee Relationship Management Initiatives to the Group through his or her work, ideas and commitment. Apart from an overall Employees' Council The Council has representation from each business unit, and the winner, winners are also announced in the Group Management Committee. The Council meets monthly to sales, technical support and support services discuss any employee grievances and improvements to the business. categories. The ‘Employee of the Year’ is selected Minutes of the meetings are available on the Company intranet. by the Group Management Committee on the HR Clinics Representatives from the HR division visit different locations to basis of previously published guidelines; the top engage with employees and address grievances and challenges. Most prize is a TATA Nano. of these meetings are one-on-one meetings between the employee and a representative of the HR division. The General Manager, HR, In addition to the annual awards, monthly who is a member of the GMC, usually participates at these meetings. awards are given to employees for special Fifteen HR clinics were conducted during the year. contributions to their business units. The Company Intranet The intranet, “DIMO Net” enables employees to access a wide Awards variety of corporate material such as promotional campaigns, For the fourth consecutive year DIMO was listed vacancies,Employees’ Council minutes, an e-book library, among the ‘Top 20 Great Places’ to work in Sri e-newspapers, the Code of Business Ethics, Company policies and Lanka. A company's ranking is based on a trust procedures, and other corporate events. index and culture audit. Two-thirds of marks ‘Open-door’ Policy DIMO has an ‘open-door’ policy where any grievance can be are derived from the Trust Index, which is based discussed with the Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer without entirely on employee feedback with the balance prior appointment. coming from the culture audit, which consists of an assessment of HR practices in the work Every year, all team members gather at ‘DIMO Day’ where the plans for the forthcoming year are place. unveiled. The Association of Human Resource DIMO also conducts several team building and motivational activities. This year's activities included Professionals presented DIMO a ‘Gold’ award last quiz competitions, photographic competitions, sports days, the ‘biggest loser’ competition, the annual year at its biennial ‘Human Resource Awards’. children’s party, a Vesak lantern competition, and a children’s art competition. We also conduct a This award recognizes the effectiveness of our ‘Personal Financial Planning’ programme every year, for those employees who are on the verge of human resource practices and places us in the retirement. top 10 in the corporate world. The Company also received an award for employee relations. Training Hours Composition by Category 8,716 5,865 93 1,588 4,625 5,849 Board of Directors Clerical/ Supervisory Executive Manual & Contract Middle Management Senior Management DIMO is one of the 20 Gold Award at the HRM Awards 2015 great places to work for in Sri Lanka 50 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 A visible operation 36 The Capitals Report 54 Business Report 62 Impact Management Report 76 Risk Management Report Employee Satisfaction Value Creation with Integrity An annual employee satisfaction survey is conducted where employees remain anonymous when Employees of DIMO are expected to live by responding. The execution of the survey and consequent data tabulation are entrusted to an the values contained on page 52. These values independent party. During the year under review, the survey attracted a response rate of 68.4 % (91% demand that each tribe member is responsible, in 2014/15). The tabulated data indicated an overall satisfaction rate of 62.04 % (62.38% in 2014/15). righteous, responsive, reliable, respectful and resilient. The Group's HR Policy, Code of Business Ethics, Employee Satisfaction Index Human Rights Policy and Whistle Blowing % Policy help employees act according to the 80 DIMO values and ensure that their behaviour 70 is compliant with the law and ethically sound. 60 The HR Policy and Code of Business Ethics 50 address issues such as nondiscrimination in the workplace, zero tolerance of child or forced 40 labour, safe workspaces, strict compliance 30 with laws and regulations, fair treatment, zero 20 tolerance of harassment, and environmental 10 responsibility. The Company is a signatory to the UN Global Compact that promotes ethical A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z and responsible corporate behaviour 2015 2016 A-Nature of work/Responsibility G-Incentives M-Prospects for promotion T-Working Environment Fostering Innovation B-Freedom to perform duties H-other peaks N-Superior's Guidance U-Superior Relations C-Availability of challenging I-Recognition & Appreciation O-Financial Assist for Education V-Support Idea Man” is a programme designed to Assignments J-Support given at employee P-Canteen Facility W-Customer Satisfaction foster innovation by encouraging employees D-Job Security life events Q-Sanitation X-Focus on Quality E-Clarity of Job duties K-Appraisal System R-Medical Facilities Y-Continuous improvement to use their imaginations for sustainable F-Salary L-Opportunity for Training S-Employee Wellbeings Z-Focus on Environment value creation. Employees may forward their ideas and suggestions for innovations and improvements directly to the Chairman. These Performance Management ideas are reviewed and analysed by the Group Performance reviews take place twice a year through an online appraisal system. The appraisals Management Committee. All employees who seek to evaluate employee performance on a number of different aspects, including achievement suggest practical ideas are recognised and of personal goals, a review of competencies, and personal growth. The Group’s remuneration policy rewarded. During the year under review 58 prescribes competitive remuneration, while we use salary reviews conducted by independent parties employees sent proposals to the Chairman. to ascertain market remuneration levels. Building for the Future Employee Health & Safety The Company has multiple initiatives in place to Employee health and safety is a priority at DIMO; we believe a secure and content workforce enhances attract, develop and retain talent, and thereby the quality of our human capital, which in turn helps build more value for the Group. All workplace building the capacity and quality of our human injuries are reported to the HR division and the cause identified. Injuries are analysed and where capital. We will continue to improve these necessary, processes and structural alterations may be made to the work place. initiatives and their effectiveness. We will also continue investing in improving employee Employee absenteeism increased to 0.12 % during the period under review from 0.05 % in 2014-15. engagement . A special effort will be made to increase the number of female employees to narrow the gender ratio. The table below tracks our safety record at work: Injuries/Diseases/Fatalities/ 2015/16 2014/15 Lost Day/Absenteeism Total No. Rate (%). Total No. Rate (%) Injuries 21 0.00062 24 1.09 Occupational disease Nil Nil Nil Nil Lost working days 92 0.0027 138.5 Work related fatalities Nil Nil Nil Nil 51 Intellectual Capital We know however that knowledge gained is Organisation only as valuable as its effect and influence on based the work we do. At DIMO we strive to document intangibles and share information in as many ways as Intellectual Capital possible to maximise the value of this most important element. Knowledge sharing sessions, Brand e-library, extensive training and human capital Reputation management tools contribute to how we manage and exploit knowledge. Know House A Knowlwdge Management Initiative Intellectual Capital Building Model We believe that knowledge used and shared also depends on the unspoken norms of behaviour Intellectual capital is enhanced through two key that constitute DIMO’s culture. It is these norms Brand Reputation elements our brand reputation and the value and our family friendly working environment, Our brand reputation has been carefully built created by organisational intangibles such as rather than formal systems, that shape our through the DIMO differentiation strategy. We our knowledge base and time tested processes, employees’ interactions with customers, have sought to differ from our competitors systems and procedures. colleagues and other stakeholders.. through technological excellence, aftercare, effective customer relationship management, DIMO is an organisation committed to learning Systems and Processes market presence and a strong sense of and service excellence; we have thus generated The systems and processes that we have responsibility. several assets that do not appear in the designed and executed over the years to Financial Statements as they are not monetised. implement the DIMO differentiation strategy The brand reputation we wish to own is the Our competitive strategy, collaboration and are a critical asset in our value creation process. promise of our mission statement: ‘Create Value differentiation have been leading facilitators to Often, our response to the increased pressures Responsibly’, and we constantly try to align our the creation of value in the form of intellectual from the evolving business environment, brand promise with the DIMO values. capital. competition and globalisation, involves making our systems and processes more resourceful The diagram below elaborates how collaboration and more flexible. and differentiation facilitate the growth of DIMO Values: intellectual capital through knowledge, systems The value creation model identifies eight and processes, and brand reputation. supporting services through which DIMO adds • Responsible: To be a responsible value to the products we represent. These corporate citizen and to act with Knowledge Base are, namely, sourcing, warehousing, customer responsibility towards all our During our 76 years in business, we have engagement, solution mapping, engineering, stakeholders and the environment. collaborated with employees to build a massive delivery aftercare and support services. The • Righteous: To stand for pool of expertise and experience, which is a processes and systems through which we righteousness with resolve key component of DIMO's intellectual capital. deliver these value-creating activities are the This pool of knowledge consists of specialised same systems and processes that forms part • Responsive: To be approachable expertise in the business domain , and in capital of intellectual capital and is redeployed to the and responsive to every management, risk management and impact value creation model under intellectual capital stakeholder we serve management. to enhance the value created. • Reliable: To be reliable and trustworthy, whatever we Role of Corporate Strategy in Intellectual Capital Formation undertake to do • Respectful: To always treat people Collaboration with employees with dignity and respect Knowledge Base Corporate Strategy Collaboration • Resilient: To be resilient in adversity Systems and processes Differentiation Brand reputation 52 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 A visible operation 36 The Capitals Report 54 Business Report 62 Impact Management Report 76 Risk Management Report March 2016 The awards that we have received bear testimony to Distributor of the Year 2015 – Winner the exceptional levels of quality and excellence of our • Recognised by TATA Motors Limited as knowledge base and systems and procedures. the “Distributor of the Year” at the Annual Distributor’s Awards 2016 (excl. India). Highest Sales 2015 Small Commercial Vehicles – Winner June 2015 Annual Report 2015 – Diversified Holdings • The Annual Distributor’s Awards 2016 Great Place to Work – 2015 (Group companies up to five Subsidiaries) – hosted by TATA Motors Limited recognised • Recognised by the ‘Great Place to Work Gold Award DIMO for the highest sales recorded in Institute” That DIMO is one of the best 20 • Awarded by the Institute of Chartered Small Commercial Vehicles (excl. India). companies in Sri Lanka to work for. Accountants of Sri Lanka for the Best Highest Sales 2015 – Pickups Winner Annual Report in the category of Group Great Place to Work – 2015 Best in Large • The Annual Distributor’s Awards 2016 companies up to five Subsidiaries. Sized Enterprise Category Bronze hosted by TATA Motors Limited recognised • DIMO carried away the Bronze award Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting DIMO for the highest sales recorded for under the large sized enterprise category Award 2015 – Gold TATA Pickup Model (excl. India). at the “Great Place to Work” award • Awarded by the Institute of Chartered Highest Growth in Market Share 2015 L ceremony. Accountants of Sri Lanka for the Best and ICV Trucks – Winner Corporate Social Responsibility Report. • The Annual Distributor’s Awards 2016 Best Disclosure on Capital Management hosted by TATA Motors Limited recognised September 2015 • A special recognition by The Institute of DIMO for the highest growth in Market Excellence in Integrated Reporting 2015 – Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka for the Share for L and ICV Trucks (excl. India). Gold Award best disclosure on Capital Management in • Recognised by the Institute of Certified Highest Growth in Market Share 2015 M the Annual Report 2014/15. Management Accountants of Sri Lanka for and HCV Trucks – Winner the Excellence in Integrated Report. Management Commentary Award 2015 – • The Annual Distributor’s Awards 2016 Bronze hosted by TATA Motors Limited recognised • Awarded by The Institute of Chartered DIMO for the highest growth in Market October 2015 Accountants of Sri Lanka for the Share for M and HCV Trucks (excl. India). Excellence in Human Resources South Asia Management Commentary in the Annual 2015 Best Key Account Process Implementation Report 2014/15. • Runners-up of the “Excellence in Human 2015 – Winner Resources South Asia” (excl. India) Award • The Annual Distributor’s Award 2016 from by The Society for Human Resource hosted by TATA Motors Limited recognised January 2016 Management of India. DIMO for the Best Key Account Process Integrated Reporting – Gold Award – 2015 • Recognised by South Asian Federation of Implementation (excl. India). Accountants as the winner for Integrated Distributor of the Year 2015 – New Product December 2015 Reporting in South Asia. Introduction Overall Excellence in Annual Financial Reporting 2015 – Gold Award • Recognised by TATA Motors Limited as the • Awarded by the Institute of Chartered “Distributor of the Year – New Product February 2016 Introduction” at the Annual Distributor’s Accountants of Sri Lanka for the best ACCA Sustainability Reporting Award 2015 Awards 2016 (excl. India). Annual Report. – Overall Winner Integrated Reporting – Gold Award – 2015 • Awarded by ACCA for the best Distributor of the Year 2015 – Network • Awarded by the Institute of Chartered Sustainability Report. Development Accountants of Sri Lanka for the Best • Recognised by TATA Motors Limited as ACCA Sustainability Reporting Award 2015 the “Distributor of the Year – Network Integrated Report. – Diversified Conglomerates – Winner Development” at the Annual Distributor’s • Awarded by ACCA for the best Awards 2016 (excl. India). Sustainability Report in the category of Diversified Conglomerates. 53 Business Report This section brings the reader an overview of each of our business segments, describing our portfolio of products and services, business performance and value generated by each segment in the year under review. The connectivity of supply chain activities to the business segments and the capitals is also presented here. A visible operation 36 The Capitals Report 54 Business Report 62 Impact Management Report 76 Risk Management Report Vehicles Sales Vehicles After Services Marketing and Distribution Construction and Material Handling Equipment Electromechanical, Biomedical and Marine Engineering Economic Environment Indicator Relevance to DIMO Measure GDP growth rate DIMO’s product portfolio includes a large offering of capital The GDP grew by 4.8% in 2015 compared to a growth rate of equipment. A high GDP growth rate indicates a higher 4.9% in 2014. According to the Central Bank of Si Lanka GDP is demand for capital equipment. expected to expand by 5.8% in 2016 and by 6.3% in 2017. Interest rates Interest rates are relevant to DIMO in two ways. Firstly The average weighted prime lending rate (AWPR), increased lower borrowings cost can fuel demand for motor vehicles from 7.01% at the commencement of the year to 9.19% as at and capital equipment that we sell. Secondly it has a 31st March 2016. bearing on the borrowing costs. Inflation rate Low inflation rates lead to higher real disposable income As at the end of March 2016 year-on-year and annual average amongst customers. inflation was recorded at 2.0 % (2.5% in 2014) and 1% (0.1% in 2014) respectively. New motor vehicle Number of new motor vehicles registered is an indicator of Vehicle registrations (all vehicles) increased by 55.7% to 668,907 registrations the Market size for Motor vehicles vehicles from 429,556 vehicles in the previous year. Transportation Growth in transportation sector has an impact on the In 2015 the transportation sector grew by 5.5 % compared to sector growth Vehicles business. 3.6% in 2014. Construction Sector The growth in this sector is an indicator of the market The construction sector contracted by 0.9% in 2015 compared to Growth potential for Construction & Material Handling related a growth of 6.6% in the previous year. The slowdown in largebusinesses scale infrastructure projects was a major factor for this decline. Health sector Government sector and the private sector are customers Health sector capital expenditure increased from Rs. 22.3 billion capital expenditure of the Bio-Medical Engineering business. The health sector in 2014 to Rs. 37.2 billion in 2015 and the number of Private Capital expenditure of Government and the private sector Hospitals registered with the Private Health Service’s Regulatory investments are key indicators of growth for the Bio – Council was 241 in 2015 against 221 in 2014. Medical Engineering business. Industrial sector Industrial sector is a key target segment for DIMO. The industrial sector recorded a growth of 3.0% in 2015 growth compared to 3.5 % in 2014. Water and energy Government investment in water and energy has an Capital expenditure by National Water Supply and Drainage impact on the fortunes of the Power Engineering and Fluid Board decreased to Rs.27.5 billion in 2015 from Rs. 35.6 billion Management businesses. in 2014. Total Electricity Generation in 2015 increased by 5.9% to 13.090 GWh, from 12,357 GWh in 2014. 55 Business Report Vehicles Sales A core business sector for DIMO, offering brand new passenger, four wheel drive, commercial and special purpose vehicles as well as pre-owned passenger vehicles and agri machinery. DIMO is proud to partner some of the world’s best known brands including Mercedes Benz, Chrysler, Jeep and TATA. Key Principals and Relationship Outlook Segment Turnover and Segment Results Daimler AG 77 Years Upward trend in interest rates, Rs: ’000 Rs: ’000 TATA Motors Ltd 55 Years fluctuations in exchange rates, imposition 35,000,000 4,000,000 Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd 26 Years of 70% LTV (Loan To Value ratio) , and Claas Agricultural prevailing high tariffs on vehicles may 30,000,000 3,500,000 Machinery pvt Ltd 13 Years impact on the demand for commercial 25,000,000 3,000,000 FCA International Operations LLc 12 Years vehicles and passenger cars in the short term. 20,000,000 2,500,000 15,000,000 2,000,000 Product Portfolio Key Impediments 10,000,000 1,500,000 Sale of brand new passenger vehicles, 4WD • Competition from grey imports vehicles, commercial vehicles, special • Frequent changers in import duty 5,000,000 1,000,000 purpose vehicles, pre-owned vehicles and structure 0 500,000 agri machinery. • Introduction of 70% LTV 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 Turnover Result Brand Portfolio Segment Turnover Segment Results Lead Capitals RS. '000 RS. '000 • Relationship Capital 2015/16 27,282,880 2015/16 1,946,405 • Monetised Capital 2014/15 18,797,585 2014/15 1,394,122 % Contribution to Monetised Capital Key Supply Chain Group Turnover Directly Employed Activities RS. '000 • Aftercare • Customer engagement 2015/16 72% 2015/16 6,280,762 2014/15 67% 2014/15 3,639,242 Carbon Foot Print (tco2e) Number of Employees Weighted Average Number 2015/16 2014/15 Customer Satisfaction of Customers Scope 1 2,106 1,833 Index Scope 2 337 435 2015/16 324 2015/16 88% 2015/16 3,007 Scope 3 43 21 2014/15 330 2014/15 87% 2014/15 2,245 Water 2015/16 19,543 Energy 2015/16 24,065 Consumption (m3) 2014/15 14,685 Consumption (GJ '000) 2014/15 28,470 56 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 A visible operation 36 The Capitals Report 54 Business Report 62 Impact Management Report 76 Risk Management Report Vehicles After Services DIMO also offers global brands in vehicle accessories and components as part of its comprehensive after service package while our state-of-the-art Mercedes Benz Centre and the LEED Gold certified BOSCH Diesel Centre and Car Service Centre deliver industry expertise, state of the art diagnostic equipment and access to best-in-class automobile engineering services. Key Principals and Relationship Outlook Segment Turnover and Segment Results Daimler AG 77 Years We expect growth to continue as our Rs: ’000 Rs: ’000 TATA Motors Ltd 55 Years investments and new service promotions 3,000,000 500,000 Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd 26 Years come on stream. The Mercedes-Benz Claas Agricultural centre, will continue to provide an 2,500,000 Machinery pvt Ltd 13 Years integrated sales, service and parts solution 450,000 FCA International Operations Llc 12 Years under one roof. 2,000,000 1,500,000 400,000 Product Portfolio Key Impediments 1,000,000 Providing repair and service facilities for • Attracting skilled labour 350,000 500,000 franchise passenger,commercial vehicles • Substitutes and agri machinery,sale of franchise • Workshop capacity limitations in 0 300,000 vehicle and agri machinery spare outstations 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 parts,accessories and components. Turnover Result Brand Portfolio Segment Turnover Segment Results Lead Capitals RS. '000 RS. '000 • Intellectual Capital 2015/16 2,879,444 2015/16 492,275 • Human Capital 2014/15 2,368,614 2014/15 407,259 % Contribution to Monetised Capital Key Supply Chain Group Turnover Directly Employed Activities RS. '000 • Aftercare • Customer engagement 2015/16 8% 2015/16 1,654,312 • Engineering 2014/15 8% 2014/15 1,466,620 Carbon Foot Print (tco2e) Number of Employees Weighted Average Number 2015/16 2014/15 Customer Satisfaction of Customers Scope 1 730 907 Index Scope 2 805 574 2015/16 556 2015/16 85% 2015/16 3,920 Scope 3 64 20 2014/15 535 2014/15 84% 2014/15 3,010 Water 2015/16 35,167 Energy 2015/16 14,745 Consumption (m3) 2014/15 30,220 Consumption (GJ '000) 2014/15 16,007 57 Business Report Marketing and Distribution Offering comprehensive solutions for diverse requirements, the Marketing & Distribution sector services many industry areas including tyres, auto components, power tools and lighting products from a range of global brands. World class brands and product technology are supported by our own expertise, making us leaders in segments we operate. Key Principals and Relationship Outlook Segment Turnover and Segment Results Robert Bosch GmbH 62 Years With improvements in the construction Rs: ’000 Rs: ’000 Siemens 56 Years sector and the continuing trend in 4,000,000 300,000 Bosch Ltd 47 Years demand for smart solutions, demand for Bosch Automotive 3,500,000 lighting solutions and power tools will be 250,000 Systems Corporation 32 Years enhanced. Further the addition of new 3,000,000 Michelin 23 Years suppliers for passenger car tyres would 200,000 2,500,000 Osram GmbH 22 Years ensure growth momentum in tyre sales. Rane Brake Lining Ltd 22 Years 2,000,000 150,000 MRF 15 Years 1,500,000 100,000 1,000,000 Product Portfolio Key Impediments 50,000 500,000 Sale of non franchise vehicle spare parts, • Increase in substitute products accessories,components,tyres,power • Frequent taxation Revisions 0 0 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 tools,lamps and lighting fittings. Turnover Result Brand Portfolio Segment Turnover Segment Results Lead Capitals RS. '000 RS. '000 • Relationship Capital 2015/16 3,860,802 2015/16 258,682 • Human Capital 2014/15 3,350,735 2014/15 295,923 % Contribution to Monetised Capital Key Supply Chain Group Turnover Directly Employed Activities RS. '000 • Sourcing • Warehousing 2015/16 10% 2015/16 2,466,779 • Delivery 2014/15 12% 2014/15 1,759,877 • Aftercare • Customer engagement Carbon Foot Print (tco2e) Number of Employees Weighted Average Number 2015/16 2014/15 Customer Satisfaction of Customers Scope 1 678 677 Index Scope 2 128 306 2015/16 237 2015/16 86% 2015/16 4,469 Scope 3 126 327 2014/15 245 2014/15 91% 2014/15 3,404 Water 2015/16 4,368 Energy 2015/16 10,374 Consumption (m3) 2014/15 9,318 Consumption (GJ '000) 2014/15 5,889 58 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 A visible operation 36 The Capitals Report 54 Business Report 62 Impact Management Report 76 Risk Management Report Construction and Material Handling Equipment Komatsu, Bomag, Schwing Stetter and Manitou are some of the well known names in construction and mining equipment we partner, ensuring quality in performance and excellent value. DIMO also offers a range of after-market support services, company certified implements and original components. Key Principals and Relationship Outlook Segment Turnover and Segment Results Komatsu Ltd. 47 Years Potential for growth in this sector is Rs: ’000 Rs: ’000 Bomag GmbH 37 Years high, with development projects in 2,500,000 300,000 Sch'a'fer Systems infrastructure expected to recommence International Pte.Ltd. 14 Years and the anticipated growth in the 2,000,000 MHE-Demag (s) Pte. Ltd. 13 Years construction sector. 250,000 1,500,000 200,000 1,000,000 Product Portfolio Key Impediments Sale and service of earth moving • Import of cheap substitutes 150,000 500,000 machinery ,road construction machinery,fork lift,racking systems,pumps 0 100,000 and dock levellers. 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 Turnover Result Brand Portfolio Segment Turnover Segment Results Lead Capitals RS. '000 RS. '000 • Intellectual Capital 2015/16 1,558,886 2015/16 169,523 • Human Capital 2014/15 1,749,816 2014/15 201,221 % Contribution to Monetised Capital Key Supply Chain Group Turnover Directly Employed Activities RS. '000 • Aftercare • Customer engagement 2015/16 4% 2015/16 1,132,248 • Engineering 2014/15 6% 2014/15 1,067,082 • Solution mapping Carbon Foot Print (tco2e) Number of Employees Weighted Average Number 2015/16 2014/15 Customer Satisfaction of Customers Scope 1 273 262 Index Scope 2 113 92 2015/16 106 2015/16 90% 2015/16 883 Scope 3 18 10 2014/15 78 2014/15 88% 2014/15 661 Water 2015/16 9,399 Energy 2015/16 4,491 Consumption (m3) 2014/15 6,086 Consumption (GJ '000) 2014/15 4,229 59 Business Report Electro-mechanical, Bio-medical and Marine Engineering A wide ranging business segment, which includes building automation systems, fire detection, protection and suppression systems, CCTV and access control systems, public address systems, power systems for marine propulsion and rail traction, industrial refrigeration, fluid management and bio-medical equipment. Key Principals and Relationship Outlook Segment Turnover and Segment Results DEMAGA Terex Brand 57 Years Large scale infrastructure development Rs: ’000 Rs: ’000 KHD HumboldtWedag AG 56 Years projects, growth in the hotel and tourism 2,500,000 300,000 Siemens 56 Years sector and with expansion of health care KSB AG 54 Years industry in both the public and private 2,000,000 Johnson Controls (S)Pte.Ltd 39 Years sectors will provide an impetus for growth. 250,000 Carl Zeiss Meditec 31 Years Rolls Royce Power System AG 29 Years 15,00,000 200,000 1,000,000 Product Portfolio Key Impediments Sales and service of medical • High customer bargaining power 150,000 500,000 equipment,power generating sets,diesel • Increase in cost of equipment engines for marine propulsion,rail 0 100,000 traction,power generation and Building 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 Management Systems. Turnover Result Brand Portfolio Segment Turnover Segment Result Lead Capitals RS. '000 RS. '000 • Relationship Capital 2015/16 2,167,738 2015/16 277,605 • Human Capital 2014/15 1,770,626 2014/15 152,363 % Contribution to Monetised Capital Key Supply Chain Group Turnover Directly Employed Activities RS. '000 • Aftercare • Customer engagement 2015/16 6% 2015/16 1,644,984 • Solution mapping 2014/15 7% 2014/15 1,359,269 • Engineering Carbon Foot Print (tco2e) Number of Employees Weighted Average Number 2015/16 2014/15 Customer Satisfaction of Customers Scope 1 283 303 Index Scope 2 128 96 2015/16 144 2015/16 92% 2015/16 566 Scope 3 38 40 2014/15 160 2014/15 93% 2014/15 512 Water 2015/16 9,855 Energy 2015/16 4,735 Consumption (m3) 2014/15 7,771 Consumption (GJ '000) 2014/15 4,848 60 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 A visible operation 36 The Capitals Report 54 Business Report 62 Impact Management Report 76 Risk Management Report Supply Chain Activities’ Connectivity with Business Segments and Capitals Vehicle Sales Vehicle Aftercare Services Business Segment Marketing & Distribution Construction & Material Handling Equipment Electro-mechanical, Bio-Medical and Marine Engineering Supply Customer Solution Support Chain Sourcing Warehousing Engineering Delivering Aftercare Engagement Mapping Services Activity Monetised Capital Relationship Capital Capital Human Capital Intellectual Capital Value Creation Activity and Description Sourcing Evaluation of Requirements, identification of Suppliers and Ordering Legend Warehousing Unloading and Storing Criticality of Supply Chain Activity to Business Segment and Criticality Customer Engagement Marketing, Identification of Customer Needs, of Capital to the Supply Chain Prospecting and Selling Activity Solution Mapping Identification of a Solution for the Customer Needs in Sales Extremely Critical Engineering Planning, Designing and Execution of Engineering Work Moderately Critical Delivering Physical Delivery of Goods, Rendering Services and Solutions to the Customers Required may not be Critical Aftercare Addressing Customers Post Delivery requirements Moderately Required or Support Services Provision of Support Services for Supply Chain Not Required Activities 61 Impact Management 63 Economic Impact 65 Environmental Impact 72 Social Impact 75 Sustainability Performance Objectives A visible operation 36 The Capitals Report 54 Business Report 62 Impact Management Report 76 Risk Management Report Economic Impact DIMO builds economic value through its investments in the provision of technical education for apprentices, significantly Economic Impact to the enhancing their employability. Following their Country and training, candidates they may seek employment Society at DIMO or look at other opportunities. More details on our technical education programme Economic for youth and our other social investments are Impact discussed in the society section appearing from page 72 to 74. Economic impact to Every year, the Company makes a substantial Shareholders and contribution to state coffers. Duties and tariffs Stakeholders paid to the state during the year amounted to Rs. 10.2 billion (Rs.5.78 billion in 2014/15). The Group collected Rs. 1.74 million (Rs.2.02 billion in 2014/15) as value added taxes during the Economic Impact Dimensions same period, on behalf of the government. Enhancing Social and Shareholder • Rs.67 million (Rs. 62 million in 2014/15) on Our economic contribution is not limited to one Wealth account of social investment projects province or one particular area of country. The The economic impact of DIMO’s value creation • Rs.10.6million (Rs. 10.5 million in 2014/15) table titled 'Key Performance Measures' given activities are felt by two broad segments: on account of environmental preservation below profiles the geographical spread of our stakeholders including the shareholders and the • Rs.5.3 billion (Rs. 4.3 billion in 2014/15) on investments and the employment provided in country and the members of the society. The account of supplies sourced locally those areas. value we generate at DIMO contributes to the economic growth and well-being of the country Economic Impact to the Country and on the one hand and on the other, it generates Value of Rs. 1,000/Invested in Society DIMO in 2007 economic value for the shareholders and other DIMO contributes to economic growth in Rs. stakeholders who have placed their trust in the several ways: we contribute to government’s 15,000 Board. We consider it important to spread our revenue, make investments that support economic value across all regions of the country. economic growth, and provide direct and 12,000 This is an aspect of the Board’s stewardship role: indirect employment. as custodian of the Company’s assets and brand 9,000 value, it is responsible for creating sustainable At the end of March 2016, the Group was value for diverse groups of stakeholders. providing direct employment to 1573 and 6,000 indirect employment to 599 persons (739 in The ‘monetised value added statement’ 2014/15). We enhance our contribution to 3,000 appearing on page 64, provides details of the indirect employment generation further by monetised value created by the Company and making use of locally supplied goods and how this value has been apportioned among 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 services. However, quantifying this additional different stakeholders. ‘Monetised value contribution to indirect employment generation added’ has been computed after deducting the is not possible due to difficulties in obtaining The above graph illustrates the subsequent value following outgoings: reliable data. of Rs. 1,000/invested in DIMO shares in 2007. Key Performance Measures Description Colombo and Northern/Eastern Rest of the Total Gampaha Districts Province Country 2015/16 2014/15 2015/16 2014/15 2015/16 2014/15 2015/16 2014/15 Investments in buildings, plant & equipment Rs. million 71 293 1 74 8 7 80 374 Employment opportunities provided (new recruitments) 237 162 10 7 42 130 289 299 Employees as of 31st March 1,259 1,226 59 58 255 251 1573 1,535 63 Economic Impact Economic Impact for Shareholders Monetised value generated and distributed The following table shows how monetised value was created and distributed. The total monetised value generated increased by 49% when compared with the previous year. Computation of Monetised Value Added Description Group Company 2015/2016 2014/2015 2015/2016 2014/2015 % Rs. ’000 % Rs. ’000 % Rs. ’000 % Rs. ’000 Gross turnover 37,749,750 28,037,376 35,403,232 26,179,115 Other income 86,141 51,742 103,147 63,480 Less:Cost of material and services bought in (23,581,456) (18,542,213) (21,9508,30) (17,170,341) 14,254,435 9,546,905 13,555,549 9,072,254 Distribution of Value Added Employees 16 2,283,913 24.12 2,302,315 15 2,008,709 22.46 2,037,422 Government 72 10,221,575 60.63 5,788,586 74 9,988,987 62.37 5,657,917 Lenders 2 251,229 4.30 410,194 2 273,458 4.27 387,830 Community Investment -Donation 0 67,541 0.01 62,784 0 66,465 0.69 62,679 Shareholders 1 177,529 0.93 88,764 1 177,529 0.98 88,764 Retained in the business 9 1,252,648 10.37 894,262 8 1,040,401 9.23 837,642 Depreciation set aside 2 306,042 4.12 298,179 2 300,678 3.21 291,081 Profit retained 7 946,606 6.24 596,083 6 739,723 6.02 546,561 100 14,254,435 100 9,546,905 13,555,549 100 9,072,254 From the total value created of Rs. 14.2 billion Computation of Economic Value Added (Rs. 9.5 billion in 2014/15) in year under review, 72% (61% in 2014/15) was paid to the Description 2015/16 2014/15 government in the form of taxes and tariffs, Rs. '000 Rs. '000 16% was distributed to employees in the form Total Capital Supplied of remuneration and statutory payments, Equity 9,989,679 9,237,938 9% was retained in the business for further Long term Interest bearing Loans & Borrowings 1,301,990 1,597,110 investment and development, while only 1% 11,291,669 10,835,048 was distributed among shareholders. Earnings Profit after Tax 946,606 596,083 Shareholder value creation Add:Interest on Long-Term Borrowings 97,957 105,692 Economic value added (EVA) is a performance Adjusted Earnings 1,044,563 701,775 measure that attempts to measure economic Weighted Average Cost of Capital 6.76% 6.61% profit made by the Company. EVA refers to the Economic Charge 763,735 716,362 difference between the profit after tax and the Economic Value Added 280,828 -14,587 economic cost of capital. Average Risk Free Rate(Avg.Treasury Bill Rate) Central Bank 6.98% 6.48% DIMO generated economic value to the tune of Beta factor-DIMO CSE 0.46 0.83 Rs. 280 million during the financial year (Rs. 14 Risk Premium Assumed 2% 2% million in year 2014/15). All share price Index(ASPI) CSE 6,071.9 6,820.3 Average weighted prime lending Rate(AWPR) Central Bank 7.36% 7.17% Key objectives relating to the economic impact Rate of Income Tax Applicable Rate 28% 28% are listed in the sustainability objectives Cost of Equity(Based on CAPM) Computed 7.15% 7.03% appearing on page 75. Cost of debt(after tax) Computed 5.30% 5.16% 64 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 A visible operation 36 The Capitals Report 54 Business Report 62 Impact Management Report 76 Risk Management Report Environmental Impact Management Approach impacts of our operations by directing more of In engaging with the environment we seek to: Optimising our social and environmental our resources and energy towards this end. footprint 1. reduce the environmental impact of our At DIMO we carefully consider our current Land and water are the primary natural operations and anticipated impacts on the environment resources that DIMO uses to create value. Since 2. replenish, restore and rejuvenate the with the ambition of minimising our footprint. land has a monetary value, we have classified it environment and preserve it for future While being fully compliant with all relevant as a monetized capital. On the other hand, we generations environmental standards and regulations, we have not classified water as a capital, because have also strived to improve the environmental it is not materially comparable with the other forms of capital we use to create value. Key Performance Measures Key Performance Area Metric 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13 2011/12 Climate change Carbon footprint tCO2e per Rs. 1 million of Group 0.1917 0.2413 0.2773 0.2292 0.1674 net turnover Energy Total energy consumption (1,000 GJ) 68,294 60,745 52,333 60,547 78,184 Energy consumption (Giga Joules) per employee 44 40 34 42 58 (on average) Water Total water consumption (M3) 104,049 87,081 90,487 101,984 75,640 Water recycled Ground water recycled and reused as a percentage 18 31 24 21 15 of total water consumption (%) Waste Total hazardous waste sent for recycling/reusing 138,090 111,781 125,153 132,364 65,989 Kg Total hazardous waste sent for recycling/reusing 106,468 106,000 107,646 105,506 94,267 Litres DIMO’s Environmental Management System Our Environmental Management System (EMS) is the primary tool we use to minimize our environmental footprint and grow our ecological footprint. Our EMS Management has ISO 140001 (2004) accreditation. of Atmospheric Emissions and Climate DIMO’s EMS has six focus areas: Change 1. Managing atmospheric emissions and climate Energy Noise and Fuel change Management Management 2. Energy and fuel management 3. Water management 4. Waste management Environmental 5. Materials management Management 6. Noise management The EMS is supervised by the Company’s Sustainability Materials Water Management Management Committee and by our various divisional heads. In addition, we use our stakeholder engagement process, captured more fully on pages 31 to 32, to Waste identify threats and strategic points of intervention. Management Independent external verification supplements the Company’s internal data collection, analysis and physical inspection processes. Environmental Impact Dimensions 65 Environmental Impact Generating an Employee Commitment Sustainable value creation depends to a large extent on the passion and commitment of our employees. The ‘I Pledge’ programme seeks to secure an unconditional commitment from employees to conserve the environment as part of their work and in their activities outside of work. Emissions and Climate Change Our EMS aims to reduce the impact of our emissions on climate change. We ensure that we are within the stipulated statutory limits. We are committed to reducing Green House Gas Emissions (GHG) and to reducing our carbon footprint. We use the WBCDS/WRI Greenhouse Gas Protocol’s Corporate Standard (Revised Edition) to monitor levels of GHG emission. During the year under review the Group’s carbon foot print increased by 7% (12% in year We have also streamlined our waste disposal The Group’s activities do not result in ozone 2014/15) mainly due to an increase in Group system which gives us GHG emission savings. depleting emissions. The use of CFC-free gases turnover of 35%. On the other hand, when We have calculated this saving to be 57.5tco2e. in vehicles and air-conditioning plants have compared with the Group’s activity level, our built-in systems to capture and recycle gas GHG emissions decreased to 0.1917 tCO2e per Managing Atmospheric Emissions when the units are serviced. Rs. 1 million of Group net turnover, compared The monitoring of atmospheric emission levels to the value of 0.2413 tCO2e recorded in the is done every year by an independent third previous year. party approved by the Central Environmental Authority (CEA). Emission levels during the year Presently, our scope 3 calculation is limited to were within the limits set down by the CEA. air travel, third party fuel use for spare parts deliveries and emission due to A4 consumption. Paint work done in our paint booths utilises filtration systems that prevent the release of We have further refined and expanded our toxic fumes and particles into the atmosphere. Emissions Scope 3 category of reporting by DIMO has installed exhaust gas and dust taking all aspects of our supplier chain into extractors in the main workshops, which account. Thus, we have included the GHG effectively control emissions emanating from emission of 18 tco2e resulting from the use of engine testing, air filters and brake assemblies. A4 sheets for our business. Carbon Footprint Emission 2015/16 2014/15 % Change 2013/14 2012/13 Emission Intensity Ratio from (tCO2e per Rs. 1 million of Group Net Turnover) Emission Emission Previous Emission Emission 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13 tCO2e tCO2e Year tCO2e tCO2e Scope 1 4,423.15 4,243.10 4.24 4,371.63 4,204.83 0.1172 0.1512 0.1792 0.1518 Scope 2 2,444.27 2,080.90 17.46 1,411.60 1,763.00 0.0648 0.0741 0.0742 0.0636 Scope 3 (Limited) 356.14 446.70 (20.27) 273.11 281.86 0.0094 0.0159 0.0258 0.0181 Total 7,223.57 6,770.79 6.82 6,055.85 6,249.69 0.1917 0.2413 0.2762 0.2335 Note: Fuel consumption of vehicle used for deliveries to customers is shown under scope-1 66 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 A visible operation 36 The Capitals Report 54 Business Report 62 Impact Management Report 76 Risk Management Report A Case Study Carbon Footprint Curve of DIMO ratio. In doing so, we assumed a directly Log Linear Turnover vs Carbon Footprint proportionate linear relationship between tCO2 emission y = 3,468.67 log(x) 8,994.4 turnover and the resultant carbon foot print. 8000 C B In order to look at our carbon footprint 7000 A more aggressively and critically we are 6000 now looking at a scenario where we do 5000 not assume a linear relationship but a non4000 linear positive relationship between the two 3000 variables. Upon mapping of data relating to turnover and the total carbon foot print for 2000 the last five years we were able to construct 1000 the following curve of best fit, which corresponds to the equation y = 3,468.67 20,000 25,000 30,000 35,000 40,000 45,000 50,000 55,000 60,000 log(x) 8,994.4. Point A to B in the following Turnover (Rs. million) graph depicts the curve based on actual data for the last five years with point B to C depicting the extension of the curve when Performance relating our carbon foot print for the current year is compared with actual turnover in the future exceed current is currently measured as a ratio between its corresponding figure for the previous turnover. Therefore, our focus will be to limit tons of Carbon Dioxide Emissions (tCO2e) year to see whether there is an increase our future carbon foot print to a spot below per Rs.1.0 million of turnover. This ratio or a reduction in the carbon foot print the curve. Materials Management our electricity comes from the national grid The effective management of scarce resources is a key part of our EMS and we have adapted our while small amounts of electricity are generated internal processes towards this. Renewable materials are used wherever possible. through in-house generators. LP gas is used in the staff cafeteria. Materals Usage There was a 12 % increase in energy consumption Type of Materials Renewable or NonUnit of Quantity compared with the previous year. This was one Used renewable Measurement 2015/16 2014/15 of the consequences of the 35% increase in Paints NonRenewable Lt 6,094 5,444 turnover. Renovations and construction work at Kerosene NonRenewable Lt 34,852 36,899 our head office also resulted in an increase in Lubricants * NonRenewable Lt 190,237 179,065 energy consumption. Floor Carpets (Paper) Renewable Nos 60,500 30,000 Cotton Waste Renewable Kg 142,012 170,748 Lacquer NonRenewable Lt 514 418 Carbon Footprint Thinner NonRenewable Lt 16,438 16,867 Emission tCO2 Putty NonRenewable Kg 2,635 1,075 8,000 Filler NonRenewable Lt 697 745 7,000 A4 Renewable pkts 7,101 6,995 6,000 (Materials disposal is discussed under waste management in pages 69 and 70) 5,000 4,000 Material consumption increased, mainly as a result of a 10% increase in vehicle throughput in the workshops. 3,000 2,000 Energy Consumption 1,000 DIMO’s main sources of energy are electricity, diesel, petrol and liquefied petroleum gas. Most of 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 (Limited) Total 67 Environmental Impact Energy Consumption Description Units Consumption 2015/16 2014/15 % Change From 2013/14 2012/13 Ratio Between Energy Consumption Previous Year and No. of Employees Diesel for vehicles GJ 29,598 27,543 7.46 27,210 34,703 19.05 Diesel for generators GJ 906 622 45.66 306 654 0.58 Petrol for vehicles GJ 24,288 20,983 15.75 16,516 15,412 15.63 LP gas GJ 430 467 (7.92) 344 349 0.28 Electricity GJ 13,071 11,128 17.46 7,957 9,429 8.41 Total 68,293 60,743 12.45 52,333 60,547 43.94 Auditing Energy Usage ‘Green’ Buildings the new Mercedes Centre was our second External and internal energy audits are used to Buildings constructed by DIMO in the recent ‘green building’ which also carries the Gold identify areas where waste can be reduced and past have been “Green Buildings”: using more Certification from LEED. Our Green buildings efficiencies enhanced. We have accreditation natural light, reducing the consumption of nonoffer an energy saving that is 25% greater from the Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy Authority renewable energy and recycling waste. than regular buildings. Water efficiency, energy to conduct energy audits. consumption, atmosphere emissions, material Our first green building the Bosch Service usage and indoor environmental considerations Last year an energy audit was conducted at Centre, was completed in January 2012 and were some of the factors that were taken into the Siyambalape workshop and the resulting was certified ‘Gold’ by LEED. The 15,800 consideration in the design of these buildings. recommendations are being implemented. This square metres DIMO 800 building housing will result in a saving of 16.99 Mwh per year. Other measures the company has taken to reduce energy usage include the following: DIMO Green Building • The use of capacitor banks for power factor correction • Replacement of incandescent lighting with Gold CFL and LED technology Certified by LEED • Programming all computers to revert to standby mode within a five-minute idling period DIMO 800, MB Bosch Service centre • Setting air conditioning units at a constant Centre(est. in 2014) (est. in 2012) minimum of 24C0 or over • Inculcating a culture amongst the staff of ‘switching it off’ when not in use • 25 % energy saving • The use of natural light when new buildings • Grey water harvesting • Used of recycled material are planned Water Usage Our main source of water is the National Water Supply. Ground water sources are used at the Siyambalape workshop and the Weliweriya Logistics Centre. State-of-the-art water treatment and recycling plants are in operation at all the main workshops. Water Consumption Description Water Usage (M3) Reused Water (M3) Reused Percentage (%) 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 Municipal water 70,789 61,264 49,794 1,871 3% Ground water 33,151 25,692 40,581 5,878 7,910 9,692 18% 31% 24% Rain water harvesting 109 125 112 Total 104,049 87,081 90,487 7,749 7,910 9,692 7% 9% 11% 68 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 A visible operation 36 The Capitals Report 54 Business Report 62 Impact Management Report 76 Risk Management Report During the year, water consumption increased by 19% when compared to the previous Water Management 2014/15 Water Management 2015/16 financial year. This was due to an increase in the % % 11.92 23.86 11.67 38.96 number of vehicles that reached our workshops. 18% of the ground water consumed (31% in 2014/15) was recycled and reused. This amounts to 8% (9% in 2014/15) of the total water consumption. We will continue to increase the percentage of water recycled and reused. DIMO’s waste management processes prevent the discharge of untreated water into any public 88.08 76.14 88.33 61.04 area or sewage system. Waste water from all our Water used and discharged Water used and recycled Water used and discharged Water used and recycled workshops pass through oil separators and are Recycled Recycled and reused Recycled Recycled and reused monitored to ascertain their pH levels on daily basis, to ensure compliance with legal limits. Random samples of recycled water are collected Hazardous Waste Disposed by a CEA approved third party, to check if pH Value, Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD), Type of Waste Units Quantity Disposed Current Method of Disposal Biochemical Oxygen Demand, Total Suspended 2015/16 2014/15 solids, and Oil/Grease content, are below the Waste Oil* Litre 106,468 106,000 tolerance level designated by the CEA. All our Sludge Kg 105,183 93,073 samples were found to be well below stipulated Metal Scrap Kg 27,361 11,930 tolerance levels in the past year. Metal Dust Kg 3,590 Paint Cans No. 1,642 920 Hazardous Waste Management Filters No. 27,181 17,653 Handed over to authorized There were no hazardous chemical spillages Batteries No. 140 74 third party for recycling Tyres No. 523 129 reported during the year. Material Safety Data Saw Dust Kg 2,657 2,467 Sheets are available to be used in the event of a Polythene Kg 8,227 3,494 chemical spillage. Equipment such as oil suckers Plastic Kg 1,520 817 are available to deal with spillages of oil. Waste Cotton Waste Kg 31,617 39,385 is handed over to third parties for recycling. Employees are regularly trained on safe (Waste oil includes – engine oil from serviced vehicles) practices and the proper handling of material. Safety equipment is in place for use in the event of an accident. Hazardous Waste Disposal The quantity of waste disposed has increased, mainly as a result of a 10% increase in vehicle throughput at all the workshops. However, a reduction in cotton waste disposal was possible due to increased awareness amongst employees. Over the past year, the Company took several new measures to improve accuracy in the measurement of waste disposal at all the workshops. 69 Environmental Impact Case Study Managing Waste Waste is segregated at source into hazardous and non-hazardous waste according to our waste segregation and disposal guidelines. The hazardous waste items including sludge, oil contaminated cotton waste, plastic, polythene and cotton waste is sent for processing through a third party. This process eradicates waste and reduces overall greenhouse gas emissions otherwise released by incineration, decomposition or degradation in dumps or landfill. Through this process, in year 2015/16, we have DIMO's Waste Management Hierarchy disposed 138,090kg of hazardous waste A4 paper/Cotton waste/Waste avoiding 19,804.96 kgCO2e that would have Minimisation and reuse oil/Food waste been released to the environment if this process had not been followed. Cardboard, Polythene, Plastic/Oil Recycle filters/Metal scrap/Glass/Tyres Contaminated paper, Polythene, Incineration Cotton waste/Paint tins/Sludge Composting Garden waste Waste under Windscreen/Paint booth filters/Food review contaminated polythene Non-Hazardous Solid Waste We have contracted ‘Holcim Geo-Cycle’, a Central discouraging printing copies of e-mails, use Management Environmental Authority accredited third party, of recyclable paper bags at our sales outlets, DIMO operates a system of segregation for nonto provide waste management solutions for our maximising use of paper (both sides as opposed hazardous solid waste, separating it according to hazardous and non-hazardous waste. to one-side used and dumped) and recycling organic material, paper, polythene and plastic. printer cartridges. Colour coded bins are provided in dining areas DIMO is working towards a paperless office to segregate food from wrapping material, as environment. We seek to reduce paper usage waste food is given to a third party for use as and wastage at every opportunity. Some of animal feed. our initiatives include an e-mail rider campaign Non-Hazardous Solid Waste Disposed Description Measurement Period (Year) Method of Disposal 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13 Organic Kg 52,217 37,401 33,307 34,417 To third party as animal feed } Contaminated paper Kg 9,955 6,496 Cardboard boxes Kg 49,821 37,401 16,523 20,227 To third party for recycling Pallet racks Kg 196,601 34,048 33,875 63,854 70 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 A visible operation 36 The Capitals Report 54 Business Report 62 Impact Management Report 76 Risk Management Report \Noise Management Noise emissions from the Company’s facilities Case Study are controlled to ensure that those within the Turtle Conservation in Panama on Sri Lanka’s East Coast vicinity of these locations are not subjected to uncomfortable noise levels. Noise levels are measured by an independent third party approved by the CEA. The Company complies with legal requirements relating to noise emissions and takes steps to ensure that its noise emissions are below the legal requirements. Replenishing and Rejuvenating the Environment Replenishing, restoring and rejuvenating the environment to preserve it for future generations are more ways in which we grow DIMO has supported a turtle conservation project in Panama, on the East coast of Sri our ecological footprint. Lanka since 2012. The purpose of the project is to conserve marine turtles by restoring and rehabilitating their nesting habitats. The project site is located in Komari-Panama close to ‘Living with Elephants’ the town of Pottuvil. Around 14,000 young turtles have been released from their nesting DIMO sponsored the book ‘Living with Wild habitats into the sea in several phases of the project. Elephants ‘authored by Dr. Vijitha Perera, a well-known wildlife veterinarian. The book describes the extraordinary work of Dr. Vijitha Phase Period Number of Number of Hatchling Perera in rescuing, relocating and treating Eggs Laid Eggs Hatched Success Rate elephants, through stories described with Stage 01 6 months/ Started on great compassion and love of these wonderful 26.11.2012 5,680 4766 83.9% animals. DIMO also sponsored the launch of the Stage 02 8 months/ started on book, which was held at the DIMO 800 Centre. 02.12.2013 6,360 5,330 83.8% Stage 03 12 months/ started Poster Competition for School Children on 12.10.2014 13,317 8,630 64.8% DIMO supported the efforts of the Green Forest Association working in public schools across the country to promote environmental awareness amongst a new generation of Sri Lankans. Supported by informative posters which showcased the biodiversity of Sri Lanka with its rich endemic plants and wildlife, this project was undertaken as part of DIMO’s pledge to promote “Living in harmony within our environment”. These posters along with educational seminars will reach over 1,500 schools and another 500 will be distributed to participants at special environmental workshops. Free Saplings Over 250 saplings were distributed to customers who visited DIMO, to mark World Environment Day on 5th June 2015. 71 Social Impact Key Performance Measures Aspect Measure 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13 2011/12 Investing in community Community investments as percentage of 0.18 0.22 0.21 0.19 0.14 turnover (%) Development of youth No. of vocational training students given 24.72 24.82 16.78 10.50 14.24 training during the year as a percentage of full-time employees (%) Contribution to treasury Tax paid to government (Rs.million) 10,235 5,788 3,245 2,972 6,062 Social Impact Dimensions 1. Provision and Expectations facilitation of Ethical of the technical and Business Community Conduct vocational education to the Compliance with Regulatory youth Requirements Defining the 2. Developing Positive Compliant Scope for the social impact on Corporate Service to the and physical the society Citizen Community infrastructure of the community. Compliance with Statutory 3. Developing Requirements Economic the quality of Reality livelihood of local communities Management Approach in which we operate and with whom we have In this manner, we have prioritised the following Ethical, Responsible and Sustainable regular contact. We also strongly believe in areas of intervention: Business ethical business; a commitment to integrity Our value creation model requires that we that goes beyond our regulatory and legal • Technical and vocational education for maximize our positive impact on society. One obligations. young people of the ways in which we do this is by creating • Developing the social and physical more opportunities for society as a whole and Listening to Different Voices infrastructure of the community by helping people grow in many different ways. One of the first things we do is to listen. • Enhancing livelihood opportunities for local Last year DIMO spent Rs 67 million on activities Community voices guide us in our engagement communities that support the community. with society. DIMO conducts regular surveys with multiple stakeholder groups to help us Technical and Vocational Education for Our engagement with society has several understand their needs and aspirations. We Young People different facets. We are committed to being develop our community interventions based on Technical and vocational training and education responsible to society, which means that we the analysis of these surveys. drives economic growth and provides must ideally seek ‘to do no harm to society’, opportunities across all social groups. The and where that is not possible, to minimize our following are some of our key interventions in social harm. We also believe that we must act this area: responsibly with regard to the communities 72 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 A visible operation 36 The Capitals Report 54 Business Report 62 Impact Management Report 76 Risk Management Report • The Open University of Sri Lanka One of the first things we do is to listen. Community voices • CETRAC (Construction Equipment Training guide us in our engagement with society. DIMO conducts regular Centre) surveys with multiple stakeholder groups to help us understand • Asian Aviation Centre (Pvt) Ltd their needs and aspirations. We develop our community Developing a Formula racing car for interventions based on the analysis of these surveys. competition in the United Kingdom DIMO lends its assistance to engineering students of the Mechanical Engineering Department of the University of Moratuwa, to participate at the world’s biggest student DIMO Automobile Training School (DATS) With a view to promoting automobile motorsport competition “Formula Student DATS has been our flagship intervention in engineering among women, two ‘all-girl’ batches 2016” to be held at the Silverstone Circuit in this area. Launched over 25 years ago in were trained recently. We hope to reduce the the United Kingdom. Team SHARK from the Siyambalape, Biyagama the school became the gender gap in automobile engineering through University of Moratuwa –– will be the firstfirst of its kind in the private sector to offer such targeted programmes. During the year ever Sri Lankan team to participate in this an automotive technology education in the DIMO spent Rs. 31 million on DATS, compared competition. DIMO has provided approximately Northern Province. Today, a full-time expatriate to Rs. 32 million spent in the previous year. Rs 10 million to build the car and support their professional with experience in vocational Currently, we have 37 trainees in training, while participation at the competition, which will be and technical training leads the school. Our over 530 students have graduated from DATS, held in July 2016. second DATS opened in Jaffna in 2010 to since inception. help the region’s recovery after the war. Each Career and Trade Fairs year, both schools take in 16 students, after a Technical Training for Youth DIMO’s HR department participated in several competitive examination. They follow a twoDIMO provides apprenticeships to students from career guidance programmes in universities and year comprehensive diploma course that covers professional bodies, universities and technical technical institutes, offering career guidance to all aspects of the automobile engineering. institutes. The apprenticeship training is a broad range of young people and presenting Training is provided free of charge. Students provided to students in engineering, automobile DIMO as an ‘Employer of First Choice’. also receive an allowance, subsidised meals and repairs, accounting, human resources and uniforms. They are under no obligation to work administration. Investing in Social and Physical for the Company after their training. Students Infrastructure who are interested in pursuing a career at DIMO 389 apprentices were enrolled during the year ‘DIMO Na Sevena’ Technical Education are recruited depending on vacancies within the under review, compared to 237 in 2014/15. Centre (DTI) Company. Training periods ranged from 3 months to 1 DIMO’s ‘Na Sevena’ project demonstrates the year while NAITA apprentices were trained for Company’s commitment to enhancing safety longer periods. levels on Sri Lankan roads. The school provides training on ‘safe driving’ to holders of a valid Number of Apprenticeship Our apprentices come from the following driver’s license. The Centre is located on a Enrolments institutions: nine-acre plot in Sooriyawewa, Hambantota Nos: and employs state of the art classrooms and 389 • NAITA (National Apprentice & Industrial 400 practical training methodologies to train drivers Training Authority) and enhance road safety levels in Sri Lanka. The 320 320 • Ceylon German Technical Training Institute Company subsidizes the cost of the training 258 and last year spent Rs. 23 million in operational • University of Moratuwa 240 costs for this school. 190 • University of Peradeniya 159 160 • University of Sri Jayewardenepura Enhancing Livelihood Opportunities • University of Kelaniya The following are some of our important 80 livelihood interventions: • Vocational Training Authority of Sri Lanka • Automobile Engineering Training Institute 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 • Ministry of Vocational & Technical Training 73 Social Impact Donation of Spectacles and School Books demands complete compliance with the laws, The Company is a member of the following Based on one of the findings of the stakeholder regulations, internal policies and other contents trade associations. survey, we organised an eye clinic for the benefit of the code. All our employees and suppliers • American Chamber of Commerce of residents who live close to our commercial are required to strictly adhere to environmental vehicle workshop in Siyambalape. 100 persons regulations and product labelling and safety • The Automobile Association of Ceylon participated in the eye clinic and 80 pairs of regulations. • Ceylon Chamber of Commerce spectacles were donated, free of charge. The • National Chamber of Commerce commercial vehicles workshop at Siyambalape The Group's contribution to the Government as • Chamber of Construction Industry organised a distribution of schoolbooks last taxes for the financial year 2015/16 amounted to Rs. 10.2 billion (Rs. 5.78 billion in 2014/15) • Sri Lanka Australia and New Zealand year and this has now become a regular feature Business Council in the DIMO calendar. The Company spent Rs 1.1 million to provide books to almost 250 school Ethical Business Conduct • Sri Lanka France Business Council children. DIMO’s Code of Business Ethics covers the • Sri Lanka German Business Council following areas. • Sri Lanka Italy Business Council Other community interventions included: Non-Discrimination • Ceylon Motor Traders Association Sponsorship for the ‘Commerce Day’ of the Sri • Fair and safe working conditions Lanka College of Technology in Maradana. • Chamber of Young Lankan Entrepreneurs • Environmental protection • International Integrated Reporting The DIMO Anuradhapura Branch together with • Confidential information Committee (IIRC) HNB Padaviya Branch conducted a seminar • Conflict of interest and gifts • The European Chamber of Commerce of for students for the Grade 5 Scholarship • Corporate opportunities Sri Lanka Examination. • Accurate books and records • Japan Sri Lanka Technical and Cultural In Kalundewa and Wewala Wewa, in Mathale • Personal use of company equipment Association district, an eye clinic was organized for the • Compliance with all applicable laws community. • Competitive information Books and steel cupboards were donated to • Insider trading Mahasen School Kalundewa, electrical items • Outside interests and furniture were donated to Wewala Wewa • Political contributions Sri Sambodhi Viharaya, and sports equipment and study aids to Nikaweratiya Nelumgala All employees are required to comply with the Junior School at their annual prize giving are a Code of Business Ethics. few other small scale community interventions The Company is a signatory to the United Nations A TATA Single Cab was given to the winner of Global Compact since 2012. The principles laid the lantern competition which was held at the down by global compact include respect for Buddha Rashmi Vesak Zone, Colombo 2 and human rights, the right to freedom of association, a DIMO Batta /TATA Ace vehicle was donated elimination of all forms of forced, child labour and to the Gangaramaya temple to be used for a compulsory labour, elimination of discrimination charitable purpose. at the workplace, environment sustainability and zero tolerance of corruption. Complying with Statutory and Regulatory Requirements Engagement with External Associations The Company periodically trains its employees In order to promote and lobby for best industry to ensure that they are in touch with changes practices the Company continues its membership to the legislative and regulatory framework. in several external associations. This helps us to We have dedicated training programmes to advocate for policies that are fair and beneficial keep employees informed of changes to tariffs to our business, to the society and the country. and taxation schemes, new local government Such initiatives also promote the sharing of best regulations and environmental laws. practices with other institutions. Our membership enables us to make representations on ethical We have a policy of strict adherence to all business conduct, fair trade, social welfare and regulatory requirements. The Code of Ethics social equity. 74 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 A visible operation 36 The Capitals Report 54 Business Report 62 Impact Management Report 76 Risk Management Report Sustainability Performance Objectives in 2015/16 Aspect Term Objective Achievement Remarks 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 Monetised Long/ ROE to be more than Annual AWDR+3% Achieved Not Not The AWDR+3% as at year end was 9.1% The Capital Short Achieved Achieved ROE for the period was 9.46% Customer Long To ensure continuity of a customerAchieved Achieved Achieved A quality management system accredited with centric Quality Management system with ISO 9001:2008 is in place suitable accreditation Short Number of training hours for sales Not Achieved Not Training hours per sales personal decreased personnel to increase by 10% from Achieved Achieved by 14 % from the last year. The increase in the previous year previous year was 88% Short To achieve a Weighted Average Customer Achieved Achieved Achieved The Weighted Average Customer Satisfaction Satisfaction Index score of more than 85% Index score was 88% (90% in 2014/15) Short Each branch to have a customer Achieved Achieved Achieved Each branch achieved the required number of interaction event each quarter customer events Employee Short To achieve an employee satisfaction index Achieved Achieved Not For the year 2015/16, employee satisfaction score of more than 60% Achieved index score was 62.03% (62.38% in 2014/15) Short Average training hours per employee per Achieved Achieved Achieved Average training hours per employee was 16.99 year to be more than 10 hours hours in 2015/16. (15.65 hours in 2015/14) Long To maintain a ratio of female to male Achieved Achieved Not The ratio is 20% in 2015/16 which was the employees (excluding workshops and field Achieved same for the previous year too sales) of more than 15% Business Short To carry out a performance evaluation of Partially Partially Partially Annual performance evaluation of 80% were Partners ten foreign Principals at least once a year Achieved Achieved Achieved carried out during the year Short To obtain declarations from at least 50% Achieved Achieved Achieved The supplier declarations were obtained from of the current local suppliers, that they 60% of the current suppliers will abide by the DIMO supplier code Society Short Invest at least .05% of turnover on Achieved Achieved Achieved In 2015/16 DIMO invested 0.18% of turnover community development activities on community development activities. This was 0.22% in 2014/15 Long/ The number of non-employees who are Achieved Achieved Achieved The required percentage was achieved due to Short afforded training to be more than 5% of many training opportunities afforded by the the number of employees Group Short 100% compliance with Laws and Achieved Achieved Achieved The Company’s Code of Business Ethics Government regulations require compliance with laws and regulation at all times. There were no non-compliances reported during the year Environment Long To re-cycle and re-use at least 20% of the Achieved Achieved Achieved 23% of ground water used was recycled and ground water used reused during the year. The corresponding figure for 2014/15 was 31% Short Waste segregated and handed over to Achieved Achieved Achieved In 2015/16 the Company renewed the waste selected third parties for recycling/reuse collection agreements with 3rd parties who to be more than 90% of total solid waste were approved by the Central Environmental Authority. These parties were capable of providing a total solution for waste management. Waste handed over to third parties exceeded the required percentage Short Carbon Foot Print for every Rs. 1.0 million Achieved Achieved Not Carbon footprint for every Rs.1 million of of turnover to reduce by 5%. Achieved turnover in 2015/16 was 0.1917 tC02e. The corresponding figure for 2014/15 was 0.2413 tCO2e Economic Long/ Value Added to increase every year at a Achieved Achieved Not The Value added increased by 50.5% in 2015/16 Short rate more than the rate of inflation +5%. Achieved (56% in 2014/15). This is well above rate of inflation +5% which is 6.1% 75 Risk Management The Board is responsible for ensuring effective risk management. The Board’s mandate is converted into action in the manner described in the risk management framework. The task of reviewing the effectiveness of risk management rests with the Audit Committee. The risk management process includes all the aspects from deciding risk appetite at the Board level to measurements and feedback at the operational level. Managing risks is a key aspect in Board’s stewardship role. As indicated in our value creation model on pages 28 to 29, risk management is a component of the performance dimension of enterprise governance. DIMO’s approach to risk management is described in the risk management framework Material Stakeholder Issues presented below. Risk Identification Risk Management Framework Process Structure Comfort & Assurance Internal Risk Identification Board of Risk Appetite Directors Upon ascertaining the risks that needs to be managed in the back drop of the risk appetite Oversight Audit outlined by the Board, the GMC will evaluate the Review Committee Independent Audit options available to mitigate and manage risks. Internal Control Internal Audit Continuous monitoring of these activities has Identify, Group been integrated to the operations of the group Evaluate, Treat Management where Heads of business units, with inputs from and Monitor Committee the employees, provide useful information and feed-back to the GMC. Measurement Heads of Feedback Business Internal control, internal audit and independent Units assurance provide comfort and assurance on Feedback risk management. Whilst the internal controls Employees focus on operations, assurance provided by internal audit and independent assurance focusses on any gaps from identification to management of risks. The Board is responsible for ensuring effective The Group Management Committee (GMC) is risk management. The Board’s mandate is tasked with implementing the risk management converted into action in the manner described processes. The GMC examines situations, in the risk management framework. The task of processes and possible events that exposes reviewing the effectiveness of risk management the Group to situations that could seriously rests with the Audit Committee. The risk reduce earnings, threaten its sustenance, management process includes all the aspects impair its liquidity or create legal, regulatory from deciding risk appetite at the Board level to or reputational risks. Whilst the GMC identifies measurements and feedback at the operational such risks internally, stakeholder engagement level. provides an opportunity to ascertain any risks based on stakeholder feed-back. 76 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 A visible operation 36 The Capitals Report 54 Business Report 62 Impact Management Report 76 Risk Management Report Risk Evaluation and Mapping Risk evaluation involves assessing the likelihood of occurrence and the potential impact should they occur. Likelihood of occurrence is assessed on the basis of past experience and the preventive measures in place. A ranking of almost certain, likely, moderate and rare in terms of the probability of occurrence is assigned to each risk. The impact of the event is assessed by determining the loss it would cause and the extent of the impact. By considering these two factors the impact is then categorised as minor, moderate major and catastrophic. A risk map is developed based on the results of the risk assessment. The position of a particular risk on the risk map shows whether the risk is under the DIMO risk appetite or beyond our risk appetite. Accordingly, the extent to which risk mitigation actions are required is determined. Risks and their corresponding mitigating action plans are reviewed by the GMC. Risk Assesment Matrix Risk Appetite Catastrophic Major Impact Moderate Minor Rare Moderate Likely Almost Certain Probability Extensive Monitoring and Considerable Monitoring and Moderate Monitoring and Management Required Management Required Management Required 77 Risk Management Risk Mitigation The table given below shows the risks identified with the risk mitigation actions and the change in risk profile : Category/ Risk Statement Risk Mitigation Change in Risk Profile Segment affected 15/16 14/15 13/14 12/13 11/12 01 Monetised Capital Increase in interest • Ensuring a proper mix of short and long term rates impacting on the borrowings Group’s cost of funding • Maintain an appropriate combination of fixed and floating rate borrowings 02 Monetised Capital Unavailability of • The finance and treasury functions ensure sufficient funds that banking facilities are in place to cover its impacting smooth forecasted cash needs for at least a period of functioning of the daytwelve months to-day operations of the • The Group maintains a desired mixture of Cash and Group Cash equivalents 03 Monetised Capital Damages resulting from • Preventive measures of safety are taken to natural disasters such minimise damage to people and property in the as fire and floods case of fire or floods • The Group has a disaster recovery plan in place • Indemnity from insurance policies 04 Customers Loss of customers • Availability of a Quality Management System. and resulting impact • Dedicated unit for Customer Relationship on business due to Management dissatisfied customers • Continuous training of employees on customer care and aftercare • Inclusion of customer care and customer satisfaction index in employees’ and business unit objectives • A detailed narrative on delivering value to customers is available from pages 41 to 44 05 Employees Adverse impacts arising • Due importance is given to the talent management from failure to recruit/ function of the Group retain skilled employees • Top management involvement in talent management led by the Human Resources (HR) Department • Adoption of Best Practices in Human Resources Management • Conducting employee satisfaction surveys • Investment in training and development • Policy of competitive remuneration • More employee-related information is available from pages 47 to 51 06 Employees Losses from low • An ‘Open door policy’ is in place to discuss productivity and low grievances with superiors employee engagement • An employee council meets every month to provide as a result of industrial for employee representation disputes • HR clinics are held at business locations where representatives from HR Department visit locations to listen to employee grievances 78 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 A visible operation 36 The Capitals Report 54 Business Report 62 Impact Management Report 76 Risk Management Report Category/ Risk Statement Risk Mitigation Change in Risk Profile Segment affected 15/16 14/15 13/14 12/13 11/12 07 Business Partners Performance being • The Group has focused on developing a mutually adversely impacted as beneficial relationship with principals in an effort a result of disruptions to minimise the risk to relationships with • Independent survey on expectations of principals principals • Emphasis on meeting expectations of principals • Periodic evaluation of principals’ satisfaction levels • A detailed account of our relationships with principals is given from pages 45 to 46 08 Intellectual Capital Loss of confidential • Extensive controls and reviews to maintain security data through security of IT infrastructure and data breaches in the IT • Regular back up of data and off-site storage of systems data backup system • Disaster recovery plan 09 Society Potential exposure of • The Code of Business Ethics of the Group the Group to financial requires that all employees comply with laws and losses and litigation due regulations to non-compliance with • A written undertaking is obtained from every laws or unacceptable employee, that the Code of Business Ethics will corporate behaviour by be followed by him/her. The Code requires that all employees employees comply with all laws applicable to the Group and the other requirements of the code • Internal and independent assurance provides comfort on compliance with laws and regulations 10 Society Loss of social licence to • Engagement in various community related operate activities, including community development Damage to the • Philanthropy reputation and loss of • Developing the social and physical infrastructure stakeholders’ interest of the community as a result of social • Upholding of the principles of the Global Compact rejection relating to social development Loss of reputation • More details on interactions with the community arising from corporate are available on pages 72 to 74 behaviour against the interests of the society 11 All stakeholders Loss of confidence/ • Environmental Sustainability is a part of the business opportunities/ decision making process in day to day operations depletion of the Group and strategy formulation image due to the Group • Existence of a Sustainability Committee to manage not being perceived as a environmental sustainability related issues responsible citizen • The Group’s Environmental Management System is accredited with ISO 14001:2004 • The Group follows GRI Guidelines on sustainability reporting. The GRI index is available at www. dimolanka.com/sustainability/sustainabilityperformance 79 Risk Management Category/ Risk Statement Risk Mitigation Change in Risk Profile Segment affected 15/16 14/15 13/14 12/13 11/12 12 Vehicle Sales The vulnerability of • Reduce the dependency on vehicle segment, Segment the vehicles market to by gradually strengthening the other business negative changes in segments such as Marketing & Distribution, interest rates and fiscal Construction and Material Handling Equipment policy would adversely and Electro Mechanical, Bio Medical Engineering impact on Group’s and Marine Solutions performance 13 Medical and This business segment • Diversifying into different markets and product / Power Engineering caters to a limited services Businesses customer base, and • Strengthening the service levels and product therefore the bargaining offering in this sector power of customers is • Enhance value addition by DIMO through wider high. This may impact participation in the supply chain profit margins 14 Construction & Intense competition • Enhancing the customer awareness on product’s Material Handling from cheaper substitute high quality and durability and after sales services Equipment products • Offer a “Value for money” proposition Businesses 15 All Business Failure to secure • Maintaining a sound working capital management Segments delivery of products on strategy time • Relationship management with principals 16 All Business Technological • The Group makes regular investments in new Segments obsolescence will lead technology to provide after sales services and in IT to the inability to infrastructure compete in the market • Staff are constantly exposed to new technology and trained to handle them • The Group is backed by world renowned brands, some of whom are technology leaders. Therefore, technology is leveraged to compete with others 17 All Segments Possibility of • Strict adherence to Group Credit Policy that incurring losses on includes evaluation of a customer prior to granting receivables due to credit and credit administration. adverse economic • Periodic review of receivables by the Group conditions/poor credit Management Committee management 18 All Segments Negative changes in • Hedging through forward foreign exchange exchange rates causing contracts, where desirable potential losses on • Hedging through foreign currency bank account assets & liabilities balances and trade receivables and transactions denominated in foreign currency 19 All Segments Losses resulting from • Leverage information technology to manage slow moving inventory inventory and ordering items becoming obsolete 80 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 A very clear picture This is where we present a very clear picture of how DIMO implements responsible and transparent governance across the company at every level. The conformance aspects of Enterprise Governance are presented in detail in the pages that follow, together with the relevant confirmative statements and reports. 82 Senior Independent Director’s Statement 83 Conformance Report 91 Committee Reports 95 Responsibility Statement of Chairman/ Managing Director, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer Senior Independent Director’s Statement The ‘Code of Best Practice on Corporate As the SID, which role I have played since May Governance 2013’ (The Code) issued jointly by 2009, I am consulted by the Chairman on major the Securities and Exchange Commission and strategic and governance issues. As the SID, I The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri make myself available to any Director to have Lanka recommends that a Senior Independent any confidential discussion on the affairs of Director (SID) be appointed in the event of the Company, should the need arise. By virtue the Chairman of the Board being an Executive of being the Chairman of the Audit Committee, Chairman. I also meet Independent Auditors and Internal Auditors and obtain their views on any matters The presence of a SID provides a workable of concern. mechanism to review the role played by the Chairman. Whilst the role of the Chairman entails providing leadership in observing best practices of corporate governance, my role as the SID calls for a review of the Board’s effectiveness. The presence of the SID also provides emphasis to transparency in matters relating to governance. DIMO is committed to principles of good R.Seevaratnam governance and always strives to live by the Senior Independent Director Best Practices of Corporate Governance. The conformance culture of the Company is strongly Colombo embraced by the Board of Directors. The 24th May 2016 Company follows a policy of strict compliance with mandatory conformance while embracing voluntary adherence to enhance the credibility and stakeholder acceptance and making a positive impact on value creation. A Director is permitted to obtain independent professional advice that may be required in discharging his responsibilities, at the Company’s expense. 82 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 A very clear picture 82 Senior Independent Director’s Statement 83 Conformance 91 Committee Reports 95 Responsibility Statement of Chairman/ Managing Director, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer Conformance Introduction The conformance aspect of Enterprise DIMO regards effective conformance as an uncompromising Governance advocates compliant, responsible pursuit that provides the platform to create value in a responsible and transparent corporate behaviour and requires a two pronged approach: mandatory manner, not as a set of rules that stifles growth. Conformance compliance and voluntary adherence. strengthens and enhances the transparency of the value creation process, providing a solid foundation for the successful exercise of Positive Impact on Value Creation the performance dimension of Enterprise Governance DIMO regards effective conformance as an uncompromising pursuit that provides the platform to create value in a responsible manner, not as a set of rules that stifles growth. Aligning conformance requirements with value and monitor effectiveness. The conformance Conformance strengthens and enhances the creation activities and making a conscious framework includes all aspects of compliance transparency of the value creation process, effort to continually improve conformance and adherence incorporating statutes, providing a solid foundation for the successful related processes facilitate the continuity of regulations, codes and management and exercise of the performance dimension of conformance practices across the business. control systems within a structure that includes Enterprise Governance. the Board and Management Committees. The A Framework to Translate Commitment framework also has an assurance process that Conformance Culture into Practice ensures independent assurance and internal Conformance requires a high level of The Board of Directors bears overall responsibility audit. commitment across the organization. An for conformance, which is the basis for enabling conformance culture is created by ensuring transparency and accountability to all Board of Directors generating awareness at all levels. All employees stakeholders. In order to facilitate the fulfilment The Board bears overall responsibility for are required to respect conformance in achieving of these responsibilities, the Board has created a enterprise governance and consequently, for their own objectives and those of the Company. conformance framework to execute its policies conformance. For the Board to fully discharge Conformance Framework Compliance and Structure Assurance Adherence Mandatory Compliance Assurance on financial • Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 Shareholders statements • Sri Lanka Accounting and • Independent Audit Auditing Standard Act No. 15 of 1995 Assurance on non-monetised • Other legislative information enhancements affecting the • Independent review and Company Board of assurance report • Listing Rules of Colombo Stock Directors Exchange Internal Audit • Articles of Association • Review of systems, controls, • SEC regulations processes and operations Voluntary Adherence Independent Certifications • Code of best practices jointly • QMS audit and certification issued by SEC and CA Sri Lanka • EMS audit and certification • UNGC ten principles • Code of business ethics of Remuneration Nomination Audit RPT Review DIMO Committee Committee Committee Committee • GRI guideline for sustainability reporting • Quality management system • Environmental management system Group • Internal control system Sustainability Management Committee Committee 83 Conformance Report senior management team. The Sustainability Voluntary adherence strengthens the conformance aspect of Committee, which is a management committee consisting of members of the management Enterprise Governance. It allows the Company to venture beyond team including Executive Directors, holds the mandatory compliance, which the Company considers the primary responsibility to oversee the Group’s “base” for conformance. Voluntary adherence allows DIMO to activities with regard to the identification expand conformance practices to different areas of the business, and management of economic, social and promoting responsible corporate behaviour, strengthening environmental impacts and the achievement of sustainability objectives. operations, addressing the expectations of various stakeholder groups and eventually supporting sustained performance. The composition of the Group Management Committee is available on pages 24 and 25. Compliance its obligations of stewardship, it must be able these committees, with the exception of the The Compliance and Adherence aspect of the to govern itself. Therefore, the Board itself is Nomination Committee, are mandated by the conformance framework provides the basis for subject to certain regulations of conformance Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange conformance and identifies the rules that are to related to its composition and conduct. In and consist of members of the Board. Members be followed by the Board, Board Committees, addition, the Board is also responsible for of all these committees are Non-Executive Management Committees and employees. As conformance across the organisation and its Directors except for the Nomination Committee, identified in the conformance framework, the value creation process. Board Committees serve where the Chairman of the Board serves as a Compliance and Adherence aspects include as effective oversight mechanisms that assist member. The first three committees mentioned statutes and regulations classified into the Board in monitoring the effectiveness of above are also recommended by the Code of the “mandatory compliance” category and conformance and risk management, while the Best Practice on Corporate Governance jointly codes, best practices and management and Management Committees oversee execution issued by CA Sri Lanka and the Securities and control systems classified into the “voluntary and performance. Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka. Each adherence” category. committee has its own terms of reference. Rule No. 7.10.3 of the listing rules of the The constituents of the Compliance and Colombo Stock Exchange requires an The composition of the Board Committees is Adherence aspects are used as points of explanation be provided in the event that a detailed on page 90. reference as indicated in the table presented on Director is considered an Independent Director pages 85 and 86 and explained on pages 86 and after serving the Board continuously for a The reports of the Audit Committee, Remuneration 87 under “Compliance and Adherence”. period more than nine years. Mr. R Seevaratnam Committee, Nomination Committee and Related and Dr. H Cabral whose tenures as Directors Party Transaction Review Committee are available Mandatory Compliance exceeded nine years during the financial year, on pages 91 to 94. The Companies Act No.7 of 2007 and the Sri continue to be considered as Independent Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards Directors. The required explanation is given on Statements of Responsibility Act No. 15 of 1995 are two key legislative pages 98 and 99 in the Report of the Board of The Statement of Directors’ Responsibility enactments among many others, with which Directors. for Financial Statements as required by the Company is compliant. The Company is also the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 and the compliant with the regulations issued by the The Board of Directors’ statement on internal Responsibility Statement of the Chairman, Chief Securities and Exchange Commission and the controls, as required by section D.1.3 of the Code Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange. of Best Practice jointly issued by The Institute required by circular number 09 of 2008 issued of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka and by Securities and Exchange Commission, are Voluntary Adherence Securities Exchange Commission, appears on available on pages 103 and 95. Voluntary adherence strengthens the page 102. The Report of the Board of Directors conformance aspect of Enterprise Governance. is available from pages 98 to 100. Management Committees It allows the Company to venture beyond The Group Management Committee (GMC) mandatory compliance, which the Company Board Committees is a management committee appointed by considers the “base” for conformance. Voluntary Board Committees consist of the Audit the Board, entrusted with the execution of adherence allows DIMO to expand conformance Committee, Remuneration Committee, the performance and conformance aspects practices to different areas of the business, Nomination Committee and the Related of Enterprise Governance. The GMC consists promoting responsible corporate behaviour, Party Transaction Review Committee. All of Executive Directors and members of the strengthening operations, addressing the 84 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 A very clear picture 82 Senior Independent Director’s Statement 83 Conformance 91 Committee Reports 95 Responsibility Statement of Chairman/ Managing Director, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer expectations of various stakeholder groups and impacts made by the Company. The GRI index purpose by the Audit Committee. Assurance/ eventually supporting sustained performance. available from pages 166 to 169 provides more Certification on the quality management details on this and helps improve transparency. system, the environmental management system Voluntary adherence to the Code of Best and on the nonfinancial information presented Practices jointly issued by the Securities and The quality management system and in this report is obtained from an independent Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka and CA Sri environmental management system accredited licensed assurance provider. Lanka enriches the practice of conformance by ISO 9001:2008 and ISO 14001:2004 within the Company. The manner in which the respectively and the internal control system, Point of Reference Company has adhered to the Code is given in regulate the conformance aspect across DIMO’s The main purpose of all the conformance Appendix ii, which also contains conformance operations. activities is to ensure that conformance as related information and forms part of this envisioned by the Board is practiced and the section. Assurance desired results achieved. The following table Assurance on non-monetised information provides the links among the different aspects The Company is also a signatory to the UN and Financial Statements, Internal Audit and of the business such as the capitals and impacts Global Compact which deals with concerns Independent Certifications are key sources and the strategic outcome expected from each of human rights, labour, the environment and of assurance and comfort with regard to aspect, linking each to the key conformance anti-corruption. the integrity and the due functioning of the aspects that facilitate the achievement of conformance framework. These sources of the strategic outcome. It also shows the key DIMO’s Code of Business Ethics promotes assurance and comfort are depicted in the conformance aspects and their corresponding responsible corporate behaviour and is a conformance framework appearing on page 83. points of reference. The points of reference voluntary initiative of the Company which all refer to the mechanism in place to regulate or employees have signed and agreed to follow. Independent assurance on Financial Statements achieve the respective aspect of conformance. More information on the code is available on is provided by an independent auditor. The In order to ascertain the status or effectiveness page 74 in the section on Impact Management. independent assurance obtained as at the of the point of reference, please read the table year-end is supplemented by an interim audit titled “Level of compliance and adherence” that The “In accordance comprehensive” option of carried out during the year. The internal audit follows the table given below. the GRI (G4) guidelines followed in sustainability function is headed by the Group Chief Internal reporting promotes transparency with regard Auditor and field work is delegated to a firm to the economic, societal and environmental of chartered accountants identified for the Conformance Aspects and Point of Reference Capital / Activity Expected Outcome Key Conformance Aspect Point of Reference Monetised Capital Improved ROCE Internal control Audit Committee Internal audit Audit Committee Uncertainty management Risk Management Framework Assurance Audit Committee Independent auditors Customers Increased stakeholder Ethical marketing Quality Management System satisfaction Customer health & safety Quality Management System Customer privacy Quality Management System Employees Increased stakeholder Employee safety Quality Management System satisfaction UN Global Compact Principles Employee rights Code of Business Ethics Equal opportunities UN Global Compact Principles Reducing gender inequality Sustainability objectives Comply with legislation and regulations Code of Business Ethics relating to employees Business Partners Increased stakeholder Compliance with principals’ requirements of Quality Management System satisfaction ethical practices Honour agreements with principals Quality Management System 85 Conformance Report Capital / Activity Expected Outcome Key Conformance Aspect Point of Reference Intellectual capital Enhanced brand Data security and integrity Quality Management System reputation Meet the requirements of the legislative Code of Business Ethics enactments applicable to the Group Enhance and preserve the reputation of the Code of Best Practice on Corporate company by following best practices relating Governance jointly issued by SEC and ICASL to good governance and sustainability CSE Listing Rules Articles of Association GRI G4 Guidelines Society Responsible corporate Anti-corruption Code of Business Ethics citizen Responsible corporate behaviour UN Global Compact Principles Economy Responsible corporate Ensure that all taxes are paid correctly and Legislative enactments appropriate to the citizen on time Group Environment Responsible corporate Comply with all requirements of the Environmental Management System citizen Environment Management System Meet legal and regulatory requirements Environmental Management System regarding the environment UN Global Compact Principles Code of Business Ethics Value creation activities Create value responsibly Meet regulatory standards with regard to Quality Management System product and services Meet regulatory standards and business ethics Code of Business Ethics in performing supply chain activities Product responsibility Quality Management System Level of Compliance and Adherence All the points of reference identified in the above table ensure better conformance through mandatory compliance and voluntary adherence. The following table elaborates those points of reference and their status of compliance during the year. Status of Compliance and Adherance Point of Reference Aspect of Regulation Status The Code of Best Practices on Corporate Best Practices of Corporate Governance All requirements of the code and the compliance Governance jointly issued by the Securities and level are disclosed in the table on pages 150 to Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka and The 165 Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (The Code) Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange Listing rules to be followed by listed companies Complied. The compliance level is given in the in Sri Lanka including on Corporate Governance tables on pages 88 to 89 relating to, among others; – Non Executive Directors – Independent Directors – Disclosures relating to Directors – Remuneration Committee – Audit Committee Legislative enactments applicable to the Group Legal requirements that the Group is subjected The Code of Business Ethics specifically requires to that all employees comply with all applicable laws. Employees sign a declaration to the effect that they will follow Code of Business Ethics Articles of Association Requirements prescribed by the Articles of Complied Association Code of Business Ethics Compliance requirements applicable to all All employees sign declarations to the effect employees that all requirements in the Code will be complied with 86 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 A very clear picture 82 Senior Independent Director’s Statement 83 Conformance 91 Committee Reports 95 Responsibility Statement of Chairman/ Managing Director, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer Point of Reference Aspect of Regulation Status Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines on To report on sustainability related performance Complied. The GRI index is available on pages Sustainability Reporting in a complete generally accepted manner as 166 to 169. The Report on the Independent specified by GRI G4 guidelines Assurance obtained on NonFinancial Reporting is available from pages 170 to 172 Environment Management System (EMS) Meet the requirements of the Group’s Complied. The Group’s Environmental Environmental Management System accredited Management System is certified with ISO by the ISO 14001:2004 Standard 14001:2004 with certification provided by Det Norske Veritas AS (DNV) Quality Management System (QMS) Meet the requirements of the Group’s Quality Complied. The Group’s QMS is certified with ISO Management System accredited by the ISO 9001: 2008, with certification provided by Det 9001:2008 Standard Norske Veritas AS (DNV) UN Global Compact Ten Principles To comply with the requirements of the Communication on progress is available on declaration made on the UN Global Compact company’s website at www.dimolanka.com/ Ten Principles covering Human Rights, Labour, sustainability/sustainability performance Environment and Anti – Corruption and also to participate in pursuing sustainable development goals Audit Committee Among other responsibilities, to review Effectiveness of internal controls is reviewed effectiveness of Internal Control, Internal Audit with the Internal auditors and Independent and Independent Assurance Auditors. The performance of Internal Auditors and Independent Auditors is also reviewed by the Audit Committee. Where necessary, members of the Group Management Committee are called upon to explain matters relating to internal controls Risk Management To manage risks that the Group is exposed to Please refer the Risk Management Report on pages 76 to 80 Disclosures The tables given below provide the required and applicable details, disclosures or cross references to details/ disclosures mandated by the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 and the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange. Disclosures required by the Companies Act No.7 of 2007 Section Annual Report Requirement Reference Reference 168 (1) (a) The nature of the business of the Group and the Company together with any change thereof during the accounting 112 period 168 (1) (b) Signed Financial Statements of the Group and the Company for the accounting period completed 106-146 168 (1) (c) Auditors’ Report on Financial Statements of the Group and the Company 105 168 (1) (d) Accounting Policies and any changes therein 112-146 168 (1) e Particulars of the entries made in the Interests Register during the accounting period 98-100 168 (1) (f) Remuneration and other benefits paid to Directors of the Company during the accounting period 120 168 (1) (g) Corporate donations made by the Company during the accounting period 120 168 (1) (h) Information on the Directorate of the Company and its Subsidiaries during and at the end of the accounting period 10 168 (1) (i) Amounts paid/payable to the External Auditor as audit fees and fees for other services rendered during the 120 accounting period 168 (1) (j) Auditors’ relationship or any interest with the Company and its Subsidiaries 98-100 168 (1) (k) Acknowledgement of the contents of this Report and Signatures on behalf of the Board (Annual Report of the Board 98-100 of Directors) 87 Conformance Report Disclosures Required by the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange The following table shows the level of compliance with the Section 7.10 of Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange, pertaining to Corporate Governance. Rule No. Subject Applicable Requirement Compliance Details Status 7.10.1.(a) Non-Executive Directors At least two or one third of the Compliant Four out of ten Directors were Non-Executive Directors, whichever is higher, should Directors up to 10th August 2015. Three out of be Non-Executive Directors nine Directors were Non-Executive Directors from 10th August 2015 onwards 7.10.2.(a) Independent Directors Two or one-third of Non-Executive Compliant Three out of four Non-Executive Directors Directors, whichever is higher, should were independent up to 10th August 2015. be independent Two out of three Non-Executive Directors were independent from 10th August 2015 onwards 7.10.2.(b) Independence of Directors Each Non-Executive Director should Compliant The Non-Executive Directors have submitted submit a declaration of Independence/ the declaration in the prescribed format Non-Independence 7.10.3.(a) Disclosures relating to The names of Independent Directors Compliant Please refer pages 22 and 23 Directors should be disclosed in the Annual report 7.10.3.(b) Independence of Directors The Board shall make a determination Compliant The Board has made such determination and annually as to the Independence or the basis for determination of “Independence” Non-Independence of each Nonis explained in the Annual Report of the Board Executive Director of Directors. Please refer pages 98 and 99 7.10.3.(c) Disclosures relating to A brief resume of each Director should Compliant Please refer pages 22 and 23 Directors be included in the Annual Report including his/her area of expertise 7.10.3.(d) Appointment of new Provide a brief resume of any new Not Not applicable Directors Director appointed to the Board Applicable 7.10.5 Remuneration Committee A listed company shall have a Compliant Names of the members of the Remuneration Remuneration Committee Committee are available on page 90 7.10.5.(a) Composition of the Shall comprise of Non-Executive Compliant The Committee consisted of four NonRemuneration Committee Directors, a majority of whom shall be Executive Directors up to 10th August 2016 of Independent which three were Independent. It consisted of three Non-Executive Directors of which two were independent from 10th August 2015 onwards. The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee was an Independent NonExecutive Director throughout the year 7.10.5.(b) Functions of the The Remuneration Committee shall Compliant Please refer the Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee recommend the remuneration of Report on page 92 the Chief Executive Officer and the Executive Directors 7.10.5.(c) Disclosure in the Annual The Annual Report should set out; Compliant Please refer page 90 Report relating to the a) Names of the Directors comprising Remuneration Committee the Remuneration Committee b) Statement of Remuneration policy Compliant Please refer the Remuneration Committee Report on page 92 c) Aggregate remuneration paid Compliant Please refer page 120 to Executive and Non-Executive Directors 88 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 A very clear picture 82 Senior Independent Director’s Statement 83 Conformance 91 Committee Reports 95 Responsibility Statement of Chairman/ Managing Director, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer Rule No. Subject Applicable Requirement Compliance Details Status 7.10.6 Audit Committee A listed company shall have an Audit Compliant Names of the members of the Audit Committee. Committee are available on page 90 7.10.6.(a) Composition of Audit Shall comprise of Non-Executive Compliant The Committee consisted of four NonCommittee Directors, a majority of whom are Executive Directors up to 10th August 2015 Independent of which three were independent. The council consisted of three Non-Executive Directors of which two were independent from 10th August 2015 onwards. The Chairman of the Audit Committee was an Independent NonExecutive Director throughout the year Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Compliant The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Financial Officer should attend Audit Officer attend Audit Committee meetings by Committee Meetings invitation The Chairman of the Audit Committee Compliant The Chairman of the Audit Committee is or one member should be a member of a member of The Institute of Chartered a professional accounting body Accountants of Sri Lanka and the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England & Wales 7.10.6.(b) Functions of Audit Should be as outlined in the Section Compliant The terms of reference of the Audit Committee Committee 7.10 of the Listing Rules adopted by the Board on 20th June 2007 cover the areas outlined 7.10.6.(c) Disclosure in the Annual a) Names of the Directors comprising Compliant Please refer page 90 Report relating to the Audit the Audit Committee Committee b) The Audit Committee shall make a Compliant Please refer the Audit Committee report on determination of the independence page 91 of the Auditors and disclose the basis for such determination c) The Annual Report shall contain a Compliant Please refer the Audit Committee report on Report of the Audit Committee in page 91 the prescribed manner Disclosures specified by section 7.6 of the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange 1. Disclosures specified by Section 7.6 of Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange are contained in this Annual Report. 2. There is no evidence of the book value being substantially different from the market value of land and other fixed assets of the Company or its subsidiaries. Disclosures specified by section 9.3.2 of the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange Disclosures specified by section 9.3.2 of Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange are contained in this Annual Report. Please refer page 94 for the Related Party Transaction Review Committee Report. 89 Conformance Report Composition of the Board and Board Committees and attendance at Meetings for 2015/2016 Board Member Date of Appointment Board Committee Members to the Board Audit Committee Nomination Remuneration Related Part Committee Committee Transactions Review Committee Re-election Position Attendance Position Attendance Position Attendance Position Attendance Position Attendance First A.R. Pandithage June 1977 Not Chairman/ 6/6 N/A Member 2/2 N/A N/A Applicable Managing Director R. Seevaratnam January June 2014 Senior 5/6 Chairman 6/7 Member 2/2 Member 2/2 Chairman 3/4 2007 Independent Director Prof. U.Liyanage** October June 2012 Independent 0/2 Member 0/4 Member 0/1 Chairman 0/2 Member 0/1 2006 Director Dr. H. Cabral*** October June 2014 Independent 5/6 Member 6/7 Chairman 2/2 Chairman 2/2 Member 4/4 2006 Director A.M. Pandithage September June 2012 Non6/6 Member 6/7 Member 2/2 Member 2/2 Member 4/4 1982 Executive Director A.N. Algama November June 2014 Executive 6/6 N/A N/A N/A N/A 1984 Director S.C. Algama November June 2014 Executive 6/6 N/A N/A N/A N/A 1984 Director A.G. Pandithage December June 2013 CEO / 6/6 N/A N/A N/A N/A 1995 Director B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne April 2006 June 2011 Executive 6/6 N/A N/A N/A N/A Director R.C. Weerawardane June 2002 June 2013 Executive 6/6 N/A N/A N/A N/A Director * N/A denotes ‘not applicable’. ** Ceased to be a Director and the Chairman of Remuneration Committee with effect from 10th August 2015 *** Appointed as the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee with effect from 10th August 2015 Attendance of Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors at the Board Meetings held during the year Board Gap Between Attendance Meeting Date Meetings Executive Non-Executive Independent (days) Directors Directors Non-Executive Directors 26/05/2015 82 6 1 2 04/08/2015 69 6 1 2 04/09/2015 31 6 1 2 30/10/2015 56 6 1 1 12/02/2016 105 6 1 2 29/03/2016 46 6 1 1 90 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 A very clear picture 82 Senior Independent Director’s Statement 83 Conformance 91 Committee Reports 95 Responsibility Statement of Chairman/ Managing Director, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer Report of the Audit Committee Introduction Auditors on the state of compliance with The Committee has received a declaration from The Audit Committee is a Committee appointed applicable laws and regulations and settlement the External Auditors, confirming that they do by the Board of Directors. of statutory payments and are satisfied that not have any relationship or interest in the laws and regulations are duly complied with. Company or its subsidiaries. Committee Composition The Committee comprised of three Independent Internal Controls The Committee reviewed the non-audit services NonExecutive Directors and one NonThe Committee is satisfied that an effective and its impact on the independence of the Executive Director during the period from system of internal control is in place to provide External Auditors. 1st April 2015 to 10th August 2015 and two reasonable assurance on safeguarding of the Independent NonExecutive Directors and one Company’s assets and reliability of Financial The Audit Committee has recommended to the NonExecutive Director from 10th August 2015 Statements. Effectiveness of the Company’s Board that Messrs KPMG be re-appointed as the onwards. The composition of the Committee system of Internal Controls is evaluated through Independent External Auditor and that the refulfilled the requirements of the Listing Rule reports provided by the Management, Internal appointment be included in the agenda of the No.7.10.6 of the Colombo Stock Exchange, Auditors and Independent External Auditors. Annual General Meeting. throughout the financial year. The composition of the Audit Committee is given on page 90. Internal Auditors Meetings The Internal Audit function is headed by the Seven Audit Committee meetings were held Terms of Reference Group Chief Internal Auditor and the fieldwork during the year ended 31st March 2016. The The Audit Committee has terms of reference, and reporting is outsourced to Messrs SJMS attendance details are given on page 90. dealing with its authority and duties and is Associates, a firm of Chartered Accountants. The Internal Auditors attended the meetings established for the purpose of assisting the Internal auditors submitted their findings to quarterly. Board in fulfilling their oversight responsibilities Audit Committee quarterly and their reports that include the integrity of the Financial are made available to Independent External Committee Evaluation Statements, risk management, business ethics, Auditors. The annual evaluation of the Committee was internal control, compliance with legal and carried out by the Board during the year and regulatory requirements, review of independent The Audit Committee monitors and reviews: it was concluded that its performance was external auditors’ performance and internal • The coverage of the audit plan satisfactory. audit. • The follow-up action taken on the recommendation of the Internal Auditors. Conclusion Compliance with Financial Reporting The Audit Committee is satisfied that the • The internal audit programmes and results The Audit Committee considered the quarterly effectiveness of the organisational structure of the internal audit process. and annual Financial Statements prior to of the Group and of the implementation of the • Effectiveness of the internal audit function. Group’s accounting policies and operational publication. controls provide reasonable assurance that the The review included: Risk Management affairs of the Group are managed in accordance The Audit Committee meets the Internal with Group policies and that the Group assets • Appropriateness and changes in Accounting Auditors on a quarterly basis and reviews their are properly accounted for and adequately Policies. findings in order to identify risks attached to safeguarded. • Significant estimates and judgement made different areas of operation and effectiveness by the management. of internal controls. • Compliance with relevant Accounting Standards and applicable regulatory The key risks associated with the business are requirements. given in the Risk Management Report on pages • Adequacy of impairment provisions against 76 to 80. assets. Independent Auditors R. Seevaratnam • Issues arising from the Internal and The Audit Committee reviewed the independence Chairman Audit Committee Independent External audit. and objectivity of the Independent External • The Company’s ability to continue as a Auditors Messrs KPMG, Chartered Accountants. Colombo going concern. The Audit Committee has met with the External 24th May 2016 Auditors to review their audit plan and any Compliance with Laws and Regulations observations made by them. The Audit Committee reviewed the reports submitted by the management and Internal 91 Report of the Remuneration Committee Introduction The remuneration packages which are linked to The Remuneration Committee is a Committee individual performances are aligned with the appointed by the Board of Directors. Company’s short-term and long-term strategy. The Committee makes every endeavour to Committee Composition maintain remuneration levels that are sufficient The Committee comprised of three Independent to attract and retain Executive Directors and the NonExecutive Directors and one Nonmembers of the senior management team. Executive Director during the period from 1st April 2015 to 10th August 2015 and two All Non-Executive Directors receive a fee Independent NonExecutive Directors and one for serving on the Board and serving on NonExecutive Director from 10th August 2015 sub-committees. They do not receive any onwards. The composition of the Committee performance related incentive payments. fulfilled the requirements of the Listing Rule No. 7.10.5 of the Colombo Stock Exchange, The Company does not have an Employee Share throughout the financial year. The composition Ownership plan for members of the Board, who of the Remuneration Committee is given on are considered the Key Management Personnel page 90. (KMP). Role and Responsibilities Directors’ Emoluments The Committee was established for the purpose The Directors’ emoluments are disclosed in Note of recommending the remuneration of the 4.5 on page 120. Chairman/Managing Director, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and the Executive Directors. The Meetings Committee also approves the remuneration The Committee meets as and when a need of the members of the Group Management arises. The Committee met on two occasions Committee on the recommendations made by during the financial year 2015/16 and the the Chairman/Managing Director and the Chief members’ attendance record is set out in the Executive Officer. Conformance Report on page 90. Terms of Reference Committee Evaluation The Committee has acted within the parameters The annual evaluation of the Committee was set by its terms of reference. carried out by the Board during the year and it was concluded that the Committee continues to The decisions on matters relating to operate effectively. remuneration of Executive Directors and the members of the Group Management Committee were arrived at in consultation with the Chairman/Managing Director and the Chief Executive Officer. No Director is involved in determining his own remuneration. Remuneration Policy Dr. H. Cabral Chairman Remuneration Committee The remuneration policy is designed to reward, motivate and retain the Company’s executive Colombo team, with market competitive remuneration 24th May 2016 and benefits, to support the continued success of the business and creation of shareholder value. Accordingly salaries and other benefits are reviewed periodically taking into account the performance of the individual and industry standards. 92 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 A very clear picture 82 Senior Independent Director’s Statement 83 Conformance 91 Committee Reports 95 Responsibility Statement of Chairman/ Managing Director, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer Report of the Nomination Committee Introduction on succession planning issues relating to The Nomination Committee assists the Board Executive Directors and Group Corporate by keeping the composition of the Board Management roles and satisfied itself under review and conducting a rigorous and that action plans are in place to manage transparent process when making or renewing succession. appointments of Directors to the Board. It also advises the Board on issues of Directors’ The Committee is satisfied that the combined conflicts of interest and independence. knowledge and experience of the Board matches the demands facing the Company. Committee Composition The members of the Committee and its Chairman Committee Evaluation are appointed by the Board of Directors. The The annual evaluation of the Committee was Committee comprised of three Independent conducted by the Board during the year and NonExecutive Directors, one NonExecutive review concluded that the Committee continues Director and the Chairman/ Managing Director to operate effectively. during the period from 1st April 2015 to 10th August 2015 and two Independent NonExecutive Directors, one NonExecutive Director and the Chairman/ Managing Director from 10th August 2015 onwards. The composition of the Nomination Committee is given on page 90. Terms of Reference and Key Activities Dr. H. Cabral Chairman Nomination Committee The Committee has acted within the parameters set by its terms of reference. Colombo 24th May 2016 Meetings The Committee met on two occasions during the financial year 2015/16 and the members’ attendance record is set out in the Conformance Report on page 90. The key activities carried out by the Committee during the year are as follows: • Review the structure, size and composition of the Board. • Evaluate the independence and effectiveness of the Non-Executive Directors. • Review the process for succession planning to ensure that the Board has the correct balance of individuals to discharge its duties effectively. • During the year, the Committee was briefed 93 Report of the Related Party Transactions Review Committee Introduction • In the event Related Party Transactions Committee Evaluation The Related Party Transactions Review are ongoing (Recurrent Related Party The annual evaluation of the Committee was Committee was formed by the Board as a Board Transactions) the Committee establishes conducted by the Board during the year and Committee. guidelines for senior management to follow review concluded that the Committee continues in its ongoing dealings with the relevant to operate effectively. Committee Composition related party. Thereafter, the Committee, The Committee comprised of three Independent on an annual basis, shall review and assess NonExecutive Directors and one Nonongoing relationships with the related Executive Director during the period from party to determine whether they are in 26th May 2015 to 10th August 2015 and two compliance with the Committee’s guidelines Independent Non-Executive Directors and one and that the Related Party Transaction NonExecutive Director from 10th August 2015 remains appropriate. onwards. The composition of the Committee R. Seevaratnam fulfilled the requirements of the Listing Rule Policies and Procedures Chairman Related Party Transactions Review No. 9.2.2 of the Colombo Stock Exchange, The members of the Board of Directors of Committee throughout the financial year. The composition the Company have been identified as Key of the Related Party Transactions Review Management Personnel. In accordance with Colombo Committee is given on page 90. the Related Party Transaction Policy, the 24th May 2016 declarations are obtained from each Key Terms of Reference Management Personnel of the Company for the The Related Party Transactions Review purpose of identifying parties related to them. Committee has terms of reference, dealing with Based on the information furnished in these its authority and duties. The terms of reference declarations, the Company retrieves data on covers aspects relating to matters prescribed related party transactions from the data base of in the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock the Company. Exchange. Meetings Terms of reference of the Committee include The Committee met on four occasions during the following: the financial year 2015/16 and the members’ attendance record is set out in the Conformance • Review in advance all proposed Related Report on page 90. Party Transactions of the Company except those explicitly exempted by the Code; Related Party Transactions during the • Determine whether Related Party Year Transactions that are to be entered into by The activities and observations of the the Company require the approval of the Committee are communicated to the Board. Board or Shareholders of the Company During the year there were no nonrecurrent or recurrent related party transactions that • Ensure that no Director of the Company exceeded the respective thresholds mentioned shall participate in any discussion of a in the Listing Rules. Details of other related proposed Related Party Transaction for party transactions entered into by the Company which he or she is a related party, unless during the year is disclosed in Note 5.1 to the such Director is requested to do so by Financial Statements. the Committee for the express purpose of providing information concerning the Declaration Related Party Transaction to the Committee. A declaration by the Board of Directors in the • If there is any potential conflict in any Annual Report as a negative statement to the Related Party Transaction, the Committee effect that no related party transaction falling may recommend the creation of a special within the ambit of the Listing Rules was committee to review and approve the entered into by the Company during the year, is proposed Related Party Transaction. given in Annual Report of the Board of Directors on page 99. 94 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 A very clear picture 82 Senior Independent Director’s Statement 83 Conformance 91 Committee Reports 95 Responsibility Statement of Chairman/ Managing Director, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer Responsibility Statement of Chairman/ Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer The Consolidated Financial Statements are The Internal Auditors from Ms. SJMS have prepared in compliance with the requirements conducted periodic audits to provide reasonable of the followings: assurance that the established policies and procedures of the Company were consistently • Sri Lanka Accounting Standards issued by followed. However, there are inherent limitations The Institute of Chartered Accountants of that should be recognised in weighing the Sri Lanka (SLFRs/LKASs), assurances provided by any system of internal • Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, controls and accounting. • Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock The Financial Statements were audited by Exchange, and Messrs KPMG, Chartered Accountants, the • Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing Independent External Auditors. Standards Act No. 15 of 1995. The Audit Committee of the Company meets The Accounting Policies used in preparation periodically with the Internal Auditors and the of the Consolidated Financial Statements Independent External Auditors to review the are appropriate and consistently applied, manner in which these Auditors are performing except unless otherwise stated in the Notes their responsibilities, and to discuss auditing, accompanying the Financial Statements. internal control and financial reporting There are no departures from the prescribed issues. To ensure complete independence, the Accounting Standards in their adoption. Independent External Auditors and the Internal Comparative information has been reclassified Auditors have full and free access to the wherever necessary to comply with the current members of the Audit Committee to discuss any presentation. The Significant Accounting matter of substance. Policies and estimates that involved a high degree of judgement and complexity were discussed with the Audit Committee. The Board of Directors and the Management of the Company accept responsibility for the A.R. Pandithage integrity and objectivity of these Financial Chairman/Managing Director Statements. The estimates and judgments relating to the Financial Statements were made in a prudent and reasonable basis, in order that the Financial Statements reflect in a true and fair manner, the form and substance A.G. Pandithage of transactions, and reasonably present the Director/Group Chief Executive Officer Company’s state of affairs. To ensure this, the Company has taken proper and sufficient care in installing a system of internal control and accounting records, for B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne safeguarding assets, and for preventing and Director/Chief Financial Officer detecting frauds as well as other irregularities, which is reviewed, evaluated and updated on an Colombo ongoing basis. 24th May 2016 95 An unambiguous result The year’s financial results are clear and unambiguous. DIMO is proud to present another excellent performance to our stakeholders this year. In this section we present our financial statements and details relating to our financial position and performance, followed by other supplementary information 98 Annual Report of the Board of Directors 102 Board of Directors’ Statement on Internal Controls 103 Statement of Directors' Responsibilities for Financial Statements 104 Financial Calendar 105 Independent Auditors’ Report 106 Financial Statements Section 1 112 Corporate Information Section 2 113 Basis of Accounting Section 3 116 Specific Accounting Policies and Notes Section 4 145 Other Disclosures Section 5 Annual Report of the Board of Directors General Chairman’s Letter (pages 12 to 15), Chief The Board of Directors The Directors have pleasure in presenting the Executive Officer’s Review (pages 16 to 19) and As at 31st March 2016, the Board of Directors Annual Report of the Company for the financial the section titled ‘Business Report’ (pages 54 to of the Company consisted of nine members. year ended 31st March 2016, that includes 61). The information on Directors of the Company is and covers the Audited Financial Statements, available in the Directors’ Profile on pages from Chairman's Statement, CEO's review, Enterprise Disclosures 22 to 23. Governance Conformance Report, Risk The Annual Report of the Company fulfils Management, Capitals Report, Business Report, the disclosure requirements of the Sri Names of the Directors of subsidiary Companies Impact Management, Committee Reports, Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRs/LKASs), are given on page 10. Statements of Responsibility, Auditors Report, Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 and the Listing Independent Assurance on NonFinancial Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange. New Appointments and Resignation of Reporting and other relevant information. Directors Financial Statements There were no new appointments made to the The information table on 'Disclosures required The Financial Statements of the Group and the Board, during the financial year ended 31st by the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007' appearing Company have been prepared in accordance March 2016. Prof. U. Liyanage ceased to be a on page 87 form part of this Annual Report of with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRs/ Director of the Company with effect from 10th the Board of Directors. LKASs), issued by The Institute of Chartered August 2015, due to his demise. Accountants of Sri Lanka and comply with The Annual Report of the Company including requirements of the Companies Act No. 07 Retirement and Re-election of Directors the Annual Report of the Directors was adopted of 2007 and Listing Rules of Colombo stock Mr. A.G. Pandithage, Mr. R.C. Weerawardena by the Board of Directors on 24th May 2016. The Exchange. The aforementioned Financial and Mr. A.N. Algama retire by rotation and are required number of copies of the Company’s Statements for the year ended 31st March 2016 eligible for re-election. Annual Report will be submitted to the Colombo duly signed by the Chief Financial Officer (a Stock Exchange and to the Sri Lanka Accounting member of the Board) and one other Director, The agenda for the Annual General Meeting and Auditing Standards Monitoring Board are given on pages 106 to 146. includes an ordinary resolution to be taken up within the stipulated time. to appoint Mr. R. Seevaratnam as a Director, Financial Results and Appropriations who has reached the age of 72. Group Structure and Nature of Turnover Operations The total gross turnover generated by the five Independence of Non-Executive The Group structure and names of Directors of business segments of the Group was Rs. 37,750 Directors the Company and its subsidiaries are available million (2014/15 Rs. 28,037 million) while the Sections 7.10.3.b. and 7.10.4.e. of the Listing on page 10. turnover of the Company was Rs. 35,403 million Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange taken (2014/15 Rs. 26,179 million). A segment wise together specify that a NonExecutive Director A brief description of nature of the principal analysis is given in Note 4.2 appearing on page shall not be considered independent if he/ she business activities of the Group and the 116. has served on the Board for a period of nine Company is given in Note 2.3 to the Financial years from the date of the first appointment, Statements on page 112. There was no Profit and Appropriations unless the Board taking into account all the significant change in the nature of business of The profit after tax of the Group was Rs. 947 circumstances, is of the opinion that the the Company or its subsidiaries during the year million (2014/15 Rs. 596 million) while it was Director is nevertheless 'independent' and that may have a significant impact on the state Rs. 740 million (2014/15 Rs. 547 million) for specify the criteria not met and the basis of its of the Company’s affairs. the Company. determination in the Annual Report. Vision, Mission and Corporate Conduct The Group's total other comprehensive income Dr. H. Cabral and Mr. R. Seevaratnam completed The Company’s vision and mission are available for the year was Rs. 929 million (2014/15 Rs. nine years in office as NonExecutive Directors on page 4. The Directors and all the employees 1,409 million) and the corresponding figure for on 30th September 2015 and 31st December conduct their activities with the highest level of the Company was Rs. 724 million (2014/15 2015 respectively. ethical standards and integrity in achieving the Rs.1,361 million) vision and mission. All employees are given a The Board recognises that Dr. H. Cabral copy of code of business ethics of the Company Information on dividends and reserves are and MR. R. Seevaratnam have acted in an and employees are required to adhere to it. available in Note 4.8 and 4.20 to the Financial independent manner over the years bringing Statements respectively. their independent judgement upon matters Review of Business Performance relating to the Board Committees and the Review of business performance and future Board. The Board is of the opinion that there outlook of the Group is available in the 98 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 An unambiguous result 98 Annual Report of the Board of Directors 102 Board of Directors’ Statement on Internal Controls 103 Statement of Directors' Responsibilities for Financial Statements 105 Independent Auditors’ Report 106 Financial Statements is no reason to believe that their status as keeping with the requirements of the Section or any of its subsidiaries. The Auditors do 'Independent' Directors have been impaired 119 (1) (d) of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007. not have any interest in contracts with the in any manner due to their tenure in office. Company, or any of its subsidiaries. Having taken into account all relevant aspects, The particulars of the Directors’ Interests in the Board determined that Dr. H. Cabral and Mr. Contracts are given on page 101 of the Annual Internal Control System and Risk R. Seevaratnam continue as 'Independent NonReport and form an integral part of the Annual Management Executive Directors' of the Company. Report of the Board of Directors. The Directors The Board considers that strong internal have no direct or indirect interest in a contract controls are integral to sound management of Board and Board Committee Meetings or a proposed contract with the Company other the Company and is committed to maintaining The number of Board meetings, Audit Committee than those disclosed. financial, operational and risk management meetings, Nomination Committee meetings, controls over all its activities. Further details Remuneration Committee meetings and Related Related Party Transactions are discussed in the Conformance Report, Audit Party Transactions Review Committee meetings There are no related party transactions which Committee Report and Board of Directors’ held during the year and the attendance of exceed the threshold of 10 percent of the equity Statement on Internal Controls, which are Directors at these meetings are given on page or 5 percent of the total assets, whichever available on pages 83 to 90 and page 91, 102 90 of Conformance Report. is lower in relation to non-recurrent related respectively. party transactions or 10 percent of the gross Review of Performance of the Board revenue in relation to recurrent related party Declaration and Board Committees transactions. The Company has complied with The Directors declare that: The performance of the Board was reviewed the requirements of the Listing Rules of the during the year by circulating a questionnaire Colombo Stock Exchange on Related Party I. to the best of their knowledge and belief, among Directors. Transactions. the Group/Company has not engaged in any activity, which contravenes laws and The review of performance of Board Committees The Directors have disclosed transactions, if regulations of the country. were carried out during the year by way of a any, that could be classified as Related Party II. all material interests in contracts involving discussion during the Board meetings. Transactions in terms of LKAS 24 'Related the Company has been disclosed and Party Disclosures', and are given in Note 5.1 to refrained from voting on matters in which Directors' Remuneration the Financial Statements. they were materially interested. Director’s remuneration is given in Note 4.5 to III. the Company has made all endeavours the Financial Statements. Accounting Policies to ensure equitable treatment of all The significant Accounting Policies adopted by shareholders. Directors Shareholdings the Group and the Company are given on pages Shareholdings of Directors and their spouses are 116 to 144. IV. the business is a going concern and that given on page 149 under ‘Share Information’. the Board of Directors has reviewed the The Financial Statements and notes thereto Company’s business plans and is satisfied Dr. H Cabral, Mr. B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne, Mr. R. give a true and fair view of the Company’s and that the Company has adequate resources Seevaratnam and Mr. R.C. Weerawardane who the Group’s financial position as at 31st March to continue its operations in the foreseeable are Directors of the Company did not hold any 2016 and of their performance for the year future. Accordingly, the Financial Statements shares of the Company as at 31st March 2016. ended on that date. There were no changes to are prepared considering the Company as a the Accounting Policies used by the Group and going concern. Interest Register and Directors' Interests the Company during the year. V. They have conducted a review of the internal in Contracts/Proposed Contracts controls, covering financial, operational and An Interest Register is maintained by the Independent Auditors Appointment and compliance controls and risk management, Company as per requirements of the Companies Remuneration and have obtained reasonable assurance Act No. 07 of 2007. All Directors have made The Company’s Independent External Auditors, of their effectiveness and successful necessary declarations as provided for in Messrs KPMG, who were re-appointed by a adherence. Section 192 (2) of the aforesaid Companies Act. resolution passed at the last Annual General Meeting, have expressed their opinion which Enterprise Governance During the year, entries made in the Interest appears on page 105 of this Annual Report. The table on page 150 to 165 shows the manner Register consisted of Directors’ interests in in which the Company has complied with the contracts, remuneration paid to the Directors The details of their remuneration are given in Code of Best Practice on Corporate Governance and renewal of Directors’ and officers’ liability Note 4.5 to the Financial Statements. As far as issued jointly by The Institute of Chartered insurance. The Interest Register is available at the Directors are aware, the Auditors do not Accountants of Sri Lanka and the Securities the registered head office of the Company, in have any other relationship with the Company, and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka. The 99 Annual Report of the Board of Directors introduction to Enterprise Governance at DIMO There were no investment in intangible assets Annual General Meeting and the Conformance Report are available on during the year by the Company (2014/15 The Annual General Meeting will be held at pages 26 and from 83 to 90 respectively. Zero) as disclosed in Note 4.11 to the Financial the registered office of the Company, No. 65, Statements. Jetawana Road, Colombo 14 on Wednesday, Responsible Corporate Behaviour 29th June 2016 at 2.00 p.m. The notice of The Board is committed to and considers Specific information on extent, location and Annual General Meeting is given on page 176. it a key priority to act responsibly towards valuations of the land and buildings held by its stakeholders and to manage economic, the Company are given in Note 4.9.1 to the environmental and social impacts during value Financial Statements. creation activities, efficiently and effectively. By order of the Board of Directors, Market Value of Freehold Land Material Foreseeable Risk Factors A qualified independent valuer carried out a Information pertaining to material foreseeable revaluation of the Company’s freehold land on risk factors are discussed in the Risk 15th September 2014 and the carrying value of Management Report on pages 76 to 80. freehold land has been adjusted accordingly. The details of market value of freehold land are Employment given in Note 4.9 to the Financial Statements. The Group practices and policies relating to A.R. Pandithage selection, training, development, promotion and Stated Capital Chairman/Managing Director employee relations are detailed in the section The stated capital of the Company as at 31st titled 'Human Capital' on pages 47 to 51. March 2016 amounted to Rs. 425 million (2014/15Rs. 425 million), details of which There were no material issues pertaining to are available in Note 4.19 to the Financial employees or industrial relations during the Statements. There were no shares issued during year. the financial year. A.G. Pandithage Director/Group Chief Executive Officer Share Information Statutory Payments Information relating to distribution of The Directors, to the best of their knowledge and shareholdings, market value, public shareholding belief are satisfied that all statutory payments and top twenty shareholders are available on to the government, other regulatory bodies and pages 148 to 149 under ‘Share Information’. relating to the employees have been made on time. Donations B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne The Group and the Company made donations Environmental Protection Director/Secretary/Chief Financial Officer during the year amounting to Rs. 2.8 million and Policies and endeavours made on environmental Rs. 2.2 million respectively (2014/15 Group: preservation by the Group and the Company Colombo Rs.11.5 million, Company Rs.11.4 million). are detailed in Impact Management Report on 24th May 2016 pages 62 to 74. Property Plant and Equipment and Intangible Assets Events Occurring After the Reporting The Group and the Company incurred Rs. Period 284 million and Rs. 269 million respectively There were no material event that occurred (2014/15 Group Rs. 733 million, Company Rs. after the reporting date that require adjustment 747 million) on property plant and equipment, to or disclosure in the Financial Statements, details of which are available in Note 4.9 to the other than those disclosed in Note 5.4 to the Financial Statements. Financial Statements on pages 146. 100 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 An unambiguous result 98 Annual Report of the Board of Directors 102 Board of Directors’ Statement on Internal Controls 103 Statement of Directors' Responsibilities for Financial Statements 105 Independent Auditors’ Report 106 Financial Statements Directors' Interests in Contracts with the Company Related party disclosures as required by the Sri Lanka Accounting Standard -LKAS 24 'Related Party Disclosures' are detailed in Note 5.1 to the Financial Statements. In addition, the Company carries out transactions in the ordinary course of business in an arm's length basis with the entities where the Chairman or Director of the Company is the Chairman or a Director of such entity as detailed below. Director/ Company Relationship Nature of the transaction Outstanding as Outstanding as at 31.03.2016 at 31.03.2015 Receivable/ Receivable/ (Payables) (Payables) Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Mr. A.M Pandithage Lanka Orient Express Lines Ltd Director Repairing and servicing of vehicles 47 39 Logiventures (pvt) Ltd Director Repairing and servicing of vehicles 290 89 Sales of vehicle 10,525 10,525 Sales of spare parts 209 471 Logiwiz Ltd Director Repairing and servicing of vehicles 6 224 Sales of spare parts 175 Logiwiz N W (Pvt) Ltd Director Repairing and servicing of vehicles 180 Sales of spare parts 111 Alumex PLC* Director Repairing and servicing of vehicles 55 53 Amaya Leisure PLC Director Repairing and servicing of vehicles 61 Dipped Products PLC Director Repairing and servicing of vehicles 30 170 Haycarb PLC Director Repairing and servicing of vehicles 381 452 Hayleys Free Zone Ltd Director Sales of vehicle 999 Hayleys Industrial Solutions Ltd Director Repairing and servicing of vehicles 63 149 Hayleys Fabric PLC Director Repairing and servicing of vehicles 45 44 Mabroc Teas (Pvt) Ltd Director Repairing and servicing of vehicles 3 4 Talawakelle Tea Estates PLC Director Repairing and servicing of vehicles 412 180 The Kingsbury PLC Director Sales of spare parts 933 Grossart (Pvt) Ltd Director Repairing and servicing of vehicles 4 Hayleys Advantis Ltd Director Sales of spare parts 3 Hayleys Agricultural Holdings (Pvt) Ltd** Director Sales of vehicle 740 Hayles Global Beverages (Pvt) Ltd Director Repairing and servicing of vehicles 7 Sales of spare parts 8 Horana Plantations PLC Director Sales of spare parts 37 Kelani Valley Plantations PLC Director Repairing and servicing of vehicles 40 Logistics International Ltd Director Repairing and servicing of vehicles 354 Sales of spare parts 56 Venigros (Pvt) Ltd Director Sales of spare parts 1,087 Mr. R. Seevaratnam Omega Line Limited Non-executive Director Repairing and servicing of vehicles 14 774 Sales of spare parts 3 Alpha Apparels Ltd Non-executive Director Repairing and servicing of vehicles 333 1 Sirio Limited Non-executive Director Sales of spare parts 422 Dr. Harsha Cabral Tokyo Cement Company (Lanka) PLC*** Chairman Sales of spare parts 298 175 Repairing and servicing of vehicles 1,636 3,201 Sale of vehicles 1,720 Tokyo Super Cement Company Lanka (pvt) Ltd Director Sales of spare parts 92 9 Tokyo Cement Power (Lanka) Ltd Director Repairing and servicing of vehicles 995 798 Lanka Orix Finace PLC Director Sale of vehicles 50,495 42,253 Richard Peiris Distributors Ltd Director Sales of spare parts 5,416 4,687 * Dr. Harsha Cabral is also a Director ** Mr. R. Seevaratnam is also a Non-Executive Director *** Mr. R. Seevaratnam is also a Non-Executive Director 101 Board of Directors’ Statement on Internal Controls Requirement • The Audit Committee reviews internal The Section D.1.3 of the ‘Code of Best Practice control issues identified by the Group on Corporate Governance 2013’ (The Code) Internal Auditors, the Independent External issued jointly by the Securities and Exchange Auditors, regulatory authorities and the Commission and the Institute of Chartered management evaluates the adequacy of the Accountants of Sri Lanka recommends that internal control system. the Board of Directors present a Statement on Internal Controls in the Annual Report. Confirmation Statement The Board of Directors of Diesel & Motor Responsibility Engineering PLC ('Group') confirm that the Maintaining a sound system of internal controls financial reporting system has been designed to safeguard shareholders’ investment and the to provide reasonable assurance regarding Company’s assets is the responsibility of the the reliability of financial reporting and the Board of Directors. preparation of Financial Statements for external purposes has been done in accordance with Sri However, an internal control system is designed Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRSs/LKASs) to manage the Company’s key areas of risk and regulatory requirements. within an acceptable risk profile, rather than to eliminate the risk of failure, to achieve the business objectives and policies of the Company. Accordingly, the system of internal controls can only provide a reasonable but not absolute assurance against successful management of risks, financial losses or fraud. A.R. Pandithage The Board identifies significant risks on an Chairman/Managing Director ongoing basis and ensure implementation of appropriate procedures to evaluate and manage the identified risks. Key Internal Control Processes • The Board Committees and Management B.C.S.A.P Gooneratne Committee are established to assist the Director/ Chief Financial Officer Board in ensuring the effectiveness of the Group’s operations and that the Group’s operations are directed towards corporate objectives, strategy, annual budget, policies, taking in to consideration the business environment and internal operating conditions. R.Seevaratnam • The Group Internal Audit function provides Chairman-Audit Committee comfort on the efficiency and effectiveness of the Internal Control System. It monitors Colombo compliance with policies and procedures 24th May 2016 and highlights significant findings in respect of non-compliance. Audits are carried out on all subsidiaries, the frequency of which is determined by level of risk assessed. The audit plan is reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee. 102 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 An unambiguous result 98 Annual Report of the Board of Directors 102 Board of Directors’ Statement on Internal Controls 103 Statement of Directors' Responsibilities for Financial Statements 105 Independent Auditors’ Report 106 Financial Statements Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities for Financial Statements The Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 require the Directors also have to ensure that; Messrs KPMG, Chartered Accountants, the Directors to prepare and present Financial • Appropriate Accounting Policies have been Independent External Auditors of the Company Statements for each financial year giving used in a consistent manner; has examined the Financial Statements and the a true and fair view of the state of affairs of • Where necessary, prudent judgment and related records and information. Their opinion the Company and the Group as at the end of estimates have been made; on Financial Statements is given on page 105. the financial year and the profit or loss of the • Requirements of the Sri Lanka Accounting Company and the Group for the financial year. The Directors, having reviewed the financial and Auditing Standards Act No. 15 of 1995 budget and cash flows for the year to 31st have been followed; The responsibilities of the Directors in relation March 2016 and the bank facilities, consider that to the Financial Statements of the Company • Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock the Group/Company has adequate resources and the Group are set out in this statement. Exchange are complied with. to continue in operation, and have continued As per the provisions of the Companies Act to adopt the going concern basis in preparing No. 07 of 2007, the Directors are required to The Directors are responsible for ensuring Financial Statements. prepare for each financial year and place before that the companies within the Group keep general meeting of shareholders the Financial sufficient accounting records to disclose with By Order of the Board, Statements, which comprise; reasonable accuracy, the financial position of the Company and the Group, and to ensure that 1. Statement of Profit of Loss and Other the Financial Statements presented comply with Comprehensive Income, which presents a the requirements of the Companies Act No.07 true and fair view of the profit or loss of the of 2007. Group/Company for the financial year; and The Directors are also responsible for taking 2. Statement of Financial Position, which reasonable measures to safeguard the assets presents a true and fair view of the state of of the Group/Company and in that context to B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne affairs of the Group/Company as at the end have proper regard to the establishment of Director/Secretary/Chief Financial Officer of the financial year, which complies with appropriate systems of internal control with a the requirements of the Companies Act view to prevention and detection of fraud and Colombo No.07 of 2007. irregularities. 24th May 2016 In addition, the Directors have to ensure The Board of Directors accepts responsibility that Financial Statements present fairly for for the integrity and objectivity of the Financial each financial year the Group’s/Company’s Statements presented. financial position, financial performance and cash flows. This requires the faithful The Directors are required to provide the representation of the effects of transactions, Auditors with every opportunity to take other events and conditions in accordance whatever steps necessary to enable them to with the definitions and recognition criteria for form their audit opinion. assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the Sri Lanka Accounting Standard (LKAS 1) The responsibility of the Auditors in relation to 'Presentation of Financial Statements'. Virtually the Financial Statements appears in the Report in all circumstances, a fair presentation will be of the Auditors on page 105. achieved by compliance with all applicable Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. 103 Financial Calendar Interim Financial Statements Three months ended 30th June 2015 – 04th August 2015 Six months ended 30th September 2015 – 30th October 2015 Nine months ended 31st December 2015 – 12th February 2016 Twelve months ended 31st March 2016– 24th May 2016 Dividends Final dividend for 2015/2016-10th June 2016 Annual Report – Financial year ended 31st March 2016 -7th June 2016 71st Annual General Meeting – 29th June 2016 104 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 Independent Auditors' Report TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF DIESEL & the financial statements are free from material Report on Other Legal and Regulatory MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC misstatement. Requirements As required by section 163 (2) of the Companies Report on the Financial Statements An audit involves performing procedures to Act No. 07 of 2007, we state the following: We have audited the accompanying financial obtain audit evidence about the amounts and statements of Diesel & Motor Engineering disclosures in the financial statements. The a) The basis of opinion and scope and PLC, (“the Company”), and the consolidated procedures selected depend on the auditors’ limitations of the audit are as stated above. financial statements of the Company and its judgment, including the assessment of the b) In our opinion: subsidiaries (“Group”), which comprise the risks of material misstatement of the financial • we have obtained all the information statement of financial position as at 31 March statements, whether due to fraud or error. In and explanations that were required for 2016, and the statements of profit or loss and making those risk assessments, the auditor the audit and, as far as appears from our other comprehensive income, changes in equity considers internal control relevant to the examination, proper accounting records and cash flows for the year then ended, and a entity’s preparation of the financial statements have been kept by the Company, summary of significant accounting policies and that give a true and fair view in order to other explanatory information set out on pages design audit procedures that are appropriate • The financial statements of the Company 107 to 146. in the circumstances, but not for the purpose give a true and fair view of its financial of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness position as at 31 March 2016, and of its Board’s Responsibility for the Financial of the entity’s internal control. An audit also financial performance and cash flows for Statements includes evaluating the appropriateness of the year then ended in accordance with Sri The Board of Directors (“Board”) is responsible accounting policies used and the reasonableness Lanka Accounting Standards. for the preparation of these financial statements of accounting estimates made by Board, as well • The financial statements of the Company, that give a true and fair view in accordance as evaluating the overall presentation of the and the Group comply with the with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards, and financial statements. requirements of sections 151 and 153 of for such internal control as Board determines the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007. is necessary to enable the preparation of We believe that the audit evidence we have financial statements that are free from material obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. a basis for our audit opinion. Auditors’ Responsibility Opinion Our responsibility is to express an opinion In our opinion, the consolidated financial CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS on these financial statements based on our statements give a true and fair view of the Colombo audit. We conducted our audit in accordance financial position of the Group as at 31 March with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. Those 2016, and of its financial performance and cash 24 May 2016 standards require that we comply with ethical flows for the year then ended in accordance requirements and plan and perform the audit with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. to obtain reasonable assurance about whether 105 Section 1 Financial Statements This section provides the key Financial Statements relating to financial performance, position and cash flows of the Group and the Company, which comprises of the following: Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income: Financial performance Statement of Financial Position: Financial position Statement of Changes in Equity: Summary of comprehensive income and transactions with owners Statement of Cash Flows: Cash flows Notes to the Financial Statements: Comprising of general (Section 3) and specific (Section 4) accounting policies, estimates and other disclosures (Section 5). 106 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 An unambiguous result 98 Annual Report of the Board of Directors 102 Board of Directors’ Statement on Internal Controls 103 Statement of Directors' Responsibilities for Financial Statements 105 Independent Auditors’ Report 106 Financial Statements Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2016 2015 Change 2016 2015 Change Note Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 % Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 % Revenue 4.2 37,749,750 28,037,376 35 35,403,232 26,179,115 35 Sales taxes (245,170) (244,119) 0 (208,378) (218,412) (5) Net revenue 37,504,580 27,793,257 35 35,194,854 25,960,703 36 Cost of sales (30,967,983) (22,721,291) 36 (29,408,729) (21,417,468) 37 Gross profit 6,536,597 5,071,966 29 5,786,125 4,543,235 27 Other operating income 4.3 86,141 51,742 66 103,147 63,480 62 Distribution expenses (1,083,595) (603,003) 80 (994,715) (561,206) 77 Administrative expenses (3,907,855) (3,344,844) 17 (3,529,057) (2,986,459) 18 Operating profit 1,631,288 1,175,861 39 1,365,500 1,059,050 29 Finance income 219,079 94,172 133 194,578 106,730 82 Finance costs (470,308) (423,000) 11 (468,036) (415,462) 13 Net finance costs 4.4 (251,229) (328,828) (24) (273,458) (308,732) (11) Profit before tax 4.5 1,380,059 847,033 63 1,092,042 750,318 46 Income tax expense 4.6 (433,453) (250,950) 73 (352,319) (203,757) 73 Profit for the year 946,606 596,083 59 739,723 546,561 35 Other Comprehensive Income Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Remeasurement of defined benefit obligation 4.22.1 (24,719) (10,128) 144 (22,565) (7,725) 192 Revaluation of freehold land 4.9 818,525 (100) 818,525 (100) Deferred tax charge on actuarial loss 4.6.2 6,921 2,835 144 6,318 2,163 192 (17,798) 811,232 (102) (16,247) 812,963 (102) Items that are or may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Net fair value gains on remeasuring financial assets-available-for-sale 462 1,894 (76) 466 1,889 (75) 462 1,894 (76) 466 1,889 (75) Total other comprehensive income, net of tax (17,336) 813,126 (102) (15,781) 814,852 (102) Total comprehensive income for the year 929,270 1,409,209 (34) 723,942 1,361,413 (47) Basic and diluted earnings per share (Rs.) 4.7 106.64 67.15 83.34 61.57 Figures in brackets indicate deductions. The Notes appearing on pages 112 to 146 form an integral part of these Financial Statements. 107 Statement of Financial Position Group Company As at 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Note Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Assets Property, plant and equipment 4.9 7,935,112 7,981,082 7,951,099 8,005,699 Lease rentals paid in advance 4.10 24,526 26,731 24,526 26,731 Intangible assets 4.11 14,293 24,750 14,293 24,750 Investments in subsidiaries 4.12 23,350 23,350 Financial assets-available-for-sale 4.14 7,179 6,717 7,156 6,690 Deferred tax assets 4.23 1,711 77 Total non-current assets 7,982,821 8,039,357 8,020,424 8,087,220 Certification These Financial Statements as set out on pages Inventories 4.15 7,607,292 4,778,575 7,326,211 4,596,100 106 to 146 have been prepared in compliance with the requirements of the Companies Act Trade and other receivables 4.16 3,877,074 4,118,726 3,092,234 3,451,804 No. 7 of 2007. Other current assets 4.17 689,317 804,148 596,502 739,714 Current tax asset 4.28 1,265 3,301 Amounts due from subsidiaries 4.29.1 53,714 18,951 Cash and cash equivalents 4.18 176,140 208,139 164,243 186,676 Total current assets 12,349,823 9,910,853 11,232,904 8,996,546 Total assets 20,332,644 17,950,210 19,253,328 17,083,766 E.D.C. Kodituwakku General Manager Finance and Controlling Member Group Management Committee Equity and Liabilities Equity Stated capital 4.19 425,297 425,297 425,297 425,297 Other components of equity 4.20.1 2,839,356 2,838,894 2,839,341 2,838,875 The Board of Directors is responsible for the Revenue reserves 4.20 6,725,026 5,973,747 5,869,788 5,323,841 preparation and presentation of these Financial Total equity attributable to the equity Statements. holders of the Company 9,989,679 9,237,938 9,134,426 8,588,013 Signed for and on behalf of the Board, Long-term borrowings 4.21.1 907,030 1,175,330 907,030 1,175,330 Employee benefits 4.22 500,505 415,647 468,525 390,664 Deferred tax liabilities 4.23 182,161 125,469 182,161 124,860 Deferred income 4.24 354,755 173,243 158,313 123,584 A.R. Pandithage Total non-current liabilities 1,944,451 1,889,689 1,716,029 1,814,438 Chairman/Managing Director Trade payables 4.26 1,645,819 1,981,182 1,565,629 1,882,388 Other current liabilities 4.27 1,112,860 762,893 888,778 660,219 Current portion of long-term borrowings 4.21.1 394,960 421,780 394,960 421,780 Current tax liability 4.28 65,010 23,004 Short-term borrowings 4.21.2 5,179,865 3,656,728 5,147,647 3,620,807 B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne Director/Chief Financial Officer Amounts due to subsidiaries 4.29.1 382,855 96,121 Total current liabilities 8,398,514 6,822,583 8,402,873 6,681,315 24th May 2016 Total liabilities 10,342,965 8,712,272 10,118,902 8,495,753 Colombo Total equity and liabilities 20,332,644 17,950,210 19,253,328 17,083,766 Net assets per share 1,125.42 1,040.73 1,029.06 967.51 The Notes appearing on pages 112 to 146 form an integral part of these Financial Statements. 108 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 An unambiguous result 98 Annual Report of the Board of Directors 102 Board of Directors’ Statement on Internal Controls 103 Statement of Directors' Responsibilities for Financial Statements 105 Independent Auditors’ Report 106 Financial Statements Statement of Changes in Equity Other Components of Equity Revenue Reserves Stated Revaluation AvailableGeneral Retained Total Capital Reserve for-Sale Reserve Earnings Reserve Note Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Group As at 01st April 2014 425,297 2,014,752 3,723 4,117,290 1,356,431 7,917,493 Profit for the year 596,083 596,083 Other comprehensive income, net of tax 818,525 1,894 (7,293) 813,126 Total comprehensive income 818,525 1,894 588,790 1,409,209 Transaction with owners of the Company contributions and distributions Dividends to equity owners 2013/14 First and final dividend (88,764) (88,764) Transfer during the year 225,000 (225,000) Total contributions and distributions 225,000 (313,764) (88,764) As at 31st March 2015 425,297 2,833,277 5,617 4,342,290 1,631,457 9,237,938 Profit for the year 946,606 946,606 Other comprehensive income, net of tax 462 (17,798) (17,336) Total comprehensive income 462 928,808 929,270 Transaction with owners of the Company contributions and distributions Dividends to equity owners 2014/15 First and final dividend 4.8 (177,529) (177,529) Transfer during the year 275,000 (275,000) Total contributions and distributions 275,000 (452,529) (177,529) As at 31st March 2016 425,297 2,833,277 6,079 4,617,290 2,107,736 9,989,679 Company As at 01st April 2014 425,297 2,014,752 3,709 3,904,464 967,142 7,315,364 Profit for the year 546,561 546,561 Other comprehensive income, net of tax 818,525 1,889 (5,562) 814,852 Total comprehensive income 818,525 1,889 540,999 1,361,413 Transaction with owners of the Company contributions and distributions Dividends to equity owners 2013/14 First and final dividend (88,764) (88,764) Transfer during the year 175,000 (175,000) Total contributions and distributions 175,000 (263,764) (88,764) As at 31st March 2015 425,297 2,833,277 5,598 4,079,464 1,244,377 8,588,013 Profit for the year 739,723 739,723 Other comprehensive income, net of tax 466 (16,247) (15,781) Total comprehensive income 466 723,476 723,942 Transaction with owners of the Company contributions and distributions Dividends to equity owners 2014/15 First and final dividend 4.8 (177,529) (177,529) Transfer during the year 250,000 (250,000) Total contributions and distributions 250,000 (427,529) (177,529) As at 31st March 2016 425,297 2,833,277 6,064 4,329,464 1,540,324 9,134,426 The General Reserve and Retained Earnings represent reserves available for distribution. Available-for-Sale Reserve consists of net unrealised gains arising from fair valuation of available-for-sale financial assets, excluding the impact arising from impairment of assets. Figures in brackets indicate deductions. The Notes appearing on pages 112 to 146 form an integral part of these Financial Statements. 109 Statement of Cash Flows Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Note Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Profit before taxation 1,380,059 847,033 1,092,042 750,318 Adjustments for Depreciation on property, plant and equipment 4.9 306,042 298,179 300,678 291,081 Amortisation of intangible assets and lease rentals 4.10/4.11 12,662 13,178 12,662 13,178 Amortisation of deferred income 181,512 82,225 34,729 65,893 Reversal of impairment of investments in subsidiaries 4.12.1 (2,705) Gains on sale of property, plant and equipment 4.3 (16,225) (22,018) (17,572) (22,030) Derecognition of capital work-in-progress 4.9 3,076 7,280 3,132 7,280 Interest expenses 4.4 470,308 423,000 468,036 415,462 Interest income 4.4 (23,496) (21,786) (21,060) (21,284) Dividend income 4.3 (298) (48) (11,368) (15,798) Foreign currency loan translation variance 4.21.1.1 22,542 16,238 22,542 16,238 Provision for impairment of trade receivables 4.5 217,012 7,810 195,552 7,709 Provision for/(reversal of) slow moving inventories 4.5 6,215 3,328 16,423 (15,575) Provision for employee benefits obligation excluding actuarial loss 4.5.1 78,492 67,428 71,859 61,794 2,637,901 1,721,847 2,167,655 1,551,561 Changes in working capital (Increase)/decrease in inventories (2,834,932) 85,738 (2,746,534) 175,419 (Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables 24,640 (1,383,663) 164,018 (1,359,518) (Increase)/decrease in other current assets 114,831 (383,062) 143,212 (347,862) (Increase)/decrease in amounts due from subsidiaries (34,763) 37,517 Increase/(decrease) in trade payables (335,363) 772,845 (316,759) 752,774 Increase in other current liabilities 333,253 337,031 211,845 260,843 Increase/(decrease) in amounts due to subsidiaries 286,734 (129,214) Cash generated from/(used in) operating activities (59,670) 1,150,736 (124,592) 941,520 Interest paid (453,594) (424,097) (451,322) (416,559) Employee benefits paid 4.22 (18,353) (11,551) (16,563) (11,376) Income tax paid 4.28 (305,199) (67,039) (262,395) (1,054) Net cash from/(used in) operating activities (836,816) 648,049 (854,872) 512,531 11 0 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 An unambiguous result 98 Annual Report of the Board of Directors 102 Board of Directors’ Statement on Internal Controls 103 Statement of Directors' Responsibilities for Financial Statements 105 Independent Auditors’ Report 106 Financial Statements Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Note Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Cash Flows from Investing Activities Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 37,156 34,001 37,001 34,001 Dividends received 298 48 11,368 15,798 Interest received 23,496 21,786 21,060 21,284 Acquisition and construction of property, plant and equipment and capital work-in-progress 4.9 (284,079) (733,243) (268,639) (746,571) Net cash used in investing activities (223,129) (677,408) (199,210) (675,488) Cash Flows from Financing Activities Proceeds from long-term borrowings 4.21.1.1 800,000 600,000 800,000 600,000 Repayment of long-term borrowings 4.21.1.1 (1,117,662) (851,971) (1,117,662) (851,971) Dividends paid 4.20 (177,529) (88,764) (177,529) (88,764) Net cash used in financing activities (495,191) (340,735) (495,191) (340,735) Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (1,555,136) (370,094) (1,549,273) (503,692) Cash and cash equivalents as at 1st April (3,448,589) (3,078,495) (3,434,131) (2,930,439) Cash and cash equivalents as at 31st March (Note-A) (5,003,725) (3,448,589) (4,983,404) (3,434,131) Note-A Analysis of Cash and Cash Equivalents as at 31st March Cash and bank balances 4.18 176,140 208,139 164,243 186,676 Short-term borrowings 4.21.2 (5,179,865) (3,656,728) (5,147,647) (3,620,807) Cash and cash equivalents (5,003,725) (3,448,589) (4,983,404) (3,434,131) Figures in brackets indicate deductions. The Notes appearing on pages 112 to 146 form an integral part of these Financial Statements. 111 Section 2 Corporate Information This section gives a description of the reporting entity, the principal business activities of the Company and Group entities and the identification of Financial Statements and its authorisation. 2.1 Reporting Entity Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC (the Company) is a public limited liability There were no significant changes in the nature of the principal business activities Company listed on the Colombo Stock Exchange, incorporated and domiciled of the Group and the Company during the financial year under review. The in Sri Lanka. The Company and its subsidiaries have the registered office at No. activities of the Group are described in more detail in the ‘Group Structure’ on 65, Jetawana Road, Colombo 14. The ordinary shares of the Company are being page 10. traded in the Colombo Stock Exchange. All subsidiaries of the Company have been incorporated in Sri Lanka. 2.2 Consolidated Financial Statements The Directors have made an assessment of the Group’s ability to continue as a The Consolidated Financial Statements of Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC as at going concern in the foreseeable future, and they do not intend to liquidate or to and for the year ended 31st March 2016 comprise of the Company and its fullycease trading activities in any of the Group entities. owned subsidiaries (together referred to as the ‘Group’ and individually as ‘Group Entities’). 2.4 Approval of Financial Statements by the Board of Directors Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC does not have an identifiable parent of its own. The Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March 2016, were authorised for The Company is the ultimate parent of the Group. issue by the Board of Directors on 24th May 2016. 2.3 Principal Business Activities and Nature of Operations The principal business activities of the Company and its subsidiaries are as follows: Entity Principal Business Activities The Company Diesel & Motor Engineering Import, sale and repair of passenger vehicles, PLC commercial vehicles, material handling machinery, construction machinery, agri machinery, earth moving machinery, car parking systems, power tools, lamps, batteries, import & sale of vehicle spares, components, accessories, providing lighting solutions and storage systems. Fully-owned subsidiaries DIMO (Private) Ltd Sale and after sales services of bio-medical equipment, power engineering equipment and systems, building technologies, generator sets, industrial refrigeration systems, diesel engines for marine propulsion & rail traction, and fluid management systems. DIMO Travels (Private) Ltd Provision of transportation facilities. DIMO Industries (Private) Ltd Import and sale of tyres. 11 2 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 An unambiguous result 98 Annual Report of the Board of Directors 102 Board of Directors’ Statement on Internal Controls 103 Statement of Directors' Responsibilities for Financial Statements 105 Independent Auditors’ Report 106 Financial Statements Section 3 Basis of Accounting This section provides the basis of preparation of Financial Statements including significant accounting policies and application of Sri Lanka Accounting Standards and other relevant statutory requirements. All specific accounting policies and accounting estimates in relation to the 3.6 Summary of Significant Accounting Judgements, Estimates reported values have been presented in the respective Notes in Section 4. and Assumptions In preparing these Financial Statements of the Group/Company, the Management 3.1 Statement of Compliance has made judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Group and the separate Financial of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income, Statements of the Company, have been prepared and presented in accordance expenses and disclosure of contingent liabilities. Judgements and estimates are with the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRSs/LKASs) laid down by The based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations that are Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka and in compliance with the believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Hence, actual experience requirements of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007. and results may differ from these judgements and estimates. Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis and revisions to accounting estimates are recognised prospectively. 3.2 Responsibilities for the Financial Statements The Board of Directors acknowledges their responsibility for Financial Statements, The Management considered the following items, where significant judgements, as set out in the ‘Annual Report of the Board of Directors’, ‘Statement of Directors’ estimates and assumptions have been used in preparing these Financial Responsibilities for Financial Statements’ and the certification on the Statement Statements. of Financial Position on pages 98 to 100, 103 and 108 respectively, of this Annual Report. Going concern The Management has made an assessment of its ability to continue as a going 3.3 Basis of Measurement concern and is satisfied that it has the resources to continue in business for the The Financial Statements of the Group/Company have been prepared on historical foreseeable future. Furthermore, the Management is not aware of any material cost basis, except for freehold land and financial assets-available-for-sale being uncertainties that may cast significant doubt upon the Group’s/Company’s ability measured at fair value and defined benefit obligation which is recognised at to continue as a going concern. Therefore, the Financial Statements of the Group present value. continue to be prepared on a going concern basis. The following Notes provide more information on specific accounting judgements, 3.4 Functional and Presentation Currency estimations and assumptions used. The Financial Statements of the Group/Company are presented in Sri Lankan • Impairment of non financial assets (Note 3.8) Rupees, which is the Group’s functional and presentation currency. Management judgement is used when assessing the indicators of impairment. 3.5 Use of Materiality, Offsetting and Rounding • Income tax (Note 4.6) • Deferred tax (Note 4.23) Materiality and aggregation • Provision for impairment of trade receivables (Note 4.16) Each material class of similar items is presented separately in the Financial • Employee benefits (Note 4.22) Statements. Items of dissimilar nature or function are presented separately unless • Provision for impairment of investments in subsidiaries (Note 4.12) they are immaterial. • Provisions and contingent liabilities (Note 4.25) Offsetting Assets and liabilities and income and expenses in the Financial Statements are not set off unless required or permitted by Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. Rounding The amounts in the Financial Statements have been rounded off to the nearest Rupees thousands, except where otherwise indicated. 11 3 Basis of Accounting 3.7 Significant Accounting Policies The accounting policies set out in each of the individual Notes to the Financial Foreign currency translation Statements of the Group/Company, have been applied consistently to all periods Transactions and balances presented in these Financial Statements. Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into functional currency at the The Management considers the accounting policy relating to revenue recognition exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Monetary assets and to be significant accounting policy. This policy is presented in more detail in Note liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the spot rate of the 4.1. functional currency prevailing at the reporting date. In addition, the accounting policies relating to the following are considered Foreign exchange differences arising on translation of foreign exchange relevant for the understanding of these Financial Statements. transactions are recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss. • Property, plant and equipment (Note 4.9) Impairment of non-financial assets • Fair value of assets and liabilities (Note 4.13) The carrying amount of all non-financial assets, other than inventories, are • Inventories (Note 4.15) reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of • Trade and other receivables (Note 4.16) impairment. If any such indication exists, then the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset 3.8 General Accounting Policies exceeds its recoverable amount. Basis of consolidation The 'recoverable amount' of an asset is the greater of its value in use and its fair The Group's Financial Statements comprise of consolidation of the Financial value less costs to sell. In assessing 'value in use', the estimated future cash flows Statements of the Company and its subsidiaries in terms of the Sri Lanka are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects Accounting Standard-SLFRS 10 on 'Consolidated Financial Statements'. current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. The fair value less costs to sell calculation is based on available Subsidiaries data from an active market, in an arm’s length transaction, of similar assets or Subsidiaries are investees that are controlled by the Company. The Company observable market prices less incremental costs for disposing of the asset. For ‘controls’ an investee if it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its the purpose of impairment testing, assets that cannot be tested individually are involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through grouped together into the smallest group of assets that generates cash inflows its power over the investee. At each reporting date the Company reassesses from continuing use that is largely independent of the cash inflows of other whether it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there assets. are changes to one or more of the elements of control mentioned above. The Financial Statements of all the subsidiaries are included in the Consolidated Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss and impairment losses Financial Statements from the date on which control commences until the date recognised in prior periods are assessed at each reporting date for any indications when control ceases. that the loss has decreased or no longer exists. An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable A list of the Group’s subsidiaries is set out in Note 4.12 to the Financial amount. An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying Statements. amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, The Financial Statements of the Group entities are prepared to a common net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised. financial year ending 31st March, using uniform accounting policies. Statement of cash flows There are no significant restrictions on the ability of subsidiaries to transfer funds The Statement of Cash Flows has been prepared by using the 'Indirect Method' to the Company (The Parent) in the form of cash dividend or repayment of loans of preparing of cash flows in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standardand advances. LKAS 7 on 'Statement of Cash Flows'. Cash and cash equivalents as referred to in the Statement of Cash Flows are comprised of those items as explained in Note Transactions eliminated on consolidation 4.18. Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements. Unrealised losses are also eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment. 11 4 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 An unambiguous result 98 Annual Report of the Board of Directors 102 Board of Directors’ Statement on Internal Controls 103 Statement of Directors' Responsibilities for Financial Statements 105 Independent Auditors’ Report 106 Financial Statements 3.9 New Accounting Standards Issued but not yet Effective Some of the new Standards and amendments to Standards, which have been issued but not yet effective for the financial year commencing 1st April 2015, have not been applied in preparing these Consolidated Financial Statements. New or amended Standards Summary of the requirements Possible impact on Financial Statements SLFRS 9 –‘Financial Instruments’ • SLFRS 9, issued in 2014, replaces the existing guidance in LKAS 39 Financial The Group is assessing the potential impact Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. SLFRS 9 includes revised on its Consolidated Financial Statements guidance on the classification and measurement of financial instruments, resulting from the application of SLFRS 9. including a new expected credit loss model for calculating impairment on financial assets, and the new general hedge accounting requirements. It also carries forward the guidance on recognition and de-recognition of financial instruments from LKAS 39. • SLFRS 9 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 01st January 2018. SLFRS 15-‘Revenue from Contracts • SLFRS 15 establishes a comprehensive framework for determining whether, The Group is assessing the potential impact with Customers’ how much and when revenue is recognised. It replaces existing revenue on its Consolidated Financial Statements recognition guidance, including LKAS 18 on ‘Revenue’ and LKAS 11 on resulting from the application of SLFRS 15. ‘Construction Contracts’. • SLFRS 15 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 01st January 2018. The following new or amended Accounting Standards are effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 01st January 2016 and they are not expected to have a significant impact on the Financial Statements of the Group. • Disclosure Initiative (Amendment to LKAS 1) • Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements (Amendment to LKAS 27) • Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception (Amendments to SLFRS 10, SLFRS 12 and LKAS 28) • Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations (Amendments to SLFRS 11) • Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture (Amendments to SLFRS 10 and LKAS 28) • Agriculture: Bearer Plants (Amendments to LKAS 16 and LKAS 41) • SLFRS 14-‘Regulatory Deferral Account’ 11 5 Section 4 Specific Accounting Policies and Notes This section provides specific accounting policies and basis of accounting estimates in relation to the reported values in the Financial Statements with additional Notes and explanations there on. 4.1 Revenue Accounting Policy Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership The Board of Directors regularly reviews the operating results of all operating have been transferred to the customers, to the extent that it is probable that business segments for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation the economic benefits will flow to the Group/Company and the revenue and and performance assessment. Segment performance is evaluated based on associated costs incurred or to be incurred can be reliably measured. Revenue is operating profit or loss which in certain respects, is measured differently from measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable net of trade operating profit or loss in the Consolidated Financial Statements. discounts and sales taxes. The Group/Company separately identifies different The Group comprises of the following main business segments as per the products components of a single transaction in order to reflect the substance of the and services offered: transaction. The following specific criteria are used for the purpose of recognition of revenue. Reportable segments Operations Vehicles–Sales Sale of brand new passenger vehicles, commercial Sale of goods vehicles, agri machinery, special purpose vehicles and Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when the significant risks and pre-owned passenger vehicles. rewards of ownership of the goods have been passed to the buyer, usually on Vehicles–After Repair and service of vehicle included in the vehiclesdelivery of the goods. Services sale segment, sale of franchised vehicle spare parts, accessories and components. Rendering of services Marketing and Sale and service of power tools and accessories, lamps, Revenue from services rendered is recognised in Profit or Loss once all significant Distributions batteries, lighting controls, switchgear, fittings and accessories, tyres, original equipment spare parts and performance obligations have been provided. auto components. Constructions related contracts Construction and Sales and services of earth moving machinery, road Material Handling construction machinery, material handling machinery, Revenue from construction related contracts is recognised in Profit or Loss Equipment forklifts, storage systems, dock levellers, car parking by reference to the stage of completion of the transactions at the end of the systems and gondolas. reporting date. Electro-Mechanical, Sale, installation, commissioning and maintenance of The stage of completion is assessed by reference to surveys of work performed. Bio-Medical and medical equipment, generating sets, diesel engines Marine Engineering for marine propulsion and rail traction, building When the outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated reliably, management systems, fluid management systems, contract revenue is recognised only to the extent of contract costs incurred that industrial refrigeration systems and power engineering are likely to be recoverable. equipment and systems. Service support income Inter-segment transfers are based on fair market prices (arm’s length basis in a Service support income which is included in revenue represents income received manner similar to transactions with third parties). Segment results, assets and from foreign principals on indent sales. Such income is recognised on an accrual liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can basis at the time of supply of goods and services relating to the service support be allocated on a reasonable basis. provided by the Group. Unallocated assets and liabilities comprise mainly of assets and liabilities that 4.2 Operating Segment Information cannot be attributed to a particular segment. Accounting Policy Finance income and expenses and income taxes are managed on a Group basis and are not allocated to operating business segments. The operating business segments are organised and managed separately according to the nature of the products and services provided. The primary Sales to any single customer does not represent more than 10% of the total segment reporting format is determined based on products and services offered sales and no segments are determined based on the geographical area as all the as the Group’s risks and returns are affected predominantly by differences in the segments are operating in the same economic environment. products and services provided. 11 6 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 An unambiguous result 98 Annual Report of the Board of Directors 102 Board of Directors’ Statement on Internal Controls 103 Statement of Directors' Responsibilities for Financial Statements 105 Independent Auditors’ Report 106 Financial Statements Segmental Results, Assets and Liabilities Group Vehicles Vehicles Marketing and Construction and Material Electro-Mechanical, Total Sales After Services Distribution Handling Equipment Bio-Medical and Marine Engineering For the year ended 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Business Segment Turnover and Results Total segment revenue 27,323,634 18,806,431 3,699,413 3,026,017 3,934,088 3,419,260 1,602,575 1,806,465 2,188,449 1,815,760 38,748,159 28,873,933 Inter-segment revenue (40,754) (8,846) (819,969) (657,403) (73,286) (68,525) (43,689) (56,649) (20,711) (45,134) (998,409) (836,557) Total external revenue 27,282,880 18,797,585 2,879,444 2,368,614 3,860,802 3,350,735 1,558,886 1,749,816 2,167,738 1,770,626 37,749,750 28,037,376 Segment results 1,946,405 1,394,122 492,275 407,259 258,682 295,923 169,523 201,221 277,605 152,363 3,144,490 2,450,888 Unallocated other income 86,141 51,742 Unallocated expenses (1,599,343) (1,326,769) Finance costsnet (251,229) (328,828) Income tax expense (433,453) (250,950) Profit for the year 946,606 596,083 Business Segment Assets and Liabilities Segment assets 6,280,762 3,639,242 1,654,312 1,466,620 2,466,779 1,759,877 1,132,248 1,067,082 1,644,984 1,359,269 13,179,085 9,292,090 Unallocated assets 7,153,559 8,658,120 Total assets 20,332,644 17,950,210 Segment liabilities 2,641,101 1,892,333 520,752 238,170 647,725 299,093 246,404 375,313 217,318 5,059 4,273,300 2,809,968 Unallocated liabilities 6,069,665 5,902,304 Equity 9,989,679 9,237,938 Total equity and liabilities 20,332,644 17,950,210 Other Information Capital expenditure 27,792 21,040 63,364 47,251 10,320 3,386 4,487 7,180 15,576 6,123 121,539 84,980 Unallocated capital expenditure 162,540 648,263 Depreciation and amortisation 25,541 30,501 97,039 91,659 12,762 16,844 5,412 5,613 8,973 10,264 149,727 154,881 Unallocated depreciation and amortisation 168,977 156,476 Group-Segment Revenue 2016 Group-Segment Revenue 2015 % % Construction and Material ElectroConstruction and Material ElectroHandling Equipments Mechanical and Handling Equipments Mechanical and 4 Bio-Medical and 6 Bio-Medical and Marine Marine Marketing and Engineering Marketing and Engineering Distribution 6 Distribution 7 10 12 8 72 8 67 Vehicles After Services Vehicles Sales Vehicles After Services Vehicles Sales 11 7 Specific Accounting Policies and Notes Segmental Results, Assets and Liabilities Company Vehicles Sales Vehicles After Services Marketing and Distribution Construction and Material Total Handling Equipment For the year ended 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Business Segment Turnover and Results Total segment revenue 27,323,634 18,806,431 3,699,412 3,026,017 3,732,425 3,324,894 1,602,575 1,806,465 36,358,046 26,963,807 Inter-segment revenue (40,713) (8,814) (815,879) (653,698) (54,533) (65,531) (43,689) (56,649) (954,814) (784,692) Total external revenue 27,282,921 18,797,617 2,883,533 2,372,319 3,677,892 3,259,363 1,558,886 1,749,816 35,403,232 26,179,115 Segment results 1,946,405 1,394,122 492,275 692,280 237,103 295,923 169,523 201,221 2,845,306 2,298,525 Unallocated other income 103,147 63,480 Unallocated expenses (1,582,953) (1,302,955) Finance costs net (273,458) (308,732) Income tax expense (352,319) (203,757) Profit for the year 739,723 546,561 Business Segment Assets and Liabilities Segment assets 6,280,762 3,639,242 1,654,312 1,466,620 2,466,779 1,759,877 1,132,248 1,067,082 11,534,101 7,932,821 Unallocated assets 7,719,227 9,150,945 Total assets 19,253,328 17,083,766 Segment liabilities 2,641,101 1,892,333 520,752 238,170 647,725 299,093 246,404 375,313 4,055,982 2,804,909 Unallocated liabilities 6,062,920 5,690,844 Equity 9,134,426 8,588,013 Total equity and liabilities 19,253,328 17,083,766 Other Information Capital expenditure 27,792 21,040 63,364 47,251 10,320 3,386 4,487 7,180 105,963 78,857 Unallocated capital expenditure 162,676 667,714 Depreciation and amortisation 25,541 30,501 97,039 91,659 12,762 16,844 5,412 5,613 140,754 144,617 Unallocated depreciation and amortisation 172,586 159,642 Company-Segment Revenue 2016 Company-Segment Revenue 2015 % % Marketing and Construction and Marketing and Construction and Distribution Material Handling Distribution Material Handling 10 Equipments 12 Equipments 5 7 8 77 9 72 Vehicles After Services Vehicles Sales Vehicles After Services Vehicles Sales 11 8 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 An unambiguous result 98 Annual Report of the Board of Directors 102 Board of Directors’ Statement on Internal Controls 103 Statement of Directors' Responsibilities for Financial Statements 105 Independent Auditors’ Report 106 Financial Statements 4.3 Other Operating Income/(Expenses) Accounting Policy Gains or losses on sale of property, plant and equipment Income earned and expenses incurred on other sources, which are not directly The gains or losses on the sale of property, plant and equipment are determined related to the normal operations of the Group are recognised as other operating on the difference between the carrying amount of the property, plant and income/(expenses). equipment at the time of disposal and the proceeds of disposal, net of expenses incurred on disposal. This is recognised in the year in which significant risks and The following specific criteria are used for the purpose of recognising income. rewards of ownership are transferred to the buyer. Dividend income Dividend income is recognised when the Group's/Company's right to receive payment is established. Other Operating Income Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Sundry income 69,618 29,676 74,207 25,652 Dividend income 298 48 11,368 15,798 Gains on sale of property, plant and equipment 16,225 22,018 17,572 22,030 86,141 51,742 103,147 63,480 4.4 Finance Income and Costs Accounting Policies Finance income comprises of interest income. Interest income is recognised as it A qualifying asset is an asset which takes a substantial period of time to get accrues, using the effective interest method. ready for its intended use or sale. Capitalisation of borrowing costs ceases when substantially all the activities necessary to prepare the qualifying asset for its Finance costs comprise of interest expense on borrowings and impairment losses intended use are completed. Other borrowing costs are recognised in Profit or recognised on financial assets (other than trade receivables). Interest expenses are Loss in the period in which they occur. recognised using the effective interest method. Foreign currency gains and losses are reported on a net basis as either finance Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or income or finance costs depending on whether foreign currency movements are production of a qualifying asset are capitalised as part of the cost of the asset. in a net gain or net loss position. Net Finance Costs Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Interest income 23,496 21,786 21,060 21,284 Exchange gain on translation of foreign currency 195,583 72,386 173,518 85,446 Total finance income 219,079 94,172 194,578 106,730 Interest on long-term borrowings (97,957) (105,692) (97,957) (105,692) Interest on short-term borrowings (372,351) (317,308) (370,079) (309,770) Total finance costs (470,308) (423,000) (468,036) (415,462) Net finance costs recognised in profit or loss (251,229) (328,828) (273,458) (308,732) Capitalisation of Finance Income and Costs Finance income 7,216 7,216 Finance costs (16,192) (16,192) Net finance costs (8,976) (8,976) 11 9 Specific Accounting Policies and Notes 4.5 Profit Before Tax Profit before tax is stated after charging/(reversing) the following: Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Directors’ emoluments Short-term employment benefits 257,560 207,809 238,649 192,236 Post-employment benefits 53,650 41,988 49,845 39,133 Auditors’ remuneration Audit and audit-related services 4,807 4,447 3,925 3,531 Non-audit services 629 571 375 341 Depreciation on property, plant and equipment 306,042 298,179 300,678 291,081 Amortisation of intangible assets and lease rentals paid in advance 12,662 13,178 12,662 13,178 Provision for impairment of trade receivables 217,012 7,810 195,552 7,709 Provision for/(reversal of) slow moving inventories 6,215 3,328 16,423 (15,575) Donations 2,809 11,515 2,248 11,360 Legal fees 25,186 25,233 23,968 24,508 Staff expenses (Note 4.5.1) 1,781,138 1,686,434 1,550,846 1,479,959 4.5.1 Staff Expenses Accounting Policies Salaries and wages, contribution to EPF and ETF, training expenses and current service cost of defined benefit plans are recognised as an expense in the year in which the related services are provided. Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Defined contribution plan cost 189,908 182,403 162,565 159,187 Employee benefit obligation costs (Note 4.22.1) 78,492 67,428 71,859 61,794 Training expenses 50,871 43,412 37,903 29,245 Salaries and wages 1,461,867 1,393,191 1,278,519 1,229,733 1,781,138 1,686,434 1,550,846 1,479,959 Average number of employees for the year 1,554 1,527 1,401 1,352 The average number of employees is calculated by averaging the number of employees as at the year end in the current and previous year. 4.6 Income Tax Accounting Policy Accounting Estimate Income tax expense for the year comprises of current and deferred tax including The Group/Company recognises liabilities for anticipated tax, based on estimate adjustments to previous years and changes in tax provisions. It is recognised in of taxable income. Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different Profit or Loss except to the extent it relates to items recognised directly in Equity from the amount that was initially recorded, such difference will be adjusted or in Other Comprehensive Income (OCI). in the current year’s income tax charge and/in the deferred assets/liabilities as appropriate in the period in which such determination is made. Current tax Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, Deferred tax using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date and any A detail disclosure of accounting policies and estimate of deferred tax are adjustments to tax payable in respect of previous years. available in Note 4.23. 120 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 An unambiguous result 98 Annual Report of the Board of Directors 102 Board of Directors’ Statement on Internal Controls 103 Statement of Directors' Responsibilities for Financial Statements 105 Independent Auditors’ Report 106 Financial Statements Income Tax Expense Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Current Tax Expense Current tax on profit for the year (Note 4.6.1) 259,487 138,031 178,413 93,633 Under provision in respect of previous years * 111,987 14,599 110,287 12,033 371,474 152,630 288,700 105,666 Deferred Tax Expense Origination of temporary differences (Note 4.6.2) 61,979 98,320 63,619 98,091 Total income tax expense 433,453 250,950 352,319 203,757 Effective tax rate (%)-including deferred tax 31% 30% 32% 27% Effective tax rate (%)-excluding deferred tax 27% 18% 26% 14% * This includes a provision of Rs. 103.6 million in respect of tax assessment raised in the year of assessment 2011/2012, which was finalised during the year. 4.6.1 Reconciliation of Accounting Profit to Income Tax Expense Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Profit before taxation 1,380,059 847,033 1,092,042 750,318 Disallowable expenses 628,990 664,789 587,858 605,991 Allowable expenses (846,648) (790,818) (804,594) (759,119) Income not liable for tax (16,739) (15,798) (12,013) (15,798) Qualifying payments (226,642) (247,039) (226,103) (246,989) Taxable income 919,020 458,167 637,190 334,403 Income tax Tax at 28% 259,487 138,031 178,413 93,633 Current tax on profit for the year 259,487 138,031 178,413 93,633 Current tax has been computed in accordance with the provisions of Inland Withholding tax on the final dividend approved on 24th May 2016 is Rs. 22.8 Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 and amendments thereto. million. The actual liability arises in the year in which dividend is paid. Therefore, no liability is recognised in these Financial Statements. The companies within the Group are liable to income tax at 28%. 4.6.2 Recognition of Deferred Tax Expenses in the Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Statement of Profit or Loss (Note 4.23.2) 61,979 98,320 63,619 98,091 Other Comprehensive Income (Note 4.23.2) (6,921) (2,835) (6,318) (2,163) 55,058 95,485 57,301 95,928 4.6.3 Tax Losses Brought Forward and Utilised during the Year Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 At the beginning of the year 2,221 Under claimed previous year (1,142) Claimed during the year (1,079) At the end of the year Tax losses claimed were in relation to DIMO Industries (Private) Ltd. 121 Specific Accounting Policies and Notes 4.7 Earnings Per Share-Basic and Diluted Accounting Policy-Measurement basis The earnings per share has been calculated by dividing the profit for the year The weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number and the previous year are adjusted for events that have changed the number of of ordinary shares outstanding during the year. ordinary shares outstanding during the year. Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders (Rs. ’000) 946,606 596,083 739,723 546,561 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 8,876,437 8,876,437 8,876,437 8,876,437 Earnings per ordinary share-basic and diluted (Rs.) 106.64 67.15 83.34 61.57 Group-Earnings per Share Company-Earnings per Share Rs. Rs. 120 106.64 100 83.34 96 80 61.57 67.15 72 60 48 40 24 20 2015 2016 2015 2016 4.8 Dividends Company For the year ended 31st March 2016 2015 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Final dividend approved 239,664 177,529 239,664 177,529 Dividend per share (Rs.) 27 20 No interim dividend was paid during the financial year 2015/16 (No interim dividend was paid in 2014/15). 4.8.1 Approved Final Dividend 4.8.2 Compliance with Section 56 and 57 of Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 On 24th May 2016, the Board of Directors of the Company recommended the As required by Section 56 of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, the Board of payment of a first and final dividend of Rs. 27.00 per share for the year ended Directors of the Company satisfied the solvency test in accordance with Section 31st March 2016 (2014/15 first and final dividend of Rs. 20.00 per share). 57, prior to recommending the final dividend. A statement of solvency completed In accordance with the provisions of LKAS 10 on ‘Events after the Reporting and duly signed by the Directors on 24th May 2016 has been audited by Messrs Period’, this final dividend has not been recognised as a liability in the Financial KPMG, Chartered Accountants. Statements as at 31st March 2016. 122 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 An unambiguous result 98 Annual Report of the Board of Directors 102 Board of Directors’ Statement on Internal Controls 103 Statement of Directors' Responsibilities for Financial Statements 105 Independent Auditors’ Report 106 Financial Statements 4.9 Property, Plant and Equipment Accounting Policy Subsequent costs Basis of recognition When significant parts of a property, plant and equipment are required to be Property, plant and equipment are recognised if it is probable that future replaced at regular intervals, the Group derecognises the replaced part, and economic benefits associated with the asset will flow to the Group/Company and recognises the new part with its own associated useful life and depreciates cost of the asset can be measured reliably. accordingly. Ongoing repair and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred. Basis of measurement Derecognition All property, plant and equipment are initially measured at its cost. Cost includes An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal, expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset and replacement or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use. Any subsequent costs (as explained under 'subsequent costs') . The cost of selfgain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset is included in Profit or Loss in constructed assets include the cost of materials, direct labour, any other costs the period the asset is derecognised. directly attributable to bringing the asset to a working condition for its intended Depreciation use, the costs of dismantling and removing the items and restoring the site on which they are located and borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the Depreciation is based on straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of asset under construction. the assets. Freehold land is not depreciated. When parts of an item of property or equipment have different useful lives, Depreciation of an asset begins from the date it is available for use or in respect they are accounted for as separate items (major components) of property or of self constructed assets from the date that the asset is completed and ready equipment. for use. Depreciation ceases at the earlier of the date that the asset is classified as held for sale and the date that the asset is derecognised. Purchased software which is integral to the functionality of the related equipment is capitalised as part of that equipment. The estimated useful lives of assets are as follows: Cost model Class of Asset Year Property, plant and equipment (excluding freehold land), is stated at cost, net of Buildings 36 40 accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, if any. Buildings on leasehold land Over the lease period Plant and machinery 08-13 When an asset’s carrying value is higher than it’s estimated recoverable amount, the carrying value is written down to its recoverable amount (Please refer Note Tools and implements 03-04 3.8 Impairment of non-financial assets). Motor vehicles 03-04 Furniture and fittings 09-13 Revaluation model Office equipment and electrical fittings 06-10 The Group/Company applies the revaluation model for the entire class of freehold Computer hardware and software 03-04 land for measurement after initial recognition. The Group policy is to revalue all freehold land every three years or when there is a substantial difference between Residual values, useful lives and method of depreciation are reviewed at each the fair value and the carrying amount. financial year end and adjusted if appropriate. Any revaluation surplus is recognised in Other Comprehensive Income and Capital work-in-progress accumulated in equity in the revaluation reserve, except to the extent that it reverses a revaluation decrease of the same asset previously recognised in Profit Capital work-in-progress is stated at cost, including borrowing costs, less any or Loss, in which case the increase is recognised in Profit or Loss. accumulated impairment losses. These would be transferred to the relevant asset category in property, plant and equipment when the asset is completed and A revaluation deficit is recognised in Profit or Loss, except to the extent that available for use i.e. when it is in the location and condition necessary for it to be it offsets an existing surplus on the same asset recognised in the revaluation capable of operating in the manner intended by management. reserve. Upon disposal, any revaluation reserve relating to particular assets being sold is transferred to retained earnings. 123 Specific Accounting Policies and Notes Carrying Value of Property, Plant and Equipment Group *Freehold Buildings Buildings Plant and Tools and Motor Computer Electrical Total Land and on Machinery Implements Vehicles Hardware Fixtures, Premises Leasehold and Fittings Land Software and Office Equipment 2016 2015 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Cost or Revalued Amount At the beginning of the year 4,391,922 2,382,592 235,435 666,538 238,031 506,163 226,762 521,082 9,168,525 5,900,688 Revaluation 818,525 Additions 1,304 3,374 17,112 8,925 93,772 20,398 21,665 166,550 412,289 Transferred from capital work-in-progress 43,355 19,807 11,312 17,811 92,285 2,105,041 Disposals (15,105) (16,568) (955) (60,798) (4,769) (4,241) (102,436) (68,018) At the end of the year 4,391,922 2,412,146 238,809 686,889 257,313 539,137 242,391 556,317 9,324,924 9,168,525 Depreciation At the beginning of the year 193,436 58,930 204,465 181,058 314,325 181,030 180,337 1,313,581 1,071,437 Charge for the year 60,076 24,571 48,184 23,944 83,117 23,267 42,883 306,042 298,179 On disposals (11,079) (4,126) (955) (58,939) (4,438) (1,968) (81,505) (56,035) At the end of the year 242,433 83,501 248,523 204,047 338,503 199,859 221,252 1,538,118 1,313,581 Carrying amount before capital work-in-progress 4,391,922 2,169,713 155,308 438,366 53,266 200,634 42,532 335,065 7,786,806 7,854,944 Capital work-in-progress at cost At the beginning of the year 123,419 345 316 2,058 126,138 1,917,505 Additions 51,543 24,254 13,247 9,247 19,238 117,529 320,954 Transferred to PPE (43,355) (19,807) (11,312) (17,811) (92,285) (2,105,041) Derecognition (3,076) (3,076) (7,280) At the end of the year 128,531 4,792 2,251 9,247 3,485 148,306 126,138 Carrying amount as at 31st March 2016 4,391,922 2,298,244 155,308 443,158 55,517 200,634 51,779 338,550 7,935,112 Carrying amount as at 31st March 2015 4,391,922 2,312,575 176,505 462,418 57,289 191,838 45,732 342,803 7,981,082 Carrying Value of Property, Plant and Equipment Company *Freehold Buildings Buildings Plant and Tools and Motor Computer Electrical Total Land and on Machinery Implements Vehicles Hardware Fixtures, Premises Leasehold and Fittings Land Software and Office Equipment 2016 2015 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Cost or Revalued Amount At the beginning of the year 4,391,922 2,413,359 235,435 640,037 216,163 500,713 205,421 524,362 9,127,412 5,801,902 Revaluation 818,525 Additions 1,380 3,374 9,620 8,524 93,773 16,790 17,649 151,110 406,166 Transferred from capital work-in-progress 43,618 19,807 11,312 17,811 92,548 2,168,098 Disposals (15,105) (13,649) (936) (60,798) (3,895) (4,241) (98,624) (67,279) At the end of the year 4,391,922 2,443,252 238,809 655,815 235,063 533,688 218,316 555,581 9,272,446 9,127,412 Depreciation At the beginning of the year 193,617 58,930 187,754 163,089 309,438 164,198 171,144 1,248,170 1,012,397 Charge for the year 60,852 24,571 46,438 22,053 82,554 20,699 43,511 300,678 291,081 On disposals (11,079) (2,554) (936) (58,939) (3,719) (1,968) (79,195) (55,308) At the end of the year 243,390 83,501 231,638 184,206 333,053 181,178 212,687 1,469,653 1,248,170 Carrying amount before capital work-in-progress 4,391,922 2,199,862 155,308 424,177 50,857 200,635 37,138 342,894 7,802,793 7,879,242 Capital work-in-progress at cost At the beginning of the year 123,738 345 316 2,058 126,457 1,961,430 Additions 51,543 24,254 13,247 9,247 19,238 117,529 340,405 Transferred to PPE (43,618) (19,807) (11,312) (17,811) (92,548) (2,168,098) Derecognition (3,132) (3,132) (7,280) At the end of the year 128,531 4,792 2,251 9,247 3,485 148,306 126,457 Carrying amount as at 31st March 2016 4,391,922 2,328,393 155,308 428,969 53,108 200,635 46,385 346,379 7,951,099 Carrying amount as at 31st March 2015 4,391,922 2,343,480 176,505 452,628 53,390 191,275 41,223 355,276 8,005,699 124 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 An unambiguous result 98 Annual Report of the Board of Directors 102 Board of Directors’ Statement on Internal Controls 103 Statement of Directors' Responsibilities for Financial Statements 105 Independent Auditors’ Report 106 Financial Statements 4.9.1 Revaluation of Freehold Land Freehold land was revalued as at 15th September 2014 by Mr. K. Arthur Perera, A.M.I.V. (Sri Lanka) who is a professionally qualified independent valuer. The valuation method adopted was Market Comparable Method. The value of freehold land has been written up to correspond with the market value and the details are as follows: Freehold Land Location Significant Extent Original Revalued Revalued Freehold Pledged Mortgaged Unobservable Cost Amount Building to Financial Inputs as No. of Square Institution Times of Feet Cost Rs. Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 No. 65, Jetawana Road, Colombo 14 5,000,000 p.p 2A-0R-33.29P 414 1,523,320 3,679.52 85,272 – – No. 56, K. Cyril C. Perera Mawatha, Colombo 14 4,000,000 p.p Sanctioned Street Line 2,000,000 p.p No. 61, Jetawana Road, Colombo 14 5,500,000 p.p 0A-1R-04.00P 18,014 242,000 13.43 11,418 – – No. 74, Jetawana Road, Colombo 14 5,000,000 p.p 0A-1R-14.56P 113,808 272,800 2.40 4,043 – – No. 800, Sirimawo Bandaranaike Mawatha, 1,500,000 p.p 3A-3R-14.00P 641,519 930,900 1.45 229,025 – – Colombo 14 No. 135, Mahena Road, Siyambalape and 200,000 p.p 8A-3R-19.90P 37,606 281,700 7.49 96,300 – – No. 274/A, Kakunagaha Watta, Siyambalape Kirindiwela Road, Weliweriya 97,500 p.p 16A-0R-36.31P 89,958 248,625 2.76 219,880 ✓ Commercial Bank No.360, Madampitiya Road, Mahawatta, 2,000,000 p.p 1A-2R-26.80P 301,599 533,600 1.77 – – Colombo 14 No. 09, Ariyala, Kandy Road, Jaffna 122,600 p.p 1A-2R-26.72P 32,487 32,700 1.01 38,675 – – Yaggapitiya Watta, Dambulla Road, Kurunegala 70,000 p.p 5A-0R-0P 54,599 56,000 1.03 – – No. 23, Kaldemulla Road, Ratmalana 637,500 p.p 0A-3R-27.04P 92,102 93,738 1.02 17,323 – – No. 63 & 63 A Jetawana Road, Colombo 14 0A-1R-08.75P 176,539 176,539* 13,294 Total 1,558,645 4,391,922 715,230 p.p-per perch *This freehold land was acquired subsequent to the last revaluation date and therefore, the original cost is shown under the ‘Revalued’ column. Description of the valuation technique used together with narrative description on sensitivity of the fair value measurement to changes in significant unobservable inputs are as follows: Valuation technique Significant unobservable inputs Sensitivity of fair value measurement to inputs Market Comparable Method Price per perch for land Estimated fair value would increase/(decrease) if This method considers the selling price of a similar property within a reasonably the price per perch would higher/(lower). recent period of time in determining the fair value of the property being revalued. This involves evaluation of recent active market prices of similar assets, making appropriate adjustments for any differences in the nature, location or condition of the specific property. 4.9.2 Fully Depreciated but still in Use 4.9.3 Property, Plant and Equipment Pledged as Security against Long-Term The cost of fully-depreciated property, plant and equipment of the Group and the Bank Loan Company which are still in use amounted to Rs. 762.2 million (2015 Rs. 587.1 Land and buildings with a carrying value of Rs. 248 million (2015 Rs. 248 million) million) and Rs. 720 million (2015 Rs. 551.2 million) respectively. have been pledged as security against term loans obtained. 125 Specific Accounting Policies and Notes 4.9.4 Permanent Fall in Value of Property, Plant and Equipment 4.10 Lease Rentals Paid in Advance There is no permanent fall in the value of property, plant and equipment which Accounting Policy require a provision for impairment. Lease rentals paid in advance are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation. Such carrying amounts are amortised over the remaining lease period or useful 4.9.5 Title Restriction on Property, Plant and Equipment life of the leasehold property whichever is shorter. There were no restrictions existed on the title to the property, plant and equipment of the Group/Company as at the reporting date. Carrying Value of Lease Rentals Paid in Advance Group Company As at 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Cost At the beginning of the year 39,938 39,938 39,938 39,938 Additions during the year At the end of the year 39,938 39,938 39,938 39,938 Accumulated Amortisation At the beginning of the year 11,002 8,797 11,002 8,797 Amortisation for the year 2,205 2,205 2,205 2,205 At the end of the year 13,207 11,002 13,207 11,002 Carrying amount at the end of the year 26,731 28,936 26,731 28,936 Current portion of lease rentals paid (Note 4.17) 2,205 2,205 2,205 2,205 Non-current portion of lease rentals paid 24,526 26,731 24,526 26,731 Carrying amount at the end of the year 26,731 28,936 26,731 28,936 4.10.1 Details of Lease Rentals Paid in Advance Amount of Lease Duration of the Lease Location Rs. ‘000 i. No. 562/126, D.S. Senanayake Mawatha, Anuradhapura 2,400 From April 1997 to August 2021 ii. No. 562/100, Jayanthi Mawatha, Anuradhapura 37,538 From October 2010 to May 2028 39,938 4.11 Intangible Assets Accounting Policy Basis of recognition are assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible An intangible asset is recognised if it is probable that future economic benefits asset may be impaired. that are attributable to the asset will flow to the entity and the cost of the asset Intangible assets mainly represent cost of computer software and the amortisation can be measured reliably. rate is as follows: Basis of measurement Computer software 4 Years Acquired intangible assets are measured at cost less accumulated amortisation The above rate is consistent with the rate used in the previous years. Amortisation and accumulated impairment losses, if any. method, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each reporting date and adjusted if appropriate. Subsequent expenditure Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it increases the future economic Derecognition benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates. All other expenditure Intangible assets are derecognised on disposal, replacement or when no future is expensed as incurred. economic benefits are expected from its use. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset is included in Profit or Loss in the period the asset is Useful economic lives, amortisation derecognised. Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful life from the date that they are available for use. These assets 126 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 An unambiguous result 98 Annual Report of the Board of Directors 102 Board of Directors’ Statement on Internal Controls 103 Statement of Directors' Responsibilities for Financial Statements 105 Independent Auditors’ Report 106 Financial Statements Carrying Value of Intangible Assets Group Company As at 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Cost At the beginning of the year 46,700 46,700 46,700 46,700 Additions during the year At the end of the year 46,700 46,700 46,700 46,700 Accumulated Amortisation At the beginning of the year 21,950 10,977 21,950 10,977 Amortisation for the year 10,457 10,973 10,457 10,973 At the end of the year 32,407 21,950 32,407 21,950 Carrying amount at the end of the year 14,293 24,750 14,293 24,750 4.12 Investments in Subsidiaries Accounting Policy Accounting Estimate Provision for Impairment Investments in subsidiaries are recorded at cost less impairment in the Financial An impairment assessment was carried out as at 31st March 2016 and it was Statements of the Company. The net assets of each subsidiary are reviewed at concluded that net realisable value of all the investments included under each reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. unquoted investments exceed its carrying value. If any such indication exists, then the recoverable amount of the investment is estimated and the impairment loss is recognised to the extent of its net assets loss. Carrying Value of Investments in Subsidiaries Company As at 31st March Percentage of Holding (%) 2016 2015 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Unquoted Investment Ordinary Shares DIMO (Private) Ltd 25,000 ordinary shares 100 250 250 DIMO Industries (Private) Ltd 2,305,000 ordinary shares 100 23,050 23,050 DIMO Travels (Private) Ltd 500 ordinary shares 100 50 50 23,350 23,350 Impairment provision (Note 4.12.1) 23,350 23,350 The Group does not have any subsidiaries with significant non controlling interests as all subsidiaries are fully owned by Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC. Accordingly no additional disclosures are made in these Financial Statements under SLFRS 12. 4.12.1 Movement in Provision for Impairment of Investments in Subsidiaries Company As at 31st March 2016 2015 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 At the beginning of the year 2,705 Reversal of impairment (2,705) At the end of the year 127 Specific Accounting Policies and Notes 4.13 Fair value of Assets and Liabilities Accounting Policies material delay to a third party under a ‘pass through’ arrangement, and Financial assets either, i. The Group: has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the Initial recognition and measurement asset, or The Group/Company classifies financial assets at initial recognition as availableii. has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards for-sale financial assets or loans and receivables based on the purpose of each of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset investment. At the end of each reporting period all classifications are re-evaluated to the extent that such classification is permitted and required. On derecognition of a financial asset, the difference between the carrying amount of the asset (or the carrying amount allocated to the portion of the asset All the financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus directly attributable derecognised) and the sum of the consideration received (including any new asset transaction costs. obtained less any new liability assumed) and any cumulative gain or loss that had The subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on their classification. been recognised in Other Comprehensive Income is recognised in Profit or Loss. Please refer Notes 4.14 and 4.16 on pages 132 and 133 for details of different types of financial assets recognised in the Statement of Financial Position. Financial liabilities Initial recognition and measurement Financial assets available-for-sale (AFS) The Group classifies financial liabilities at initial recognition as other financial Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that liabilities. At the end of each reporting period all classifications are re-evaluated are designated as available-for-sale financial assets or are not classified as loans to the extent that such classification is permitted and required. and receivables, held-to-maturity investments or financial assets at fair value through profit or loss. All the financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value less any directly attributable transaction costs. Other financial liabilities mainly consist of trade Available-for-sale financial assets consist of investments in quoted shares held and other payables and bank borrowings. for earnings on income or for capital appreciation. The subsequent measurement of financial liabilities depends on their classification. Loans and receivables Please refer Notes 4.21 and 4.26 on pages 136 and 142 for details of financial Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or liabilities recognised in the Statement of Financial Position. determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. Loans and receivables mainly consist of trade and other receivables. Derecognition A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is Derecognition of financial assets discharged or cancelled or expires. A financial asset (or, where applicable a part of a financial asset or part of a group of similar financial assets) is derecognised when: Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities a. The right to receive cash flows from the asset has expired Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in b. The Group has transferred its right to receive cash flows from the asset the Statement of Financial Position if, and only if, there is a currently enforceable or has assumed an obligation to pay the received cash in full without legal right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously. 4.13.1 Financial Assets and Liabilities by Category Financial Assets Group Company As at 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 i. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss ii. Held-to-maturity (HTM) iii. Loans and receivables (L&R) Trade and other receivables 3,877,074 4,118,726 3,092,234 3,451,804 Cash and cash equivalents 176,140 208,139 164,243 186,676 Amounts due from subsidiaries 53,714 18,951 iv. Available-for-sale (AFS) Financial assets-available-for-sale 7,179 6,717 7,156 6,690 Total financial assets 4,060,393 4,333,582 3,317,347 3,664,121 128 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 An unambiguous result 98 Annual Report of the Board of Directors 102 Board of Directors’ Statement on Internal Controls 103 Statement of Directors' Responsibilities for Financial Statements 105 Independent Auditors’ Report 106 Financial Statements Financial Liabilities Group Company As at 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 i. Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss ii. Other financial liabilities Current portion of long-term borrowings 394,960 421,780 394,960 421,780 Long-term borrowings 907,030 1,175,330 907,030 1,175,330 Short-term borrowings 5,179,865 3,656,728 5,147,647 3,620,807 Trade payables 1,645,819 1,981,182 1,565,629 1,882,388 Amounts due to subsidiaries 382,855 96,121 Total financial liabilities 8,127,674 7,235,020 8,398,121 7,196,426 Fair value of assets and liabilities The Group/Company uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs with significant effects on the the fair value of assets and liabilities. recorded fair values are observable, either directly or indirectly; Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or Level 3: techniques that use inputs that have a significant effect on the recorded liabilities; fair values that are not based on observable market data. Non-financial assets measured at fair value The valuation technique and inputs used in measuring the fair value of freehold land are given in Note 4.9.1 The Group held the following financial and non-financial assets carried at fair value in the Statement of Financial Position. Group Company As at 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Financial assets Classified as available-for-sale Level 1 7,179 6,717 7,156 6,690 Level 2 Level 3 Non-financial assets Freehold land Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 4,391,922 4,391,922 4,391,922 4,391,922 Financial liabilities are not measured at fair value. 4.13.2 Financial Risk Management (a) Market risk The Group’s activities are exposed it to a variety of financial risks such as; (i) Foreign exchange risk a. Market risk (including currency risk, fair value interest rate risk and cash flow The Group is sensitive to the fluctuations in exchange rates and is principally interest rate risk) exposed to fluctuations in the value of Sri Lankan Rupee (LKR) against the US b. Credit risk Dollar (USD), Euro (EUR) and Japanese Yen (JPY). Group’s functional currency is c. Liquidity risk the Sri Lankan Rupee (LKR) in which most of the transactions are denominated The Group’s overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability and all other currencies are considered foreign currencies for reporting purposes. of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the The Group had taken measures to manage risk by having foreign currency trade Group’s financial performance. receivables and foreign currency bank accounts balances to cover the exposure on foreign currency payables. Hence the overall objective of foreign exchange The overall objectives and policies for the Group’s financial risk management risk management is to reduce the short term negative impact of exchange rate are as per the internal treasury practices. It will cover foreign exchange fluctuations on earnings and cash flow, thereby increasing the predictability of policy, investment policy, financing policy and policies on credit risk and risk the financial results. limits. 129 Specific Accounting Policies and Notes Sensitivity Analysis Based on exchange rate fluctuation against Sri Lankan Rupee Group Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 US Dollar (USD) % of Appreciation/(depreciation) during the financial year 9.95 2.13 9.95 2.13 1% change impact to profitability byRs. ’000 251 3,225 110 3,407 Euro (EUR) % of Appreciation/(depreciation) during the financial year 14.97 (19.67) 14.97 (19.67) 1% change impact to profitability byRs. ’000 941 386 504 397 Japanese Yen (JPY) % of Appreciation/(depreciation) during the financial year 17.58 (12.53) 17.58 (12.53) 1% change impact to profitability byRs. ’000 183 581 43 582 (ii) Interest rate risk manages the equity price risk through diversification and by placing limits on Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial individual and total equity instruments. The Board of Directors reviews and instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates. The Group’s approves all equity investment decisions. Sensitivity analysis on the value of the exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the investments is not provided as it is deemed to be not material. Group’s long-term debt obligations with floating rates. The Group manages its interest rate risk by monitoring and managing cash flows, negotiating favourable (b) Credit risk rates on borrowings and deposits including and maintaining an appropriate The Group extends credit facilities to customers during the course of business. combination of fixed and floating rate debt. Therefore, non-payment of trade debts is a key risk associated with trade receivables. Sensitivity Analysis The Group has taken several measures to manage and mitigate the credit risk If interest rates had been higher/lower by 100 basis points and all other variables including carrying out a credit evaluation as per the Group credit policy, prior were held constant, the profit before tax for the period ended 31st March 2016 to extending credit. A review of age analysis of trade debtors and follow-up would decrease/increase by Rs. 8.7 million (2015 Rs. 10.4 million). This is mainly meetings are carried out by the business unit managers at least once a month and attributable to the Group’s exposure to interest rates on variable rate of interest. by the Group Management Committee (GMC) at least once a quarter. In the event of a debt becoming doubtful, a legal action is initiated by the Manager-Legal. (iii) Equity price risk The Group is exposed to equity price risk because of investments in quoted Credit risk exposure shares held by the Group classified as financial assets available-for-sale. The maximum risk exposure of financial assets which are generally subject to The value of these investments is subjected to the performance of investee credit risk are equal to their carrying amounts. Following table shows the company and the factors that affects the status of the stock market. The Group maximum risk positions. Group Company As at 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Trade and other receivables 3,877,074 4,118,726 3,092,234 3,451,804 Amounts due from subsidiaries 53,714 18,951 Cash and cash equivalents 176,140 208,139 164,243 186,676 Total credit risk exposure 4,053,214 4,326,865 3,310,191 3,657,431 130 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 An unambiguous result 98 Annual Report of the Board of Directors 102 Board of Directors’ Statement on Internal Controls 103 Statement of Directors' Responsibilities for Financial Statements 105 Independent Auditors’ Report 106 Financial Statements Balances with banks Group Company As at 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Fitch Rating AAA 65,627 67,752 65,627 67,752 AA+ 37,457 74,654 37,457 74,654 AA 14,744 1,975 5,643 1,625 AA31,708 39,113 31,708 20,261 Total bank balances (Note 4.18) 149,536 183,494 140,435 164,292 Group-Balances with Banks 2016 Group-Balances with Banks 2015 % % 21 21 44 37 10 1 25 41 AAA AA+ AA AAAAA AA+ AA AA(c) Liquidity risk 4.13.3 Capital Risk Management This is the risk that the Group will encounter in meeting the obligations associated The objectives of the capital management can be summarised as follows: with its financial liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or another financial a. Appropriately allocate capital to meet strategic objectives. asset. b. Enable the Group to face any economic downturn/ crisis situation. In the management of liquidity risk, the Group monitors and maintains a level of The Group’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to ensure investor, cash and cash equivalents deemed adequate by the management to finance the creditor and market confidence in order to sustain future development of the Group’s operations and to mitigate the effects of fluctuations in cash flows. The business. The impact of the shareholders’ return is also recognised and the Group Group’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and recognises the need to maintain a balance between higher returns that might flexibility through the use of bank overdrafts and bank loans. Access to source of be possible with greater gearing and the advantages and security afforded by a funding is sufficiently available. sound capital position. Maturity profiles and specific risk management strategies with regard to trade The Company manages its capital structure and adjusts it accordingly in line with payables and bank borrowings are given in the respective Notes. changes in global and local economic and market conditions and its overall risk appetite. Given below is a summary of the capital structure of the Group: As at 31st March 2016 2015 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Long-term borrowings (Note 4.21.1.1) 1,301,990 1,597,110 Equity 9,989,679 9,237,938 Total equity and long-term borrowings 11,291,669 10,835,048 Gearing ratio (%) 12% 15% 131 Specific Accounting Policies and Notes 4.14 Financial Assets Available-for-Sale (AFS) Accounting Policy Accounting Estimate Assessment of Impairment Available-for-sale financial assets are subsequently measured at fair value and At each reporting date the Group assesses whether there is any objective evidence the resulting unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value that an asset or a group of assets is impaired. In the case of equity investments are recognised in equity through Other Comprehensive Income (available-forclassified as available-for-sale, objective evidence would include a significant or sale reserve). When these financial assets are sold or impaired, the accumulated prolonged decline in the fair value of the investment below its cost. ‘Significant’ fair value adjustments previously recognised in equity are reclassified to Profit is evaluated against the original cost of the investment and ‘prolonged’ against or Loss. the period for which the fair value has been below its original cost. Where there is evidence of impairment, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between The fair values of quoted shares are based on current bid prices at the end of the the acquisition cost and the current fair value, is recognised in Profit or Loss and reporting period. removed from Other Comprehensive Income (available-for-sale reserve). Dividend earned while holding available-for-sale financial assets are recognised in Profit or Loss when the right to receive the payment has been established. Carrying Value of Available-for-Sale Financial Assets Group Company No. of Market Total Fair Value No. of Market Total Fair Value Shares Value Cost Shares Value Cost 2016 2016 2015 2016 2016 2015 As at 31st March (Per Share) Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 (Per Share) Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Quoted Investments Ordinary Shares Hunas Falls Hotels PLC 900 50.60 14 46 54 450 50.60 7 23 27 Hatton National Bank PLC (non-voting) 33,943 171.00 700 5,804 5,601 33,943 171.00 700 5,804 5,601 Ceylinco Insurance PLC (non-voting) 1,700 782.00 298 1,329 1,062 1,700 782.00 298 1,329 1,062 1,012 7,179 6,717 1,005 7,156 6,690 4.15 Inventories Accounting Policy Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less the estimated cost of completion and the estimated costs necessary The cost of inventories that are not interchangeable are recognised by using to make the sale. specific identification of their individual cost and other inventories are based on weighted average cost formula. The cost of inventories includes expenditure Goods-in-transit are recognised at purchase cost. incurred in acquiring the inventories and other costs incurred in bringing them to their present location and condition but excluding borrowing cost. Carrying Value of Inventories Group Company As at 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Stock-in-trade 6,354,811 3,895,624 6,282,113 3,854,827 Work-in-progress (at cost) 304,979 227,231 105,550 87,973 Provision for slow moving inventories (Note 4.15.1) (261,966) (255,751) (245,472) (229,049) 6,397,824 3,867,104 6,142,191 3,713,751 Goods-in-transit 1,209,468 911,471 1,184,020 882,349 Total inventories at the lower of cost and net realisable value 7,607,292 4,778,575 7,326,211 4,596,100 132 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 An unambiguous result 98 Annual Report of the Board of Directors 102 Board of Directors’ Statement on Internal Controls 103 Statement of Directors' Responsibilities for Financial Statements 105 Independent Auditors’ Report 106 Financial Statements 4.15.1 Movement in Provision for Slow Moving Inventories Group Company As at 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 At the beginning of the year 255,751 252,423 229,049 244,624 Provision for/(reversal of) slow moving inventories 6,215 3,328 16,423 (15,575) At the end of the year 261,966 255,751 245,472 229,049 4.16 Trade and Other Receivables Accounting Policy Accounting Estimate Provision for Impairment Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for goods sold or services The Group/Company considers evidence of impairment for receivables at both performed in the ordinary course of business. Other financial nature receivables specific asset level and at collective level. All individually significant receivables are recognised as other receivables. If collection is expected in one year or less are assessed for specific impairment by considering objective evidences i.e. (or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer), they are classified as experiencing a significant financial difficulty or default in payments by a customer. current assets. If not, they are presented as non-current assets. Receivables that are not individually assessed are then collectively assessed for any impairment by grouping receivables together with similar risk characteristics. Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision In assessing collective impairment, the Group/Company uses historical trends of for impairment. the probability of default, the timing of recoveries, and the amount of losses incurred, adjusted for management’s judgement as to whether current economic and credit conditions are such that the actual losses are likely to be greater or less than suggested historical trends. Carrying Value of Trade and Other Receivables Group Company As at 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Trade receivables 4,339,781 4,356,133 3,491,916 3,647,706 Provision for impairment (Note 4.16.1) (467,499) (250,487) (404,147) (208,595) 3,872,282 4,105,646 3,087,769 3,439,111 Other receivables 4,792 13,080 4,465 12,693 Carrying value 3,877,074 4,118,726 3,092,234 3,451,804 4.16.1 Movement in Provision for Impairment of Trade Receivables Group Company As at 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 At the beginning of the year 250,487 242,677 208,595 200,886 Provision for impairment of trade receivables 217,012 7,810 195,552 7,709 At the end of the year 467,499 250,487 404,147 208,595 133 Specific Accounting Policies and Notes 4.16.2 Age Analysis of Trade Receivables after Provision for Impairment Group Company As at 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Not due 2,651,294 2,521,128 2,188,878 2,177,249 Due but not impaired Between 61 days to 180 days 835,201 959,080 646,317 785,806 Between 181 days to 365 days 126,596 495,757 81,454 378,748 Over 365 days 259,191 129,681 171,120 97,308 Net trade receivables maximum exposure to credit risk 3,872,282 4,105,646 3,087,769 3,439,111 Provision for impairment 467,499 250,487 404,147 208,595 Gross trade receivables 4,339,781 4,356,133 3,491,916 3,647,706 With respect to trade receivables as at the reporting date, past due but not impaired, based on credit history, there are no indications that customer will not be able to meet their obligations. No indication of default is identifiable for trade receivables that are neither past due nor impaired. Group-Age Analysis of Company-Age Analysis of Net Trade Receivables Net Trade Receivables % % 120 120 96 96 72 72 48 48 24 24 0 0 2015 2016 2015 2016 Not due Between 61 days to 180 days Not due Between 61 days to 180 days Between 181 days to 365 days Over 365 days Between 181 days to 365 days Over 365 days 4.16.3 Carrying amount of trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies Group Company As at 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Currency Sri Lankan Rupees 3,680,802 3,949,177 2,925,636 3,327,449 USD 130,372 103,069 125,855 90,237 Euro 57,341 52,179 32,685 20,283 Japanese Yen 399 706 399 627 Other 3,368 515 3,194 515 3,872,282 4,105,646 3,087,769 3,439,111 4.16.4 Trade debtors jointly with inventories have been pledged as security for 4.16.5 Terms of Trade and Other Receivables short-term borrowings up to a limit of Rs. 95 million (2014/15 Rs. 95 Trade and other receivables are non-interest-bearing and are expected to be million). received within 60 days. 134 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 An unambiguous result 98 Annual Report of the Board of Directors 102 Board of Directors’ Statement on Internal Controls 103 Statement of Directors' Responsibilities for Financial Statements 105 Independent Auditors’ Report 106 Financial Statements 4.17 Other Current Assets Accounting Policy The Group/Company classifies all non financial current assets under other current Advances and deposits are carried at historical value less provision for impairment. assets. Other current assets mainly comprise of advances, deposits, prepayments Prepayments are amortised over the period during which it is utilised and carried and current portion of the lease rentals paid in advance. at historical value less amortisation charge and any impairment. Carrying Value of Other Current Assets Group Company As at 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Deposits and prepayments 654,154 782,225 562,798 718,710 Lease rentals paid in advance (Note 4.10) 2,205 2,205 2,205 2,205 Other receivables 32,958 19,718 31,499 18,799 689,317 804,148 596,502 739,714 4.18 Cash and Cash Equivalents Accounting Policy Cash and cash equivalents comprise of cash at bank and in hand balances. Cash Bank overdrafts and short-term borrowings that are repayable on demand and and bank balances are stated at recoverable values. There were no cash and cash forming an integral part of the Group’s cash management are included as a equivalents held by the Group companies that were not available for use. component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the Statement of Cash Flows. Carrying Value of Cash and Cash Equivalents Group Company As at 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Bank balances 149,536 183,494 140,435 164,292 Cash in hand 26,604 24,645 23,808 22,384 176,140 208,139 164,243 186,676 Review of credit risk The Group's cash and cash equivalents comprise of cash at bank and in hand balances. The credit risk relating to bank balances are analysed according to ratings of each bank, is available on page 131. 4.18.1 Carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents are denominated in the following currencies Group Company As at 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Currency Sri Lankan Rupees 109,193 108,360 97,296 105,749 USD 66,947 61,768 66,947 61,761 Euro 38,011 19,166 176,140 208,139 164,243 186,676 135 Specific Accounting Policies and Notes 4.19 Stated Capital Company As at 31st March No. of 2016 No. of 2015 Shares Rs. ‘000 Shares Rs. ‘000 Ordinary Shares Issued and Fully-paid Ordinary Shares At the end of the year 8,876,437 425,297 8,876,437 425,297 4.20 Revenue Reserve Group Company As at 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 At the beginning of the year 5,973,747 5,473,721 5,323,841 4,871,606 Dividend (177,529) (88,764) (177,529) (88,764) Statement of Profit or Loss Profit for the year 946,606 596,083 739,723 546,561 Other Comprehensive Income Actuarial loss arising from employees benefits (Net of tax) (17,798) (7,293) (16,247) (5,562) At the end of the year 6,725,026 5,973,747 5,869,788 5,323,841 4.20.1 Other Components of Equity Group Company As at 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 At the beginning of the year 2,838,894 2,018,475 2,838,875 2,018,461 Other Comprehensive Income Net fair value gains on remeasuring financial assets-available-for-sale 462 1,894 466 1,889 Revaluation of freehold land 818,525 818,525 At the end of the year 2,839,356 2,838,894 2,839,341 2,838,875 4.21 Long-term and Short-term Borrowings Accounting Policy Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less any directly attributable (including interest) is recognised in Profit or Loss over the period of the loan transaction costs. Subsequently, they are stated at amortised cost, any difference using effective interest method. between the proceeds (net of transaction cost) and the repayable amount 4.21.1 Carrying Value of Long-term Borrowings Group Company As at 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 i. Non-current portion of the long-term borrowings Term loans (Note 4.21.1.1) 907,030 1,175,330 907,030 1,175,330 Total non-current long-term borrowings 907,030 1,175,330 907,030 1,175,330 ii. Current portion of the long-term borrowings Term loans (Note 4.21.1.1) 394,960 421,780 394,960 421,780 Total current portion of long-term borrowings 394,960 421,780 394,960 421,780 136 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 An unambiguous result 98 Annual Report of the Board of Directors 102 Board of Directors’ Statement on Internal Controls 103 Statement of Directors' Responsibilities for Financial Statements 105 Independent Auditors’ Report 106 Financial Statements 4.21.1.1 Movement and Classification of Long-term Borrowings Group Company As at 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 At the beginning of the year 1,597,110 1,832,843 1,597,110 1,832,843 Loans obtained during the year 800,000 600,000 800,000 600,000 Repayments during the year (1,117,662) (851,971) (1,117,662) (851,971) Exchange rate variance 22,542 16,238 22,542 16,238 At the end of the year 1,301,990 1,597,110 1,301,990 1,597,110 Classified as current liabilities (repayable within one year) 394,960 421,780 394,960 421,780 Classified as non current liabilities (repayable after one year) 907,030 1,175,330 907,030 1,175,330 4.21.1.2 Principal Amounts of Long-term Borrowings Lender Currency Company As at Secured Repayments Tenure 31.03.2016 2016 2015 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC LKR 400,000 400,000 76,900 ✓ Repayable in 120 instalments commenced from February 2008 Bank of Ceylon LKR 500,000 500,000 75,000 Repayable in 60 instalments commenced from January 2012 Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC LKR 600,000 600,000 430,000 Repayable in 60 instalments commenced from December 2014 Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC LKR 800,000 720,000 Repayable in 60 instalments commenced from October 2015 Total 2,300,000 1,500,000 1,301,900 Details of land which have been pledged against above bank loan facilities are disclosed in Note 4.9.3. 4.21.1.3 Analysis of Long-term Borrowings by the year of Repayment Commercial Bank of HSBC Total Total Bank of Ceylon Bank 2016 2015 Ceylon PLC Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Movement of Loans At the beginning of the year 666,950 175,000 755,160 1,597,110 1,832,843 Loans obtained during the year 800,000 800,000 600,000 Repayments during the year (239,960) (100,000) (777,702) (1,117,662) (851,971) Exchange rate variance 22,542 22,542 16,238 At the end of the year 1,226,990 75,000 1,301,990 1,597,110 Analysis of Long-term Borrowings by Period of Repayment Repayablewithin 6 months from year end 159,980 50,000 209,980 210,890 between 6 months and 1 year 159,980 25,000 184,980 210,890 between 1 and 5 years from year end 907,030 907,030 1,175,330 later than 5 years from year end 1,226,990 75,000 1,301,990 1,597,110 137 Specific Accounting Policies and Notes 4.21.2 Short-term Borrowings Group Company As at 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Short-term bank loans 4,984,543 3,465,972 4,977,399 3,465,972 Bank overdrafts 195,322 190,756 170,248 154,835 5,179,865 3,656,728 5,147,647 3,620,807 Unutilised bank facilities as at 31st March 2016 amounted to Rs. 6,217.8 million Short-term bank loans are repayable within a period of six months and details of (2015 Rs. 6,737.5 million). inventories and book debts which have been pledged against above short-term loan facilities are disclosed in Note 4.16.4. 4.22 Employee Benefits Accounting Policy Defined contribution plan Such defined benefit obligation is a post-employment benefit obligation falling A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which an within the scope of Sri Lanka Accounting Standard LKAS -19 on ‘Employee entity pays fixed determinable contributions into a separate entity and will have Benefits’. no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts. The liability recognised in the Statement of Financial Position is the present Employees are eligible to Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF) contributions and value of the defined benefit obligation at the reporting date. The calculation is Employees’ Trust Fund (ETF) contributions as per the respective statutes. These performed annually by a qualified actuary using the Projected Unit Credit method obligations come within the scope of a defined contribution plan as per LKAS -19 (PUC). Any actuarial gains and losses arising are recognised immediately in Other on ‘Employee Benefits’. Obligations for contributions to defined contribution plans Comprehensive Income. The discount rate has been derived considering the yield are recognised in Profit or Loss as incurred. of government bonds. The liability is not externally funded. Defined benefit obligation In accordance with the Gratuity Act No. 12 of 1983, a liability arises for a defined Accounting Estimate benefit obligation to employees. The actuarial valuation involves making assumptions about discount rates, expected rates of return on assets, future salary increases, and mortality rates. Due to the long-term nature of these obligation, such estimates are subject to significant uncertainty. Carrying Value of Defined Benefit Obligation Group Company As at 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Present value of unfunded obligation 500,505 415,647 468,525 390,664 At the beginning of the year 415,647 349,642 390,664 332,521 Current service cost 36,954 30,726 32,792 26,879 Interest cost 41,538 36,702 39,067 34,915 Actuarial loss 24,719 10,128 22,565 7,725 Paid during the year (18,353) (11,551) (16,563) (11,376) At the end of the year 500,505 415,647 468,525 390,664 138 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 An unambiguous result 98 Annual Report of the Board of Directors 102 Board of Directors’ Statement on Internal Controls 103 Statement of Directors' Responsibilities for Financial Statements 105 Independent Auditors’ Report 106 Financial Statements 4.22.1 Defined Benefit Obligation Recognised in Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income Group Company As at 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Statement of Profit or Loss Current service cost 36,954 30,726 32,792 26,879 Interest cost 41,538 36,702 39,067 34,915 78,492 67,428 71,859 61,794 Other Comprehensive Income Actuarial loss 24,719 10,128 22,565 7,725 24,719 10,128 22,565 7,725 Total charge for the year 103,211 77,556 94,424 69,519 An actuarial valuation was carried out as at 31st March 2016 by Mr. M. However, according to the Payment of Gratuity Act No. 12 of 1983, the liability Poopalanathan, AIA, of Messrs Actuarial and Management Consultants (Pvt) Ltd., for gratuity to an employee arises only on completion of five years of continuous a firm of professional actuaries. service. The liability as required by the Payment of Gratuity Act for the Group and the Company as at 31st March 2016 amounted to Rs.455.3 million and Rs. 426.8 The following assumptions and data were used in valuing the defined benefit million respectively. obligation by the actuarial valuer: Sensitivity Analysis 2016 2015 Reasonably possible changes at the reporting date to one of the relevant actuarial % % assumptions, holding other assumptions constant, would have affected defined Rate of discount 10.50 10.00 benefit obligation by the amounts shown below. Salary escalation rate 10.00 9.50 Group Company Assumptions regarding future mortality are based on a 67/70 mortality table, 1% Increase 1% Decrease 1% Increase 1% Decrease issued by the Institute of Actuaries, London. Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Normal retirement age of an executive employee is assumed to be 60 years while Rate of discount (22,091) 24,475 (20,418) 22,634 a non-executive employee is assumed to retire at the age of 55 years. Salary escalation rate 25,368 (23,202) 23,387 (21,374) The current service cost for the year under review is included under Administrative Expenses. 4.23 Deferred Tax Accounting Policy Deferred tax is provided using liability method on temporary differences as at the recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profits reporting date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying will allow the deferred tax assets to be recovered. amounts for financial reporting purpose. Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied to right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the temporary differences when they reverse, using tax rates enacted or substantively deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority. enacted at the reporting date. Accounting Estimate Judgement Used A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future Deferred tax assets are recognised in respect of tax losses to the extent that it taxable profits will be available against which the temporary difference can be is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the losses utilised. can be utilised. Judgement is required to determine the amount of deferred tax The carrying amount of deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date assets that can be recognised, based upon the likely timing and level of future and reduced to the extent that is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits taxable profits. will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax assets to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at each reporting date and 139 Specific Accounting Policies and Notes Carrying Value of Deferred Tax Assets/(Liabilities) Group Company As at 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Summary of net deferred tax assets/(liabilities) At the beginning of the year (125,392) (29,907) (124,860) (28,932) Origination of temporary differences to Profit or Loss (61,979) (98,320) (63,619) (98,091) Reversal of temporary differences to Other Comprehensive Income 6,921 2,835 6,318 2,163 At the end of the year (Note 4.23.1) (180,450) (125,392) (182,161) (124,860) Made up as follows: Deferred tax assets 1,711 77 Deferred tax liabilities (182,161) (125,469) (182,161) (124,860) (180,450) (125,392) (182,161) (124,860) 4.23.1 Reconciliation of Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities Group Company As at 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Deferred Tax Liability Temporary difference arising from property, plant and equipment (1,154,995) (884,101) (1,128,160) (857,216) Total temporary difference of deferred tax liability (1,154,995) (884,101) (1,128,160) (857,216) Closing deferred tax liability @ 28% (323,398) (247,548) (315,885) (240,021) Deferred Tax Assets Temporary difference arising from defined benefit obligation 500,505 415,647 468,525 390,664 Temporary difference arising from warranty provision 10,028 20,625 9,063 20,625 Total temporary difference of deferred tax assets 510,533 436,272 477,588 411,289 Closing deferred tax assets @ 28% 142,948 122,156 133,724 115,161 Net temporary differences (644,462) (447,829) (650,572) (445,927) Net deferred tax (liability)/asset (180,450) (125,392) (182,161) (124,860) 4.23.2 Movement in Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities during the Year Group Company As at Recognised Recognised As at As at Recognised Recognised As at 01.04.2015 in Profit or in Other 31.03.2016 01.04.2015 in Profit or in Other 31.03.2016 Loss Comprehensive Loss Comprehensive Income Income Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Property, plant and equipment (247,548) (75,850) (323,398) (240,021) (75,864) (315,885) Deferred tax liability Retirement benefit obligation 116,381 16,838 6,921 140,140 109,386 15,482 6,318 131,186 Deferred tax asset Warranty provision 5,775 (2,967) 2,808 5,775 (3,237) 2,538 Deferred tax assets (125,392) (61,979) 6,921 (180,450) (124,860) (63,619) 6,318 (182,161) 140 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 An unambiguous result 98 Annual Report of the Board of Directors 102 Board of Directors’ Statement on Internal Controls 103 Statement of Directors' Responsibilities for Financial Statements 105 Independent Auditors’ Report 106 Financial Statements 4.23.3 Potential Impact on Changes in Income Tax Rates The changes in the income rates have been published by the Ministry of Finance Since the new tax rates had not been published through a gazette by the on 29th April 2016 as follows: Parliament as at the reporting date, being 31st March 2016, the new rates were not considered to be substantially enacted as at that date. Accordingly, the Current rate Proposed Company has provided for deferred taxation at the existing rate of 28% in the (%) rates (%) Financial Statements for the period ended 31st March 2016. Income tax 28 28 & 17.5 4.24 Deferred Income Accounting Policy Accounting Estimate Undelivered free services relating to vehicle sales Relative fair value of free services The Company sells vehicles bundled with free services to the customers with The amount charged by the service provider in respect of each service is recognised warranty limitations on mileage or usage period. The unprovided free services are as the relative fair value of free services. These amounts are estimated using the deferred at the time of selling the vehicles at its relative fair value and recognised combination of historical experience in service and price changes. as revenue when the recognition criteria are fulfilled i.e. upon provision of the service or expiration of entitled period or/and criteria, whichever occurs first. Carrying Value of Deferred Income Group Company As at 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 At the beginning of the year 173,243 91,018 123,584 57,691 Income deferred during the year 595,906 407,764 247,234 194,268 Income amortised during the year (414,394) (325,539) (212,505) (128,375) At the end of the year 354,755 173,243 158,313 123,584 4.25 Provisions and Contingent Liabilities Accounting Policy Provisions All known provisions have been accounted for in preparing the Financial Provisions are recognised when the Group/Company has a present obligation Statements. (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation Provisions for extended warranty and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. Where the The Company may offer extended warranties on vehicles on its own account in Group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an certain circumstances. The extended warranty is provided by giving a warranty insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset when period that goes beyond the warranty provided by manufacturers. the reimbursement is virtually certain. The expense relating to any provision is presented in Profit or Loss net of any reimbursement. If the effect of the time A provision for extended warranty is recognised when the underlying products value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax are sold. The quantum of the provision is based on the historical warranty data rate that reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. Where and a weighting of possible outcomes against their associated probabilities . The discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is said extended warranty provision will be reversed upon expiration of warranty recognised as a finance cost. period. Provisions are calculated based on the historical experience and the specific terms in the individual cases. The Group arrives at an estimate on the basis of an evaluation of the most likely outcome. 141 Specific Accounting Policies and Notes Accounting Estimate The Management considers likelihood of any claim succeeding in making provisions. The time of concluding legal claims is uncertain, as is the amount of possible outflow of economic benefits. Timing and cost ultimately depend on the due process in the respective legal jurisdictions. Group Company As at 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Provision for litigation and claims 11,000 11,000 11,000 11,000 Provisions for extended warranty 3,748 20,497 3,748 20,497 Provisions for warranty 6,280 7,853 5,315 7,853 21,028 39,350 20,063 39,350 Contingent liabilities Contingent liabilities are possible obligations whose existence will be confirmed Currently the Group/Company is involved in pending litigations and claims only by uncertain future events or present obligations where the transfer arising out of the normal conduct of the business. The Group/Company does not of economic benefit is not probable or cannot be readily measured. Further, expect the pending litigations and claims, individually and in aggregate, to have contingent liabilities are not recognised in Statement of Financial Position but are a material impact on Group’s Financial Position, operating profit or cash flow disclosed unless its occurrence is remote. in addition to amounts accrued as provision for legal disputes. The disclosures relating to contingencies are setout in Note 5.2. 4.26 Trade Payables Accounting Policy Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at in the ordinary course of business. Trade payables are classified as current amortised cost using the effective interest method. liabilities if payment is due within one year or less (or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer). If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities. Generally trade payables are due within 90 days. Carrying Value of Trade Payables Group Company As at 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Trade payables 1,645,819 1,981,182 1,565,629 1,882,388 4.26.1 Review of Liquidity Risk Trade payables are non-interest-bearing and have settlement periods less than The trade payables of the Group include an amount of Rs. 1,161.7 million as 90 days. The quick assets ratio of the Group and the Company as at the year-end bills payable corresponding to goods shipped but not received. At the time of was 0.56:1 and 0.46:1 respectively (2015 Group 0.75:1, Company 0.66:1). As settlement of such bills, the Group will obtain short-term loans to cover the a liquidity risk management measure, the Group/Company continually compare working capital cycle period of the imports. trade payables with receivables, cash and cash equivalents and unutilised banking facilities. Unutilised banking facilities are given in Note 4.21.2. 142 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 An unambiguous result 98 Annual Report of the Board of Directors 102 Board of Directors’ Statement on Internal Controls 103 Statement of Directors' Responsibilities for Financial Statements 105 Independent Auditors’ Report 106 Financial Statements 4.27 Other Current Liabilities Accounting Policy Group classifies all non financial current liabilities under other current liabilities. Other current liabilities include accruals and advances and these liabilities are recorded at the amounts that are expected to be paid. Carrying Value of Other Current Liabilities Group Company As at 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Advances received 247,961 111,182 153,568 99,886 Unclaimed dividend 6,440 6,634 6,440 6,634 Value Added Tax (VAT) 8,068 4,400 Other payables and accrued expenses 850,391 640,677 728,770 553,699 1,112,860 762,893 888,778 660,219 4.27.1 Terms of Settlement of Other Current Liabilities Other current liabilities are non-interest bearing and payable within three months excluding advances and unclaimed dividends. Advances received are expected to be set-off within three months. 4.28 Current Tax Assets and Liabilities Current tax assets are recognised at historical value less impairment. Income tax liabilities are recorded at the amounts expected to be paid. Carrying Value of Current Tax Asset/(Liability) Group Company As at 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Opening balance 1,265 86,856 3,301 107,913 Current tax for the year (Note 4.6) (371,474) (152,630) (288,700) (105,666) (370,209) (65,774) (285,399) 2,247 Tax paid during the year: Current tax and withholding tax 305,199 67,039 262,395 1,054 305,199 67,039 262,395 1,054 Current tax asset/(liability) (65,010) 1,265 (23,004) 3,301 Made up as follows: Current tax asset 3,375 3,301 Current tax liability (65,010) (2,110) (23,004) (65,010) 1,265 (23,004) 3,301 143 Specific Accounting Policies and Notes 4.29 Amounts Due (to)/from Subsidiaries Name of the Company DIMO DIMO DIMO Travels As at As at (Private) Ltd Industries (Private) Ltd 31.03.2016 31.03.2015 (Private) Ltd Shareholding 100% 100% 100% Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Opening balance due (to)/from subsidiaries (95,999) 18,951 (122) (77,170) (168,867) Sale of goods and services 23,618 23,618 6,626 Purchase of goods and services (16,803) (6,031) (22,834) (43,445) Expenses incurred on behalf of subsidiaries 125,144 6,891 132,035 182,327 Fund transfers net (418,815) 33,875 150 (384,790) (53,811) Closing balance due (to)/from subsidiaries (382,855) 53,686 28 (329,141) (77,170) 4.29.1 Amounts Due (to)/from Subsidiaries comprise with: Company As at 31st March 2016 2015 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Amounts due from subsidiaries 53,714 18,951 Amounts due to subsidiaries (382,855) (96,121) Amounts due (to)/from subsidiaries (329,141) (77,170) 144 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 An unambiguous result 98 Annual Report of the Board of Directors 102 Board of Directors’ Statement on Internal Controls 103 Statement of Directors' Responsibilities for Financial Statements 105 Independent Auditors’ Report 106 Financial Statements Section 5 Other Disclosures This section provides information on related party disclosures and other disclosures required by the Sri Lanka Accounting Standard. 5.1 Related Party Disclosures The Company carried out transactions in the ordinary course of its business on Officers who are employees of Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC and Directors an arm's length basis with parties who are defined as related parties as per Sri of the subsidiaries and not of the Company have been classified as KMP of the Lanka Accounting Standard LKAS 24 on ‘Related Party Disclosures’, the details respective subsidiary only. of which are reported below: 5.1.1 (b) The Compensation Paid to Key Management Personnel (KMP) 5.1.1 (a) Transactions with Key Management Personnel (KMP) The Executive Directors are entitled to a structured incentive scheme which is According to Sri Lanka Accounting Standard LKAS 24 on ‘Related Party linked to performance. Disclosures’, Key Management Personnel are those having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the entity The Company contributes towards a post-employment contribution plan for the directly or indirectly. Accordingly, the Board of Directors of the Company Executive Directors. In addition to their salaries, the Company provides non-cash (Executive and Non-Executive Directors) have been classified as KMP. As the benefits to KMP. Company is the ultimate parent of the subsidiaries (listed in Note 2.3), the Board There are no share-based payments made to the Directors during the year. of Directors of the Company has the authority and responsibility for planning or controlling the activities of the Group directly or indirectly. Accordingly, the Board No loans were granted to KMP of the Company. of Directors of the Company (Executive and Non-Executive) are KMP of the Group. Compensation to Key Management Personnel of the Company are as follows: Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Short-term employment benefits 257,560 207,809 238,649 192,236 Post-employment benefits 53,650 41,988 49,845 39,133 Total compensation applicable to Key Management Personnel 311,210 249,797 288,494 231,369 The Company also has an obligation towards a post-employment benefit plan for 5.1.3 Terms and Conditions of Transactions with the Companies on which Key the Executive Directors. The liability arising from the post-employment obligation Management Personnel (KMP) have Control or Significant Influence has been provided for, based on an actuarial valuation and is disclosed under Outstanding balances at the year-end relating to the companies on which KMP Employee Benefits in Note 4.22 to the Financial Statements. have control or significant influence over these companies are unsecured, interest free, and all related-party dues are on demand. There have been no guarantees 5.1.1 (c) T ransactions with Close Family Members of Key Management provided or received for any related party receivables or payables for the year Personnel (KMP) ended 31st March 2016. Close family members are defined as spouse or dependant. Dependant is defined as anyone who depends on the respective Director for more than 50% of his/her 5.1.4 Transactions with Group Entities financial needs. The Company has carried out transactions with Group entities in the ordinary course of business in an arms length basis. The details are set out in Note 4.29. There were no transactions with the close family members during the year. The Group has not recorded any impairment for receivables relating to amount owed by Group entities (2015-Rs. Nil). 5.1.2 Transactions with Companies in which Key Management Personnel (KMP) have Control or Significant Influence 5.2 Commitments and Contingencies There were no transactions with companies on which KMP have control. The transactions with companies on which KMP have significant influence are Capital Expenditure Commitments disclosed in ‘Directors’ Interests in Contracts’ on page 101. Capital expenditure committed by the Board of Directors for which a provision has not been made in the Financial Statements amounted to approximately Rs.1,004.3 million (2014/15 Rs.1994.4 million). 145 Other Disclosures Contingencies Guarantees The contingent liabilities as at 31st March 2016 on guarantees given by Diesel & assessed by the Department of Inland Revenue and the status of each of the Motor Engineering PLC, in respect of bank guarantees, bid bonds and performance appeals are as follows: bonds amounted to Rs. 975.6 million (2015 Rs. 685.7 million). 2009/2010 – The appeal was determined in favour of the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue by the Tax Appeals Commission, and a case stated has been Litigation Against the Company filed with the Court of Appeal by an application made by the Company. The claims for lawsuits filed against the Company as at 31st March 2016 2010/2011 – An appeal made by the Company is currently with the Tax Appeals amounted to Rs. 33.3 million (2015 Rs. 33.3 million). Although, there can be no Commission. assurance, the Directors believe, based on the information currently available that the ultimate resolution of such lawsuits are not likely to have a material effect on 2012/2013 – An appeal has been lodged with the Department of Inland Revenue the results of operations, financial position or liquidity. within the stipulated time period for the assessment raised. Having discussed with the independent legal and tax expert and based on Income tax assessments information available, the contingent liability as at 31st March 2016 is estimated Assessments were received in July 2012, December 2013 and July 2015 to be Rs. 291.0 million (2015 – Rs. 167.3 million). respectively based on normal tax rates. Appeals were lodged against the taxes 5.3 Operating Lease Operating Lease Commitments The Group has leased a number of branches and office premises under operating a periodic basis to recent market conditions. There are no restrictions placed upon leases. These leases have an average life of between five to ten years. Lease the Group by entering into these leases. agreements include clauses to enable upward revision of the rental payments on Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Group Company As at 31st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Less than one year 71,463 41,954 50,596 41,954 Between one to five years 208,112 101,347 129,355 101,347 Over five years 67,376 19,354 65,338 19,354 Total operating lease commitments 348,967 164,670 247,305 164,670 5.4 Comparative Information The comparative information is reclassified wherever necessary to conform to the current years presentations and details are given below: Group Company For the year ended 31st March Note 2015 Re-classification Re-classified 2015 Re-classification Re-classified adjustment 2015 adjustment 2015 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Cost of sales a/b 22,404,349 316,942 22,721,291 21,103,811 313,657 21,417,468 Administrative expenses a 3,580,420 (235,576) 3,344,844 3,221,018 (234,559) 2,986,459 Finance income b 21,786 72,386 94,172 27,632 79,098 106,730 Finance costs b (431,980) 8,980 (423,000) (415,462) (415,462) Net finance costs b (410,194) 81,366 (328,828) (387,830) 79,098 (308,732) a. Staff cost relating to workshop employees which was previously reported under Administrative Expenses has been reclassified under Cost of Sales. b. Realised exchange gain/(loss) on translation of foreign currency which was previously reported under Cost of Sales has been reclassified under Finance Income and Costs. 5.5 Events Occurring After the Reporting Period Subsequent to the reporting date, the Board of Directors of the Company There were no other material events that occurred after the reporting date that approved a first and final dividend of Rs. 27.00 per share for the year ended require adjustments to or disclosure in the Financial Statements. 31st March 2016. Details of the above dividend are disclosed in Note 4.8.1 to the Financial Statements. 146 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 At a glance The final section can be read at a glance and includes information supplementary to the main body of this report. 148 Appendix I Share Information 150 Appendix II Code of Best practice on Corporate Governance detailed disclosure 166 Appendix III GRI Content Index for ‘In accordance” Comprehensive 170 Appendix IV Independent Assurance Statement on Non-Financial Reporting 173 Appendix V Ten Year Summary 174 Appendix VI Glossary 175 Corporate Information 176 Notice of Meeting 177 Form of Proxy Appendix I Share Information 1 Stock Exchange Listing The issued ordinary shares of Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC are listed with the Colombo Stock Exchange of Sri Lanka. The audited Group Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income for the year ended 31st March 2016 and the audited Statement of Financial Position at that date have been submitted to the Colombo Stock Exchange within the stipulated period prior to the AGM to be held on 29th June 2016. 2 Shareholders The number of shareholders as at 31 st March 2016 was 1,770 (1,745 as at 31st March 2015). Resident Non Resident Total No. of No. of No. of No. of No. of Total No. No of Shares held % % % Shareholders Shares Shareholders Shares Shareholders of Shares 1 1,000 1,512 180,037 2.03 25 6,368 0.07 1,537 186,405 2.10 1,001 10,000 173 487,579 5.49 4 17,652 0.20 177 505,231 5.69 10,001 100,000 39 1,175,423 13.24 1 19,000 0.21 40 1,194,423 13.45 100,001 1,000,000 15 5,350,400 60.28 0.00 15 5,350,400 60.28 1,000,001 and over 1 1,639,978 18.48 0.00 1 1,639,978 18.48 Total 1,740 8,833,417 99.52 30 43,020 0.48 1,770 8,876,437 100.00 Over 99% of the shares issued is held by residents of Sri Lanka. 31st March 2016 31st March 2015 No.of No.of No.of No.of Categories of Shareholders % % Shareholders shares Shareholders shares Individuals 1,686 5,513,766 62.12 1,649 5,506,227 62.03 Institutions 84 3,362,671 37.88 96 3,370,210 37.97 Total 1,770 8,876,437 100.00 1,745 8,876,437 100 3 Market Value of Shares The market value of an ordinary share of Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC (based on the Volume Weighted Average Price) as at 31st March 2016 was Rs.549.70 (Rs. 630.00 as at 31st March 2015). 4 Dividend Payment 2015/16 2014/15 Rs. Rs. First and final dividend Rs. 27.00 per share 239,663,799 177,528,740 (Rs. 20.00 per share 2014/15) 5 Share Trading Information from 1st April 2015 to 31st March 2016 2015/2016 2014/2015 Highest (Rs.) 799.00 12-Aug-15 730.00 2-Sep-14 Lowest (Rs.) 520.10 9-Mar-16 485.00 7-Apr-14 Closing (Rs.) 549.70 31-Mar-16 630.00 31-Mar-15 No. of transactions 1,228 2,172 No. of shares traded 167,237 908,207 Value of shares traded (Rs.) 111,892,715 547,342,929 6 Public Shareholding As at 31st March 2016 2015 Number of shares 4,133,467 4,764,211 % 46.57 53.67 148 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 At a glance 148 Appendices 175 Corporate Information 176 Notice of Meeting 177 Form of Proxy 7 History of Share Issues Year Issue No. of Shares Price 2011/12 Scrip (one share per every fifty shares held) 174,048 Rs. 1,395.00 2006/07 Rights (one share per every ten shares held) 1,100,000 Rs.55.00 2006/07 Scrip (one share per every ten shares held) 1,000,000 Nil 2004/05 Scrip (one share per every nine shares held) 1,000,000 Nil 2003/04 Rights (one share per every two shares held) 3,000,000 Rs.20.00 2000/01 Scrip (one share per every four shares held) 1,200,000 Nil 1995/96 Scrip (one share per every three shares held) 1,200,000 Nil 1994/95 Scrip (one share per every five shares held) 600,000 Nil 1992/93 Rights (one share per every five shares held) 500,000 Rs.75.00 1991/92 Rights (one share per every three shares held) 500,000 Rs.30.00 1991/92 Scrip (one share per every four shares held) 500,000 Nil 1989/90 Rights (one share per every two shares held) 500,000 Rs.10.00 1987/88 Scrip (one share per every share held) 500,000 Nil 1980/81 Scrip (one share per every share held) 250,000 Nil 8 Changes in Shareholdings of Directors and their Spouses During 2015/2016 As at 31.03.2016 Movement of As at 31.03.2015 Name Shareholding % Shares Shares Shares Mr A R Pandithage 21.74 1,929,735 10,000 1,919,735 Mr S C Algama 6.48 574,779 574,779 Mr A G Pandithage 6.43 570,862 570,862 Mr A N Algama 2.41 213,739 213,739 Mr A M Pandithage 2.53 224,172 224,172 39.59 3,513,287 10,000 3,503,287 9 Top Twenty Shareholders Name 31st March 2016 31st March 2015 Shares % Shares % Employees Provident Fund 1,639,978 18.48 1,650,183 18.59 Mr. A R Pandithage 991,233 11.17 991,233 11.17 Mrs. J C Pandithage 938,502 10.57 928,502 10.46 A & G Investments Pvt Limited 630,267 7.10 608,939 6.86 Mr. S C Algama 567,786 6.40 567,786 6.40 Mr. A G Pandithage 525,814 5.92 525,814 5.92 Almar Trading Co (Pvt) Ltd 310,875 3.50 310,875 3.50 Mr. A N Algama 213,739 2.41 213,739 2.41 Mr. T G H Peries 193,069 2.18 193,069 2.18 Mr. A M Pandithage 182,319 2.05 182,319 2.05 Dr D.Jayanntha 160,000 1.80 159,200 1.79 Miss T.R.N.C Peries 148,009 1.67 148,009 1.67 Mr. L P Algama 134,569 1.52 134,569 1.52 Deutsche Bank Ag As Trustee For Jb Vantage Value E 123,733 1.39 123,733 1.39 Estate Of The Late Mr.N.U.Algama 118,845 1.34 118,845 1.34 United Motors Lanka PLC 111,640 1.26 111,640 1.26 Bank of Ceylon No. 01 Account 77,935 0.88 36,356 0.41 The Ceylon Guardian Investment Trust Plc A/C # 02 77,873 0.88 77,873 0.88 Mr. M Radhakrishnan 69,788 0.79 69,788 0.79 Pan Asia Banking Corporation/ALMAR International (Pvt) Ltd 62,810 0.71 62,861 0.71 7,278,784 82.00 7,215,333 81.29 10 The Stated Capital represents 8,876,437 ordinary shares. 149 Appendix II Code of Best practice on Corporate Governance Detailed Disclosure Code Requirement Compliance with the Code Ref Section 1 : A. DIRECTORS A.1 THE BOARD Every public company should be headed by an effective Board, which should direct, lead and control the company A.1.1 The Board should meet regularly, at least once in every quarter Board of Directors met six times during the financial year, and met atleast once in quarter. 93% attendance was maintained on average. Up-to-date financial and non-financial information are disseminated to the Directors prior to each meeting. Composition of the Board and Board Committees and attendance at meetings is available on page 90. A.1.2 BOARD SHOULD BE RESPONSIBLE FOR MATTERS INCLUDING: • Ensuring the formulation and implementation of a sound business The Board provides leadership in determining the vision, strategic strategy direction, and creating value responsibly to the Group. Accordingly the Board has formulated a comprehensive strategy with focus on collaboration of employees to deliver differentiation in the products and services we represent. The way in which the Board implement the strategy to create value, is graphically presented through the value creation model. DIMO strategy statement and the value creation model is presented from pages 28 to 30. • Ensuring that the CEO and the Management Team possess the skills, The Directors possess diverse skills and bring a wide range of expertise experience, and knowledge to implement strategy and competencies that facilitates the effective discharging of Board responsibilities. The Board actively works to ensure that the CEO and management team continue to have the right balance of skills, experience and knowledge necessary to discharge their responsibilities. The Board is apprised of the recruitment decisions of the senior management, paying due attention to knowledge, skills and experience required for them to hold the managerial position. A brief resume of each Director and the Directors who offer themselves for re-election is available in the Directors' profiles on pages 22 and 23 and the Annual Report of the Board of Directors on page 98 respectively. • Ensuring the adoption of an effective CEO and key management The Board, with the assistance of the Nomination Committee, reviews personnel succession strategy succession plans available for the succession of key management personnel. Moreover, effective succession planning is a criterion in the performance appraisals of the key management personnel. • Ensuring effective systems to secure integrity of information, The Board has designed and implemented a sound internal control internal controls, business continuity and risk management system to ensure the effective and sustainable performance. Internal auditors continuously monitor and report on the internal control system Independent auditors too may report to the Board on any weaknesses in internal controls that they come across during their review. Measures taken towards an effective internal control system are given under D.2.1 of this table and the Risk Management framework is set out in the Risk Management Report on page 76. • Ensuring compliance with Laws, regulations and ethical standard The Board ensures compliance with mandatory laws and regulations and promote voluntary adherence to enhance the transparency and the accountability in the path of value creation. The Conformance Report presented from pages 82 to 95 discusses the DIMO compliance status in detail. • Ensuring all stakeholder interests are considered in corporate The Board has initiated a stakeholder engagement programmes by which decisions the company identifies the material stakeholder issues. The corporate strategy developed by the Board ensure all material aspects identified, have been address adequately. The Annual Report extensively covers our interactions with stakeholders. Please refer pages 31 to 33, for details of stakeholder engagement. 150 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 At a glance 148 Appendices 175 Corporate Information 176 Notice of Meeting 177 Form of Proxy Code Requirement Compliance with the Code Ref • Recognising sustainable business development in corporate strategy, The Board recognises the importance of including the principles of decisions and activities sustainability in corporate strategy, decisions and activities. The value creation model given on pages 28 and 29 of the Annual Report 2015/16, shows the inclusiveness of stakeholders and the environment in the value creation process. Refer the Impact Report from pages 63 to 75 for more information on the Company’s activities with regard to sustainability. • Ensuring that the Company’s values and standards are set, with The Code of Business Ethics requires compliance with laws, regulations emphasis on adopting appropriate accounting policies and fostering and corporate policies at all times. These ensure that prescribed compliance with financial regulations accounting policies are fully in line with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRS/LKAS) and other regulations are adhered to. Refer the Independent Auditor’s Report, which affirms that the Company’s Financial Statements are in line with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards, given on page 105. • Fulfilling such other Board functions as are vital, given the scale, The size and the scale of the organisation demands expertise in diverse nature and complexity of the business concerned areas of business at the level of Board of Directors. Expertise in Finance, Engineering, Law and Marketing is available in the present Board to address any other functions that are vital, given the scale, nature and the complexity of the Company’s business. A.1.3 The Board collectively, and Directors individually, must act in The regulatory framework adopted by the Company provides the accordance with the laws of the country and there should be a framework for conformance, and identifies what is expected to be procedure agreed by the Board of Directors, to obtain independent followed by the Board, upholding the values of ethical and good professional advice where necessary, at the company’s expense. business practices ensuring confidentiality and ethical dealing. Any Director may obtain independent professional advice that may be required in discharging his/ her responsibilities effectively, at the Company’s expense. The regulatory framework with mandatory compliance and voluntary adherence is depicted in the Conformance Framework presented on page 83. A.1.4 All Directors should have access to the advice and services of the Members of the Board have unrestricted accesses to the advice and Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board in ensuring services of the Company Secretary. The Company Secretary advises the that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and Board and ensures that matters concerning the Companies Act, CSE regulations are complied with. Any question of the removal of the listing rules, SEC directives, Board procedures and other applicable rules Company Secretary should be a matter for the Board as a whole. and regulations are followed. The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary rests with the Board. A.1.5 All Directors should bring independent judgement to bear on issues All Directors exercise independent judgment in decisions made by of strategy, performance, resources (including key appointments) the Board on issues of strategy, performance, resource allocation and and standards of business conduct. standards of business conduct. A.1.6 Every Director should dedicate adequate time and effort to matters The Chairman, Non-Executive and Executive Directors are committed of the Board and the Company, to ensure that the duties and to discharging their duties as Directors of the Company and ensure responsibilities owed to the Company are satisfactorily discharged. that adequate time and attention is given to make their contribution It must be recognised that Directors have to dedicate sufficient time effective. before a meeting to review Board papers and call for additional The Board papers and the agenda are dispatched to the Directors ahead information and clarification, and after a meeting to follow up on of Board Meetings, enabling the Directors to review the papers and issues consequent to the meeting. This should be supplemented by a obtain clarifications ahead of the meetings. The papers contain financial time allocation for familiarisation with business changes, operations, and non-financial information. The regular Board papers include risks and controls. Financial Statements, narratives on variances, working capital related reports, reports on compliance with statutory requirements, capital expenditure reports, reports on selected expenditure, staff appointments, bank facilities and utilisation, related party transactions, extracts of interest register and any other report as required. 151 Code of Best practice on Corporate Governance Detailed Disclosure Code Requirement Compliance with the Code Ref A.1.7 Every Director should receive appropriate training when first A continuous training is provided to Executive Directors to equip appointed to the Board of a company, and subsequently as themselves to discharge their responsibilities effectively. This includes necessary. Training curricula should encompass both general aspects training provided by principals, external and in-house training. Directors of directorship and matters specific to the particular industry/ are briefed on changes in laws and regulations, tax laws and accounting company concerned. A Director must recognise that there is a standards from time to time either during Board Meetings or at specially need for continuous training and an expansion of the knowledge convened sessions. and skills required to effectively perform his duties as a Director. The Board should regularly review and agree on the training and development needs of the Directors. A.2 CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (CEO) There are two key tasks at the top of every public company – conducting of the business of the Board, and facilitating executive responsibility for management of the Company’s business. There should be a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the Company, which will ensure a balance of power and authority, such that no one individual has unfettered powers of decision. A.2.1 A decision to combine the posts of Chairman and CEO in one person The Chairman continues to be the Managing Director of the Company should be justified and highlighted in the Annual Report. after appointment of Mr. A.G. Pandithage as the CEO with effect from 01.04.2012. The functions of Chairman and CEO was vested with the same person up to 31.03.2012. The appointment of a CEO with effect from 01.04.2012 has enabled sharing of responsibilities of the Chief Executive function. A.3 CHAIRMAN’S ROLE The Chairman’s role in preserving good Corporate Governance is crucial. As the person responsible for running the Board, the Chairman should preserve order and facilitate the effective discharge of Board functions. A.3.1 The Chairman should conduct Board proceedings in a proper Board meetings are conducted in an atmosphere that encourages manner and ensure, inter alia, that: healthy debate by all members of the Board. The Chairman ensures that • the effective participation of both Executive and Non-Executive there is effective participation from all Directors, that their individual Directors is secured; contribution and concerns are objectively assessed prior to making key decisions. The Chairman ensures that every Non-Executive Director and • all Directors are encouraged to make an effective contribution, Executive Director is provided with an opportunity to present his view on within their respective capabilities, for the benefit of the matters discussed and that both Executive and Non-Executive Directors Company; have opportunities for effective participation. He also ensures that the • a balance of power between Executive and Non-Executive Board is in complete control of the Company’s affairs and that decisions Directors is maintained; made by the Board are implemented. • the views of Directors on issues under consideration are The attendance details of Directors at Board Meetings are available in ascertained; and Conformance Report which also include the composition of the Board • the Board is in complete control of the Company’s affairs and Board Committees and attendance at Meetings for 2015/2016. Refer and alert to its obligations to all shareholders and other A5, Board of Directors & A18, Directors attendance on page 90. stakeholders. A.4 FINANCIAL ACUMEN The Board should ensure the availability within it of those with The Board enjoys the services of three qualified accountants who provide sufficient financial acumen and knowledge to offer guidance on the requisite financial acumen and knowledge on matters of finance. matters of finance. In addition, the Audit Committee has the services of another qualified accountant who serves as an Independent Consultant. A.5 BOARD BALANCE It is preferable for the Board to have a balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors such that no individual or small group of individuals can dominate the Board’s decision-taking. 152 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 At a glance 148 Appendices 175 Corporate Information 176 Notice of Meeting 177 Form of Proxy Code Requirement Compliance with the Code Ref A.5.1 The Board should include Non-Executive Directors of sufficient Four out of ten Directors were non-executive Directors up to 10th calibre and number for their views to carry significant weight in August 2015. Three out of nine Directors are Non-Executive Directors the Board’s decisions. The Board should include at least two Nonfrom 10th August 2015 to 31st March 2016. A brief resume of each Executive Directors or such number of Non-Executive Directors Director is available on pages 22 and 23. equivalent to one third of total number of Directors, whichever is higher. In the event the Chairman and CEO is the same person, NonExecutive Directors should comprise a majority of the Board. A.5.2 Where the constitution of the Board of Directors includes only two Three out of four Non-executive Directors were independent up to 10th Non-Executive Directors, both such Non-Executive Directors should August 2015. Two out of three non-executive Directors are independent be ‘independent’. In all other instances two or one third of Nonfrom 10th August 2015 to 31st March 2016. The names of Independent Executive Directors appointed to the Board of Directors whichever is Non-Executive Directors are as follows. higher should be ‘independent’. 1. Mr. R. Seevaratnam 2. Dr. H. Cabral A.5.3 For a Director to be deemed independent such Director should be The Independent Directors match all criteria set by this section except independent of management and free of any business or other the number of years they have been serving on the Board. However relationship that could materially interfere with or could reasonably the Board has determined the independence of above Non-Executive be perceived to materially interfere with the exercise of their Directors notwithstanding of the circumstance of service period unfettered and independent judgment. exceeding nine years. A special disclosure in this regard is available on pages 98 and 99. Related party transactions and Directors interest in contracts are disclosed on pages 145 and 101 respectively. A.5.4 Each Non-Executive Director should submit a signed and dated The Non-Executive Directors submitted the requisite declaration, declaration annually of his independence or non-independence which was used for determining the independence of the Independent against the specified criteria set out in the Specimen in Schedule J. Directors. A.5.5 The Board should make a determination annually as to the The Board has made an annual determination as to the independence independence or nonindependence of each Non-Executive Director or non-independence of each NonExecutive Director based on a based on such a declaration made of decided criteria and other declaration made by the NonExecutive Directors and as per criteria set information available to the Board, and should set out in the Annual out by the Colombo Stock Exchange Listing Rules. The special declaration Report the names of Directors determined to be ‘independent’. on the determination of independence of Independent Non-Executive The Board should specify the criteria not met and the basis for its Directors, is presented on pages 98 and 99. determination in the annual report, if it determines that a Director The names of Independent Non-Executive Directors are given on page is independent notwithstanding the existence of relationships or 90. circumstances which indicate the contrary and should set out in the annual report the names of directors determined to be ‘independent’. A.5.6 Appointment of an alternate director by a non-executive No alternative Directors were appointed during the year. independent directors. A.5.7 In the event the Chairman and CEO is the same person, the Board Mr. R. Seevaratnam, an independent Non-Executive Director, functions should appoint one of the independent Non-Executive Directors as the Senior Independent Director. The Senior Independent Director to be the ‘Senior Independent Director’ (SID) and disclose this presides at Board meetings in the absence of the Chairman. appointment in the Annual Report. A.5.8 The Senior Independent Director should make himself available The Senior Independent Director is available for confidential discussions, for confidential discussions with other Directors who may have should there be any concerns regarding governance or issues that may concerns which they believe have not been properly considered by adversely affect the Company, inadequately addressed by the Board. the Board as a whole and which pertain to significant issues that are detrimental to the Company. A.5.9 The Chairman should hold meetings with the NonExecutive Chairman consults the Independent Directors to obtain their views on Directors only, without the Executive Directors being present, as matters of importance, as and when the need arises. Chairman met with necessary and at least once each year. Non-Executive Directors, without the presence of Executive Directors during the year. A.5.10 Where Directors have concerns about the matters of the Company The Board minutes are prepared by the Company Secretary. In the which cannot be unanimously resolved, they should ensure their event of a matter not being unanimously adopted at a Board Meeting, concerns are recorded in the Board minutes. the concerns expressed at such situations are recorded in the meeting minutes, at the request of the Director concerned. Minutes of the Board Meetings are circulated to all Directors and adopted at a subsequent Board Meeting. 153 Code of Best practice on Corporate Governance Detailed Disclosure Code Requirement Compliance with the Code Ref A.6 SUPPLY OF INFORMATION The Board should be provided with timely information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties. A.6.1 Management has an obligation to provide the Board with All Board Members including Non-Executive Directors receive appropriate and timely information, but information volunteered by information on the operations and performance of the Company on a management may not be enough in all circumstances and Directors monthly basis. This routine helps to eliminate information asymmetry should make further inquiries where necessary. The Chairman between executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors. should ensure all Directors are properly briefed on issues arising at The Chairman ensures that the background is set for discussions at Board meetings. Board Meetings by introducing the subject of discussion, if the Board members were not previously aware of the matter at hand. A.6.2 The minutes, agenda and papers required for a Board meeting The Directors are provided with comprehensive data on financial and should ordinarily be provided to Directors at least seven (7) days non-financial information prior to Board meetings in addition to the before the meeting, to facilitate its effective conduct. agenda of the meeting and the minutes of the previous meeting. A.7 APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD There should be a formal and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board. A.7.1 A Nomination Committee should be established to make The Board appoints the Directors to the Company and subsidiary recommendations to the Board on all new Board appointments. companies and members to the Group Management Committee based Terms of Reference for Nomination Committees are set out in on the recommendations of the Nomination Committee. Schedule A. The Nomination Committee has specific terms of references defining its The Chairman and members of the Nomination Committee should scope and authority. be identified in the Annual Report. Up to 10th August 2015, the Nomination Committee consisted of three Non-Executive Independent Directors, one Non-Executive Director and the Chairman. From 10th August 2015 onwards the committee consisted of two Independent Non-Executive Directors, one Non-Executive Director and the Chairman of the Board. The Chairman of the Committee throughout the year was Dr. H. Cabral, who is an Independent Director. The composition of the Nomination Committee as at 31st March 2016 is as follows, 1. Mr. A.R. Pandithage 2. Mr. R. Seevaratnam 3. Dr. H. Cabral 4. Mr. A.M. Pandithage Prof. U.P. Liyanage was a member of the committee up to 10th August 2015. The Report of the Nomination Committee is available on page 93. A.7.2 The Nomination Committee or in the absence of a Nomination The Committee’s main role is to nominate suitable candidates as and Committee, the Board as a whole should annually assess boardwhen vacancies occur on the Board. The Committee is responsible composition to ascertain whether the combined knowledge and for succession planning at Board and Senior Management level and experience of the Board matches the strategic demands facing the in ensuring smooth management transitions. It reviews the size and Company. The findings of such assessment should be taken into structure of the Board on a continuing basis and constantly reviews the account when new Board appointments are considered and when balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board of Directors. incumbent Directors come up for re-election. The Committee also reviews the independence of Directors including actual, potential or perceived conflicts of interest. A.7.3 Upon the appointment of a new Director to the Board, the Company There were no new appointments to the Board of Directors during the should forthwith disclose to shareholders: year under review. a) a brief resume of the Director; b) the nature of his expertise in relevant functional area c) the names of companies in which the Director holds Directorship or Membership in Board Committees and d) whether such Director can be considered ‘independent’. 154 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 At a glance 148 Appendices 175 Corporate Information 176 Notice of Meeting 177 Form of Proxy Code Requirement Compliance with the Code Ref A.8 RE-ELECTION All Directors should be required to submit themselves for re-election at regular intervals and at least once in every three years. A.8.1 Non-Executive Directors should be appointed for specified terms Except for the Managing Director, all other Directors retire by rotation subject to re-election and to the provisions in the Companies Act and may offer themselves for re-election at the AGM. As per the article relating to the removal of a Director, and their reappointment of association the Managing Director, is not required to make himself should not be automatic. available for re-election. A.8.2 All Directors including the Chairman of the Board should be subject The Company’s Articles of Association provides any Director appointed to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their by the Board to hold office until the next Annual General Meeting appointment, and to re-election thereafter at intervals of no more (AGM), and to seek reappointment by the Shareholders at the said AGM. than three years. Based on the Articles and the current composition of the Board, a The names of Directors submitted for election or re-election should Director excluding the Managing Director has to come forward for rebe accompanied by a resume minimally as set out in paragraph election, every three years. A.7.3 above, to enable shareholders to make an informed decision The names of the Directors coming up for re-election at the AGM 2016 on their election. are given in the Notice of Meeting of the Annual Report 2015/16. A.9 APPRAISAL OF BOARD PERFORMANCE Boards should periodically appraise their own performance in order to ensure that Board responsibilities are satisfactorily discharged. A.9.1 The Board should annually appraise itself on its performance in the The methodology of evaluation involves each Board member completing discharge of its key responsibilities as set out in A.1.2. a checklist and providing a rating on each item covered in the checklist involving areas of appraisal. The appraisal covers areas such as; • its contribution towards developing, implementing and monitoring of strategy, • communication with stakeholders, • processes involving the Board, • review of its own performance evaluation process and • other areas related to discharging its responsibilities A.9.2 The Board should also undertake an annual self-evaluation of its The Board carries out a performance evaluation of the Board and of own performance and that of its Committees. its Committees. The methodology followed for evaluation of Board performance is given in A.G.1. Performance evaluation of Board Committees is done by way of a discussion. A.9.3 The Board should state how such performance evaluations have This section itself would serve the purpose of disclosure. been conducted, in the Annual Report. A.10 DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION IN RESPECT OF DIRECTORS Shareholders should be kept advised of relevant details in respect of Directors. A.10.1 The Annual Report of the Company should set out the following Refer Directors' profiles, on pages 22 and 23 and A18, Composition of information in relation to each Director: the Board on page 90. Name, qualifications, brief profile. Available in the Board of Directors' profile on pages 22 and 23. The nature of his expertise in relevant functional areas; Available in the Board of Directors' profile on pages 22 and 23. Immediate family and/or material business relationships with other Mr. A.R. Pandithage, Mr. A.G. Pandithage and Mr. A.M. Pandithage fall Directors of the Company; within the definition of “close family members” of the Code. Whether Executive, non-executive and/or independent director Available in the Board of Directors' profile on pages 22 and 23. Names of listed companies in Sri Lanka in which the Director Available in the Board of Directors' profile on pages 22 and 23. concerned serves as a Director; Names of other companies in which the Director concerned Available in Board of Directors Profile on pages 22 and 23. serves as a Director, provided that where he holds directorships in companies within a Group of which the Company is a part, their names need not be disclosed; it is sufficient to state that he holds other directorships in such companies; Number/percentage of Board meetings of the Company attended Refer A 18 attendance at meetings on page 90. during the year; 155 Code of Best practice on Corporate Governance Detailed Disclosure Code Requirement Compliance with the Code Ref Total number of Board seats held by each Director indicating listed Name of the Director Total No of Board Seats Total No of Board Seats and unlisted Companies and whether in an executive or nonexecutive capacity held by each Director in held by each Director listed Companies(Other in Un-listed Companies than this company ), in the capacity of in the capacity of Executive NonExecutive NonDirector Executive Director Executive Director Director A.R. Pandithage 3 1 A.G. Pandithage 3 A.N. Algama S.C. Algama 3 Dr H. Cabral 6 5 B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne 1 2 A.M. Pandithage 12 1 135 11 R. Seevaratnam 9 9 R.C. Weerawardane 2 Names of Board Committees in which the Director serves as Composition of the Board and Board Committees and attendance at Chairman or a member; and Meetings for 2015/2016 on page 90. Number/ percentage of committee meetings attended during the Composition of the Board and Board Committees and attendance at year. Meetings for 2015/2016 on page 90. A.11 APPRAISAL OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (CEO) The Board should be required, at least annually, to assess the performance of the CEO. A.11.1 At the commencement of every fiscal year, the Board in consultation At the commencement of every financial year, the Board in consultation with the CEO, should set, in line with the short, medium and with the Chairman/Managing Director, CEO and Executive Directors long-term objectives of the Company, reasonable financial and nonagree on the financial and non-financial targets, based on which the financial targets that should be met by the CEO during the year. performance of Chairman/Managing Director, CEO and Executive Directors are evaluated. A.11.2 The performance of the CEO should be evaluated by the Board at the Whilst the performance evaluation of the Chairman/ Managing Director end of each fiscal year to ascertain whether the targets set by the is done by the NonExecutive Directors led by the Senior Independent Board have been achieved and if not, whether the failure to meet Director, the performance appraisal of the CEO and Executive Directors such targets was reasonable in the circumstances. will be carried out by the NonExecutive Directors in consultation with the Chairman/Managing Director. B DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION B.1 REMUNERATION PROCEDURE Companies should establish a formal and transparent procedure for developing a policy on executive remuneration and for fixing the remuneration packages of individual Directors. No Director should be involved in deciding his own remuneration. B.1.1 To avoid potential conflicts of interest, the Board of Directors should The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining the set up a Remuneration Committee to make recommendations to remuneration policy and the remuneration of the Chairman/Managing the Board, within agreed terms of reference, on the Company’s Director Chief Executive Officer, Executive Directors and Senior framework of remunerating Executive Directors. (These also include Management. Post-Employment Benefits as well as Terminal Benefits) Terms of The Board of Directors appoints members to the Remuneration Committee. Reference for Remuneration Committees are set out in Schedule C. The Board of Directors has set the terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee. Attendance details of the members of the Remuneration Committee meetings are disclosed in the Conformance Report which also include composition of the Board and Board Committees and attendance at Meetings for 2015/16 on page 90. Refer the Report of the Remuneration Committee on page 92. 156 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 At a glance 148 Appendices 175 Corporate Information 176 Notice of Meeting 177 Form of Proxy Code Requirement Compliance with the Code Ref B.1.2 Remuneration Committees should consist exclusively of NonThe Committee consisted of three Non-Executive Independent Directors Executive Directors, and should have a Chairman, who should be and one Non-Executive Director up to 10th August 2015, up to which appointed by the Board. date Professor U.P. Liyanage was the Chairman of the Committee. The Committee from 10th August 2015 onwards consisted of two Independent NonExecutive Directors and one Non-Executive Director. The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee is Dr. H. Cabral, an Independent Non-Executive Director. The composition of the Remuneration Committee met the requirements of the Colombo Stock Exchange Listing Rules. B.1.3 The Chairman and members of the Remuneration Committee should Names of the Chairman, members of the Remuneration Committee and be listed in the Annual Report each year. committee attendance at meetings are available in the Conformance Report from pages 82 to 95. B.1.4 The Board as a whole, or where required by the Articles of The Board of Directors determines the remuneration of NonExecutive Association the shareholders, should determine the remuneration of Directors. The NonExecutive Directors do not participate in any Non-Executive Directors, including members of the Remuneration discussion that involves fixing their remuneration. Committee, within the limits set in the Articles of Association. Where permitted by the Articles, the Board may delegate this responsibility to a subcommittee of the Board, which might include the CEO. B.1.5 The Remuneration Committee should consult the Chairman The remuneration of the Chairman / Managing Director is recommended and/or CEO about its proposals relating to the remuneration of by the Remuneration Committee. Mr. R. Seevaratnam who is the Senior other Executive Directors and have access to professional advice Independent Director is a member of the Remuneration Committee. from within and outside the Company, in discharging their The remuneration of the Executive Directors is recommended by the responsibilities. Remuneration Committee in consultation with the Chairman/Managing Director. No Director is involved in deciding his own remuneration. The Committee is entitled to obtain professional advice at the Company’s expense in discharging their responsibilities. B.2 THE LEVEL AND MAKE UP OF REMUNERATION Levels of remuneration of both Executive and Non-Executive Directors should be sufficient to attract and retain the Directors needed to run the Company successfully. A proportion of Executive Directors’ remuneration should be structured to link rewards to corporate and individual performance. B.2.1 The Remuneration Committee should provide the packages needed The Company’s remuneration policy aims to attract and retain high calibre to attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors of the quality executives by ensuring that their rewards are competitive and linked to required but should avoid paying more than is necessary for this both individual and performance. Refer the Remuneration Committee purpose. report presented on page 92 for further details on remuneration policy. B.2.2 The Remuneration Committee should judge where to position levels The Remuneration Committee in deciding the remuneration of the of remuneration of the Company, relative to other companies. Directors takes into consideration the level of remuneration paid by It should be aware what comparable companies are paying and the other comparable companies. By linking the remuneration levels to should take account of relative performance, but should use such performance, the Committee ensures that any increase in the variable comparisons with caution, mindful of the risk that they can result part of the remuneration corresponds to better performance. When in an increase of remuneration levels with no corresponding required, the Remuneration Committee uses remuneration surveys to improvement in performance. ascertain market levels of remuneration. B.2.3 The Remuneration Committee should be sensitive to remuneration Same criteria and measures adopted in B.2.2 are used for determination and employment conditions elsewhere in the Company or Group of remuneration of the senior management team, across the Group. of which it is a part, especially when determining annual salary increases. B.2.4 The performance-related elements of remuneration of Executive Remuneration of Executive Directors consists of a fixed element as well Directors should be designed and tailored to align their interests as a variable element. The variable part (incentive scheme) is based on with those of the Company and main stakeholders and to give these the performance of the individual as well as the company. Directors appropriate incentives to perform at the highest levels. B.2.5 Executive share options should not be offered at a discount (i.e. There was no share option scheme in operation during the year under less than market price prevailing at the time the exercise price is review. determined), save as permitted by the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange. 157 Code of Best practice on Corporate Governance Detailed Disclosure Code Requirement Compliance with the Code Ref B.2.6 In designing schemes of performance related remuneration, The guideline provided by Schedule E has been followed in determining Remuneration Committees should follow the provisions set out in Directors remuneration. Schedule E. B.2.7 Remuneration Committee should consider what compensation The compensation commitments of the Executive Directors are guided commitments (including pension contributions) their Directors’ by their contracts of employment. This requirement is not applicable to contracts of service, if any, entail in the event of early termination. Non-Executive Directors. Remuneration Committee should in particular, consider the advantages of providing explicitly for such compensation commitments to apply other than in the case of removal for misconduct, in initial contracts. B.2.8 Where the initial contract does not explicitly provide for The Board is committed to acting fairly and in accordance with laws of compensation commitments, Remuneration Committee should, the country, in the event of a termination. There was no termination of within legal constraints, tailor their approach in early termination services of any Director during the year under review. cases to the relevant circumstances. The broad aim should be, to avoid rewarding poor performance while dealing fairly with cases where departure is not due to poor performance. B.2.9 Levels of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors should reflect Time commitments and responsibilities of their role are taken into the time commitment and responsibilities of their role, taking into consideration when remuneration levels of NonExecutive Directors consideration market practices. Remuneration for Non-Executive are determined. The Company does not have a share options scheme in Directors should not normally include share options. If exceptional operation. options are granted, shareholder approval should be sought in advance and any shares acquired by exercise of the options should be held until at least one year after the Non-Executive Director leaves the Board. Holding share options could be relevant to the determination of a NonExecutive Director’s independence. B.3 DISCLOSURE OF REMUNERATION The Company’s Annual Report should contain a Statement of Remuneration Policy and details of remuneration of the Board as a whole and a specimen of a remuneration committee report followed by schedule D B.3.1 The Annual Report should set out the names of Directors (or The names of the members of the Remuneration Committee and persons in the Parent Company’s committee in the case of a Group attendance at Meetings for 2015/2016 are on page 90. company) comprising the Remuneration Committee, contain a The Remuneration Policy is available in the Report of the Remuneration Statement of Remuneration Policy and set out the aggregate Committee of the Annual Report. remuneration paid to Executive and Non-Executive Directors. Total Directors’ emoluments are disclosed in Note 4.5 to the Financial Statements. C RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS C.1 CONSTRUCTIVE USE OF THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (AGM) AND CONDUCT OF GENERAL MEETINGS Boards should use the AGM to communicate with shareholders and should encourage their participation. C.1.1 Companies should count all proxy votes and should indicate the The Company has in place a mechanism to count all proxy votes level of proxies lodged on each resolution, and the balance for and to indicate to the Chairperson the level of proxies lodged on each against the resolution and withheld, after it has been dealt with on resolution and the number of votes for and against such resolution. a show of hands, except where a poll is called. C.1.2 Companies should propose a separate resolution at the AGM on Each substantially separate issue is proposed as a separate resolution. each substantially separate issue and should in particular propose The adoption of the Annual Report of the Board of Directors, along with a resolution at the AGM relating to the adoption of the report and the Financial Statements, are also proposed as a separate resolution. accounts. C.1.3 The Chairman of the Board should arrange for the Chairmen of the The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees to be available to are usually present at the Annual General Meeting to facilitate answer questions at the AGM if so requested by the Chairman. shareholders' inquiries. C.1.4 Companies should arrange for the Notice of the AGM and related The Notice of Meeting and related documents are dispatched to the papers to be sent to shareholders as determined by statute, before shareholders 15 working days prior to the AGM, as per Section 135 of the meeting. the Companies Act No.07 of 2007 158 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 At a glance 148 Appendices 175 Corporate Information 176 Notice of Meeting 177 Form of Proxy Code Requirement Compliance with the Code Ref C.1.5 Companies should circulate with every Notice of General Meeting, a The Notice of Meeting outlines the procedure relating to voting at the summary of the procedures governing voting at General Meetings. Annual General Meeting. C.2 COMMUNICATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Board should implement effective communication with Shareholders C.2.1 There should be a channel to reach all Shareholders of the Company The channels company uses to reach shareholders include the Annual in order to disseminate timely information General Meeting, the Annual Report, Quarterly Financial Statements, Corporate Disclosures to the CSE and the Corporate Website. C.2.2 The Company should disclose the policy and methodology for The Company’s policy pertaining to the communication with communication with Shareholders shareholders involves the sharing of all financial and non-financial information as per the applicable statutory and regulatory requirements and best practices adopted by the Company. The methodology of communication with shareholders is multi-faceted to ensure the accuracy of information disseminated and the timeliness of dissemination. C.2.3 The Company should disclose how they implement The implementation of the policy and the methodology is done through the above policy and methodology the adoption of the above mentioned channels of communication. C.2.4 The Company should disclose the contact person for such The contact person for shareholder communication is the Company communication Secretary. C.2.5 There should be a process to make all Directors aware of major Major issues and concerns of shareholders, if any, are discussed at Board issues and concerns of shareholders, and this process has to be Meetings. There were no such concerns expressed by shareholders that disclosed by the Company warranted consideration at a Board Meeting. C.2.6 The Company should decide the person to contact in relation The contact person in relation to all matters pertaining to the to Shareholder’s matters. The relevant person with statutory Shareholders is the Company Secretary. responsibilities to contact in relation to Shareholder’s matters is the Company Secretary or in his absence should be a member of the board of Directors. C.2.7 The process for responding to shareholder matters should be Appropriate responses formulated and actions taken to address formulated by the Board and disclosed. shareholder concerns by the Board and the Management are communicated to the shareholders by the Company Secretary. The most suitable and expeditious method of communication would be determined by the Company Secretary. C.3 MAJOR AND MATERIAL TRANSACTIONS Further to compliance with the requirements under the Companies Act, Securities and Exchange Commission law and Colombo Stock Exchange regulations; as applicable, Directors should disclose to shareholders all proposed material transactions, which if entered into, would materially alter/vary the Company’s net assets base or in the case of a company with subsidiaries, the consolidated group net asset base. C.3.1 Prior to a Company engaging in or committing to a ‘major related There was no transaction during the year that fell within the definition party transaction’ with a related party, involving the acquisition, of a major transaction defined by Section 185 of the Companies Act No. sale or disposition of greater than one third of the value of the 07 of 2007. There were also no transactions during the year under review Company’s assets or that of a subsidiary which has a material that would suggest a substantial alteration in the nature of the business bearing on the Company and/or consolidated net assets of the carried out by the Company. Company, or a transaction which has or is likely to have the effect of the Company acquiring obligations and liabilities, of greater than one third of the value of the Company’s assets, Director’s should disclose to Shareholders the purpose and all material facts of such transaction and obtain shareholder’s’ approval; by ordinary resolution at an extraordinary general meeting. It also applies to transactions or series of related transactions which have the purpose or effect of substantially altering the nature of the business carried on by the Company. 159 Code of Best practice on Corporate Governance Detailed Disclosure Code Requirement Compliance with the Code Ref D ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT D.1 FINANCIAL REPORTING The Board should present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Company’s financial position, performance and prospects. D.1.1 The Board’s responsibility to present a balanced and understandable The annual and interim Financial Statements are published within assessment extends to interim and other price-sensitive public the time periods prescribed by the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock reports and reports to regulators, as well as to information required Exchange. to be presented by statutory requirements. Given below is a table containing the dates on which the Annual and Interim Financial Statements were uploaded to the CSE web site/ dispatched to the shareholders during the year under review. Interim / Annual Report Status Annual Report for the year ended 31st March 2015 Compliant 1st Quarter Compliant 2nd Quarter Compliant 3rd Quarter Compliant 4th Quarter Compliant The company is compliance with all the other regulatory and statutory requirements are disclosed in the Conformance Report presented from pages 82 to 95. D.1.2 The Directors’ Report, which forms part of the Annual Report, Refer the Annual Report of the Board of Directors depicted on pages 98 should contain declarations by the Directors to the effect that: to 100 and Directors' Statements on Internal controls on page 102 for • the Company has not engaged in any activity, which respective declarations. contravenes laws and regulations; • the Directors have declared all material interests in contracts involving the Company and refrained from voting on matters in which they were materially interested; • the Company has made all endeavours to ensure the equitable treatment of shareholders; • the business is a going concern, with supporting assumptions or qualifications as necessary; and • They have conducted a review of the internal controls, covering financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management, and have obtained reasonable assurance of their effectiveness and successful adherence therewith, and, if it is unable to make any of these declarations, to explain why it is unable to do so. D.1.3 The Annual Report should contain a statement setting out the Refer Board of Directors, Statements on Internal Controls on page 102 responsibilities of the Board for the preparation and presentation and Statement of Directors' Responsibilities for Financial Statements on of Financial Statements, together with a statement by the Auditors page 103. about their reporting responsibilities. Further, the Annual Report should contain a Report/Statement on Internal Controls. D.1.4 The Annual Report should contain a ‘Management Discussion & Information required by this section is included in the various sections of Analysis’, discussing, among other issues: the Annual Report 2015/2016. • industry structure and developments; • opportunities and threats; • risks and concerns; • internal control systems and their adequacy • social and environmental protection activities carried out by the Company; • financial performance; • material developments in human resource / industrial relations; and • Prospects for the future. 160 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 At a glance 148 Appendices 175 Corporate Information 176 Notice of Meeting 177 Form of Proxy Code Requirement Compliance with the Code Ref D.1.5 The Directors should report that the business is a going concern, with Refer Annual Report of the Board of Directors from pages 98 to 100 for supporting assumptions or qualifications as necessary. The matters the information on the Board’s determination of the entity as a going to which the Board should give due consideration when adopting the concern. going concern assumptions are set out in Schedule G to this Code. D.1.6 In the event, the net assets of the Company fall below 50% of This situation did not arise during the financial year under review the value of the Company’s shareholders’ funds, the Directors shall forthwith summon an Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company to notify shareholders of the position and of remedial action being taken. D.1.7 The Board should adequately and accurately disclose the related Refer Related Party Disclosure and Directors’ interest in contract with party transactions in its Annual Report: the Company on pages 145 and 101 respectively. • Each related party should submit signed and dated declaration quarterly mentioning whether they have related party transactions with the Company as defined in this code. • It should be the responsibility of the Company Secretary to keep a record on related party transactions and make necessary disclosures accordingly; • There should be a process to capture related parties and related party transactions. This process needs to be operationalised and related party transactions should be properly documented. Further, a report should be presented by the Audit Committee to the Board on identified related parties and related party transactions on a regular basis; • A record/register either in hand or soft form on related party and related party transaction should be maintained by the company; • This record should ensure that the Company captures information to comply with the respective related party disclosure requirements imposed by SEC/ Accounting standards/ Auditing standards and similar regulations. D.2 INTERNAL CONTROL The Board should have a process of risk management and a sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders' investments and the company's assets. D.2.1 The Directors should, at least annually, conduct a review of the risks The Board has the overall responsibility for maintaining the systems of facing the company and the effectiveness of the system of internal internal control of the Company and for monitoring their effectiveness, controls, so as to be able to report to shareholders as required in which has been delegated to the Audit Committee, whilst the D.1.3. This could be made the responsibility of the Audit Committee. implementation of internal control systems is the responsibility of the Group Management Committee. The adequacy and effectiveness of the internal control system is reviewed by the Audit Committee with the Group Internal Auditor. During the Audit Committee meetings, Internal Auditors are invited to present their internal audit findings. Refer the Board of Director’s statement on internal controls on page 102 and Risk Management report depicted from pages 76 to 80 for more information on company's internal control and risk management procedures. D.2.2 Companies should have an Internal Audit function The Company has outsourced the internal audit function to enhance the independence required by the function. The Group Internal Auditor who has been appointed on during the financial year is an employee of the Company. The Audit Committee met the Internal Auditors at regular intervals during the financial year to discuss the internal audit findings and to discuss effectiveness of internal controls and identify the levels of risk carried by the areas reviewed by the Internal Auditors. The Audit Committee reviewed the fees paid to Internal Auditors. 161 Code of Best practice on Corporate Governance Detailed Disclosure Code Requirement Compliance with the Code Ref D.2.3 The Board should require the Audit Committee to carry out reviews The role played by the Audit Committee in the risk management process of the process and effectiveness of risk management and internal is given in the Report of the Audit Committee and the Risk Management controls, and to document to the Board and Board takes the Report on pages 76 and 80. responsibility for the disclosures on Internal Controls. D.2.4 The Schedule K to this document contains guidance on the The role of the Board and Audit Committee on implementation and responsibilities of Director’s in maintaining a sound system of internal maintenance of a sound system of internal controls are explained in the control and the contents of the Statement of Internal Control. Annual Report D.3 AUDIT COMMITTEE The Board should establish formal and transparent arrangements for considering how they should select and apply accounting policies, financial reporting and internal control principles and maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Company’s Auditors. D.3.1 The Audit Committee should be comprised of a minimum of Present Audit Committee consists of two Independent Non-Executive two independent Non-Executive Directors (in instances where a Directors and one Non-Executive Director. The Chairman of the company has only two directors on its Board) or exclusively by NonCommittee is Mr. R. Seevaratnam, an experienced Chartered Accountant, Executive Directors, a majority of whom should be independent, who is also the Senior Independent Director. whichever is higher. Mr. H.M.A. Jayesinghe, who has previously served on the Board and as The Chairman of the Committee should be a NonExecutive the Chairman of the Audit Committee, functions as an Independent Director, appointed by the Board. Consultant to the Committee offering valuable insights. The composition and attendance to the meetings of the Audit Committee is available in the table appearing in Conformance Report on page 90. D.3.2 The duties of the Audit Committee should include keeping under Main purpose of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in the review the scope and results of the audit and its effectiveness, effective discharge of its responsibilities on financial reporting, risk and the independence and objectivity of the Auditors. Where the management and corporate control. It assists the Board in monitoring Auditors also supply a substantial volume of non-audit services to compliance with applicable laws and other regulatory requirements. the Company, the Committee should keep the nature and extent The Audit Committee makes recommendations with regard to of such services under review, seeking to balance objectivity, appointments and if require the removal of Independent Auditors. The independence and value for money Committee also evaluates the performance of Independent Auditors, reviews the terms of engagement and fees of the Auditors, for the audit. The Committee also reviewed fees paid to Independent Auditors on account of audit related services and non-audit services. Refer the report of the Audit committee presented on page 91 for further details. D.3.3 The Audit Committee should have a written Terms of Reference, Terms of Reference of the Committee clearly sets out its responsibilities dealing clearly with its authority and duties.(As referred to in the and authority. Code) Detailed guidance on the scope and functions of the Audit The Board also considered the Code of Best Practice on Audit Committee can be found in the Code of Best Practice on Audit Committees of The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka in Committees issued by The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri defining the terms of reference for the Audit Committee. Lanka in 2002. D.3.4 DISCLOSURES The names of Directors (persons in the Parent Company’s committee The names of the members of the Audit Committee, Committee in the case of a group company) comprising the Audit Committee Meetings held and the attendance of members are available on the should be disclosed in the Annual Report. composition of the Board and Board Committees and attendance at The Committee should also make a determination of the meetings for 2015/2016. Refer page 90. independence of the Auditors and should disclose the basis of such The basis of determination of the independence of Auditors is given determination in the Annual Report. The Annual Report should under the response to D.3.2. The Chairman/Managing Director Chief contain a report by the Audit Committee, setting out the manner Executive Officer, and the Director/Chief Financial Officer attend of compliance by the Company, in relation to the above, during the Audit Committee meetings, unless otherwise determined by the Audit period to which the Annual Report relates. Committee. Any member of the Board may attend the Committee meetings by invitation. The Report of the Audit Committee is available on page 91. 162 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 At a glance 148 Appendices 175 Corporate Information 176 Notice of Meeting 177 Form of Proxy Code Requirement Compliance with the Code Ref D.4 CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT & ETHICS Companies must adopt a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors, and Key Management personnel and must promptly disclose any waivers of the Code for Directors or others. D.4.1 All companies must disclose whether they have a Code of The Company has a Code of Ethics applicable to Directors and employees Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors and members of the Key of the Company. The areas covered in the Code of Ethics include Management Personnel and if they have such a Code, make an proprietary information, conflict of interest, benefits from third parties, affirmative declaration in the Annual Report that all Directors and accurate books of account, usage of company property for personal use, Key Management Personnel have complied with such Code, and if illegal acquisition of competitor information, insider trading, protection unable to make that declaration, state why they are unable to do so. of environment & natural resources and gender equity. Compliance Each Company may determine its own policies in the formulation with laws and regulations is a strict requirement for Directors and all of such a Code, but all Companies should address the following employees. important topics in their respective Codes: There were no reported cases of non-compliance to, Code of Business • conflict of interest; Ethics by any Director / Key Management Personnel. • bribery and corruption; • entertainment and gifts; • accurate accounting and record-keeping; • corporate opportunities; • confidentiality; • fair dealing; • protection and proper use of company assets; • compliance with laws, rules and regulations (including insider trading laws); and • Encouraging the reporting of any illegal or unethical behaviour. These aspects are expanded on, in Schedule I. D.4.2 The Chairman must affirm in the Company’s Annual Report that he Please refer the Chairman’s Statement from pages 98 to 100. is not aware of any violation of any of the provisions of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. D.5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES Directors should be required to disclose the extent to which the Company adheres to established principles and practices of good Corporate Governance. D.5.1 The Directors should include in the Company’s Annual Report a The Section of this report titled “A very Clear Picture” (from pages 82 to Corporate Governance Report, setting out the manner and extent to 95) which includes a conformance report deals with the conformance which the Company has complied with the principles and provisions aspects of relating Enterprise Governance. The contents of this table of this Code. deals with the extent to which established principles of good Corporate Governance have been adhered to and the requirements of the Code of Best Practices on Corporate Governance jointly issued by the SEC and ICASL have been complied with. The Company has implemented the regulations of the Section 7.10 of the Listing Rules of Colombo Stock Exchange on Corporate Governance. Refer pages 88 and 89. An introduction to Enterprise governance (page 26) and aspects covering the performance dimensions of Enterprise Governance (pages 27 to 80) are also available in this Annual Report. 163 Code of Best practice on Corporate Governance Detailed Disclosure Code Requirement Compliance with the Code Ref SECTION 2 SHAREHOLDERS E INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS E.1 SHAREHOLDER VOTING Institutional shareholders have a responsibility to make considered use of their votes and should be encouraged to ensure their voting intentions are translated into practice. E.1.1 A listed company should conduct a regular and structured dialogue The Annual General Meeting provides the forum for shareholders to with shareholders based on a mutual understanding of objectives. express their views. The Chairman ensures that any views expressed by Arising from such dialogue, the Chairman should ensure the views investors to him personally or at General Meetings are discussed with of shareholders are communicated to the Board as a whole. the Board. The Directors consider the importance to understand the views of shareholders and, in particular, any issues which concern them. E.2 EVALUATION OF GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES When evaluating Companies’ governance arrangements, particularly The Annual Report and this table contain the Company’s governance those relating to Board structure and composition, institutional arrangements. Institutional Investors are at liberty to provide any investors should be encouraged to give due weight to all relevant feedback on the governance arrangements. factors drawn to their attention. F OTHER INVESTORS F.1 INVESTING/ DIVESTING DECISION Individual shareholders, investing directly in shares of companies The Company’s communications with the shareholders, including the should be encouraged to carry out adequate analysis or seek Annual Report, provides information that enables shareholders to make independent advice in investing or divesting decisions. informed judgments or to seek advice on their investment decisions. The extensive nature of the information given would facilitate the shareholders in carrying out adequate analysis when making their decisions. F.2 SHAREHOLDER VOTING Individual shareholders should be encouraged to participate in The shareholders are encouraged to participate at General Meetings and General Meetings of companies and exercise their voting rights. cast their votes. Instructions with regard to appointing a proxy and the manner in which a Proxy Form should be completed are available in the Proxy Form circulated with the Annual Report G SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING Sustainability is a business approach that creates long term Sustainability reporting is the practice of recognising, measuring, stakeholder value by embracing opportunities and managing risks disclosing and being accountable to internal and external stakeholders derived from economic, environmental and social developments and for organisational performance towards the goals of sustainable their potential implications and impacts on the business activities development in the context of the overall business activities and of the entity. Sustainability reporting is the practice of recognising, strategy of the entity and be directed to the target stakeholders, usually, measuring, disclosing and being accountable to internal and shareholders, employees, consumers, society and Government external stakeholders for organisational performance towards the goals of sustainable development in the context of overall business activities and strategy of the entity and be directed to the target stakeholders, usually, shareholders, employees, consumers, society and government. G.1.1 Economic sustainability Please refer Economic Impact from pages 63 to 64. The principle of economic sustainability governance recognises how organisations take responsibility for impacts of their strategies, decisions, and activities on economic performance and corporate citizenship in their sphere of influence (including geographic) and how this is integrated throughout the organisation. 164 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 At a glance 148 Appendices 175 Corporate Information 176 Notice of Meeting 177 Form of Proxy Code Requirement Compliance with the Code Ref G.1.2 The Environment Please refer Environmental Impact from pages 65 to 71. Environmental governance of an organisation should adopt an integrated approach that takes into consideration the direct and indirect economic, social, health and environmental implications of their decisions and activities, including pollution prevention, sustainable resource use, climate change, protection of environment, bio-diversity and restoration of national resources. G.1.3 Labour practice Please refer Human Capital from pages 47 to 51. Labour practices governance of an organisation encompass all policies and practices relating to work performed by or on behalf of the organisation. G.1.4 Society Please refer Social Impact from pages 72 to 74. Society governance encompass support for and building a relationship with the community and striving for sustainable development including responsible public policy participation, fair competition and responsible community involvement. G.1.5 Product Responsibility Please refer Relationship Capital Customers from pages 41 to 44. Product responsibility governance includes manufacturing quality products and distributing them and ensuring that the products are safe for the consumers and the environment and also communicating clearly with consumers so that they can make an informed choice including factual unbiased information and fair contractual practices and consumer data protection and privacy. G.1.6 Stakeholder identification, engagement and effective Please refer Stakeholder Engagement from pages 31 to 34. communication Internal and external stakeholder groups should be identified in relation to the Company’s sphere of influence, impact and implication. Communications should be proactive and transparent. The communication with stakeholders should include reporting on economic, social and environmental issues and be relevant, material, comparable with past performance and should be well presented focusing on substance over form. G.1.7 Sustainable reporting and disclosure should be formalised as part of The Impact Report from pages 65 to 74 covers key aspects of the company’s reporting processes and take place on a regular basis sustainability and stakeholder engagement. The Annual Report 2015/16, together with the GRI content Index and key information relating • Sustainable reporting is a Board responsibility and it is to sustainability available on the Company’s website is prepared “In designed to add value by providing a credible account of the accordance” Comprehensive of Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) – G4 company’s economic, social and environmental impact. guidelines. • Sustainable reporting should link sustainable issues more An independent assurance statement on non-financial information closely to strategy. reported is available on pages 170 to 172. • Sustainability reporting may be built on a number of different guidelines 165 Appendix III GRI Content Index for ‘In accordance” Comprehensive GRI Content Index for ‘In accordance” Comprehensive General Page Number (or Link) Identified Omission(s) External Assurance UNGC 10 Standard Information related to Standard Disclosures required In exceptional cases, if it is not possible to Indicate if the Standard Principles by the ‘in accordance’ options may already be included disclose certain required information, identify the Disclosure has been Disclosures in other reports prepared by the organisation. In these information that has been omitted. externally assured. If circumstances, the organisation may elect to add a yes, include the page specific reference to where the relevant information reference for the can be found. External Assurance Statement in the report. GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 page 12 yes, 170-172 1-10 page 16 yes, 170-172 G42 page 12 yes, 170-172 Page 16 yes, 170-172 page 75 yes, 170-172 Page 76 ORGANISATION PROFILE G43 page 175 yes, 170-172 G44 page 56-60 yes, 170-172 G45 page 175 yes, 170-172 G46 page 6 yes, 170-172 G47 page 175 yes, 170-172 G48 page 56-60 yes, 170-172 G49 page 56-60 yes, 170-172 G410 Page 47, http://www.dimolanka.com/ yes, 170-172 sustainability-performance/ G411 http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityyes, 170-172 performance/ G412 page 28, page 46 yes, 170-172 G413 page 6 yes, 170-172 G414 page 6 yes, 170-172 G415 page 74 yes, 170-172 G416 Page 74 yes, 170-172 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECT AND BOUNDARIES G417 page 6, page 10 yes, 170-172 G418 page 6, page 31, page 34 yes, 170-172 G419 page 31, page 33 yes, 170-172 G420 page 6, page 31, page 33 yes, 170-172 G421 page 6, page 31, page 33 yes, 170-172 G422 page 6 yes, 170-172 G423 page 6 yes, 170-172 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G424 page 31, page 32 yes, 170-172 G425 page 31 yes, 170-172 G426 page 32 yes, 170-172 G427 page 34 yes, 170-172 REPORT PROFILE G428 page 6 yes, 170-172 G429 page 6 yes, 170-172 G430 page 6 yes, 170-172 G431 page 175 yes, 170-172 G432 page 6, page 170-172 yes, 170-172 G433 page 6, page 170-172 yes, 170-172 GOVERNANCE G434 page 26, page 83, page 150 yes, 170-172 1-10 G435 page 83, yes, 170-172 G436 page 26, page 84,page 150 yes, 170-172 G437 page 26, page 84,page 150 yes, 170-172 G438 page 22, http://www.dimolanka.com/ yes, 170-172 sustainability-performance/ 166 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 At a glance 148 Appendices 175 Corporate Information 176 Notice of Meeting 177 Form of Proxy G439 page 150 yes, 170-172 G440 page 93 yes, 170-172 G441 page 92, page 150 yes, 170-172 G442 page 83-89, page 150-165 yes, 170-172 G443 page 83-89, page 150-165 yes, 170-172 G444 page 83-89, page 150-165 yes, 170-172 G445 page 83-89, page 150-165 yes, 170-172 G446 page 83-89, page 150-165 yes, 170-172 G447 page 83-89, page 150-165 yes, 170-172 G448 page 83-89, page 150-165 yes, 170-172 G449 page 83-89, page 150-165 yes, 170-172 G450 page 83-89, page 150-165 yes, 170-172 G451 page 83-89, page 150-165 yes, 170-172 G452 page 83-89, page 150-165 yes, 170-172 G453 page 83-89, page 150-165 yes, 170-172 G454 Not disclosure due to confidentiality yes, 170-172 constraints arising from the market sensitivity of the date G455 Not disclosure due to confidentiality yes, 170-172 constraints arising from the market sensitivity of the date ETHIC AND INTEGRITY G456 page 72-74 yes, 170-172 G457 page 72-74 yes, 170-172 G458 page 72-74 yes, 170-172 Specific Standard Disclosure General Page Number (or Link) Identified Omission(s) External Assurance UNGC 10 Standard Information related to Standard Disclosures required by the ‘in accordance’ In exceptional cases, if it is Indicate if the Principles options may already be included in other reports prepared by the not possible to disclose certain Standard Disclosure Disclosures organisation. In these circumstances, the organisation may elect to add a required information, identify has been externally specific reference to where the relevant information can be found. the information that has been assured. If yes, include omitted. the page reference for the External Assurance Statement in the report. CATEGORY: ECONOMIC MATERIAL ASPECT : ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE G4-DMA G4EC1 page 63 yes, 170-172 G4EC2 We are processing and yes, 170-172 analysis risk relating to climate changes G4EC3 page 148 139 yes, 170-172 G4EC4 None yes, 170-172 MATERIAL ASPECT : INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS G4-DMA page 72-74 yes, 170-172 G4EC7 page 72-74 yes, 170-172 G4EC8 page 72-74 yes, 170-172 MATERIAL ASPECT : PROCUREMENT PRACTICES G4-DMA Page 45 yes, 170-172 10 G4EC9 Page 45 yes, 170-172 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL 8 MATERIAL ASPECT : MATERIALS 7, 8, 9 G4-DMA page 65, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ yes, 170-172 G4EN1 page 67 yes, 170-172 G4EN2 page 67 yes, 170-172 167 Appendix III GRI Content Index for ‘In accordance” Comprehensive MATERIAL ASPECT : ENERGY G4-DMA page 67-68, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ yes, 170-172 G4EN3 page 67-68, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ yes, 170-172 G4EN4 page 67-68, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ yes, 170-172 G4EN5 page 67-68, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ yes, 170-172 G4EN6 page 67-68, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ yes, 170-172 G4EN7 page 67-68, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ yes, 170-172 MATERIAL ASPECT : WATER G4-DMA page 68-69 yes, 170-172 G4EN8 page 68-69 yes, 170-172 G4EN9 http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ yes, 170-172 G4EN10 page 68-69 yes, 170-172 MATERIAL ASPECT : EMISSION 8 G4-DMA page 66-67, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ yes, 170-172 G4EN15 page 66-67, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ yes, 170-172 G4EN16 page 66-67, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ yes, 170-172 G4EN17 page 68-69 yes, 170-172 G4EN18 page 66-67, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ yes, 170-172 7, 8, 9 G4EN19 page 68-69 yes, 170-172 G4EN20 page 68-69 yes, 170-172 G4EN21 page 68-69 yes, 170-172 MATERIAL ASPECT : EFFLUENT & WASTE G4-DMA Page 70-71, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ yes, 170-172 8 G4EN22 Page 70-71 yes, 170-172 8 G4EN23 Page 70-71 yes, 170-172 8 G4EN24 Page 70-71 yes, 170-172 MATERIAL ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-DMA http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ yes, 170-172 G4EN30 http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ yes, 170-172 8 MATERIAL ASPECT: ENVIRONMENTAL GRIEVANCES MECHANISMS G4-DMA http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ yes, 170-172 G4-EN34 http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ yes, 170-172 CATEGORY: SOCIAL SUB-CATEGORY: LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK 1, 3, 6 G4-DMA page 4647 yes, 170-172 G4LA1 page 47, supplementory information for Annual Rpeort 2015/16 page -2 yes, 170-172 G4LA2 page 4650 yes, 170-172 G4LA3 page 4650 yes, 170-172 MATERIAL ASPECT : OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA page 51 yes, 170-172 G4LA5 page 51 yes, 170-172 G4LA6 page 51 yes, 170-172 G4LA7 page 51 yes, 170-172 G4LA8 page 51 yes, 170-172 MATERIAL ASPECT : TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-DMA page 49 50 yes, 170-172 G4LA9 page 49 50 yes, 170-172 G4LA10 page 49 50 yes, 170-172 G4LA11 page 49 50 yes, 170-172 168 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 At a glance 148 Appendices 175 Corporate Information 176 Notice of Meeting 177 Form of Proxy MATERIAL ASPECT : SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT OF LABOUR PRACTICES G4-DMA http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ yes, 170-172 G4LA14 http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ yes, 170-172 G4LA15 http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ yes, 170-172 MATERIAL ASPECT : LABOUR PRACTICE GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS G4-DMA http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ yes, 170-172 G4LA16 http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ yes, 170-172 SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 MATERIAL ASPECT : Non-discrimination G4-DMA http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ yes, 170-172 G4HR3 http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ yes, 170-172 MATERIAL ASPECT: HUMAN RIGHT GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS G4-DMA http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ yes, 170-172 G4-HR12 http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ yes, 170-172 SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY MATERIAL ASPECT : LOCAL COMMUNITIES G4-DMA http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ yes, 170-172 G4SO1 http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ yes, 170-172 G4SO2 http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ yes, 170-172 MATERIAL ASPECT : ANTI-CORRUPTION 10 G4-DMA http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ yes, 170-172 G4SO3 http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ yes, 170-172 G4SO4 http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ yes, 170-172 G4SO5 http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ yes, 170-172 MATERIAL ASPECT : COMPLIANCE G4-DMA http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ yes, 170-172 G4SO8 http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ yes, 170-172 MATERIAL ASPECT: GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY G4-DMA http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ yes, 170-172 G4-SO11 http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ yes, 170-172 SUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY MATERIAL ASPECT : CUSTOMER HEALTH & SAFETY G4-DMA page 4043 yes, 170-172 G4-PR1 page 43, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ yes, 170-172 G4-PR2 http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ yes, 170-172 MATERIAL ASPECT : PRODUCT & SERVICE LABELLING 1 G4-DMA Page 40, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ yes, 170-172 G4-PR3 http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ yes, 170-172 8 G4-PR4 http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ yes, 170-172 G4-PR5 http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ yes, 170-172 MATERIAL ASPECT : MARKETING COMMUNICATION G4-DMA Page 40, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ yes, 170-172 G4-PR6 Page 40, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ yes, 170-172 G4-PR7 Page 40, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ yes, 170-172 ASPECT : CUSTOMER PRIVACY G4-DMA Page 40, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ yes, 170-172 G4-PR8 Page 40, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ yes, 170-172 8 MATERIAL ASPECT : COMPLIANCE G4-DMA Page 40, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ yes, 170-172 G4PR9 Page 40, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ yes, 170-172 169 Appendix IV Independent Assurance Statement on Non-Financial Reporting Introduction sufficient and authentic. We disclaim any covering the systems and the processes the DNV GL represented by DNV GL Business liability or responsibility to a third party for Company has in place for reporting; Assurance Lanka (Private) Limited has been decisions, whether investment or otherwise, • Confirmation of Sustainability Disclosures commissioned by the management of Diesel based on this assurance statement. Our related to GRI G4 – ‘in accordance’and Motor Engineering PLC (‘DIMO’ or ‘the assurance engagement was planned and Comprehensive as declared by Company. Company’) to carry out an independent carried out in May 2016. assurance engagement (Type 2, Moderate The reporting aspect boundary is based on the level) for the non-financial qualitative Scope, Boundary and Limitations of internal and external materiality assessment and quantitative information (sustainability Assurance covering the operations of companies in its performance) prepared ‘in accordance‘– The scope of assurance included the review of sphere of control and influence i.e. the legal Comprehensive option based on GRI G4 Economic, Environment and Social information entities for which the DIMO group remains guidelines Integrated Reporting Framework of in the Report. In particular the assurance accountable and has direct control covering the International Integrated Reporting Council engagement included: the operations (Vehicles– Sales, Vehicles – and reported in the Company’s Annual Report After Services, Marketing and Distribution, 2015/16 (‘the Report’) in its printed and online • The verification of the qualitative and Construction and Material Handling Equipment formats (‘printed and web based Report’). quantitative sustainability performance and After Services, Electromechanical, reported in the Annual Report prepared Biomedical and Marine Engineering ) in Sri This engagement focused on verification of by DIMO based on the GRI G4 guidelines, Lanka , including the selected supply chain non-financial – qualitative and quantitative covering economic, environmental and activities as set out in the Report. information (sustainability performance) social performance for the activities disclosed in the Report, and underlying undertaken by the Company over the During the assurance process, we did not management systems and reporting processes. reporting period 1st April 2015 to 31st come across limitations to the scope of the The engagement was carried out against March 2016 and reported in this Report; agreed assurance engagement. The reported AccountAbility’s AA 1000 Assurance Standard • Review of the policies, initiatives, practices data on economic performance is based on 2008 ((AA 1000AS (2008)) and the DNV GL and performance described in the nonaudited financial statements by the Company’s Protocol for Verification of Sustainability financial – qualitative and quantitative statutory auditors. No external stakeholders Reporting (‘VeriSustain’ www.dnvgl.com information (Sustainability Performance) were interviewed as part of this assurance ; available on request) and adherence to reported as well as external references engagement. Reporting Principles and Standard Disclosures made in the Report; of the Global Reporting Initiative G4 • Evaluation with respect to the Verification Methodology Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (GRI G4). AccountAbility principles and specified This assurance engagement was planned and performance information, for a Type 2, carried out in accordance with AccountAbility’s The intended user of this assurance statement AA1000 Assurance Standard 2008 ((AA1000AS moderate level of assurance, in accordance is the management of the Company. The (2008)) and VeriSustain. The Report has been with the requirements of AA1000AS (2008): Management of the Company is responsible evaluated against the principles of Inclusivity, • information relating to the issues, for all information provided in the Report as Materiality and Responsiveness as set out responses, performance data, case well as the processes for collecting, analysing in AA1000AS (2008) and the Reliability studies and underlying systems for the and reporting the information presented in of specified sustainability performance management of such information and the report. Our responsibility in performing information, as required for a Type 2, moderate data; this work is regarding the verification of the level assurance engagement, and adherence to non-financial qualitative and quantitative • information relating to materiality the additional principles of Completeness and information (sustainability performance) assessment and stakeholder Neutrality as set out in VeriSustain. reported in the Company’s Annual Report – engagement processes; 2015/16 only, in accordance with the scope • Evaluation of the disclosed information During the Assurance Engagement, we of work agreed with the management of in the Report, both General and Specific adopted a risk based approach, meaning we the Company. The assurance engagement Standard Disclosures for ‘In accordance’– concentrated our verification efforts on the is based on the assumption that the data Comprehensive reporting requirements issues of high material relevance to DIMO and information provided to us is complete, business and its key stakeholders. As part of 170 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 At a glance 148 Appendices 175 Corporate Information 176 Notice of Meeting 177 Form of Proxy verification, we visited Head office at Colombo and quality requirements of the GRI G4, and Society and three sites, i.e. workshop and service reasons for non-disclosures are explained. • Local Communities – G4-SO1,SO2; centres at Colombo (Mercedes Benz Centre • Anti-corruption – G4-SO3,SO4,SO5; (DIMO 800)), Matara and Siyambalape, in Sri • General Standard Disclosures: We • Public PolicyG4-SO6; Lanka. are of the opinion that the reported disclosures • Anti-Competitive BehaviourG4-SO7; on General Standard Disclosures generally • Compliance – G4-SO8; As part of the engagement, we have verified meet the reporting requirement for ‘In • Supplier Assessment for Impacts on the statements and claims made in the Report. accordance’– Comprehensive based on GRI G4. Society-G4-SO9; In doing so, we have: • Specific Standard Disclosures:, We Product Responsibility • Reviewed the Company’s approach to are of the opinion that the following reported • Customer Health and SafetyG4-PR2; stakeholder engagement and its materiality disclosures on Specific Standard Disclosures • Product and Service Labelling – G4determination process; meets the reporting requirement for ‘In PR3,PR4,PR5; • Verified the sustainability-related accordance’ – Comprehensive based on GRI G4 • Marketing Communications – G4-PR7; statements and claims made in the Report covering Generic Disclosures of Management • Customer Privacy-G4-PR8; and assessed the robustness of the data Approach and applicable performance indicator • Compliance – G4-PR9. management system, data accuracy, for identified material aspects as below: information flow and controls; We have evaluated the Report’s adherence to Economic the following principles on a scale of ‘Good’, • Examined and reviewed documents, data • Economic Performance – G4-EC1,EC3,EC4; ‘Acceptable’ and ‘Needs Improvement’ and other information made available by • Indirect Economic Impact – G4EC7,EC8; the Company; • Procurement Practices – G4EC9; AA1000AS (2008) Principles • Conducted in-person interviews with Inclusivity: DIMO has established an effective middle and senior management team Environmental process of stakeholder engagement to identify and other representatives, including data • MaterialsG4-EN1; sustainability challenges and concerns owners and decision-makers from different • Energy – G4-EN3,EN4,EN5,EN6; of diverse stakeholder for value creation functions of the Company during corporate • WaterG4EN8, EN10; considering the DIMO’s diverse businesses. and site visits; • Emissions – G4-EN15,EN16,EN17,EN18; The stakeholder concerns are well identified, • Performed sample-based reviews of • Effluents and Wastes – G4documented and reported. In our opinion, the mechanisms for implementing the EN22,EN23,EN24; the level at which the Report adheres to this Company’s sustainability related policies, as • Compliance – G4-EN29; principle is ‘Good’. described in the Report; • Performed sample-based checks of the Social Materiality: DIMO has applied the materiality processes for generating, gathering and Labour Practices and Decent Work principles of GRI G4 and Integrated Reporting managing the quantitative data and • Employment – G4-LA1,LA2,LA3; Framework to arrive at materiality for qualitative information included in the • Occupational Health and Safety – G4-LA5, the Company. The process of materiality Report. LA6,LA7,LA8; determination is well documented and • Training and Education – G4LA9,LA10,LA11; considers inputs from diverse external Conclusions • Diversity and Equal Opportunity – G4stakeholders and DIMO businesses. The In our opinion, based on the scope of this LA12; identified material issues were reviewed by assurance engagement, the non-financial DIMO’s management team and it is reported qualitative and quantitative information Human Rights that there are no significant changes in (sustainability performance) reported in • Non-DiscriminationG4-HR3; identified material aspects or aspect boundary the DIMO Annual Report 2015/16 and • Freedom of Association and Collective from the previous reporting period. In our referenced information in the Report, provides Bargaining – G4-HR4; opinion, the level at which the Report adheres a fair representation of the sustainability • Child Labour – G4-HR5; to this principles is ‘Good’. related strategies, management system and • Forced and Compulsory Labour – G4-HR6; performance and meets the general content 1 71 Independent Assurance Statement on Non-Financial Reporting Responsiveness: The Report has brought out Neutrality: The disclosures related to We were not involved in the preparation of any businesswise responses to key materiality sustainability issues and performances are statements or data included in the Report, with aspects in a comprehensive manner for reported in a neutral tone, in terms of content the exception of this Assurance Statement. stakeholder to make informed decisions i.e. and presentation. In our opinion, the level at We maintain complete impartiality toward any value creation, strategy, management approach which the Report adheres to the principle of people interviewed. For DNV GL, and associated monitoring systems are well Neutrality is ‘Good’. articulated in this Report. In our opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to this Opportunities for Improvement principle is ‘Good’. The following are an excerpt from the observations and opportunities for Reliability: The majority of data and improvement reported to the management information verified at corporate office and of the Company and are not considered sampled workshop sites were found to be for drawing our conclusions on the Report; Rathika de Silva fairly accurate, however some of the data however they are generally consistent with the Country Head, inaccuracies identified during the verification management’s objectives: DNV GL Business Assurance Lanka (Private) process were found to be attributable to Limited, Sri Lanka transcription, interpretation and aggregation • Future reports may further bring out the errors and the errors have been corrected. impacts of material aspects in the value In our opinion, the level at which the Report chain i.e. re-evaluate materiality in the adheres to this principle is ‘Good’. value chain for the five business verticals sectors to further identify and manage Specific evaluation of the information the emerging material issues of respective on sustainability performances sectors; Ramesh Rajamani We consider the methodology and process for Lead Verifier, • Integrate risk management process gathering information developed by DIMO, DNV GL Business Assurance India Private with its sustainability strategy through for its sustainability performance reporting is Limited, India. consistent tracking and reporting of appropriate; the qualitative and quantitative key performance indicators to achieve data included in the Report, was found to sustainable performance across business be identifiable and traceable; the personnel vertical sectors, responsible was able to demonstrate the origin • Report may further strengthen the and interpretation of the data and its reliability. disclosures on outcomes related to We observed that the Report presents a faithful key sectorial material issues and link Vadakepatth Nandkumar description of the reported sustainability the outcomes to overall value creation Assurance Reviewer, activities for the reporting period. of reported capitals as per Integrated DNV GL Business Assurance India Private Reporting Framework Limited, India. Additional principles as per DNV GL’s protocol DNV GL’s Competence and Independence Completeness: The Report has fairly attempted DNV GL is a global provider of sustainability 3rd June’ 2016, to disclose the General and Specific Standard services, with qualified environmental and Colombo, disclosures including the disclosure on social assurance specialists working in over Sri Lanka management approach and performance 100 countries. DNV GL states its independence indicators for identified material aspects for and impartiality with regard to this assurance GRI G4 – ‘In accordance’ – Comprehensive engagement. While we did conduct other option. The reporting of performance and data third party audits work with DIMO PLC in is comprehensive except for certain material 2015-16, in our judgement this does not aspects as systems to report the performance compromise the independence or impartiality indicators are being established. In our opinion, of our assurance engagement or associated the level at which the Report adheres to this findings, conclusions and recommendations. principle is ‘Acceptable’. 172 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 At a glance 148 Appendices 175 Corporate Information 176 Notice of Meeting Appendix V 177 Form of Proxy Ten Year Summary Year Ended 31st March 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 2009/10 2008/09 2007/08 2006/07 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Rs.'000 Operating Results Revenue 37,749,750 28,037,376 20,884,674 27,711,604 39,862,943 29,357,271 10,530,587 9,187,966 12,687,289 12,989,916 Profit before taxation 1,380,059 847,033 512,858 490,021 3,724,521 3,395,980 420,095 175,082 344,444 512,895 Income tax (433,453) (250,950) (119,317) (27,871) (1,022,870) (1,274,228) (141,842) (72,054) (139,351) (211,118) Profit for the year 946,606 596,083 393,541 462,150 2,701,651 2,121,752 278,253 103,028 205,093 301,777 Capital Employed Stated capital 425,297 425,297 425,297 425,297 425,297 182,500 182,500 182,500 182,500 Share capital 121,000 Share premium 61,500 Other components of equity 2,839,356 2,838,894 2,018,475 2,014,752 2,014,752 1,135,612 1,135,612 1,135,612 311,522 311,522 Revenue reserves 6,725,026 5,973,747 5,473,721 5,191,118 5,000,566 2,882,735 882,816 686,733 1,163,129 1,012,486 Total equity 9,989,679 9,237,938 7,917,493 7,631,167 7,440,615 4,200,847 2,200,928 2,004,845 1,657,151 1,506,508 Total borrowings 6,481,855 5,253,838 5,950,126 3,417,800 5,045,829 3,068,466 1,966,600 2,709,671 2,802,374 2,864,688 Total capital employed 16,471,534 14,491,776 13,867,619 11,048,967 12,486,444 7,269,313 4,167,528 4,714,516 4,459,525 4,371,196 Assets Employed Noncurrent assets 7,982,821 8,039,357 6,937,410 5,719,010 4,763,435 3,099,509 2,149,406 2,234,911 1,463,068 1,005,370 Current assets 12,349,823 9,910,853 9,157,244 7,183,369 10,536,783 7,839,972 3,389,023 3,028,263 4,368,090 4,193,262 Total liabilities (excluding borrowings) (3,861,110) (3,458,434) (2,227,035) (1,851,412) (2,813,774) (3,670,168) (1,370,901) (548,658) (1,371,633) (827,436) Total assets employed 16,471,534 14,491,776 13,867,619 11,048,967 12,486,444 7,269,313 4,167,528 4,714,516 4,459,525 4,371,196 Cash Flows Net cash from/(used in) operating activities (836,816) 648,049 (726,849) 3,207,700 (2,430,074) 1,793,848 846,833 625,652 520,706 383,134 Net cash from/(used in) investing activities (223,129) (677,408) (1,361,283) (970,581) (788,829) (937,710) (24,275) 1,918 (519,212) (287,636) Net cash from/(used in) financing activities (495,191) (340,735) 975,156 (474,062) 277,902 (377,658) (295,885) (416,861) 179,289 (49,458) Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (1,555,136) (370,094) (1,112,976) 1,763,057 (2,941,001) 478,480 526,673 210,709 180,783 46,040 Key Indicators Earnings per share (Rs.) 106.64 67.15 44.34 51.16 304.36 239.03 27.97 9.36 16.95 25.76 Net assets per share (Rs.) 1,125.42 1040.73 891.97 859.71 838.24 473.26 252.92 230.39 136.95 124.50 Market value per share (Rs.) 549.70 630.00 505.00 505.00 982.20 1,484.70 394.25 60.25 88.75 120.00 Dividend per share (Rs.) 27.00 20.00 10.00 10.00 40.00 61.00 7.00 3.00 4.00 6.00 Dividends approved (Rs.'000) 239,664 177,529 88,764 88,764 244,102 443,822 34,810 26,107 48,400 72,600 Annual sales growth (%) 34.64 34.25 24.64 (30.48) 35.91 178.78 14.61 (27.58) (2.33) 23.57 Equity to total assets ratio (%) 49.13 51.46 49.19 59.15 48.63 38.40 39.78 38.09 28.42 28.98 Dividend cover (no of times) 3.95 3.36 4.43 5.11 7.61 4.00 3.11 2.34 4.02 3.88 Price earnings ratio (no. of times) 5.15 9.38 11.39 9.70 3.23 6.21 14.89 6.44 5.24 4.66 Current ratio (no. of times) 1.47 1.45 1.50 1.71 1.60 1.27 1.20 1.31 1.26 1.30 Turnover to capital employed (no of times) 2.29 1.93 1.51 2.51 3.19 4.04 2.53 1.95 2.84 2.97 Interest cover (no of times) 3.93 3.00 2.42 2.24 15.67 17.35 2.20 1.31 1.67 2.11 Average no. of employees 1,558 1,524 1,518 1,433 1,179 942 867 869 866 820 173 Appendix VI Glossary A Debt To Equity Ratio I Accounting Policies Debt as a percentage of shareholders’ funds. Interest Cover The specific principles, bases, conventions, rules Discount Rate Earnings before interest and taxes divided by and practices adopted by an entity in preparing A rate used to place a current value on future cash interest expense for the year. and presenting Financial Statements. flows. It is needed to reflect the fact that money L Accrual Basis has a time value. LED Recognition of the effects of transactions and Dividend Cover Light Emitting Diode used as energy-efficient other events when they occur without waiting for Profit after tax divided by gross dividends. This lighting. receipt or payment of cash or equivalents. ratio measures the number of times dividend is M Available-for-Sale covered by current year’s distributable profits. Market Capitalisation Non derivative financial assets that are designated Dividend Payout Ratio The number of ordinary shares issued multiplied as available-for-sale or are not classified as loans The percentage of earnings paid to shareholders by the market price of each share at a given date. and receivables, held to-maturity investments or in dividends. financial assets at fair value through profit or loss. N E Asset Turnover Net Assets Effective Tax Rate Total assets minus long term & current liabilities. The amount of sales generated for every Rupee Provision for taxation excluding deferred tax, worth of assets. It is calculated by dividing sales Net Assets per Share expressed as a percentage of the profit before by assets. Net assets at the year end divided by the number taxation. C of shares in issue. Electricity Cash Equivalents Purchased electricity (generated using either hydro Net Profit Margin Short –term highly liquid investments that are power or thermal power) from the national grid. Profit after tax attributable to equity holders of readily convertible to known amounts of cash the parent divided by total revenue. and which are subject to an insignificant risk of Emissions changes in value. Emission of fumes, dust & ozone depleting gases O to the atmosphere. Organic Waste Carbon Foot Print Bio-degradable waste. Group’s direct or indirect greenhouse gas emissions Equity associated with the activities performed. Shareholders’ funds. P CFC F Price Earnings Ratio Chlorofluorocarbon a class of compounds Market price of share divided by earnings per share Fair Value harmful to the ozone layer. as reported at that date. The amount for which an asset could be exchanged or a liability settled, between knowledgeable, Q CFL willing parties in an arm’s length transaction. Quick Assets Ratio Compact fluorescent lamp. An energy-saving lamp. Financial Instrument Total current assets minus inventories, divided by Consolidate Financial Statements current liabilities. A financial instrument is any contract that gives Consolidated Financial Statements are the rise to both a financial asset in one entity and a R financial statements of a Group in which assets, financial liability or equity instrument in another liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows Recycle entity. of the parent and its subsidiaries are presented as The process of converting waste material into those of a single economic entity. Financial Leverage reusable material. A measure of how an entity used its debt capital to Credit Rating Reuse finance its assets, calculated as total assets divided An evaluation of a corporate’s ability to repay its Using the item again for the same function or by total shareholders’ equity. obligations or likelihood of not defaulting, carried using it for a different function internally or out by an independent rating agency. G externally. Credit Risk Guarantees W Credit risk is the potential that a borrower or Three party agreement involving a promise by one party (the guarantor) to fulfil the obligations of a Water Consumption counterparty will fail to meet its obligations in person owing a debt if that person fails to perform. Usage of water by means of municipal supply, accordance with agreed terms and conditions. ground water or rain water harvesting. Current Ratio H Waste Total current assets divided by total current Hazardous Waste Substance generated as a result of the processes. liabilities. Waste that cannot be handled by routine waste management methods because of its biological, Working Capital D chemical or physical properties that may pose a Total current assets minus current liabilities. Deferred Taxation danger to living organisms, materials, structures or Sum set aside for income tax in the Financial Workshops the environment. Statements that may become payable/receivable Locations that carry out the activity of servicing, in a financial year other than the current financial repair, tinkering painting and washing of vehicles. year. 174 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 At a glance 148 Appendices 175 Corporate Information 176 Notice of Meeting 177 Form of Proxy Corporate Information Name of the Company Lawyers Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Julius & Creasy P.O.Box 154 Registered Office 41 Janadhipathi Mawatha P.O. Box 339, (Queen Street) No. 65, Jetawana Road, Colombo 1 Colombo 14, Sri Lanka. Sri Lanka. Telephone: +94-11-2449797, +94-112338883 www.dimolanka.com Bankers E-mail: dimo@dimolanka.com Bank of Ceylon Facsimile: +94-11-2449080 Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC DFCC Bank PLC Legal Form Hatton National Bank PLC A public limited Company incorporated in 1945 Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corporation Ltd under the Laws of the Democratic Socialist Nations Trust Bank PLC Republic of Sri Lanka. The Company was reNDB Bank PLC registered under the Companies Act No 7 of People's Bank 2007 on 9th May 2008. Sampath Bank PLC Company Registration Number Company Secretary PQ 146 B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne, F.C.A., M.B.A. (Sri J.) Founded Company Registrars 1939 Jacey and Company No.9/5, Thambiah Avenue Accounting Year End Off Independence Avenue 31st March Colombo 07 Sri Lanka Tax Payer Identification Number (TIN) 104002498 Stock Exchange Listing The ordinary shares of the Company are listed with the Colombo Stock Exchange of Sri Lanka Auditors KPMG, Chartered Accountants, P.O. Box 186, No 32A, Sir Mohamed Macan Markar Mawatha, Colombo 3, Sri Lanka. 175 Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Seventy First 6. To reappoint Messrs KPMG as Auditors Annual General Meeting of Diesel & Motor to the Company for the ensuing year and Engineering PLC will be held at the registered to authorise the Board of Directors to office of the Company, No. 65, Jetawana Road, determine their remuneration. Colombo 14, on Wednesday, 29th June 2016 at 2.00 p.m. and the business to be brought before 7. To authorise the Directors to determine the meeting will be: contributions to charities. Agenda The profiles of the Directors proposed for re1. To consider and adopt the report of the election are given on pages 22 to 23 of the Directors and the statement of accounts for Annual Report. the year ended 31st March 2016, with the report of the Auditors thereon. NOTE 2. To re-elect Mr. R C Weerawardane, who A member is entitled to appoint a proxy to retires by rotation in terms of Article 66 of attend and vote instead of himself/herself the Articles of Association, as a Director of and a proxy need not be a member of the the Company. Company. A form of proxy is enclosed for this purpose. The instrument appointing a proxy 3. To re-elect Mr.A N Algama, who retires by must be deposited at the Registered Office, No. rotation in terms of Article 66 of the Articles 65, Jetawana Road, Colombo 14, not less than of Association, as a Director of the Company. forty-eight hours before the time fixed for the meeting. 4. To re-elect Mr. A G Pandithage, who retires by rotation in terms of Article 66 of the By Order of the Board, Articles of Association, as a Director of the Company. 5. To re-appoint as a Director Mr. R. Seevaratnam who has reached the age of 72 years and who vacates his office in terms of Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Section 210 of the Companies Act No.7 of Company Registration No. PQ-146 2007. Notice is hereby given to propose the undernoted ordinary resolution in compliance with Section 211 of the Act, in relation to his re-appointment. B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne Secretary “Resolved that Mr. R. Seevaratnam who has reached the age of 72 years is hereby reColombo appointed a Director of the company and 24th May 2016 it is hereby declared that the age limit of 70 years referred to in Section 210 of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 shall not apply to the said Mr. R. Seevaratnam.” 176 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 Form of Proxy I/We ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… of ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... being a member/members of DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC hereby appoint: 1 ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ of ......................................................................................................................... Holder of NIC No. ...................................................................................................... or failing him/them. 2. Asoka Ranjith Pandithage (Chairman of the Company) of Colombo or, failing him, one of the Directors of the Company as my/our proxy to vote as indicated hereunder for me/us and on my/our behalf at the Seventy First Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on Wednesday, 29th June 2016 and at every poll which may be taken in consequence of the aforesaid meeting and at any adjournment thereof. For Against (1) To consider and adopt the Annual Report of the Board of Directors and the Financial Statements of Accounts for the year ended 31st March 2016, with the report of the Auditors thereon. (2) To re-elect Mr. R C Weerawardane, who retires by rotation at the Annual General Meeting, a Director. (3) To re-elect Mr. A N Algama, who retires by rotation at the Annual General Meeting, a Director. (4) To re-elect Mr. A G Pandithage, who retires by rotation at the Annual General Meeting, a Director (5) To reappoint as a Director Mr.R.Seevaratnam in terms of section 210 of the Companies Act No.07 of 2007 “Resolved that Mr. R. Seevaratnam who has reached the age of 72 years is hereby re-appointed a Director of the Company and it is hereby declared that the age limited of 70 years referred to in section 210 of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 shall not apply to the said Mr. R. Seevaratnam.” (6) To re-appoint Messrs KPMG as Auditors and authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration. (7) To authorise the Directors to determine contributions to charities. The proxy may vote as he/she thinks fit on any other resolution brought before the meeting. Dated this ......................................................................... day of ......................................................................... 2016. Witness: ......................................................................... ......................................................................... ......................................................................... Signature of Shareholder 1. A proxy need not be a member of the Company. 2. For instructions to fill the Form of Proxy, please see overleaf. 177 Form of Proxy Instruction as to Completion 1. To be valid this form of proxy must be deposited at the Registered Office, No. 65, Jetawana Road, Colombo14, not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting. 2. In perfecting the form of proxy please ensure that all details are legible. 3. If you wish to appoint a person as your proxy, please insert the relevant details overleaf and initial against this entry. 4. Please indicate with a ‘X’ in the spaces provided how your proxy is to vote on each resolution. If no indication is given the proxy in his/her discretion will vote as he/she thinks fit. Please delete if you do not wish your proxy to vote as he/she thinks fit on any other resolution brought before the meeting. 5. In the case of a Company/corporation, the proxy must be under its common seal which should be affixed and attested in the manner prescribed by its Articles of Association. 6. In the case of a proxy signed by an Attorney, the Power of Attorney must be deposited at the registered office for registration. 178 DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC / ANNUAL REPORT 2015/16 Designed & produced by Digital Plates & Printing by Printel (Pvt) Ltd. Photography by Dhanush de Costa
