reasons why we’re a responsible business 2 Contents Who we are 10 reasons why we’re We’re an international law a responsible business: firm that some of the world’s biggest companies turn to for 1 We help asylum seekers 4 help on the mandates that make a new start in life matter most to them, wherever in the world they may be. 2 We work across borders 6 with global charities With over 2,500 lawyers, we’re one of the largest law firms in the world. 3 We support social businesses 8 that make a difference Together with a network of partner law firms, our transactional, contentious and regulatory lawyers 4 We help increase access to 10 advise clients in all industry sectors legal advice how to grow, strengthen and defend their businesses. 5 We take our carbon neutral 12 commitment seriously 6 We don’t distinguish between pro bono and fee-earning hours 13 £1.245bn 7 We see diversity as a strength 14 turnover 2014–15 8 We help young people realise 16 5,446 their potential 9 We believe in second chances 18 employees 10 We help communities affected 20 by climate change in Bangladesh Our key performance indicators 22 150 External recognition 24 average number of countries that we UN Global Compact and assurance 25 work in each year How we want to do business As you’d expect from a law firm that operates in a highly regulated industry, we run a responsible business. But we Supporting our want to do more than just observe the communities rules. We want to do business in a way that’s ethical and sustainable. Business Pro That’s easy to say, but how will we actually ethics bono RESPONSIBLE do it? By focusing on the five actions that BUSINESS will make the biggest difference: • u se our professional skills to support great causes through pro bono work; • make a positive impact by supporting Valuing our Managing our communities in which we operate; people environmental • b e a good employer, value diversity and impact create a supportive and welcoming working environment; • maintain high standards of governance and business integrity in our work; and • m inimise the impact we have on the environment.  he more progress we make in these areas, T the more we’ll be running the kind of business we want – one that’s responsible and sustainable. T  his report highlights just some of the projects we’re involved in that are helping us achieve that goal.  espite having made good progress, there’s D more work to do. So for each project, we describe the next steps towards where we want to be. 1 ‘Integrating our activities and embedding Responsible Business into everything we do around the firm, day in day out, will make an even bigger difference to the world around us.’ WILL LAWES, SENIOR PARTNER 2 Will Lawes, Senior Partner Making a positive difference to the This being our aim, the challenge is to do it in a way that harnesses the talent and energy of all of us and communities in which we operate is by working with clients and others to maximise one of our core values and it is good our impact. To help us meet that challenge, we’re for our business. We aim to make this joining up what we do in volunteering, pro bono, social mobility, diversity and ethical and responsible difference through our volunteering practices into one integrated programme we are activities and pro bono support, as calling Responsible Business. well as through ethical and responsible Integrating our activities and embedding Responsible business practices. Business into everything we do around the firm, day in day out, will make an even bigger difference to our communities. As you’ll read in this report, we’re making good progress – and it’s encouraging that our efforts have been recognised by others through the awards described in the report. Almost half the firm – 2,201 people – contribute to our Responsible Business programme. We are hugely grateful and believe our firm is stronger for it. There’s always more we can do to live this core value. Responsible Business will help us to focus our efforts and, more importantly, to make a positive difference to the world around us. As this report shows, we are committed to aligning our operations and strategy with the 10 UN Global Compact (UNGC) principles. We welcome your comments on our report and any suggestions to help us make even more progress as we integrate Responsible Business across the firm. crfeedback@freshfields.com 3 1 We help asylum seekers make a new start in life We have long worked in the field of Ms R, a 25-year-old woman with a two-yearold son, fled Guatemala after more than a human rights, focusing on issues such year of severe physical and emotional abuse at as violence against women, asylum, the hands of her former partner. Despite her and the denial of rights. All too often various attempts, the Guatemalan police and courts refused to protect her from her abuser. these issues are linked – as the case of Ms R, supported by our Washington She sought asylum in the US because it was too dangerous to return to Guatemala, as the DC office, demonstrates. authorities there had shown they could not protect her. At the hearing, the contention centred on whether Ms R’s psychological state following her abuse caused her to miss the oneyear deadline within which to apply for asylum. The court favoured our arguments and granted Ms R asylum, allowing her to stay in the US with her son. Ms R’s case is just one example of how offices across our firm support asylum seekers as they try to make a new start in life. In Hong Kong, for example, we help refugees with the legal aspects of their asylum claims to give them Over 150 the best chance of success. asylum seekers supported in 2014–15 4 ‘We learned more than we could have possibly anticipated working on Ms R’s asylum case.’ LUPE LOPEZ AND ANKITA RITWIK, ASSOCIATES, FRESHFIELDS What next? As the refugee situation around the world reaches crisis proportions, we’re working with organisations internationally and domestically that support refugees and asylum seekers. We’ll develop this work over the coming years to support and integrate those who are forced to flee. 5 ‘Save has a footprint in many countries and resulting complex legal needs. Freshfields has worked with us since 2009 and knows us intimately. We can trust them to understand us.’ Aswini, four, at a tented settlement CLARE CANNING, in Kamalbinayak, Bhaktapur, Nepal. Save the Children is providing displaced GENERAL COUNSEL OF SAVE families with infant kits, which include THE CHILDREN INTERNATIONAL warm clothes, hats and blankets as well as essential hygiene kits. Photo: Jonathan Hyams/Save the Children 6 2 We work across borders with global charities When you’re one of the biggest charities in the world, operating in over 120 countries with over 30,000 staff, 15,722 your legal needs can be somewhat complex. pro bono hours for Save the Children Freshfields is used to this multi-jurisdictional complexity. It’s what we’re known for and since 2009 it’s why our core skills complement Save the Children International’s in-house legal team so well. From core corporate support to resolving disputes and being on hand to handle urgent queries on the Ebola crisis, we’re there to help. We’re in awe of the work Save the Children does. Its central mission to educate, protect, and care for children resonates around the world and is why this charity is supported by many of our offices, as well as many of the firms we partner with across the globe. We don’t just do Save the Children’s most important legal work, we also try to understand what makes it tick. We attend members’ What next? meetings and briefings, and host talks by members of its policy team. Its sole trainee is As part of our focus on providing linked up to our trainee development team, and access to opportunity, we will we are helping their lawyers expand their skills. strengthen our work with Save the Children in the areas of child rights and education. 7 3 We support social businesses that make a difference Frankfurt-based Yunus Social Co-founded by Nobel Peace Prize winner Professor Muhammad Yunus, YSB brings the Business (YSB) helps to accelerate discipline of an investment fund to the world social business entrepreneurs in of social businesses. It leverages capital from developing economies who don’t donors and philanthropic lenders to finance social businesses that have been selected and have access to traditional financing. prepared by YSB teams in developing and YSB subsequently finances the most emerging economies including the Balkans, promising social businesses. Social Brazil, Colombia, Haiti, India, Tunisia, and Uganda. businesses are companies set up solely Freshfields has worked with YSB since its to solve a social problem in a way that inception. Led from Germany, a global team of is financially sustainable – all profits around 20 lawyers works with YSB to develop are re-invested to help the business legal models for social businesses. The team advises on corporate, regulatory, commercial, grow and benefit society. and other areas of law. This has helped YSB bridge the divide between charitable legislation and the social business $8m sector, and has led to groundbreaking legal structures that establish best practice for financing social businesses. deployed 400,000 customers served 8 Professor Yunus ‘A charity dollar greets beneficiaries of a social business. has one life; a social business dollar can be invested over and over again.’ PROF MUHAMMAD YUNUS, CHAIRMAN, YSB What next? We are committed to supporting YSB in its mission to enable gamechanging social businesses in developing economies to solve the problems of poverty in a financially sustainable way. 9 4 We help increase access to legal advice As a result of government cuts in legal Recognising the need to guide people through the court system, Freshfields suggested the aid in England and Wales, there’s concept for CourtNav to our long-standing pro been a huge rise in people who can’t bono partner the Royal Courts of Justice Advice afford a lawyer having to represent Bureau (RCJAB). It’s an online resource to help people who represent themselves in divorce and themselves in court. They face a court civil partner dissolution file their cases correctly. system and civil procedure rules that This saves time and money for all lawyers, are often confusing. litigants, and judges involved. CourtNav builds on the firm’s 10 years’ experience of advising people who come to the RCJAB for help. While we will continue to give pro bono legal advice at the RCJAB in person, CourtNav will mean that those most able to help themselves can do so – allowing resources to be Winner focused on giving face-to-face advice to those who need it most. RCJAB developed CourtNav in partnership Freshfields is the first with Freshfields. As well as its legal skills, the City law firm to win firm contributed professional skills pro bono – including information technology, public a Legal Aid Lawyer relations and communications – to help make CourtNav an all-round success. of the Year Award for our contribution to CourtNav alongside the RCJAB 10 ‘A revolution in how we provide services to our customers.’ ALISON LAMB, CHIEF EXECUTIVE, RCJAB What next? Initially piloted in divorce and civil partnership dissolution cases at the Royal Courts of Justice, new CourtNav modules for bankruptcy and defending possession proceedings in the county courts are being developed. 11 5 We take our carbon neutral commitment seriously The large majority of our carbon footprint is emissions from business travel and the use of our offices. Our core business is advising clients wherever in the world they need us, resulting in a lot of necessary business travel. While we’re striving to cut this down, we buy carbon offsets to minimise our impact on the environment. We’ve come some way since we began offsetting our carbon emissions in 2007. Instead of buying offsets from projects that just have strong environmental credentials, we now choose projects that also deliver important local economic and social benefits. For example, the project we chose back in 2007 was a coalmine methane capture project in Germany. By 2011, we were buying offsets from Turkish wind farms, and in 2012 our offsets came from projects that supplied clean drinking water to communities in Africa. In 2015, we offset our emissions through a treeplanting scheme in Africa. As well as capturing carbon, this scheme benefits local farming What next? communities through improved soils, farming skills, and incomes. We plan to make a long-term commitment to a project that delivers wide-ranging environmental, social, and economic benefits. 12 6 A farmer surveys tree crops, which will generate We don’t distinguish carbon credits. between pro bono and fee-earning hours We treat work for pro bono clients the same way as work for fee-paying clients – to the extent that our internal reporting systems make no distinction between fee-earning and pro bono client hours. Instead, we refer to all hours recorded as ‘client hours’. This means that for our lawyers, the work they do for a client has equal value in terms of the time they spend on it for all internal purposes – irrespective of whether it’s fee-earning or not. 13 7 We see diversity as a strength We embed diversity into our In the UK we won the Corporate Social Responsibility Initiative of the Year in 2014 culture and are committed to for our scholarship scheme to widen access creating a supportive environment to the legal profession. In 2015 we were a in which all can flourish. This Times Top 50 Employer for Women, which acknowledges organisations that lead gender commitment has been recognised equality in the workplace. internationally. We were the highest-placed law firm in The Best Employers 2015, the German employer ranking published by FOCUS Spezial magazine. Our success in promoting diversity was further recognised in Germany when the publisher JUVE awarded us the ‘azur Award Diversity’ and second place in the azur100 – Top Employers for Lawyers in Germany, both in 2015. New York corporate partner Tim Wilkins has been selected as a CUP Catalyst: Change Agent in Law by the Council of Urban Professionals (CUP). CUP Catalysts are leaders in their professional 9th field from diverse backgrounds who contribute to the greater good through voluntary service, mentorship or philanthropy. our position in Sexual orientation is an area of diversity where we have become a standout employer. Stonewall’s Workplace As well as our top-10 ranking in Stonewall’s Equality Index of the 2015 Workplace Equality Index, we are also a Stonewall Top Global Employer – recognition 100 best employers for of our efforts to ensure our LGBT employees feel supported wherever they work in the firm. lesbian, gay, bisexual In Asia, we achieved a bronze standard in the first and transgender (LGBT) Hong Kong LGBT Workplace Inclusion Survey, people in Britain organised by Community Business Hong Kong. We recognise the importance of these achievements to clients and employees and are determined to build on these efforts further. 14 David Aitman, ‘There is a huge difference Global Managing Partner, opens the Halo between tolerance and Champions event. outright support of LGBT people; with the launch of its international Halo Champions’ network… Freshfields has distinguished itself from other top law firms What next? by unreservedly falling into On LGBT diversity, we are launching the latter category. For me, our Halo Champions network globally. Halo Champions is open this makes it a very attractive to all staff who do not identify as prospective employer.’ LGBT but who want to support and promote the equality of their LGBT colleagues to create an environment FUTURE TRAINEE free from discrimination. We will also host our third international LGBT conference, an important networking opportunity for our LGBT employees. 15 8 We help young people realise their potential Determined to do something to First run 20 years after the death of Stephen Lawrence, the black teenager murdered in address the disproportionately small London in 1993, the scheme broadens access to numbers of black and black mixed-race large commercial law firms for black and black men in large commercial law firms, mixed-race men from low income families. Freshfields and Doreen Lawrence, The scheme awards scholarships to exceptionally Baroness of Clarendon, OBE, launched talented first-year law undergraduates. The scheme assesses potential over two days, and the Freshfields Stephen Lawrence offers successful applicants a scholarship with Scholarship Scheme in 2013. many benefits including a tailored development programme. The aim is that they’ll be offered a training contract at Freshfields. The scheme has had considerable success in attracting candidates from a wider than usual range of universities. It invests a great deal of time in their development and doesn’t assess potential by relying on past academic qualifications. Its success is also due to the large number of Freshfields employees and clients, who contribute to the scheme. With contributions from over 100 Freshfields employees, the scheme is helping to change the firm’s culture and to trigger conversations about differing backgrounds. Winner To address social mobility at an earlier age, Freshfields participates in other initiatives to raise aspirations among less advantaged Corporate Social children. For example, our long-standing Responsibility Initiative partnerships with Haggerston and Redlands schools in East London offer benefits to the of the Year at the Legal pupils, including work experience in Freshfields, links with our Rome and Madrid offices’ partner Business Awards 2014 schools, and help with reading and numeracy from Freshfields volunteers. 16 ‘The scheme is the most innovative legal profession diversity initiative I have seen in the City.’ KYLE WILLIAMS, MANAGING DIRECTOR & SENIOR COUNSEL, LEGAL DEPARTMENT, GOLDMAN SACHS INTERNATIONAL Assessment day at Freshfields. What next? Our fourth scheme year starts in late 2015 with every university in the UK invited to a prize-giving event for previous scholars. Scholars’ families and friends, as well as all volunteers from both Freshfields and clients that support the scheme, are invited too. For future years, we are considering whether to adapt the scheme to reach even more exceptionallytalented students. 17 9 We believe in second chances Freshfields has run Ready for Work, Through Ready for Work we support people who face multiple barriers to work, such as the longin partnership with Business in the term unemployed, care leavers and ex-offenders. Community, since 2001. Ready for All are, or have been, at risk of homelessness. Work helps excluded groups gain Our support includes mentoring, offering work experience placements, and making gifts in kind, the skills and confidence they need to such as lending rooms. get back into work, focusing on those In support of Business in the Community’s Ban furthest from the job market. the Box campaign – and because we recognise the important part business can play in cutting re-offending – Freshfields was the first law firm in the UK to remove the criminal conviction tick-box from its application forms. By not asking candidates to declare criminal convictions on their application form, they are judged solely on their skills and suitability for the role. It isn’t until later in the application Winner process that they’re asked to declare any convictions. Work Inclusion Award at Business in the Community’s Responsible Business Awards 2014 and Best Social Mobility Programme at the MPF Awards for Management Excellence 2015 18 Ready for Work ‘The Ready for Work pre-placement training. programme changed my life. It escalated me to heights I could never have reached through my own efforts and has allowed me for the first time ever to achieve my full potential in my personal life and in my working life.’ What next? A READY FOR WORK PARTICIPANT Our priorities over the next year are to continue to encourage other law firms, clients and suppliers to support and raise the profile of both Ready for Work and the Ban the Box campaign. 19 10 We help communities affected by climate change in Bangladesh The British Red Cross has been working Bangladesh is one of the world’s most disasterprone countries, and is particularly susceptible with the Bangladesh Red Crescent for to cyclones and floods. With a population of over 30 years to help communities more than 154 million, it’s one of the most prepare for and recover from the densely populated countries in the world – which means the impact of any natural disaster impact of an increasing number of can be devastating. natural disasters. With our support, Freshfields has supported the British Red Cross large numbers of people in Bangladesh and its climate change adaptation project in are being equipped with the resilience Bangladesh since January 2014. The partnership has grown to include pro bono support, first necessary to adapt to climate change. aid sessions, employee engagement events and fundraising. Community participation and raising awareness are key to the project’s success. For example, it uses local volunteers to explain to their 60,000 communities how to respond to a cyclone. It has set up 85 community committees and trained them to prepare for disasters, including how to identify the hazards, analyse the risks and plan people helped by for when cyclones hit. our support of the Our support for the programme has equipped over 60,000 people in Bangladesh with life-saving British Red Cross’s skills and better resources. climate change adaptation project 20 ‘This vital support will offer a lifeline; helping people adapt to climate change and anticipate the issues they face today, before they become greater problems tomorrow.’ Setting up women’s MARK ASTARITA, resilience forums and EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF FUNDRAISING, building confidence BRITISH RED CROSS through training. What next? We plan to strengthen links with Freshfields and Red Cross offices worldwide through our partnership and extend the range of our activities to include topical lunchtime talks, volunteering, and pro bono opportunities. 21 Our key performance indicators Indicator 2011–12 2012–13 2013–14 2014–15 Total number of employees 5,266 4,859 5,060 5,446 Female partners (per cent) 12 12 12 13* Gross carbon footprint per capita (tonnes CO2e) 4.79 4.70 4.53 4.34* Gross direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions – scope 1 and 2; fossil fuels and refrigerants; electricity (tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent – CO2e) 15,646 15,889 14,629 15,052* Total gross indirect greenhouse gas emissions – scope 3; business travel (tonnes CO2e) 9,654 11,283 13,560 12,682* Gross carbon footprint (tonnes CO2e) 25,299 27,172 28,189 27,734* Global water use (m3) 63,702 143,103 83,457 85,938* Global waste disposal (tonnes) 1,416 1,708 2,483 2,519* Employees involved in pro bono and community investment programmes (per cent) 39 37 39 44* Hours contributed to pro bono and community programmes 51,498 60,878 79,105 74,336* Total community contributions, including management costs (£m) 8.96 10.48 15.46 13.83* Participation in UK payroll giving (per cent) 5 5 5 5 Turnover (£bn) 1,117 1,229 1,278 1,245 Profit per equity Partner (PEP) (£m) 1.3 1.4 1.48 1.37 22 Employee profile by gender (per cent)* Male Female Partner 87 13 Associate 53 47 Legal trainee 46 54 Other fee earners 44 56 Business services 26 74 Global workforce by region Asia 438 Germany and Austria 1,692 UK 1,968 Middle East and North Africa 91 Rest of Continental Europe 942 USA 314 *This data has been independently assured by Deloitte LLP. A table highlighting our performance against previous targets can be found in the Responsible Business section of our website: www.freshfields.com/cr/ 23 External recognition BITC BITC Winner in the Work Inclusion Highly Commended in the Education category for our Ready for Work category for our partnership with Programme (London) Haggerston School (London) MPF Winner Stonewall Best social mobility programme Listed as a Top 100 employer in the for Ready for Work 2015 Stonewall Workplace Equality Index ISO 14001 ISO 50001 London Office operations only. LRQA London Office operations only. LRQA are our UKAS accredited assessor are our UKAS accredited assessor Legal Aid Lawyer of the Year Law Society Excellence Winner 2015 for CourtNav Awards 2015 Excellence in Pro Bono award Focus Spezial Magazine award JUVE Azur Award Top three professional services Diversity award 2015 firm: Best Employer 2015 24 UN Global Compact and assurance We have been a supporter of Issue UN GC principle the UNGC since March 2009 Human rights Principle 1 – Businesses should support and are required to report and respect the protection of internationally on how we have advanced proclaimed human rights. the 10 principles with respect Principle 2 – Businesses should make to human rights, labour, sure that they are not complicit in human environment and antirights abuses. corruption within our sphere of Labour Principle 3 – Businesses should uphold influence. This report also acts the freedom of association and the effective as our annual communication recognition of the right to collective on progress to the UNGC. bargaining. Principle 4 – Businesses should uphold Reporting and the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. independent assurance Principle 5 – Businesses should uphold This report includes data covering the effective abolition of child labour. the period 1 May 2014 to 30 April 2015. For more information, please Principle 6 – Businesses should uphold the see our Basis of Reporting, which elimination of discrimination in respect of outlines the scope and calculation employment and occupation. methodology of each of our KPIs on our website: freshfields.com/cr/ Environment Principle 7 – Businesses should support a This document also identifies the precautionary approach to environmental indicators where methodological challenges. or estimation changes have affected our reported KPIs. Principle 8 – Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental We have sought external assurance responsibility. for our CR reports since 2007–08. Deloitte LLP has issued an unqualified opinion using limited Principle 9 – Businesses should encourage level assurance in accordance with the development and diffusion of ISAE3000 on selected performance environmentally friendly technologies. indicators contained within this report. A copy of its Independent Anti-corruption Principle 10 – Businesses should work Assurance Statement is available against corruption in all its forms, including on our website: freshfields.com/cr/ extortion and bribery. 25 freshfields.com This material is provided by the international law firm Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP (a limited liability partnership organised under the law of England and Wales) (the UK LLP) and the offices and associated entities of the UK LLP practising under the Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer name in a number of jurisdictions, and Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer US LLP, together referred to in the material as ‘Freshfields’. For regulatory information please refer to www.freshfields.com/support/legalnotice. The UK LLP has offices or associated entities in Austria, Bahrain, Belgium, China, England, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Russia, Singapore, Spain, the United Arab Emirates and Vietnam. Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer US LLP has offices in New York City and Washington DC. This material is for general information only and is not intended to provide legal advice. © Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP, November 2015. 1
