Rahbord Tose’ e Paydar Int’l Group (SDS Int’l Group) COP April 2015 April 2016 1 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) 3 April 2016 Our Stake Holders “Sustainable Development Strategy International Group (SDS)”, was founded on the belief that economic growth and environmental sustainability are not merely compatible objectives; their integration is essential for the future of humankind. We work with partners in the public and private sector in developing and emerging countries around the world to put green growth at the heart of economic planning. This foundation made up of 12 sub departments and partners, is known as SDS Int’l Group in Global Communications. SDS Int’l Group, as a member of the UN Global Compact (Since 2011), made the 10 principles of this compact, the 8 UN Millennium Development Goals and SDG, as its main policy. So that, researching in the concept of a comprehensive, balanced and sustainable development and also, trying to reach a synergy among all national and international activists in the field of sustainable development, is on the objectives’ frontispiece of this group. We try to improve the effectiveness of science and technology, economic, environmental, and educational programs and policies.” “I am pleased to confirm that the Association of Rahbord Tose’ e Paydar Int’l Group (SDS) reaffirms its support of the 10(Ten) Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this our annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are also committed to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication.” Yours sincerely, Ali Javadi Pouya Chief Executive Officer 2 NEW SDS Int’l Group Spirit The SDS Int’l Group Spirit is all about our attitude toward business. It's a way of doing things, of relating to each other and to the outside world that has made us into the company we are today. As a company committed to serving people, we seek to hire and retain the very best employees. We strive to create a dynamic, energetic organization that offers excellent growth opportunities on both a corporate and on an individual level. Our day-to-day corporate culture reflects the SDS Spirit, which is defined by: o Pride: SDS is built by the people who work here o Safety: The health of patients demands quality and safety in all our activities o Effort: Our efforts lead to our results o Commitment: Our clients are aware of our ongoing commitment o Excellence: Through efficient use of available resources, we perform at the highest levels o Teamwork: Through teamwork we become more competitive in the market o Innovation and improvement: Our commitment to innovation and improvement serves as an example to our community Quality, Integrity and Safety in all our activities Our products are of vital importance to the health and quality of life of patients. For this reason, safety is more than just a regulatory requirement at SDS. Safety is a philosophy that goes hand in hand with our commitment to integrity in everything we do. The quality and safety of our products and of our internal processes, from manufacturing to marketing, are of pivotal importance to our organization. To achieve the highest level of safety and quality possible, SDS maintains strong communication channels among all the different areas of our business. By openly sharing information, we ensure that every employee is fully aware of, and totally invested in, the company's aims, innovations and final results. Our commitment to innovation and improvement serves as an example to our community The ability to plan for the future, to invest in improvements and to strive for innovation are key factors in fulfilling our mission to improve people's health and well-being. Our efforts have helped propel us to an industry-leading position, but we must continue to develop and deliver new products, services and healthcare solutions in order to solve existing and emerging healthcare challenges. 3 Summary of SDS Main Sustainable activity in 2015: Membership: 1UNPRI Membership as Professional Service Partner Principles for Responsible Investment 2PRI Montreal Pledge 3COP21 (Paris Climate Change Agreement pledge) 4Sustainable Development Knowledge Platform 4UW Environmental Stewardship and Suitability 5IYGU: International Year Global Understanding 6Chartered institute of Ergonomic and human Factor as Associate member 3UNSHP Programme For sustainable Health in Workplace Cooperation: 1Iranian Commercial Chamber – as private Sector Consultancy 2NIHIK: Netherlands Iran Center of Commerce and Industry 3Khatam University 4Iranian Research organization for science and technology (IROST) Honors: 1Candidate of Quality Crown award in BID (Business Initiative Directions) for quality improvement and Active Learning 27th International Quality Crown Convention London 2015 2Cooperation with WFP Office in Iran 4 Main Achievements: 1Promotion and implementation of Post Agenda 2015, SDGs Commitments and PRI Principals by a Compulsory Attachment in all Contracts 2Establishment Innovation Centers as scientific and research institute for Pioneer Company in Industrial fields (Such as International Center of Control and Instrumentation) 3Research and Implementation Investment Bank 4Preparing for Holding up “Water for Sustainability Forum” with Scientific and Technological Department of Residential Office 5Assessment of International Decoration and Furniture Exhibitions (HODEX and KITEX 2016) according to ergonomic and Human Health Factor 6Research on Health Tourism with Corporation of City Bank 7Establishment New Channel for make effective relationship with Community in Promotion Sustainability Concepts via Social Media app such as Telegram, Instagram 7 – Creation SDS Prime Project (SDS Organizational Credibility Development Project) 5 SDS PRIME: SDS PRIME: Organizational Credibility Development Project rule is emerging economies and public procurement as flagship adoption project to generate increased awareness and uptake of International Initiative standards in Sustainability and Credibility development. For suppliers, manufacturers, and retailers, Implementation of “SDS Organizational Credibility Development Project” is a chance to participate in a transformative project. OCDP is uniquely bringing together stakeholders and creates unparalleled opportunity for collaboration with Int’l Organizations. Our tools and frameworks enable proactive innovation, driving at-scale improvements by coordinating and sharing best practices and collaborating on sustainability solutions. At the heart of the SDS PRIME is a set of Credibility Principles of Int’l Initiative Structures Principles that represent the core values upon which effective standards are built. 6 1: Human Rights principles Principle 1: Principle 2: Businesses Should support and respect Make sure that They are not complicit in The protection of internationally Proclaimed Human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and human rights; Goals SDS Focus: Human Rights Within its sphere of influence, the SDS supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and ensures that it is not complicit in human rights abuses. Non-Discrimination The SDS hires and treats its employees in a manner that does not discriminate with regard to gender, race, religion, age, disability, sexual orientation, nationality, political opinion, union affiliation, social or ethnic origin. Workplace diversity at all levels is encouraged. A) Policy: See more at: http://www.volvogroup.com/group/global/engb/responsibility/policies_guidance/code_of_conduct/hr_workplace/Pages/human_rights.aspx#sth Reaffirming the importance of the International Bill of Human Rights consists of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, ash.z7HMvK3f.dpuf the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and its two Optional Protocols as basic elements of international efforts to promote universal respect for and observance of human rights and fundamental freedoms Acknowledging the important role of international cooperation for, and the valuable work of individuals, groups and associations in contributing to, the effective elimination of all violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms of peoples and individuals 7 SDS, prohibits discrimination in the area of employment. The AHR Act prohibits discrimination based on the protected grounds of race, color, ancestry, place of origin, religious beliefs, gender, age, physical disability, mental disability, marital status, family status, source of income and sexual orientation SDS promotes and implements all human rights and fundamental freedoms in a fair and equitable manner, without prejudice to the implementation of each of those rights and freedoms B) Implementation Annul Meeting about Roles and Responsibilities of Organizations For several decades now, the responsibilities of companies for complying with human rights versus the responsibility of governments in that respect has been hotly debated. Companies that place corporate social responsibility high on the agenda have already accepted a certain responsibility for human rights. SDS recently create a meeting about Roles and Responsibilities of Organizations in SDS annually, This meeting will provide the participants with an understanding of harassment, the rights and responsibilities of employers in preventing harassment, along with how best to respond to and manage harassment in the workplace. -UNSHP Membership: The “Sustainable Health Programme” is a framework outlined a number of transformational shifts required for a more sustainable health and care system.” It provides UNSHP members with a private forum to pool resources, share information, enhance influence and engage with companies, stakeholders, policymakers and other actors in the Health chain on Human Right, Environmental, Social Responsibility, Economic Health issues across different sectors and regions. -ISO26000 Implementation In addition According to our commitment to Human right Consideration, we have an internationally standardized framework to base their social responsibility activities on ISO26000:2010 Social Responsibility Guidelines and also The UN Guiding Principles on Human Rights and Business (UNGP-2011) (also known as the “Ruggie Principles”) have also become an our authoritative global reference point for business and human rights. The guidelines have been drawn upon by ISO (26000), GRI and the OECD in the development of their own guideline. 8 Issue 1: Due diligence Issue 2: Human rights risk situations Issue 3: Avoidance of complicity Human Rights Issue 4: Resolving grievances In ISO 26000 Issue 5: Discrimination and vulnerable groups Issue 6: Civil and political rights Issue 7: Economic, social and cultural rights Issue 8: Fundamental principles and rights at work Three pillars of the Ruggie Framework are: 1Government: Duty to Protect 2Companies: Responsibility to respect 3Victims: Access to remedy Guide line for Companies: “The corporate responsibility to respect consists of five foundational and eight operational principles. The UNGP’s five Foundation Principles explain what the ‘responsibility to respect’ means, the scope of the responsibility and the policies and management processes a company should have in place.” 9  SDS Human Right Activities Employee Partners Customers Community 1HSE 1Non-Discrimination 1ISO10001:2007 1-Disclusing SDS implementation Code of conduct human right goals 2Ergonomic 2Speech and mind in public seminars Requirements freedom 2-ISO10002:2004 implementation 2-Participation on 3NonCustomer Satisfaction charities for Discrimination in 3ISO10004:2012 protection of employment defenseless people 4Speech and Customer Satisfaction mind freedom 3 -UNSHP 5Equal behavior Instruction 6International law department Training Courses about Human rights generations 7Annul Meeting ISO 26000:2010, UNSHP Instructions C) Measurement By adhering to the ISO 26000 guide, we minimize reputational risks and increase transparency to potential investors, customers and sponsors concerned with issues on social responsibility and sustainable development and have the tools to analyze itself and its own risks. We have to mention that immunity which is built by ISO26000 Requirement s (whistle Blower System )give the appropriate protection to all employees in company to report any contravention of human rights. All contraventions are documented by CEO office manager and responsible party would put under probation to resolve the issue. 10 2Labor Principles Principle 3: Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the freedom of the elimination of all forms of forced and association and the effective recognition of compulsory labour; the right to collective bargaining; Principle 5: Principle 6: the effective abolition of child labour; The elimination of discrimination in respect of Employment and occupation SDS Focus: SDS Focus: Child Labour : No form of forced, compulsory or child labor is tolerated in the Volvo Group. The minimum employment age is the age of completion of compulsory school. Freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining and agreements shall be respected in all Volvo Group operations. Work Environment: The necessary conditions for a safe and healthy work environment shall be provided for all SDS employees. Women at Work: Trends 2016 is a key contribution to these efforts and seeks to further the central goals of the 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda. Occupational health and safety: As the focus on occupational health and safety performance and qualities of products and services is increasing, there is also an increasing demand for measuring, documenting and communicating these qualities in the marketing material. Occupational safety and health criteria have been included to varying degrees into existing certification schemes and labeling schemes for products and equipment. Certification schemes of management systems and subcontractors focusing primarily on occupational safety and health have also been launched. Large gender gaps remain across global labour market, UN International Labour Organization (ILO) reports Despite some modest gains in some regions in the world, millions of women are losing ground in their quest for equality in the world of work, according to a new report prepared by the United Nations International Labour Organization (ILO) as part of the its Women at Work Centenary Initiative. See more at: http://www.volvogroup.com/group/global/en11 gb/responsibility/policies_guidance/code_of_conduct/hr_workplace/Pages/human_rights.aspx #sthash.z7HMvK3f.dpuf Since the ILO’s founding in 1919, gender equality and non-discrimination have been pillars of its mission to promote social justice through the world of work. As the Organization approaches its second century, it has chosen to focus on women at work as one of its centenary initiatives. Women at Work: Trends 2016 is a key contribution to these efforts and seeks to further the central goals of the 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda. On the occasion of International Women’s Day (8 March), the International Labour Organization (ILO) will publish a new report entitled “Women at Work: Trends 2016”, and hold an interactive panel discussion on how to harness the newly adopted 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda to deliver on decent work for women. “The report shows the enormous challenges women continue to face in finding and keeping decent jobs,” said ILO Director-General Guy Ryder in a press release. The report, Women at Work: Trends 2016 examined data for up to 178 countries and concludes that inequality between women and men persists across a wide spectrum of the global labour market. What’s more, the report shows that over the last two decades, significant progress made by women in education has not translated into comparable improvements in their position at work. This report examines where women stand today in the world of work and how they have progressed over the past 20 years. Employees are major stakeholders of companies. In addition, implementing corporate social responsibility needs commitment from the top management, but also innovative thinking and, thus, new skills and closer involvement of the employees and their representatives in a two-way dialogue that can structure permanent feed-back and adjustment. Social dialogue with workers' representatives, which is the main mechanism of definition of the relationship between a company and its workers, therefore plays a crucial part in the wider adoption of socially responsible practices. With respect to the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work is an expression of commitment by governments, employers' and workers' organizations to uphold basic human values values that are vital to our social and economic lives. The Declaration covers four fundamental principles and rights at work  Freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining  Elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor  Effective abolition of child labor  Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 12 A) SDS Policy: SDS policies require that its business be conducted with honesty and integrity, and in full compliance with Local Labor applicable laws. All company associates are required to obey the law and comply with specific standards relating to legal obligations, ethics, and business conduct about Local Labor law. SDS supports and upholds the elimination of discriminatory practices with respect to Employment, and promotes and embraces diversity in all aspects of its business operations. SDS further supports the elimination of all forms of forced bonded or compulsory labor and the freedom of association and the right to choose a collective bargaining representative, if desired. SDS will also provide a safe and healthy working Environment for its entire Department. Health and safety at work has traditionally been approached mainly by means of legislation and enforcement measures. However, the trend of outsourcing work to contractors and suppliers makes companies more dependent on the safety and health performance of their contractors, especially those who are working within their own premises B) Implementation SDS voluntary codes of conduct can contribute to promote international labour standards; their effectiveness however depends on proper implementation and verification. Codes of conduct may for instance face sub-contractors producing for a number of different multinational companies with the need to fulfill many different criteria regarding wages, working hours and other social conditions. 13 SDS Main Activities in Labor Rights are: Nondiscrimination in Employment Promoting Women at Work: Trends 2016 Healthy and safe work place by implementing HSE and ohsas18001 Implementation of 5 S Companies Commitment to prepare new technology for improving employees knowledge level Application of Local Labor Law Application of insurance requirements according Local Law Establishment of encouragement Systems ReTraining and E learning System C) Measurement “We have a 100 % compliance on approved working payment and we had no claim about labor compensation in recent year and also all employee has insurance and their insurance independent share is totally paid by SDS. We have a no injuries in work place since foundation. We have an employee satisfaction survey annually 3Environment Principles Principle 7: Principle 8: Businesses should support precautionary Undertake initiatives to promote greater approach to environmental environmental responsibility; challenges; Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals 14 SDS Focus: Promoting Sustainable Development: 17 Goals to Transform Our World GOAL 6: Ensure access to water and sanitation for all Clean, accessible water for all is an essential part of the world we want to live in. There is sufficient fresh water on the planet to achieve this. But due to bad economics or poor infrastructure, every year millions of people, most of them children, die from diseases associated with inadequate water supply, sanitation and hygiene. Water scarcity, poor water quality and inadequate sanitation negatively impact food security, livelihood choices and educational opportunities for poor families across the world and IRAN. Drought afflicts some of the world’s poorest countries, worsening hunger and malnutrition. By 2050, at least one in four people is likely to live in a country affected by chronic or recurring shortages of fresh water Facts and Figure 2.6 billion people have gained access to improved drinking water sources since 1990, but 663 million people are still without At least 1.8 billion people globally use a source of drinking water that is focally contaminated Between 1990 and 2015, the proportion of the global population using an improved drinking water source has increased from 76 per cent to 91 per cent But water scarcity affects more than 40 per cent of the global population and is projected to rise. Over 1.7 billion people are currently living in river basins where water use exceeds recharge 2.4 billion people lack access to basic sanitation services, such as toilets or latrines More than 80 per cent of wastewater resulting from human activities is discharged into rivers or sea without any pollution removal Each day, nearly 1,000 children die due to preventable water and sanitation-related diarrheal diseases Hydropower is the most important and widely-used renewable source of energy and as of 2011, represented 16 per cent of total electricity production worldwide Approximately 70 per cent of all water abstracted from rivers, lakes and aquifers is used for irrigation Floods and other water-related disasters account for 70 per cent of all deaths related to natural disasters 15 Through the trans boundary effect of many business-related environmental problems, and their consumption of resources from across the world, companies are also actors in the global environment. A) Policy Base on The principals of the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment was held in Stockholm, Sweden in June 1972 as following: 1. Human rights must be asserted, apartheid and colonialism condemned 2. Natural resources must be safeguarded 3. The Earth’s capacity to produce renewable resources must be maintained 4. Wildlife must be safeguarded 5. Non-renewable resources must be shared and not exhausted 6. Pollution must not exceed the environment’s capacity to clean itself 7. Damaging oceanic pollution must be prevented 8. Development is needed to improve the environment 9. Developing countries therefore need assistance 10. Developing countries need reasonable prices for exports to carry out environmental management 11. Environment policy must not hamper development 12. Developing countries need money to develop environmental safeguards 13. Integrated development planning is needed 14. Rational planning should resolve conflicts between environment and development 15. Human settlements must be planned to eliminate environmental problems 16. Governments should plan their own appropriate population policies 17. National institutions must plan development of states’ natural resources 18. Science and technology must be used to improve the environment 19. Environmental education is essential 20. Environmental research must be promoted, particularly in developing countries 21. States may exploit their resources as they wish but must not endanger others 22. Compensation is due to states thus endangered 23. Each nation must establish its own standards 24. There must be cooperation on international issues 25. International organizations should help to improve the environment 26. Weapons of mass destruction must be eliminate 16 SDS is committed to leading Services in minimizing the impact of its activities on the environment. The key points of its Policy to achieve this are:  Minimize waste by evaluating operations and ensuring they are as efficient as possible.  Minimize toxic emissions through the selection and use of its fleet and the source of its power requirement.  Actively promote recycling both internally and amongst its customers and suppliers..  Meet or exceed all the environmental legislation that relates to the Company including ISO14001.  Use an accredited program to offset the greenhouse gas emissions generated by our activities. B) Implementation Signing COP21 (Paris Climate Change Agreement pledge) Signing UW Environmental Stewardship and Sustainability and Publish environmental Instruction in work place for all employee Implementation of ISO14001:2004 reduce waste materials (e.g. recycling) and consumption of resources (energy, fossil fuels, water, electricity, paper, packaging, etc.) by training employees improving the energy efficiency by light management Developing environment friendly technologies in work place Application PAS 2020 Requirements in seminars and conferences Allocating environment global challenge including climate change, water and environmental issues. renewable energy in SDS annual conference kharazmi forum 2015-12 march C) Measurement SDS is committed to minimizing any divers effect on the environmental which may result from its activity, as a result of our effort we are ISO14001 certifies since 2012 17 4Anti-Corruption Principals Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery A) Policy Based on Preventive Measures (Chapter II, Articles 5–14) of United Nations Convention against Corruption (UNCAC) Preventive measures are directed at both the public and private sectors. Chapter II includes preventive policies, such as the establishment of anti-corruption bodies and enhanced transparency in the financing of election campaigns and political parties. Transparency and accountability in the management of public finances must also be promoted, and specific requirements are established for the prevention of corruption in the particularly critical areas of the public sector, such as the judiciary and public procurement. Preventing corruption also requires an effort from all members of society at large. For these reasons, UNCAC calls on countries to promote actively the involvement of civil society, and to raise public awareness of corruption and what can be done about it. The requirements made for the public sector also apply to the private sector – it too is expected to adopt transparent procedures and codes of conduct. SDS is firmly opposed to corruption in all forms and is committed to doing business in accordance with the highest ethical standards. For SDS, anti-corruption is not only a legal obligation and an ethical standpoint. Corruption is a threat to business and society in all countries. It undermines legitimate business activities and distorts competition. It ruins reputation and exposes individuals to risks. At SDS we are all responsible for understanding the important legal and ethical issues that affect our business and for acting with integrity at all times. Integrity means complying with both the spirit and the letter of the laws and regulations that govern our industry. SDS’s zero tolerance on corruption and ethical standards are set out in our Code of Conduct. 18 SDS’s management is committed to sending clear, unambiguous and regular messages to all staff and business partners that corruption and bribery is unacceptable. B) Implementation SDS’s policies require that its business be conducted with honesty and integrity, and in Full compliance with all applicable laws. Company policies establish clear ethical standards And guidelines for how we do business and establish accountability. All company associates Are required to obey the law and comply with specific standards relating to legal obligations, Ethics and business conduct. Training Employee s about ethical Business and anticorruption missions Addressed stake holders about anticorruption commitment and SDS ethical code of conduct C) Measurement -Whistleblower 1System: In this system employees who become aware of illegal activities including corruption taking place in a business either through witnessing the behavior or being told about it , are encouraged to report suspected violation to manager . Whistleblowers are protected in SDS from programs created by the ISO26000:2010. -Social and Environmental Checklists SDS use of social and environmental checklists to evaluate the risks of Projects, and investments in companies. Similarly, being recognized as a socially responsible enterprise, for example through listing in an ethical stock market index, can support the rating of a company and therefore entails concrete financial advantages. 1 A whistleblower (whistle-blower or whistle blower) is a person who exposes misconduct, alleged dishonest or illegal activity occurring in an organization. The alleged misconduct may be classified in many ways; for example, a violation of a law, rule, regulation and/or a direct threat to public interest, such as fraud, health and safety violations, and corruption. 19 Within the company, socially responsible practices primarily involve employees and relate to issues such as investing in human capital, health and safety, and managing change, while environmentally responsible practices relate mainly to the management of natural resources used in the production. They open a way of managing change and reconciling social development with improved competitiveness. The End 20
