PANDORA ETHICS REPORT 2015 CEO STATEMENT CONTENTS At PANDORA, we combine worldwide received training in our ethical aspirations and 4 ABOUT PANDORA 19 PLANET our strong heritage of crafting expected conduct within areas such as business integrity, stylish, contemporary and human and workers’ rights and environmental stewardship. 21 Precious metals & stones high-quality jewellery with We also reached new highs in the recycling and reuse of 5 PRODUCT a strong commitment to our crafting waste, and intensified the communication of 21 Crafting corporate responsibility, our ethical performance to our consumers. 7 Design which has been part of our 24 Logistics DNA since the beginning. As always, responsible business practices are a work in 7 Responsible supplier programme progress. With this report, we once again declare our 24 Stores Ethical considerations commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles and 10 Core materials are solidly integrated into share the efforts we make to craft our product with integrity, our entire value chain, and we believe that our vision of provide proper working conditions for our people and 27 PARTNERSHIPS becoming the world’s most loved jewellery brand is closely minimise our environmental impact on the planet. 11 PEOPLE linked to being a good corporate citizen. 27 Governance I hope you will enjoy the read. 13 Code of Ethics In 2015, we have exceeded our ambitious commercial 27 Responsible jewellery council goals – while continuing to improve our performance 13 Training within responsible business practices. This dedication Anders Colding Friis 27 Strategic partners and achievement on the part of my more than 16,700 President & Chief Executive Officer 13 Diversity colleagues is something of which I am extremely proud. 27 Building brand equity 15 Human and labour rights During the course of the year, we were recertified by the 27 Charity Responsible Jewellery Council (RJC), once again confirming 16 Focus on Thailand that we meet or exceed the highest ethical standards within the industry. Additionally, we implemented a new Code of Ethics throughout the organisation and our people 0000 0610 2 PANDORA ETHICS REPORT 2015 3 ABOUT PANDORA > 100 MILLION PIECES OF JEWELLERY SHIPPED DKK 16.7 BILLION IN REVENUE 40% UP FROM LAST YEAR 16,700+ PEOPLE GLOBALLY 9,300+ POINTS OF SALE 1,800 OF THESE ARE PANDORA CONCEPT STORES 11,150 PRODUCT CRAFTSPEOPLE IN THAILAND OWN CRAFTING BRINGING THEIR SKILLS, FACILITIES IN THAILAND THEIR VISION AND THEIR ensures our ability to HEARTS AND MINDS TO maintain and develop high WORK EACH DAY ethical standards 4 PANDORA ETHICS REPORT 2015 CRAFTING OUR The Innovation Centre offers our dedicated craftspeople the opportunity to work and invent at the front line of technical 1.9 PRODUCTS development while at the same time acquiring the high PANDORA TONNES OF level of skills required in advanced jewellery crafting. It is our firm belief that PANDORA’s Innovation Centre PRODUCT GOLD USED WITH INTEGRITY makes an important contribution to maintaining Thailand’s position as a global hub in the jewellery industry. IN BRIEF CERTIFIED CONFLICT FREE ISO 9001 FROM RESPONSIBLE QUALITY MANAGEMENT SUPPLIERS DESIGN RESPONSIBLE SUPPLIER PROGRAMME certification Any PANDORA product begins its journey with our PANDORA sources vast quantities of jewellery materials RESPONSIBLE designers making choices on which materials to use. Whenever new suppliers or materials are introduced, the as well as a wide range of fixtures, furniture, gift bags and jewellery boxes. In order to ensure that our partners SUPPLIER CSR team is consulted in order to assess potential adverse meet our ethical standards, all suppliers are required to environmental or social impacts. sign and comply with our Suppliers’ Code of Conduct PROGRAMME Our designers constantly interact with Group (downloadable from our website). To support our Manufacturing to ensure that our designs and crafting suppliers to comply with the Code, we have developed a WE SCREEN, VISIT, TRAIN techniques are a match. At our cutting-edge Innovation comprehensive supplier programme. AND AUDIT OUR SUPPLIERS 2.6 BILLION Centre in Bangkok, Thailand, we develop innovative Our CSR team, operating out of Bangkok, Hong Kong TO ENSURE HIGH ETHICAL processing techniques and continuously improve our ability and Copenhagen, work closely with our suppliers across the STANDARDS STONES SET INTO to introduce new sophisticated designs. world to ensure that they fully understand our requirements OUR JEWELLERY and are capable of implementing practical and sustainable The vast majority being man-made, with the the same crystal structure 4 TONNES and chemical composition as their natural counterparts RESPONSIBLE SUPPLIERS’ CODE OF CONDUCT OF ENAMEL MIXED 30 PAIRS All suppliers must sign our Suppliers’ Code of Conduct SUPPLIER PROGRAMME OF HANDS SCREENING AND CATEGORISING ON AVERAGE Risk assessment CONTRIBUTE TO CREATING ONE PIECE SUPPLIER TRAINING OF JEWELLERY Annual training in selected issues PANDORA AUDITS CORRECTIVE BKK, HKG & CPH CSR teams ACTIONS AS REQUIRED 150 Suppliers must remedy identified issues PARTICIPANTS 225 TONNES THIRD-PARTY AUDITS Suppliers are audited on a two-year cycle FROM KEY OF SILVER SUPPLIERS JEWELLERY PREFERRED SUPPLIERS Long-term, high-achieving suppliers may be granted status as preferred suppliers. These enjoy preferential terms, focusing on integration and trust over audit and control RECEIVED CSR TRAINING SHIPPED AT OUR CRAFTING FACILITIES DURING THE YEAR 6 PANDORA ETHICS REPORT 2015 7 solutions. To this end, we offer our suppliers with annual chain. Non-compliances identified during the independent training in issues such as safety, health and environmental supplier audits typically involve breaches of either health management, workers rights and human rights, and we take and safety standards or terms of employment. PANDORA pride in showcasing our own best-practice solutions. works diligently to achieve high standards and expertise within both issues at our crafting facilities in Thailand. SUPPLIER AUDITS Thus, we regularly invite suppliers to training sessions at these facilities so that they can learn more about how we Our Key Performance Indicator stipulates that 80% of our maintain high standards, and how such standards help us sourcing value must originate from suppliers who have continuously improve safety levels, job satisfaction and been audited by our external auditing company or are commitment – and ultimately performance, productivity, certified members of the Responsible Jewellery Council attraction and retention. In 2015, approximately 150 (RJC), meaning that they have been audited against the participants from our key suppliers from across the world broadest and strictest standards within the jewellery supply attended such training sessions in Thailand. NON-COMPLIANCE ISSUES IDENTIFIED AT AUDITED SUPPLIERS IN 2015 TRAINING 2% Freedom of association KEY SUPPLIERS 9% Environment 2% Forced labour risk Again in 2015, PANDORA hosted CSR training sessions “My background is in factories, mainly in China, and this for our key suppliers. Group Procurement, PANDORA is just amazing,” says Jonathan Chan, General Manager of a 12% Working hours Production Thailand (PPT) and Group CSR worked closely large Chinese packaging supplier. “It is totally different from together to create and organise the sessions – a team effort what I am used to. The infrastructure, equipment and skills that demonstrates a company-wide dedication to integrating of the workers – it’s really impressive. I’ve always known CSR throughout our business. that PANDORA is good, but this is beyond my expectations. 56% Health & safety This year, the training sessions took place in Thailand, I’m 60 years old, but I have learned quite a lot today from 5% Others providing PANDORA the opportunity to show the 150 seeing these crafting facilities.” participants PPT, to talk with our internal experts, to meet “After training sessions, PANDORA has follow-up our craftspeople and to see first hand how we approach meetings to determine how well suppliers are meeting 2% Discrimination CSR at our own crafting facilities. our requirements. The best method for our suppliers is We have excellent suppliers, but their approach to CSR to quickly assimilate their new knowledge and begin 11% Compensation & benefits issues can be very different. Some are already very familiar making the necessary changes. We often see impressive with implementing CSR, and for them the training is a case improvements after we have visited a supplier’s production 2% Disciplinary practice of confirming they are on the right track. For others, CSR is facility”, says Jon-Paul Daniel, Vice President, Group quite new territory and seeing PANDORA’s crafting facilities Procurement. can be an eye-opener. PANDORA ETHICS REPORT 2015 9 CORE MATERIALS same basic crystal structure and chemical composition. Man-made stones are fully traceable, affordable and can The vast majority of PANDORA’s products are made of be supplied in quantities suitable for large-scale jewellery silver or gold, often embellished with stones. At PANDORA, crafting. Finally, man-made stones exhibit fewer variations we are fully aware that the mining and processing of in colour and quality, considerably reducing material waste precious metals, gemstones and semi-precious stones in the crafting process. can be associated with adverse social or environmental While we have not made a decision to remove impacts. As a major player within the jewellery industry, we diamonds and gemstones from our assortment, man-made recognise our ability as well as our responsibility to help stones are taking on an increasingly important role in our develop more responsible supply chains for core jewellery collections. In 2015, man-made stones made up the vast materials. majority of the 2.6 billion stones used. From 2012 to 2015, diamonds were only included in Gold new collections as a feature on special edition PANDORA In 2015, all gold grains entering PANDORA’s crafting Club charms. The diamonds set in these charms were all facilities were sourced from reputable refining companies recycled from discontinued PANDORA jewellery. certified according to the RJC Code of Practices. Whenever sourcing diamonds, which we continue to Furthermore, all PANDORA gold suppliers are certified do to meet customer demand for existing collections, we conflict free according to the London Bullion Market only accept suppliers that are members of the RJC and Association (LBMA) Good Delivery List or the RJC Chaincan certify compliance with the System of Warranties of-Custody Standard for gold. Notably, 96% of gold grains established by the World Diamond Council for diamond originated from recycling and the remaining 4% from sourcing. mining. Silver In 2015, all silver grains entering PANDORA’s crafting ORIGIN OF PRECIOUS METALS facilities were sourced from reputable refining companies certified to the RJC Code of Practices, and we began ORIGIN OF GOLD working with our suppliers to develop an assurance 100% RJC-certified suppliers system for responsible silver mining. 83% of our silver 100% certified conflict free grains originated from recycling and the remaining 17% from mining. As RJC members, our suppliers have set up comprehensive audit systems to ensure that no conflict 96% minerals enter their supply chains. Recycled Specialised manufacturers 4% Mined Additionally, PANDORA cooperates with a very small PEOPLE number of highly specialised manufacturers of semifinished gold and silver parts. All these partners deliver auditable proof that the gold used in their products is sourced from RJC/LBMA-certified suppliers. In 2015, we ORIGIN OF SILVER 100% RJC-certified suppliers initiated dialogue with these suppliers to find ways to ensure that they will be able to provide similar guarantees as to the origin of their silver products. 83% Stones Recycled Man-made stones, natural gemstones and diamonds are all included in our assortment and have different characteristics and advantages. The natural gemstone industry is highly 17% Mined fragmented and complex, making traceability extremely difficult. Man-made stones are identical to their natural gemstone counterparts in almost every way, including the 10 PANDORA ETHICS REPORT 2015 3.3% PROVIDING PROPER DIVERSITY WORKING CONDITIONS At PANDORA, three out of four managers are women, PANDORA EMPLOYEE TURNOVER IN THAILAND heavily biased by the high number of female store 13 DJs FOR OUR PEOPLE managers. We are deeply committed to ensure gender PEOPLE diversity in our senior management positions. The Board of WERE ELECTED AMONG Directors has set a number of gender diversity objectives IN BRIEF THAI COLLEAGUES TO which it reviews annually: BROADCAST DAILY FROM CODE OF ETHICS • By 2020, the gender split in senior management PANDORA RADIO In 2015, PANDORA launched a new internal Code of positions (members of the Executive Board, general Ethics setting out our ethical aspirations as a company and managers and vice presidents) should be 40%-60%, our expectations with respect to responsible staff behaviour. represented by women and men respectively. At the end 54,500 OHSAS 18001, The code has been distributed to all our people worldwide, of 2015, 33% of senior management roles were held by OCCUPATIONAL and has been accommodated by Group-wide training and women, compared to 34% in 2014, 31% in 2013 and VISITS TO OUR HEALTH AND SAFETY a mandatory e-learning module for office and store staff. 26% in 2012. EDUTAINMENT CENTRE As part of the PANDORA Code of Ethics implementation, CERTIFICATION we also launched an improved ethics hotline, allowing our • The gender composition of the Group’s leadership people to raise concerns if they perceive that our standards programmes for the years 2012-2015 should mirror At our Thai crafting facilities are being breached. The ethics hotline is externally the gender composition of staff in vice president and with free access to PCs, library administered and enables our people to raise concerns in director positions (on aggregate). In 2015, women services and training facilities their own language through both web and phone. accounted for 59% of this management group, and SPECIAL BENEFITS FOR made up 48% of the enrolment in our leadership PREGNANT EMPLOYEES programmes. For the whole period, women accounted 4,100 TRAINING for 47% of the participants on leadership programmes. The Board will continue to follow the gender COLLEAGUES The main contact between PANDORA and our consumers composition of our leadership programmes in the years is established and nurtured by the more than 30,000 to come. USED PANDORA people passionately engaged in selling our jewellery COOPERATIVE BANK in more than 100 countries around the world. We are • Finally, it is PANDORA’s objective that, by 2018, at IN THAILAND dedicated to helping the sales people, in the more than least 35% of Board members elected at the Annual 100 9,300 PANDORA points of sales, to develop their skills General Meeting must be women. At the end of 2015, TRAINERS and knowledge. Our extensive training programmes span face-to-face training, coaching, on the job training and two female Board members made up 22% of a total of nine Board members, still well above the 2015 5,300 TRAINING OUR 30,000 e-learning. The scope is broad and entails training in average of 11% for Danish listed companies. The Board PANDORA’s values, CSR, identity and history, jewellery and will continue to consider gender composition when SALES ASSOCIATES NEW JOBS CREATED materials expertise, production processes and professional appointing new members. WORLDWIDE sales skills, sales psychology and techniques. Our training programmes are implemented by 100 trainers, and face-toface training is supported by our comprehensive e-learning programme available in 19 languages. In 2015, more than 621,000 training sessions were completed, up from 10,500 380,000 in 2014 and 200,000 in 2013. BOOKS BORROWED 621,000 FROM THE EMPLOYEE LIBRARY IN THAILAND E-LEARNING SESSIONS COMPLETED Most popular subjects: philosophy & psychology, That is more than one every technology and languages minute of every hour 12 PANDORA ETHICS REPORT 2015 13 HUMAN AND LABOUR RIGHTS PRODUCT) is also designed to prevent us from becoming complicit in such infringements. The PANDORA Ethics Programme instructs us all to prevent An ongoing challenge during PANDORA’s continued – and if necessary mitigate and remedy – negative impacts growth has been to keep the amount of overtime in of our activities. Thailand below a 60-hour working week (overtime at PPT is We regularly assess potential human and labour rights always voluntary, compliant with Thai law and remunerated risks in our value chain. These assessments – carried out at premium rates). internally or in cooperation with external experts and peers Again in 2015, due to exceptional business – tend to reach the same conclusion: PANDORA’s main circumstances caused by our 40% growth, weekly working human and labour rights risks (as well as environmental hours in some specialised departments periodically risks) are to be found in our supply chain. By sourcing exceeded 60 hours per week. In order to mitigate overtime our core jewellery materials from certified responsible and to ensure capacity for future growth, we hired 3,250 suppliers, we seek to lower the risks of becoming complicit additional craftspeople in 2015 and also took steps to in human rights infringements. Further, PANDORA’s expand our existing crafting facilities. Responsible Supplier Programme (described under PEOPLE BY AGE GROUP GENDER SPLIT – GROUP <18 0.2% Male: 32% 18-25 36% Female: 68% 26-35 51% HOW TO DOUBLE A 36-45 8% 46+ 5% DEDICATED WORKFORCE IN 35 WEEKS GENDER SPLIT – BOARD OF DIRECTORS GENDER SPLIT – SENIOR MANAGEMENT In 2015 PANDORA engaged in a heavy expansion of Male 78% Male 67% PANDORA owned and operated concept stores in the A new training centre, including two fully-equipped Female 22% Female 23% German market, opening 77 new stores over a period PANDORA stores, was built at our facility in Hamburg. of a year. Besides getting the shops up and running with Training consisted of one week at the training centre, PANDORA store design and correct jewellery stock, we followed by a week of on-the-job training in dedicated also hired and onboarded 450 new colleagues over a stores, and finally back for the last week in Hamburg with period of 35 weeks. feedback and recap. Focusing on PANDORA Ethics all new colleagues received a copy of our Code of Ethics and “We had 1½ months to build an effective, fun and completed the Code of Ethics e-learning module. comprehensive training set-up for all new employees from store managers to part-time shop assistants; making our new Evaluations have been promising, revealing a very high colleagues happy and confident store associates, ready to satisfaction rate from our new store associates. Which support our values and to sell the PANDORA way; teaching in turn has resulted in the planning of a similar range of them all about PANDORA’s jewellery, brand and selling training sessions for our more experienced sales associates Find more detailed data on people on pandoragroup.com/csr techniques,” says Hayder Ahl, Head of Training and Event, to align the level of professionalism and knowledge within Central Western Europe. our German organisation. 15 This expansion will continue in 2016, which will see the Health and safety start-up of production at our new state-of-the-art facility At PPT, we operate an effective Safety, Health & in northern Thailand (more details under PLANET) and the Environment (SHE) Committee comprised of senior construction of a new crafting facility in Bangkok. management and employee representatives. The 15 PANDORA’s Human Rights Policy, published on our employee representatives are offered modern, on-site website, stipulates our commitment to the UN Guiding facilities and receive comprehensive training, both in-house Principles on Business and Human Rights. The policy and from external experts, enabling them to effectively further instructs us to advance human rights within our contribute in their roles. sphere of influence (more details under PARTNERSHIPS). To make safety a priority from the start, SHE experts are For our statements on the UK Slavery Act and The California involved in all new crafting processes. Since May 2015, Transparency in Supply Chains Act, see pandoragroup.com/ safety and health training has been a permanent part of our csr. onboarding programme. In 2015, a total of 2,500 people participated in training sessions in general health & safety FOCUS ON THAILAND and firefighting. SHE efforts included TV and radio spots on internal channels, and a competition for employees to win Our modern crafting facilities in Thailand provide safe, prizes for suggestions for further improvements. developing and engaging working conditions for 11,150 craftspeople. Their skills, their sense of aesthetics and the Accidents way they bring their hearts and minds to work every day are In accordance with international standards PANDORA a part of the foundation of our company’s vision to become defines accidents as any incident that leads to an employee the world’s most loved jewellery brand. having to be absent for eight hours or more. The entire PANDORA group had 31 accidents in total resulting in Training and development 168 lost working days. PANDORA Production Thailand (PPT) has built its success At PPT our definition of accidents also includes on the philosophy that clarity, competence, confidence and incidents, which do not lead to any lost working days as commitment are four key, interdependent pillars essential the employee is instead reassigned to another position. to long-term success. In 2015, PPT had a total of seven accidents (none of which We regard all our craftspeople as ‘knowledge workers’ lead to absence from work), three near misses and 13 minor and this is an integral part of our approach to training and first-aid treatments carried out by our in-house medical onboarding new staff. When our people have clarity of their roles, the competence to master their craft, the ability to think outside the box, and, finally, the confidence and team. With 11,150 people employed at PPT by the year end, this is a remarkable achievement compared with any industrial sector in any country. INNOVATIVE INTERACTION channels to express their ideas and concerns, the result is the fourth “C”: a deep commitment to the workplace. We believe, that this approach is part of the reason why PPT The high standards and performance were recognised by a National Occupational Safety and Health award from the Thai Ministry of Labour. WITH 11,150+ COLLEAGUES continues to be an employer of choice with a 2015 staff turnover rate of only 3.3%. In 2015, PANDORA Production Thailand (PPT) launched provides internet access on its premises to support the app. We invest significantly in training and development, a mobile application for internal HR services and “We wanted to see if there was potential in a mobile which spans technical skills, safety, health, the communication purposes. The app provides an efficient application to support the business in a new, efficient and environment, business continuity, leadership and life and easy tool that enables more than 11,150 colleagues innovative way,” explains Mikkel Lysgaard, Project Manager skills. All training activities aim to further advance a safe (including those without access to a PC network) to interact on the PPT app. and rewarding environment for our craftspeople, and to with the company. By downloading the PANDORA Self“The idea escalated quickly as an app like this not demonstrate our responsible practices as an employer and Service App, everyone has the means to easily access and only engages employees, but also supports many business an important member of the local community. check working hours, overtime history, available holidays, processes and efficiently reduces administrative work,” news and offers from the employee shop directly from their states Chamroon Thongon, Vice President HR, Thailand. mobiles. In total, around 10,600 users is expected to be active In Thailand, it is common to change telephone numbers by February 2016. One of the ideas being considered for frequently, which represents a challenge for our HR services. an updated version is a bus function, which will provide a Now, new numbers can be reported and verified directly in quick and easy way for employees to book seats on the 120 the app; something which significantly reduces the workload daily buses provided by PANDORA to transport our people of handling thousands of telephone numbers. PANDORA also to and from work. 16 PANDORA ETHICS REPORT 2015 17 Employee benefits Communication The Employee Welfare Committee at PPT consists of 15 We want to provide both entertainment and up-to-date and colleagues elected every second year (most recently in company information for our craftspeople so that everyone 2014, where 93% of our Thai colleagues voted). The fully understands the context of their work, receives committee has three sub-committees, responsible for feedback from our consumers, and has a clear picture of coordinating employee interest in a) Compensation & PANDORA’s global performance. To this end, we share Benefits, b) Employee Relations and c) Social Activities. As news updates, departmental news and customer feedback is the case for the SHE Committee, the Employee Welfare through info meetings and our in-house PANDORA Radio Committee draws on modern facilities and extensive in(with employee elected DJs) and PANDORA TV, both house and external training. PPT employee benefits include broadcasting daily. But we also want to listen. Besides affordable and healthy meals, parental classes, extensive training and encouraging our people to speak up and our professional and personal development training, annual managers to listen on a daily basis, we conduct monthly outings, scholarships, employee-operated radio and TV meetings where colleagues are invited to share their channels and free bus transport to and from work. opinions and ideas, and suggest subjects for discussion. In Recognising that access to education is a challenge 2015, more than half of the suggestions from these meetings in Thailand, we have established an Edutainment Centre, were implemented. which features modern e-learning/internet facilities and a library. This provides our colleagues with a comfortable Fun and inspiring environment where they can relax and learn. Our colleagues’ commitment to PANDORA is also clearly During 2015, the library had more than 54,500 visits visible during our social events. What started out as a and more than 10,500 books were borrowed throughout small company outing to the beach in the early days of the the year; the most popular genres being philosophy & company has developed into a two-day beach event for psychology, technology and languages. This successful more than 2,700 people in 2015. Colleagues opting not to initiative will be replicated for our new crafting facility in go to the beach were offered family tickets for the nearby northern Thailand. fun park instead. The end-of-year party is an even larger Three times a week, our HR Services team sets up event, and with more than 8,800 participants it resembles a consultation centres close to the canteens to allow music festival. For entertainment at the party, national pop employees to ask questions or seek assistance on issues stars and the winners of the popular annual “PANDORA’s such as pay, benefits or employee relations at a time and Got Talent” competition perform for the happy crowd. place which is convenient. In 2015, the HR Services team In 2015, PPT also launched a Family Day, where 7,150 received close to 14,000 visits. employees participated. PLANET 18 PANDORA ETHICS REPORT 2015 1,600,000 KM MINIMISING OUR CRAFTING PANDORA travelled by 120 buses driving our Thai colleagues to and ENVIRONMENTAL In 2015, PANDORA experienced a sharp increase in demand and shipped more than 100 million pieces of IMPACT jewellery, compared with 91 million in 2014. Further, PLANET 100% from work every day increased complexity of jewellery designs has made it challenging to simultaneously reduce our energy and IN BRIEF RECYCLING water consumption at our crafting facilities. In 2016, we will open a new state-of-the-art crafting facility in northern OF OUR GYPSUM WASTE PRECIOUS METALS & STONES Thailand. This new site will be a Leadership in Energy and used in the construction sector Environmental Design (LEED) certified facility with 8,500 Recycled precious metals are of the exact same quality m2 of solar cells, capable of recycling up to 90% of the 83% OF OUR GLASS WASTE and value as mined metals, but have less social and water tapped and with other environmentally friendly environmental impact. As part of our efforts to advance features. In additions, we are planning yet another LEED RECYCLED is made into glass tiles social and environmentally responsible sourcing practices, certified crafting facility in Bangkok, which will become SILVER 96% of all gold grains used in PANDORA products in 2015 originated from recycled sources. When it comes to silver, operational in 2017. With the planned capacity expansion, we expect to be OF OUR RUBBER WASTE 83% of the silver grains sourced by PANDORA in 2015 able to improve our performance within energy and water is used as fuel 96% originated from recycled sources. As PANDORA is committed to helping improve ethics consumption in the years to come. RECYCLED OF OUR WAX WASTE throughout the jewellery supply chain, in 2015, we opened Energy is used by figurine manufacturers a dialogue with our suppliers to develop a standard for PANDORA Production Thailand (PPT) is by far our most GOLD responsible silver mining (described under PRODUCT). energy-consuming entity. The amount of energy used here Man-made stones are fully traceable and are considered increased from 23,243,000 kWh in 2014 to 29,472,000 to have a significantly lower environmental impact than in 2015. The rise in energy consumption reflects the their natural counterparts. Furthermore, the ability to create increase in crafting complexity and the number of pieces 83% 50% ENERGY stones with fewer colour and quality variations considerably of jewellery produced. Besides the burn-out ovens used in reduces material waste. the crafting process, the extensive use of chillers to ensure RECYCLED REDUCTION a comfortably cool working environment also consumes PRODUCTION WASTE a considerable amount of energy. Ovens and chillers IN STORES put together account for approximately 40% of energy BY CHANGING TO consumption. LED LIGHTING PPT is ISO50001 (Energy Mangement) certified, the standard through which we define and monitor our goals, methodology and performance. In 2015, we introduced several new projects aimed at reducing our energy consumption. The optimisation of air compressor systems MAN-MADE STONES ARE ISO 14001 has both increased efficiency and saved energy and the TRACEABLE AND HAVE A replacement of chillers has reduced the amount of energy LOW ENVIRONMENTAL ENVIRONMENTAL used. We also carried out small scale projects like installing ALL PAPER BAGS MANAGEMENT LED lights in various training and crafting areas. In addition IMPACT ARE TRACEABLE TO to these already implemented features, we are testing certification how to optimise energy consumption in different crafting SUSTAINABLE processes. Also, in 2015, 480 selected people received FORESTRY 0% ISO training in energy management. RECYCLED WATER 50001 something our new ENERGY MANAGEMENT LEED certified facilities are designed to change certification 20 PANDORA ETHICS REPORT 2015 21 Bus services Waste We offer our PPT colleagues free and safe bus transport Our waste management procedures have measurably to and from work. In 2015, this service totalled more than improved since base year 2012, when reused/recycled 38,600 round trips and more than 1.6 million kilometres waste amounted to 8%. In 2015, we reused/recycled an driven. By year end, more than 7,000 people regularly impressive 83% of our waste. made use of the busses. In 2014, our crafting facilities were recognised for Bus companies are subject to regular controls by both this impressive achievement within waste management. government agencies and our in-house SHE teams. With The 3R award (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle) was presented to 50 passengers per bus and buses in good condition, this PANDORA as recognition of our good practice in resource option is safe and highly energy efficient compared to other management. feasible means of transportation. Water As a result of our growth and the increased complexity of our jewellery designs, our water consumption at PANDORA PRODUCTION WASTE Production Thailand increased by 27% from 379,000 M3 in 2014 to 482,500 M3 in 2015. The disposal of waste water 83% is subject to control by local authorities, audited by external Reused/recycled waste experts and handled by a joint waste water treatment facility managed by the industrial estate. While continuously experimenting, we have still not been able to find efficient solutions to the recycling of water and the results so far remain insignificant. This is in part due to a lack of available space for recycling water within our present facilities, which is something we are taking into consideration in our capacity expansion plans. 16% We will, however, continue our search for solutions for General existing premises and hope to improve our performance waste in 2016 and 2017 with the inauguration of our new LEED 0.2% certified facilities. Hazardous waste 1% Industrial WASTE IS A RESOURCE waste Find more detailed data on waste on pandoragroup.com/csr At PANDORA Production Thailand, waste is seen as a All our gypsum waste is recycled in the construction sector, resource. In 2015, 83% of the waste produced by our all our Murano glass waste is recycled into glass tiles, all crafting facilities was reused or recycled, an increase of 2% our rubber waste is used as fuel by the cement industry compared with the already high percentage in 2014. Our and, finally, all our wax is used in the casting process of a waste management procedures were improved with the figurine manufacturer. Some categories of waste we sell, help of dedicated colleagues and environmental experts other categories we pay to get recycled, as in the case of from Mahidol University in Thailand. gypsum where PANDORA pays for the transportation to the The crafting of our jewellery generates four main types vendor. of process waste: gypsum, glass, rubber and wax. The It is a great pleasure to see our waste being transformed gypsum derives from the jewellery casting process, the glass into something useful. The benefits are twofold as we from making our Murano charms, the rubber from jewellery optimise the world’s resources while reducing our own moulds and the wax from the casting process. In 2015, we waste. reached 100% recycling or re-use for all four categories. 22 PANDORA ETHICS REPORT 2015 LOGISTICS STORES PANDORA jewellery is sold in more than 100 countries PANDORA jewellery is presently sold at more than 9,300 around the world; hence PANDORA requires transport points of sales around the world. 1,800 of these are concept services from a variety of different providers using different stores, of which more than 500 are owned and operated by types of transport – rail, sea, road and air – with various PANDORA. levels of environmental impact. CO2 emissions from the Our new store concept “Evolution” was introduced transport of our jewellery was identified as a focus area in the first stores in 2014 and includes a range of in 2014, and we have been in close dialogue with our environmentally friendly features. The concept is designed transport providers on how to gather reliable data and how to have long durability, and it is possible to replace smaller to minimise emissions in the future. Transport data from parts over time – extending the lifetime of our fixtures and 2014 covered more than 90% of our transport activities furniture. With the introduction of “Evolution”, energy and estimated our transport emission of 4,300 tonnes of consumption has been considerably reduced by relying on CO2. In 2015, the estimated transport emission for the same LED lights rather than conventional light bulbs. According percentage was 5,400 tonnes of CO2. Dialogue with our to our in-house estimates, this change enables us to cut the transport providers, all global leaders within their industry, electricity consumption in an average PANDORA store by has clearly shown that they all work extensively to lower up to 50% compared with the former store concept. More emissions. In 2016, we will continue the dialogue, but still efficient lights in turn creates less heat – reducing the need concentrate our focus on our strongest sphere of influence: for air conditioning. From 2016, the electrical consumption supply chain and our own crafting facilities. will be further lowered with the introduction of even more efficient LED solutions. Finally, all paper bags and almost all printed materials are certified from trees grown in sustainable forests. Going forward, we will continue to expand our range of certified paper-based and wood-based materials according to international sustainability standards. PARTNERSHIPS 24 PANDORA ETHICS REPORT 2015 RESPONSIBLE PANDORA assumes the role as industry chair of the Standards Setting Committee and has a seat on the RJC BUSINESS PRACTICES Executive Committee. Also in 2015, PANDORA entities around the world ARE A WORK IN were successfully audited by independent consultants in order to achieve Group-wide RJC recertification. PROGRESS STRATEGIC PARTNERS PANDORA engages in strategic partnerships with other In 2014, we continued the roll-out of our PANDORA brands. Like PANDORA, these brands have strict ethical Ethics programme, which is designed to facilitate the standards and requires both our crafting facilities in implementation of our ethical aspirations and procedures Thailand, and our suppliers, to undergo audits and within human rights, working conditions, the environment, approvals. business integrity and responsible sourcing. Our core Ethics policies can be found at www.pandoragroup.com/csr. BUILDING BRAND EQUITY GOVERNANCE To provide transparency and build PANDORA’s brand equity, 2015 also saw us focusing on communicating For PANDORA, the aim of good corporate governance is to our ethical performance to our end-consumers. Besides maximise long-term value creation and ensure transparency loving our jewellery design, we want to make sure that and accountability in the way we fulfil our obligations consumers are aware that it is sourced, crafted and traded towards all key stakeholders. PANDORA intends to exercise in compliance with recognised ethical standards. We are good corporate governance at all times and we assess our working on a number of platforms to communicate this practices according to the recommendations issued by message, including social media, PR toolkits, internal the Danish Committee on Corporate Governance. Read communication and staff training. more about governance on our website. PANDORA Ethics In 2015, we also proactively shared our ethical SEAL OF APPROVAL is governed by our CSR Steering Committee, headed by aspirations, efforts and results with the fashion and news our Vice President, Group CSR, and is further made up of media. Craftsmanship and CSR were among the main the heads of Procurement, Operations, HR and Investor features at our 2015 Global Media event in Venice, which Relations & Communications, with our CFO representing was attended by 60 journalists from more than 25 markets. executive management. Our progress in advancing As it has been the case at numerous press visits to our In summer 2015, PANDORA achieved recertification with “In Italy, we welcomed the RJC auditors. The process responsible business practices is addressed bi-annually at crafting facilities in Thailand, the participating media the Code of Practices issued by the Responsible Jewellery provided an opportunity to look into our set-up and PANDORA’s Audit Committee under the Board of Directors. representatives showed great interest in three subjects: Council (RJC). Once again PANDORA was certified as a procedures, and confirmed that we are on track. It also design, craftsmanship and ethical performance. The result business that is compliant with the jewellery industry’s contributed to the feeling of being a part of a company with in terms of ethics-related PR coverage has proven to be highest ethical standards within human rights, working high ethical standards,” says Massimo Basei, Managing RESPONSIBLE JEWELLERY COUNCIL staggering. conditions, environmental footprint and business integrity. Director Southern Europe, and continues, “it took quite Finally, in Q3 2015, our consumer websites launched some effort to prepare for the audit, but the assurances were PANDORA is a certified member of the Responsible a comprehensive Jewellery Guide with four main features: The RJC is a not-for-profit, standard setting and more than ample reward.” Jewellery Council (RJC). The RJC is an organisation materials, process, responsibility and care: pandora.net/ certification organisation. It has more than 700 member dedicated to reinforcing consumer confidence by guide. companies, all committed to advancing responsible “The entire organisation is involved in PANDORA’s developing and implementing responsible business business practices, and PANDORA has been an active responsible way of working; from the design phase, through practices and standards across the jewellery supply chain. CHARITY member since 2010. sourcing and crafting to the marketing and sale of our The RJC is a full member of the ISEAL Alliance and thus jewellery,” says Claus Teilmann Petersen, VP Group CSR. recognised by other leading certification organisations as PANDORA has always been committed to charitable efforts Our 2015 recertification was achieved after external “We will continue to work diligently to be recognised as an the sustainability leader within the jewellery industry. and has historically taken a special interest in projects with audits at of a number of PANDORA entities including ethical brand by our stakeholders, thereby supporting the causes involving women. For a full overview of our charity PANDORA’s headquarters, PANDORA Production Thailand, fulfilment of our vision to become the world’s most loved projects, see pandora.net/charities. our European distribution centre, regional market offices jewellery brand.” and individual stores. 26 PANDORA ETHICS REPORT 2015 27 PANDORA A/S Hovedvejen 2 DK-2600 Glostrup Denmark Phone: +45 3672 0044 Fax: +45 3672 0800 CVR nr.: 28505116 www.pandoragroup.com PANDORA ETHICS REPORT 2015
