Communication on Progress Year: 2016 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT In September 2015, , heads of states from all over the world gathered to adopt the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, an ambitious “ plan of action for people, planet and prosperity” – UN –Water. It was pleasing to see the Sustainable Development Goals have a dedicated goal on water and sanitation (SDG 6). Clearly progress has been made. We’ve already embarked on this ambitious, but much needed journey. We remain committed to our various community initiatives and to the Principles of UNGC. Mr. Ajit Johnpillai Director 20th April 2016 Contact: Ms. Anusha Alles Email: AnushaA@brandix.com Phone: +94(0) 11 4727000 Fax: +94(0) 11 2575485 P 1/12 Brief description of nature of business Sri Lanka’s largest apparel exporter with an annual turnover exceeding USD 750 million. Employing over 38,000 Associates and generating indirect employment to an equivalent number. Supported by over 35 manufacturing facilities in Sri Lanka, India & Bangladesh and strategically located international Sourcing Offices. Providing over 50% of value addition locally through our backward-linked operations in textiles, thread, buttons and hangers. P 2/12 PRINCIPLE 1 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS Actions taken Commitment: Brandix adheres to internationally recognized best practices in human rights, social compliance, corporate governance and ethics. System: Internally developed policies and procedures to protect human rights standards of anyone working within the organization. Actions Activities: 1. Well instilled core values of the Group communicated at regular intervals from Induction and throughout the career of an employee. 2. Well established recognition system which rewards and recognizes performance in line with core values. 3. HR and Compliance departments within each Strategic Business Unit to constantly evaluate & uplift the welfare of employees. 4. An independent Corporate Compliance division and Group Human Resources division to monitor the processes and activities of the Group’s strategic business units. 5. Annual 3rd party certifications ranging from WRAP to, SA8000 to ETI. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Outcomes Most of our facilities are WRAP (Worldwide Responsible Accredited Production), ETI (Ethical Trading Initiative) or SA8000 (Social Accountability) certified. P 3/12 PRINCIPLE 2 BUSINESS SHOULD ENSURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES Actions taken Actions Please refer Principle no.01 Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Outcomes Please refer Principle No.01 PRINCIPLE 3 BUSINESS SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Actions taken Commitment: Brandix recognizes and respects the right of employees to exercise their lawful right of free association. Actions System: Internally developed policies and procedures on Freedom of Association. Activities: 1. All business units have an active Workers‟ Council with office bearers being chosen from the cadre by the employees themselves. 2. Monthly meetings are conducted with minutes being maintained. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Outcomes 1. No labour strikes, walkouts or other indications of unresolved issues. 2. High ratings in employee satisfaction measured through the annual employee survey P 4/12 PRINCIPLE 4 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR Actions taken Commitment: Prohibition of forced labour is one of the key components of the Brandix Social Compliance policy. System: Internally developed policies and procedures on prohibition of forced, bonded or prison labour. Actions Activities: 1. Terms and conditions are clearly defined in the appointment letters and 3rd party contract letters which they are required to sign before start commencement of employment. 2. Wages are directly deposited to employee’s individual bank accounts. 3. Original certificates or identity papers are not withheld and no cash deposit is sought when offering employment 4. Employees are hired through direct hiring methods by the HR Department of each strategic business unit. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Outcomes Numerous 3rd party certifications by international certification bodies such as WRAP, ETI etc. and no major/critical areas of non-compliance found during buyer COC (Code of Conduct) audits which are conducted regularly. No fines or other penalties imposed by local law enforcement authorities. P 5/12 PRINCIPLE 5 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR Actions taken Commitment: Brandix practices zero tolerance in child labour. System: Internally developed policies and procedures to prevent employment of children. Actions Activities: 1. Mandatory proof of age documentation (such as National Identity Cards, Birth Certificates) reviewed prior to recruitment and copies retained in personal files. 2. Identification and age check of all 3rd party contract labour prior to gaining access to the facility. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Outcomes Numerous 3rd party certifications by international certification bodies such as WRAP, ETI etc. and no major/critical areas of non-compliance found during buyer COC (Code of Conduct) audits which are conducted regularly. No fines or other penalties imposed by local law enforcement authorities P 6/12 PRINCIPLE 6 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION Actions taken Commitment: Brandix employs, pays and promotes employees based on a well-established performance appraisal system and does not discriminate based on their personal characteristics, race, religion or religious beliefs. Actions System: Internally developed policies and procedures on prohibition of discrimination. Activities: 1. Male and female employees are paid equally when they perform the same job functions. 2. No discriminatory questions are asked during the recruitment process. 3. Pregnancy testing is strictly prohibited within the organization during the recruitment process. 4. All promotions are based on performance and skill level of the employee. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Outcomes 1. Many differently-abled associates employed within the Group. 2. All facilities employ different ethnic groups with the new facilities in the East Coast of the country providing a high percentage of employment to the minorities. P 7/12 PRINCIPLE 7 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES Actions taken Commitment: We are committed to ensuring that our business decisions will balance economic progress while driving a sustainable development through a responsible consciousness for the environment and community. System: Since its inception, Brandix has been conscious of its environmental imperatives. We are consciously adopting innovative approaches and technologies to minimize the impact manufacturing processes have on the environment. Activities: 1. Our Risk & Control, Compliance, Logistics and Environment & Energy Divisions work hand-inhand to ensure the health & safety of our staff and in overseeing the compliance and environmental impacts of our facilities and offices. Actions 2. We are in the process of eliminating 11 hazardous chemicals from our effluent which result in water pollution. 3. Reduction in Greenhouse Gas Emissions, which impact climate change. These reductions have been made through the introduction of energy efficiencies and replacement of nonrenewables with onsite renewable energy sources. 4. We conduct awareness programs and relevant trainings on waste management and handling hazardous material. 5. Our sustainability performance, under the pillars of Air, Water and Earth, is monitored through a centrally monitored benchmark. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Achieved a 40% reduction in the Carbon Footprint of our Apparel sector, from 2008 baseline Outcomes Recycled water and rainwater harvesting accounts for 8.4% and 7.1% of our total water consumption, respectively. Nearly 97% of all waste, by mass, has been diverted from landfill. We have identified the hazardous chemicals present in our manufacturing processes, and we are now in the process of substituting those chemicals with environmentally friendly options. Through our awareness programs our staff are better educated on occupational health and safety, as well as precautions required when using chemicals, machinery, and any other hazardous items and processes. P 8/12 PRINCIPLE 8 BUSINESS SHOULD UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Actions taken Commitment: The Brandix Group’s raison d‟être of “inspired solutions for branded clothing” encompasses all aspects of its business including its commitment to CSR in all its manifestations. We believe our stakeholders are as passionate about our commitment to the complex issues of water and environment management as we are. Since its importance to our manufacturing processes we have over the past few years focused our attention on “Water” as a giver of life and drawn in our associates, their families, suppliers and business partners into the initiatives we have employed around the country. System: Brandix has always worked on the platform of conscious responsibility. Our position as the largest exporter in the country and an industry leader adds more responsibility, transparency and accountability to our role and emphasizes the need for sincerity, ethics and integrity in the way we do business. Activities: 15% Reduction in Energy Cost: We have introduced LED fluorescent lights at all factories, along with the replacement of clutch motors with servo motors. Compressed Air leakage rectification Actions processes are in place. Brandix Eco-Index: We have also developed the Brandix Eco-Index, which is an environmental assessment tool, unique to Brandix, and it allows us to measure environmental data, score and rank each of our facilities within our three main sustainability pillars Water, Air and Earth. This tool is one of a kind in Sri Lanka and has aided us to benchmark our environmental sustainability targets and goals for the future. Water Campaigns: We have encouraged our employees to save water, through campaigns and relevant marketing, such as water saving posters. We launched the Brandix Water Handbook which includes best practices to reduce water consumption, despite the increase in production. We also have standardized purchasing of water fixtures for efficient water consumption. Food Waste Program: In 2013, we launched a food waste competition to mark World Environment Day and since then, we have continued this program, together with regular awareness programs, in order to reduce the group-wide food wastage. We have also prepared a Waste Handbook to develop awareness of the best practices in waste management for all staff working at Brandix facilities. P 9/12 Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Over the last year we have seen a group-wide reduction of 18% in our average food waste per person per meal. We have also seen an increased sense of responsibility among our employees with regards to waste reduction and disposal methods. We have maintained a water consumption level of 10 litres per clocked hour, despite the Outcomes increase in production in our apparel factories, which underlies a great effort by our staff. Our first Sustainability Report won the “First Time Report Winner‟ in the Large Scale category at the Sri Lanka Sustainability Reporting Awards, presented by the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) Sri Lanka Liaison Office. Brandix’s sustainability initiatives have been highly recognized at the Sri Lanka National Energy Efficiency Awards, over the past several years. These Awards are the highest awarded nationally, recognizing excellence in sustainability initiatives across the country, thus cementing the Brandix commitment towards safeguarding the environment. P 10/12 PRINCIPLE 9 BUSINESS SHOULD ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES Actions taken Commitment: Clean technology, waste management and environmental preservation have been inextricably integrated into our overall business. Believing strongly that clean technology can drive our ultimate goal of being a completely green business concern; we have invested a large proportion of time and money in order to ensure clean technology is integrated into our processes and operations. System: After successfully achieving our previous environmental sustainability pledges, Brandix is currently in the next phase of our sustainability plan that would take us towards our goal of becoming a totally “Green company”. Our goals of becoming carbon neutral, achieving zero water wastage and maintaining zero waste to landfill are being made possible by means of investments in new green technology and by exploring numerous options for renewable energy. Actions Activities: We have placed emphasis on developing our technologies and systems within our three pillars – Air, Water and Earth. Air Conditioning systems, sewing machines and air compressors have been replaced with higher energy-efficient systems in order to minimize energy wastage over its lifespan. Our lighting system maximizes the use of natural lighting, while all artificial lighting has been replaced with LED bulbs. Also over the last year, almost all the factories have switched from the use of furnace oil to biomass as fuel, as we are an environmentally responsible company. We have worked on installing more water efficient fixtures in our kitchens, bathrooms and canteens. Another effort in our Water Pillar is the rainwater harvesting that is carried out in our Green Plant. In addition, 100% of waste water is treated through various water treatment technologies. A majority of the waste water is then recycled for gardening purposes and rest is released to water bodies or public drains. Some factories recycle a proportion of this water for flushing toilets. We conduct leak detection programs every 6 months to identify any leaks in the plant. Immediate action is taken if there is a leak in the system. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Over the last year, through various new green technologies, the group has seen a reduction in Outcomes emissions intensity of 16.8%, a saving of 465 million litres of water, while maintaining a daily consumption of 10 liters per clocked hour and 97% of waste, by mass, has been diverted from landfill. Through our biomass boiler initiatives, 2.9 million liters of furnace oil have been saved over the past year. In 2015, the Brandix HQ was awarded Gold, at the Sri Lanka National Energy Efficiency Awards under the “Commercial Building” category. P 11/12 PRINCIPLE 10 BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY Actions taken Commitment: Our company is committed to working against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. For this we have our own code of ethics and fully respect to our customers/suppliers code of ethics in this regard. System: “Integrity” is recognized as the first value of our company/associates. Our strategy is to follow the best management systems with higher level of transparency. Strict adherence to written policies in all operations helps us for transparent transactions. Independent audit system supports us to identify further steps for improvement. Activities: 01. Induction sessions help us to deliver the company expectation of „integrity” to all new Actions employees. 02. Frequent awareness sessions to improve the employee’s knowledge of the company’s policy/procedure and transparency. 03. Strict adherence to company finance and other policies. Such policies are available in the company intranet for easy access. 04. Frequent communication of our company values to our customers and suppliers. 05. Frequent internal and 3rd party audits to ensure the correct implementation of our policies and procedures. 06. Strict follow up of audit recommendation to ensure further enhancement of transparency of transactions Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Outcomes How do you intend to make this COP available to your stakeholders? Through our sustainability report, company website and half yearly REACH magazine (CSR newsletter). P 12/12
