CONTENT Message from the President and CEO 2 At a Glance 4 2015 Highlights 6 Sustainability at True 8 Caring 12 Human Capital Development 13 Corporate Citizenship and Philanthropy 16 Employee Health, Safety, and Wellness 19 Human Rights 23 Credible 24 Service Quality 25 Data Privacy and Security 28 Supply Chain Management 30 Competitive Behavior 32 Creative 33 Innovation Management 34 Digital Inclusion 38 Courageous 40 Energy and Carbon 41 E-Waste Management 44 Electro Magnetic Fields 45 About this Report 46 GRI Content Index, UNGC Principles and Sustainable Development Goals 50 1 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT AND CEO I am very pleased to publish the Sustainability Development to operational staff where policies are to be implemented. Report of True Corporation Public Company Limited that Business leaders are the key persons who should support highlights our determination and commitment to sustainability business sustainability with commitment for the benefit and development in our business operations to create value for society best interests of stakeholders. and the economy. Over the years, the telecommunications industry has gone through radical and rapid changes which True’s sustainable development strategies and policies are have greatly impacted our lives. Today, people are becoming based on leveraging the Company’s communications technologies increasingly connected and are sharing information and and innovations through its convergence platform and various knowledge while at the same time many new technological devices to fulfill people’s lives by connecting people, families, innovations are being created in response to the digital and organizations with each other. This will eventually enable economy era. Amidst all these changes, the Company continues society to share values and live happily together. to evolve in order to deliver the highest values to all stakeholders. The year 2015 was another successful year for True, as evidenced by our success in bidding for the 900 MHz and True continues to create innovations that will bring the about 1800 MHz spectrum licenses, reinforcing our leadership in the changes as well as lead to sustainable development in society, industry and making us the only mobile operator in the country environment, and the economy. At the same time, raising with the highest number of frequencies and largest bandwidth. awareness on sustainability is also an important factor. The The Company continued to develop new innovations for Company focuses on ensuring that all management and staff society and environment that create valuable services for in the organization are aware of sustainability principles, which consumers and to invest in nationwide network expansion to will lead to sustainable operational practices and cooperation enable all Thais to gain more access to telecommunication across all functions. Sustainable development needs to technologies and essential communication services, helping to originate from the management level and subsequently cascaded narrow the digital divide in the country. These developments are 2 Sustainabillity Report a reiteration of our ongoing social initiatives to help with the with suppliers. True’s procurement agreements with business transition into a sustainable digital society. partners cover 6 guidelines in the areas of: 1) Work Environment; 2) Occupational Health and Safety; 3) Business Ethics and True’s commitment to the principles of good governance Anti-corruption; 4) Transparency in Related Transactions; comprises our staunch support for Thailand’s Collective Action 5) Recommendations in Sub-contract Agreements; and Coalition Against Corruption (CAC), and the implementation of 6) Quality Assurance System. company-wide anti-corruption policies and regulations. True has deployed these measures across the Company and all its Another very important milestone in True’s sustainability subsidiaries. All Board of Director’s members, management, development path is that the Company became a member of and employees are required to adopt and strictly adhere to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and is committed these anti-corruption directives. to its 10 principles covering four important issues regarding human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. This One of the Company’s focus areas on society is education. True was part of True’s endeavor to join forces with the global harnesses its communications technologies and innovations community in driving businesses towards sustainability. to enhance the learning experience for children and youths in remote areas of the country through its “True Plookpanya” The essence of the Company’s sustainability development project. In 2015, this initiative was expanded through a principles is based on our four core values (4Cs), which comprise: collaboration with UNESCO to support education for migrant 1) C–Caring – an organizational culture that cares for its employees children in Thailand’s border areas through the provision of tablets, and society; 2) C–Credible – building a trustworthy and Internet access, and digital educational media and content for ethical business; 3) C–Creative – leveraging our strengths in these children who are outside the formal education system. telecommunications to develop innovations and quality content, and deliver the highest values to society; and To help with combating global climate change, the Company 4) C–Courageous – the courage to take on new challenges established the True Group Working Committee for Greenhouse that will bring about positive changes. All of these fundamental Gas (GHG) to manage the Company’s energy and carbon values are the powerful factors that drive the organization emissions as part of its environmental conservation and energy forward. I believe that our 4C’s culture will be a primary base management mission. The Company has set a target to reduce that connects and engages True with all social sectors in GHG emission intensity by 20% by 2020, compared to creating values and benefits for society, economy, and the 2010 as the base year. To widen the scope of environment organization in a sustainable manner. conservation, True developed the We Grow application, an innovative social and environmental tool to encourage tree Finally, I would like to thank all our customers, shareholders, planting and the creation of green networks of environmentally investors, communities, business partners, the public and conscious citizens both locally and internationally. At present, private sectors, and employees both management and staff, the number of trees planted in Thailand (and its information for their determination in driving the organization towards shared through the application) amount to 4.3 million, capable business leadership and support for national development. of reducing carbon emissions by approximately 53,000 tons. I assure all stakeholders that True will continue to operate its business in a responsible way towards society, environment, True believes that sustainability is a collective effort and the and the economy for long-term sustainability. responsibility of all. Under this belief, the Company works closely with its business partners. True’s Supply Chain Management operates through a Centralized Management Structure where the work flow and processes are standardized across the organization, enabling the Company to procure quality products Mr. Suphachai Chearavanont and services at reasonable prices and build positive relations President and CEO 3 AT A GLANCE 4G 3G 2G 19.1 Million 2.4 Million 4.7 Million 2015 are monthly postpaid customers 3.1 Million 1.4 are premium Million and standard services customers About True Corporation Plc TrueVisions, the leading operator in subscription and HD True Corporation Plc is Thailand’s only fully-integrated television services. The customer base increased to 3.1 million communications company and leader in convergence at the end of 2015, of which 1.4 million were premium and offering an unrivalled selection of communications services standard services. and solutions. The Company’s three core businesses include: The Company’s ongoing commitment is to provide high-quality True Mobile provides mobile phone services with superior products and services using advanced communications network quality and widest nationwide coverage utilizing multiple technologies on the best network with nationwide coverage. frequencies with the largest bandwidth in the country. This will enable consumers to thoroughly access news, TrueMove H delivers services on all mobile technology information, and entertainment, while at the same time narrow platforms comprising 4G, 3G, and 2G networks. At year-end the digital divide, creating a sustainable knowledge-based 2015, TrueMove H had a subscriber base of 19.1 million of society. which 4.7 million were monthly postpaid customers. True continues to focus on developing the telecommunications TrueOnline, the largest fixed line operator in the Bangkok industry to be on the same level as other countries and to Metropolitan Area (BMA) and the leader in Internet broadband support Thailand’s move towards becoming a digital economy. and WiFi with the most comprehensive nationwide network The Company’s convergence strategy is a key competitive using FTTx, DOCSIS and xDSL networks. TrueOnline’s advantage and plays an important role in creating differentiation. broadband Internet has continuously grown with new broadband True’s attractive convergence bundle offers products and users reaching historic levels. Total users amounted to 2.4 services drawn from the core businesses to serve various million in 2015. needs and consumer lifestyles. This not only strengthens True’s core businesses but also helps drive customer acquisition, retention, and loyalty. 4 Sustainabillity Report Stakeholders (G4-24,G4-25, G4-26) The Company has 6 major stakeholder groups including True takes into consideration these opinions and key issues employees, customers, business partners, creditors, investors received from stakeholders in order to improve operations in and government agencies. True provides opportunities for response to stakeholders’ needs and improve the organization stakeholders to communicate and exchange information with while maintaining a good relationship with all stakeholder the Company in an efficient manner via appropriate channels. groups. Employees Creditors Participation Channels Participation Channels • Annual meeting to announce company vision • Annual Report • Online social media/e-mail • Online social media/e-mail • Recommendations and/or complaints • Recommendations and/or complaints • Employee engagement survey (semi-annual) Customers Investors Participation Channels Participation Channels • True Shops • News Center • Call Center • Online social media/e-mail • Direct contact with the customer • Annual General Meeting of Shareholders • Online social media/e-mail • Recommendations and/or complaints • Annual customer satisfaction survey • Quarterly investor/analyst meetings • Recommendations and/or complaints Business Partners Government Agencies Participation Channels Participation Channels • Annual meeting • Regular exchanges of opinions • Quarterly business visits • Participation and joint project implementation to support • Information training for business partners economic, social and environmental development • Online social media/e-mail • Online social media/e-mail • Recommendations and/or complaints 5 2015 HIGHLIGHTS 2015 Highlights 2015 marked another milestone for the Company, with record profit and accelerating revenues in all core segments. A key highlight was winning the auction for licenses of the 900 MHz and 1800 MHz spectra, which is an important step in maintaining leadership in 4G and mobile broadband. This will help meet the demand for high speed Internet which is growing rapidly. Service Revenue Profit 4.4 +10.8% Billion Baht 1.3 Billion Baht 2014 2015 2014 2015 True saw an overall growth of 10.8% in service revenue from Net profit for the Company grew to Baht 4.4 billion in 2015 the previous year, reaching Baht 74.8 billion. This was a result when compared to Baht 1.3 billion in the previous year. of growth in all core businesses, in particular, the cellular’s This was a result of an increase in operating profits, less non-voice services. interest expenses, and complete depreciation for 2G network equipment. 6 Sustainabillity Report Service Revenue Market Share increase in 20.8% in Q4 2015 subscription revenue since Q2 2015 Continuous growth in service revenue from providing mobile TrueVisions saw an increase in revenue from the continuous phone services by TrueMove H over competitors resulted in success of the convergence campaign resulting in an increase an increase in value market share at 20.8% in Q4 2015. in subscription revenue since Q2 2015. Leading global entertainment and music events organized throughout the year also contributed to the success in 2015. 1 Postpaid Subscriber Net Additions TrueVisions +460,507 subscribers TrueOnline +306,682 TrueMove H subscribers +847,237 BROADBAND Gbps subscribers Speeds of up to TrueOnline continued to grow strongly through its broadband Monthly subscriptions for True increased greatly, with historic services for consumers and businesses. The fiber optic levels in all three core businesses. TrueMove H saw an broadband package offering Internet speeds of up to 1 Gbps increase of 847,237 in postpaid subscriptions and there were was well received by the market following its introduction in 306,682 new subscribers to TrueOnline’s broadband Internet the last half of 2015. services whereas TrueVisions’ paying subscribers increased by 460,507 in 2015. 7 SUSTAINABILITY AT TRUE Vision for ARING Sustainable Development C To become the only “true” convergence play, fulfilling people’s lives through innovative convergence platforms and devices so people EDIBL CR E and businesses can share “values” and “togetherness” which are the true values of life. ATIV Strategy C RE E Creative communica communications technologies and innov innovations that cultivate togetherne togetherness and empower sustainability. RAGEO Caring culture for employees and society Credible operations and governance Creative innovations for society COU US Courageous efforts to bring about change True’s Core Values es CARING CREDIBLE CREATIVE COURAGEOUS Love, empathy, and Responsibility, discipline, Passion for learning to Daring to do what is right compassion for the reliability, and trust at work continuously create new and should be done, based wellbeing of others. and as a member of society. values for the development on the common good. of family and society. Sustainable Development Goals CARING CREDIBLE CREATIVE COURAGEOUS Create a work environment Create a reputable brand Develop creative content to Build awareness among all that promotes togetherness that engages and retains build awareness in society of target groups with digital and sharing of values. customers. the organization’s sustainable content. development activities. 8 Sustainabillity Report Sustainability Management implementation based on True’s strategies and policies in The Company is focused on sustainable and transparent order to reach sustainable development goals in an efficient business operations which are responsible toward society and continuous manner. and the environment as well as taking into consideration all stakeholders. As the leader in communications, True is Corporate Governance committed to leveraging its communications technology and The Company operates its businesses in a transparent, credible innovations to enhance the education of children and youths and auditable manner following good corporate governance and whereby creating equal access to information and knowledge. ethical business practices. The Board of Directors, executives, The Company’s True Plookpanya (planting wisdom) project is and employees must comply and strictly follow the Company’s dedicated to improving education, instilling a sense of morals, corporate governance policies. True’s Board of Directors and building awareness of environment conservation. Moreover, comprises 18 members with expertise in various fields to ensure True’s “Creating a Better Life for the Disabled” project brings that business operations follow the law, objectives and together innovations and communications technology to regulations of the Company, as well as good corporate improve the quality of life for the disabled. Through this, True governance for the benefit of the Company and its shareholders. has developed a series of True Autistic Applications to help The Board of Directors has assigned sub-committees to monitor improve and increase efficiency in communications for people and oversee four important aspects. These include: 1) Audit with autism while the True Autistic Thai Center provides training Committee; 2) Compensation and Nominating Committee; that create job opportunities leading to a sustainable way of 3) Corporate Governance Committee and; 4) Finance Committee. living. Additional details on good corporate governance can be found in the 2015 Annual Report under “Corporate Governance” The We Grow Application, an innovation for the environment and at www.truecorp.co.th. and society, was developed as a tool to promote tree planting and building environmental conservation networks both locally The Company condemns all types and forms of dishonesty, as well as internationally. True’s commitment is to conduct including receiving and paying bribes. True is a signatory on its business in a responsible manner and bring benefits to the declaration of intent under the Private Sector Collective society, which is a key mechanism in driving the organization Action Coalition Against Corruption (CAC) and established to sustainable development. the Company’s “Measures to Fight Corruption” to use as clear rules for business operations in a transparent manner The Company established the Corporate Social Responsibility leading to sustainable development for the organization and and Social Enterprise Committee to ensure implementation the country. The Board of Directors already approved the of sustainable operations with the President and CEO as the “Anti-Corruption Policies and Measures” and the President head of the Committee which comprises 15 top management and CEO has announced the companywide use of these executives. The Committee’s role is to set policies, strategies, measures as well as in subsidiary companies. All executives and plans which are in accordance with True’s sustainability and employees of True and its subsidiary companies must objectives and goals. To supplement this, the CSR Strategy comply with these anti-corruption measures. Procedures and and Sustainability Development Department is responsible guidelines for the implementation, monitoring and training was for determining the guidelines for implementing sustainability provided for employees as well as the creation of communications throughout the organization as well as external parties who are channels for submitting complaints or notifying of leads for involved or have an impact on True’s sustainability development employees and external parties. There were no incidents of performance. The Company is also setting up a Sustainable corruption reported in 2015, or any complaints on actions Development Working Team, to consist of executive level against good business practices. representatives from all departments to help drive sustainability 9 The Company’s “Code of Conduct” prohibits employees from Risk Management requesting or receiving bribes from business partners for Current business operations are exposed to risks due to rapid personal benefit or for the benefit of others. Moreover, employees changes in communications technology, customer needs are forbidden from paying money or providing assistance that changing frequently following product innovations and new is considered a bribe or benefit. In addition, True supports services, as well as changes to rules on governance. All these the government in campaigning against corruption and has have an impact on the market by making it more open to new provided communications channels for all stakeholders to technologies and services. The above factors are expected make complaints or provide information on leads regarding to have an impact on the telecommunications industry in corruption, wrong doings or bad business practices, all in Thailand, which may lead to additional investment and confidence. Complaints can be sent to the Board of Directors, operational costs. If True does not invest in new technology, its executives, or related agencies via the various channels below. competitive advantage and customer satisfaction may decline. 1. Sealed letter addressed to the Chairman of the Audit Committee or Audit Committee, True Corporation Plc, No. 18, In order to maintain a level of confidence in business True Tower, 28th Floor, Rachadaphisek Road, Huay Kwang, operations which can be affected by fierce competition in the Huay Kwang, Bangkok 10310 or e-mail: auditcommittee@ telecommunications industry, the Company has risk management truecorp.co.th policies which are in line with the Enterprise Risk Management 2. Sealed letter addressed to the President and CEO, True (ERM) of the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Corporation Plc, No. 18, True Tower, Rachadaphisek Road, Treadway Commission (COSO). Risk maps are used to identify Huay Kwang, Huay Kwang, Bangkok 10310 various related risks and True’s Risk Management Committee 3. Email to Human Resources Department: Sarinra_Won@ provides risk management guidelines, analyzes, and monitors truecorp.co.th results of business operations related to risk management. 4. Email to Fraud & Cyber Crime: Nopadol_Som@truecorp.co.th True carries out internal Risk-based Audits and continuously The Company Secretary as the secretary to the Audit Committee improves the quality of internal auditing in terms of human is responsible for collecting and informing the Audit Committee resources and monitoring system, resulting in more efficient of any complaints or leads for consideration and further action. and effective monitoring of risk management. The Audit Committee will summarize the results and present to the Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. The Company is aware that rapid expansion in the telecommunications sector will have an impact and could lead to business operation risks. In preparation, True has Campaigning Against Corruption improved the risk management system to be more timely, in True provides support on an ongoing basis to the Office order to efficiently monitor and be prepared for emerging risks of the National Anti-Corruption Commission. Now in its which may have an impact on long term business operations. fifth year, the Commission’s Chor Sa Ard competition acknowledges creative individuals who work to prevent and suppress corruption by producing media and publicity to create awareness. The results and awards ceremony were broadcast on more than 27 TV channels on TrueVisions as well as on True’s digital TV stations, TRUE4U and TNN24. In addition, True’s Academy Fantasia artists participated in the activities to encourage involvement and promoting good values regarding anti-corruption. 10 Sustainabillity Report These possible risks have already been evaluated by the Board of Directors in order to determine Possible Risks from Resistance to Build Cell Sites appropriate operations that are suitable for all by Civil Groups parties, and a coordinator has been assigned to The recent auctions of 1800 MHz and 900 MHz work with the government and public in terms of frequencies provided business opportunities for providing accurate information and to cooperate the Company with regard to network expansion by with the Office of the National Broadcasting building more cell sites in a number of areas. This and Telecommunications Commission (NBTC) can be seen as a possible risk in terms of resistance in organizing meetings with communities living from communities living in these areas due to around the proposed cell sites. These are concerns on the impact from electromagnetic opportunities to inform and create understanding fields on health and on the environment. on related issues as well as to listen to opinions and establish a work unit to respond to questions as well as provide correct information via social media. Risk from Expansion in the Telecommunications The Risk Committee has carefully evaluated Sector and Increase in Use of Natural Energy the situation and outcomes including safe and Resources operations, based on the principle of sustainable The rapid expansion of the telecommunications coexistence between the organization, society, sector to increase competitive advantage and and environment. Support has been given support sustainable development nationwide has to internal and external studies to find new resulted in mobile operators having to hasten innovations to increase operational efficiency network expansion to cover the entire country while at the same time reduce natural resources and raise the quality of services to international usage. Examples of such initiatives implemented standards. These factors have led to an increase at True include the free air flow system to in energy usage such as electricity, fuel, and improve air circulation at telephone exchange other natural resources, resulting in increased centers in order to reduce use of electricity, carbon dioxide emissions which have an important or using less paper in offices to save trees. impact on the environment. 11 12 HUMAN CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT Sustainabillity Report Amidst simultaneous economic growth at the country and As part of its human capital development strategy, the regional levels along with rapid and continuous changes in Company’s Capability Development & Learning Center is technology, human capital development is an important focused on developing employees’ capabilities relating to element in driving the organization to sustainable growth. their occupation and personal aspects. Training courses are The Company supports its employees in terms of knowledge developed with the assistance from various departments and skills development enabling them to keep up with changes to ensure effectiveness in training by field as well as and be able to compete domestically and internationally. appropriateness for all levels while using different educational processes and media. These include long-distance learning Management Approach via video conferencing for staff in other provinces, self learning True’s human capital development strategies are based on the using E-learning methodology and the True-iBook which is Company’s vision and policies. Moreover, True believes that convenient and opens new channels for learning and continuous all employees at all levels have individual skills and strengths self development. The Capability Development & Learning which should be valued and further developed. Center also helps prepare employees to be ready for changes and new challenges which are becoming increasingly more Development of knowledge and skills will not only help complex. strengthen the business but will also provide an opportunity for employees to continuously improve and advance in their roles The Company also believes that high potential employees and responsibilities. The Company’s Performance Management with outstanding performances in various areas will help lead System (PMS) has been designed to help employees determine the organization to reach its goals. True has well-established their work related goals in line with the direction of the policies and clear succession plans in developing high potential organization and to provide opportunities for employees and employees into the Company’s future executives. True places supervisors to jointly assess strengths and areas for further great emphasis on creating leaders through different programs improvement as well as to explore individual expectations such as Leaders Develop Leaders (LDL), and True Next and work focus as part of the Individual Development Plan Generation program for new employees who show potential, (IDP). These measures will help employees realize their true and the True Star program for current outstanding employees. potential and prepare them for development in order to reach their desired goals. True provides learning and development opportunities as well as support. Employees Receiving Performance and Career Development Evaluations in 2015 Male Management 85% 86% 88% Female Operation 88% 2015 86% 13 2015 Performance In addition to in-class training or via the different media In 2015, the Company’s Capability Development & Learning available, the Company also places importance on learning Center organized training for over 100 curricula to improve from real experience or on-the-job training. In 2016, the True skills and provide learning throughout the working life in order No.1 Service Excellence program was launched to provide to increase employee skills as well as retain them while at opportunities for employees to rotate duties where employees the same time elevate the Company’s various operational from the Head Office were given the chance to work at True standards. The average training for all employees was 14.56 Shop branches or in other departments such as Customer hours per person, per year, accounting for a total of Baht 69.3 Relations. This scheme enabled employees from different million, or on average Baht 3,332 per person. departments to fully learn and understand the work in other departments, and hence gain a better and deeper understanding of True’s businesses. True Star Project Employees Average Training in 2015 True Star is a program for managerial and lower level (hours per person) employees with outstanding performance who have received an 14.56 evaluation score of A for two consecutive years. This program focuses on the development of leadership skills based on organizational values. Training courses within the program are organized annually for True Star employees to learn 15.13 14.08 more about the Company’s products and services in order to get a better understanding of the various business areas. In 2015, the True Star program was adjusted from product and service knowledge to social responsibility with 164 True Management Operation Star employees participating in the Company’s activities for 24.39 13.04 society. The True Star employees were assigned to help with the Company’s flagship corporate social responsibility initiative, True Plookpanya. Here, True Star employees assisted underprivileged schools within the True Plookpanya project by Employee Engagement For managerial With outstanding Survey in 2015 and operations performance employee (A for 2 consecutive years) 72% A Learn about Apply CSR True’s products concept to and services individual functions Learn about social responsibility 14 Sustainabillity Report as well as express their opinions regarding the department and organization. Moreover, they are assigned to carry out projects oten tial Liber ty o relating to innovation and have a mentor to provide guidance e p fut ur f min to cultivate learning at the same time as interning. Following p Develo d the internship, these students return to complete their 4th year studies, and upon graduation are given the opportunity to subsequently participate in the True Next Generation program. TRUE ACADEMY True Next Generation Program True Next Generation is an annual recruitment program Suppo TRUE ining rt inn NEXT job tra o for approximately 30-40 new engineering and information vatio G EN ERA TI O N thens technology graduates to work at the Company. Candidates nO are assessed through written examinations and interviews. Students who previously participated in the True Academy program are also allowed to participate in the True Next Generation program following graduation and must pass Learn & experiment interviews with the department where they want to work. Students who are accepted to work at the Company under the True Next Generation program receive specialized training under the Talent Management Program for a period of two helping and coaching them to better utilize the digital educational years, and work in three key areas in order to comprehensively media and equipment that the Company has provided for understand all operations including: 1) Frontline; 2) Functional; each school in order to broaden the learning experience for and 3) Technical and Backend areas. students and teachers. At the same time, True Star employees were able to learn and better understand activities relating to Employees participating in True Next Generation must initiate social responsibility and could take these valuable experiences new projects in order to develop and improve the efficiency of back and find ways on how their departments could contribute the business, with presentations on planning and assessment to social responsibility endeavors. of the department where the employees work. In 2015, eight representatives from 40 employees in the True Next True Academy Program Generation program were selected to represent True and The True Academy program materialized following the direction participate in the One Young World Summit 2015 which was from the Company’s President and CEO to support learning held in Bangkok. As a summit delegate, these employees had and encourage students to take an interest in new innovations, the chance to present ideas on sustainability as well as exchange and to create unique products and services. True allows full ideas with over 1,300 youths from 196 countries and leaders creativity and encourages each person to work in their area such as Mr. Kofi Annan, former Secretary General of the United of interest in order to foster happiness in the workplace, Nations, and Nobel Peace Prize winner Professor Muhammad Yunus, who founded the world’s first bank for the poor. True Academy provides opportunities for 3rd year university students in engineering, information technology, and computer The True Next Generation program enables the Company to science disciplines to apply to this program. Selection is done recruit employees more efficiently as they have already passed through written examinations and interviews, with a quota of 100 the required selection process. This group of high caliber participants annually. Students who are accepted are offered employees is considered to have great potential and benefit 2 month internships with True and receive a daily stipend. the Company. During their development program they are assigned to work with various departments and hence contribute Students participating in the program receive on-the-job training to the improvement in the department’s operations and in their area of interest and are given the opportunity to learn innovations. 15 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP AND PHILANTHROPY The Company’s ongoing commitment is to harness the information, using the potential of True’s communications strengths of its communications technology and innovations technology to fully encourage education and self-development. to help raise the quality of life and encourage the overall 2. Reduce the gap in access to communications technology economic growth of the country on its development into a in order to increase the opportunity to access information knowledge-based society. In particular, True is focused on by schools in remote areas, provide efficient Internet education and social development by instilling knowledge, connectivity and access to knowledge. a sense of good, and environment conservation under the 3. Alleviate impacts from natural disasters and other incidents True Plookpanya (planting wisdom) project and supporting the in order to help those in Thailand and in surrounding quality of life of the disadvantaged through the Creating a Better regions. In addition, the website helplink.net was launched to Life for the Disabled project. Moreover, True continues to link assistance to those in need following natural disasters. create learning benefits and opportunities for the community at large through the website trueplookpanya.com, the largest 2015 Performance knowledge bank alongside with morals in the country. Activities are organized to motivate Thai youths and the public to learn True Plookpanya Project for self-development in a sustainable manner that will eventually The Company implements activities through its True Plookpanya lead the country into becoming a knowledge-based economy. project in the belief that communications technology is an important driver for society. These activities support the Management Approach development of Thailand into a sustainable knowledge-based The Company has established corporate social responsibility society under the concept “Expanding Learning to Schools policies under which its activities operate and are overseen Countrywide” by providing an opportunity for teachers and by the CSR & Social Enterprise Committee comprising top students in schools located in remote areas throughout the management at the director level and up and headed by the country to have access to knowledge sources using equipment President and CEO. A CSR department is responsible for and educational digital media provided by True. The target of implementation at the operational level, monitoring, and reporting, the True Plookpanya project is to have 10,000 participating in line with the Company’s corporate social responsibility schools, with 500 new schools added in 2015 bringing the strategies and policies which include three areas: total number of schools to 6,000 covering 95,650 teachers and 1,860,666 students who are now able to have better 1. Education support for communities to provide an opportunity access to knowledge sources. for everyone to have equal access to knowledge and Every year a school under the True Plookpanya project which shows potential and is able to manage and successfully use digital media for education efficiently is selected to be a True Plookpanya model school. These model schools receive digital media equipment for every classroom as well as other supporting IT facilities, and must take on the role as mentor for other True Plookpanya schools in the area in order to create an educational hub. In 2015 a total of nine schools were selected, bringing the total of True Plookpanya model schools to 58. Each year academic results are evaluated using empirical methods based on standards measuring quality of management by school administrators, class management, use of educational tools by students, student academic performance, and strengthening schools in the network. 16 Sustainabillity Report Community Health Development with TrueMove H 3G Project Non-Formal Education together launched a project to improve True collaborated with the Thai Health Promotion Foundation to the primary education for migrant children in Thailand. ICT tools improve and raise the quality of community health services and were used to help education and improve primary education address the issue regarding lack of doctors and medical staff for students at 20 Migrant Learning Centers (MLCs) on the in remote areas by using its nationwide telecommunications Thai-Myanmar border in three provinces which are covered networks and the Internet. As part of this, 3G air cards with by True’s telecommunications networks. The three pilot data usage packages were provided to sub district health provinces are Tak, Chiang Rai and Ranong. The objectives, centers and to district level hospitals in remote areas across based on human rights to access better education, are to raise Thailand. This enabled medical staff at sub district health the standard of education for youths at these centers on the centers to have real time communications with doctors at border and provide access to knowledge sources. Teaching larger hospitals for consultations on initial health care provided was supported by IT equipment and digital tools provided by to patients in remote areas. In 2015 a total of 143 hospitals all partners. In 2015, a total of 1,440 migrant students from in 21 provinces participated in the project. 20 learning centers were under this project. The Company has also cooperated and provided support to True Little Monk the Faculty of Medicine of Chiang Mai University in launching The Company believes that knowledge coupled with dharma a program to improve primary community healthcare services are fundamental factors important to self development and in Saraphi District, Chiang Mai Province. A total of 300 SIM cultivating wisdom, as well as being an effective way of cards with special data packages were provided for use in instilling dharma and ethics in Thai society. In order to achieve collecting population data on the community level using the this, the True Little Monk TV program was launched and has Saraphi Health application developed by Chiang Mai University been running successfully for more than 4 years. The objective to help hospitals improve efficiency of their services. The of the TV program is to encourage youths to become interested collected data was analyzed in terms of obstacles facing and learn more about dharma and Buddhist teachings health issues, diseases, benefits, and community environment. focusing on morals that can lead to a better and enriched Moreover, the data can be used for planning and improving life following the path of Buddhism. The use of technology community health services. and communications innovations were used to develop the TV program with content centered on promoting dharma and This initiative has now been expanded to cover 24 districts in ethics. The TV program is in the form of a reality show. The Chiang Mai province through the Chiang Mai Health project first of its kind, it follows the daily lives of 12 children who where True is working with provincial level authorities and become ordained as novices and are taught Buddhist other related organizations such as Chiang Mai Provincial Health principles for month in a temple. The popular program is Office, Chiang Mai University, and the Thai Health Promotion broadcast live on various TrueVisions’ TV channels and also Foundation (ThaiHealth). Sub district health centers in 24 online at the True Plookpanya website in order to spread districts in the lower northern region are now under the dharma and the teachings of Buddha widely. These youths “24 DHs” project where Naresuan University is serving as the are regarded as role models and serve as a motivation for center. This provincial health model has further been expanded parents to place importance on having their children receive to cover another 51 districts nationwide. The Company life skills training on morals and ethics. and ThaiHealth monitor and conduct surveys to evaluate usage as well as use online social networks to share medical True Plookpanya Volunteer Project knowledge on a wider level. As employees are an integral part of True, the Company encourages them to participate in its many activities for society Improving Primary Education for Migrant Children Cooperative through the True Plookpanya project. Employees from all Project departments and levels are eligible to participate in such True along with UNESCO, Microsoft, and the Office of activities and can choose their area of interest. 17 Moreover, the Company launched the CSR Project by True transfer the notes to other IT devices in order to send a message Star in 2015 as a way of instilling social responsibility and or create documents for communicating with others. The MEM creating awareness and participation among a select group of device is a result of the cooperation of the Faculty of Engineering employees (True Star). These are staff who had outstanding from Ratchasuda College, Mahidol University, and True’s performances at work and received grade A evaluations for Innovation Department joining together to develop a device two consecutive years. They are considered to be one of the that would help visually-impaired people take notes more Company’s high-caliber employee groups. A total of 164 True easily with more functionality instead of using the traditional Star employees participated in True Plookpanya activities Braille slate and stylus. This is a major improvement as the which included planning and implementation following key user can take notes quickly, make revisions, copy, and send guidelines of the True Plookpanya project in providing digital the information easily. Thai language is also supported. The media equipment for education to underprivileged schools. device has been designed to be light and can be used as a The True Star employees were divided into 10 teams where keyboard or used to control computers, smart phones and each team oversaw a school under the True Plookpanya project. tablets when connected via USB Bluetooth. Other employees from various departments also helped out The Company also developed a series of True Autistic Apwith the True Plookpanya project in various forms such as plications for people with autism to improve their skill and mentoring school teachers on how to effectively use digital learning development, as well as the ability to communicate. media for education. In doing so, this will help ensure the efficient This also helped them to better assimilate with society. use of educational tools to enrich the learning experience. To encourage environment conservation, True developed the We Grow application to support tree planting in today’s digital For 2015, the Company set a target of 600 employees to and online society (details can be found under the Innovation participate in its CSR activities and by the end of the year a Management section). total of 673 employees had volunteered comprising 40 at the management level and 633 at the staff level. The Company provided support and assistance to victims of natural disasters, both domestically and abroad such as Innovations for Society natural disasters in Myanmar and Nepal. True Group provided Innovations for society is another major important area on support both in the form of donations of goods, funds, and which the Company places a strong focus. True is committed its telecommunications services to provide free assistance in to helping create social equality by developing and making communications during emergencies. This enabled victims to available products and services that will enhance the potential communicate and seek help, as well as contact their families. and improve the quality of life for the handicapped using The website www.helplink.net operated by True serves as link its innovations and communications technology. MEM – My between those in need of help and those who are ready to Eyes Memory (Braille Note Taker) is a device that can help offer assistance. the visually-impaired record information simply by pressing a few keys corresponding to the Braille alphabet. These keys True provides information on news, activities, as well as have been designed in a way and positioned that is easy to updates on its corporate social responsibility projects at use. The users can playback and listen to the data as well as http://www.trueplookpanya.com/. Performance Corporate Citizenship and Philanthropy 2012 2013 2014 2015 Funding for activities benefiting society (million baht) 115.79 120.56 Volunteering by employees in activities for society (hours) 7,632 8,072 18 EMPLOYEE HEALTH, SAFETY, Sustainabillity Report AND WELLNESS Employees are an important in driving the organization’s Safety Culture growth. The Company has various policies on employee The Company reinforces its commitment to creating a safe health, safety and wellness, ensuring that they are happy at environment and focuses on employee health through activities work, have good health and are in a safe working environment. and training on safety, all of which foster a Safety Culture Safety, health and wellness management is implemented in within the organization. These activities include Safety Morning a systematic manner, ensuring efficient and safe operations Talks and Weekly Meetings. Particular attention is given to throughout the Company. technicians who have to work in risky situations. Managers and Senior Technicians emphasize working in a safe manner and Management Approach prior to work always check the physical condition of employees, Safety is managed though the Safety Occupational Health and the condition of work tools and safety equipment, as well Working Environment Committee, with 1.25% of all employees as vehicles before use. Risk alerts are provided and videos serving as committee members. In addition, there are Safety portraying different scenarios are shown as case studies and Health & Environment Department and Safety Officers at all to highlight actions which are classified as “safe” or “unsafe” True offices to ensure that safety, health, and work environment in order for staff to understand and adapt for safety in the policies are implemented for the benefit of all True employees. workplace. Employee and Contractor Safety Employee Health The Company has regulations and guidelines on work safety The Company encourages good physical and mental health for employees and contractors, using the General Work Safety among employees so they are ready to work to their full Guidelines for employees working in offices, and the Technician potential. True has various policies, activities, and facilities to Work Safety Guidelines (available as an e-Bookfor easy information promote these areas. There are also Risk Alerts in place for access on correct procedures and implementations) for employees when there are contagious disease outbreaks such technicians who work outside. In addition, the Safety Audit as the avian influenza outbreak in 2009. There is always a was prepared as a guideline for safe operations in various doctor available for online consultations via the internal job areas such as Work Safety on High Pole, Electric Work website. Employees can get initial medical consultations Safety, Work Safety on Confined Space-Cable Man Hole, which have proved to be convenient while helping to reduce etc. Moreover, First Aid and CPR training was held for 1,024 expenses and save time. employees, contractors, suppliers, teachers and students in schools supported by True. The Company also places importance on being prepared for emergency situations and has in place an Emergency Preparedness and Evacuation plan as well as prepared the Emergency Preparedness Guidelines for Employees. Instructional videos are available teaching employees on how to handle various emergencies such as fires and earthquakes, or if there is a bomb threat or a suspicious object has been found. These videos are played in rotation on the in-house TV system. 19 Employee Health Policy Highlights 2015 Performance 1 Support activities for employees, departments, and employee clubs/associations. Employee and Contractor Safety Support projects and activities which lead to learning for employees and practices 2 which can be used in mental and physical health care. Superiors encouraging employees to organize No employee fatalities No fires occurred or participate in activities, programs organized from work related in the Company’s by the Company or department or clubs 3 causes in 2015. facilities. that do not interfere with the employee’s responsibilities at work. Employees are to observe guidelines on In order to create a basic understanding of safety for employees health care based on discipline, a change 4 at the operational level, the Company provided safety training in diet and eating behavior, regular exercise, at the Don Muang Technical College for 898 technicians rest, and mind relaxation and newly hired staff as well as for 1,253 current employees required to work in high places, and with electrical currents. Those who received the training were then sent to receive additional training from the Metropolitan Electricity Authority. Emergency response training was provided to 287 Call Center Management employees based in Bangkok, Chonburi, and Creating a work environment that is conducive to efficiency Khon Kaen, equivalent to 8.5% of all employees. First aid training is another factor impacting employee health. In response, in emergency situations was provided to 737 technicians the Company has implemented the 7S program for the and Managing Safe Work (MSW) training was provided for workplace (clear, clean, convenient, hygiene, good habits, 636 supervisors from contractors in order to create a better beauty, and environment) where offices are inspected and understanding of work processes and ensuring the safety of assessed every quarter according to the seven criteria. In employees. addition, True organizes a Big Cleaning Day four times a year and carries out annual air quality checks in the buildings. Starting in 2014, True began a campaign for zero accidents under the Leaders Develop Leaders (LDL): Zero Accident Good health is promoted through various activities organized from Work project. In 2015, activities were organized with by the Company through the Plookrak Team. These activities employees who are at high accident risk. This involved 11 groups include spa massage, yoga for rehabilitation, and employee or a total of 1,010 network installation and maintenance clubs of which currently there are 10, such as the volunteer employees. Monitoring and assessment was carried out every club, golf club, True music, running club, cycling club, and two months, which showed that since the program began, badminton club. there were no employee fatalities due to work related causes. 20 Sustainabillity Report Love Health Campaign In response to concerns about employee health, True organized activities providing information and encouraging good health care and basic care for 10 illnesses that employees frequently experience including respiratory illnesses, muscle related problems, Office Syndrome and digestive system problems. Vaccines…Preventive Healthcare True supports preventative healthcare for all employees and each year provides vaccinations for diseases which may impact employee health and work, and also for highly contagious diseases. In 2015, 570 employees and 684 family members received vaccinations for Influenza A and B and for Hepatitis A Beginning in 2008, True organized a safety competition for and B, and vaccinations to prevent lung infections. In addition, network maintenance employees. Awards were given to 1,205 female employees were tested for cervical cancer, and maintenance groups with continuous adjustments and included monitoring, all at no cost to employees. Moreover, improvements relating to safety. In 2015, 23 maintenance 73 female employees received mammograms at a discounted units received awards rate. These special services were made available to children, parents and families of employees at the same employee rate. Plookrak with 4 Aspects of Health Employee Health, Safety and Wellness The Company encourages employees to be healthy and have As a way of ensuring safety at work and taking into consideration a good life in four aspects which include: a kind heart, stability, employee health, True implemented projects and activities giving towards family, and to colleagues. Employees are focused on creating a safety culture within the organization encouraged to know how to manage and develop their minds as well as to prevent and reduce impacts on employee health. as well as control emotions. Practicing monks and experts on mind development were invited to provide information as well as encourage employees to join dharma retreats. Employees Employee Safety Wellness are entitled to five days leave to participate in dharma retreats. Health Projects These five days are not counted as personal leave days. In addition, True organizes merit making and alms giving to monks every 2nd Friday of the month. In 2015, 11,584 employees or 58% of all employees participated in the project. 21 Safety Performance 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Targets Injury Rate 0.43 0.61 0.28 0.15 0 Occupational Disease Rate 0 0 0 0 0 Lost Day Rate 10.1 268.01 1.20 1.51 0 Employee fatalities at work 0 2 0 0 0 (persons) Contractor fatalities at work 0 2 0 2 0 (persons) Safety Man of the Year “All aspects of safety training are important for work and in daily life since we are unable to predict when accidents will happen. Realizing the importance of this, True’s policy is to provide Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) training for employees from the SHE team. This has provided me with the knowledge and ability to help people in real situations. While out at work one day, I came across an unconscious man with a slow heart beat. I used the CPR training we were taught and was able to provide initial care and attention. Consequently, the man managed to safely seek medical attention and later sent a thank you letter to the Company for saving his life.” Mr. Banchong Ponglangka Technician 22 HUMAN RIGHTS Sustainabillity Report As part of the global society, True places great importance on handicapped persons in other areas (additional details are being a good corporate citizen committed to helping create available in the 2015 Annual Report). a better place for living. The Company became a member of the UN Global Compact on October 1, 2015 with the intent The Company announced and implemented the Code of to operate its businesses under the 10 international principles Conduct to be strictly used as a guideline for all employees. focusing on four key areas which include human rights, labor, True’s Code of Conduct covers human rights, such as zero environment and anti-corruption. True is one of more than tolerance of discrimination, labor rights, and consumer data 12,000 leading global organizations and companies from protection. The Company provides convenient communications 170 countries that are members of the UN Global Compact. channels, both internal and external, through which violations of the Code of Conduct can be reported with confidentiality True operates its business in a manner that respects human (additional details are available in the 2015 Annual Report). rights where everyone can exercise their rights with freedom and dignity as a human being without discrimination and with In addition, True cooperated with the National Human Rights respect to equality under the law. These tangible practices Commission to push for the support of social equality. include the right and support from the Company to work in areas In 2015, The Company was the leader in establishing the of expertise and potential. The Company also has a policy to 1st UN Global Compact Local Thai Network with partners provide employment opportunities for the handicapped so that and members of the UN Global Compact in Thailand. At the they can work according to their capabilities and knowledge, inaugural meeting, True’s President and CEO Mr. Suphachai and earn a sustainable living. Employment data as of the end Chearavanont was elected as Chairperson to work with of 2015 listed 33 handicapped persons working at True in partner organizations, both domestic and abroad, in order to engineering, customer service, and technician positions. In drive successful business operations in accordance with the addition, True supports the creation of jobs and income for 10 principles of the UN for joint sustainable development. “The value of True is in taking care of each other, taking care of one’s health in terms of mind and body to be strong. The value must be reflected from our responsibilities, the Company, society, and shown towards customers. This is the real value of True people.” Mr. Suphachai Chearavanont President and CEO 23 24 SERVICE QUALITY Sustainabillity Report The Company is committed to continuously maintaining and customers and in all service aspects. True is the first and only developing service quality in order to deliver the highest organization in Thailand to receive the COPC CSP international customer satisfaction possible and to maintain its position standard certification. as the service provider of choice for consumers nationwide. Customers are able to request various services from True Shops Call Center and through the True Call Center. Continuous development The Company takes into consideration all processes when of services in order to provide convenience to customers providing services to customers through the Call Center. is key and increased service efficiency leads to customer Customer Relations Management (CRM) is used to manage satisfaction. the customer database as well as record service history which helps when providing more personalized services to match Management Approach customer needs. With its focus on continuously improving service quality for the highest customer satisfaction, the Company constantly The Company uses Operation Planning & Control to ensure implements various measures to elevate service quality. the number of employees is sufficient for current and future Intensive training by the Customer Operation Performance operations in order to provide full services to customers as Center (COPC CSP), which is the international standard in well as monitor Call Center employees through the Command Call Center services, was conducted for related employees Center. This is done in order to maintain quality of the services and management. These COPC CSP standards cover planning, provided daily such as checking the number of incoming calls operations, recruiting and training employees, establishing key to the Call Center compared to the number of employees at indicators for tasks, as well as creating customer satisfaction. a certain time and whether if there are “abandoned calls.” If there are not enough employees, the number of employees Since 2013, True’s Call Center was certified by COPC CSP is increased to meet the amount of calls received in order and in 2014, True Shops started to implement the COPC to maintain efficiency and speed. In addition, the Company CSP standards as well. This is in line with the Company’s operates a dedicated complaint center, Voice of Customer commitment to provide the most satisfactory services for (VOC), to answer specific questions and handle complaints from various channels such as telephone, the Office of the Consumer Protection Board (OCPB), and Social Media. True currently has over 3,000 Call Center employees who have been recruited, selected, and received training based on the COPC CSP standards. All employees are regularly assessed on customer service skills, and their performance and improvement are also tracked to ensure customer satisfaction of True services. True Shops Similar to the Call Centers and in line with the Company’s focus on improving services to attain the highest customer satisfaction, True Shops continuously implement various measures to raise service level quality. The comprehensive 25 True Shop service manual is used to help provide guidelines True Shops for employees at True’s various customer service centers, In 2015, True continued to make improvements to its customer enabling them to carry out their responsibilities correctly in services in order to be more efficient and comprehensive by providing services to customers. developing employee capabilities and introducing self-service booths, which help reduce processing time, and capable of 2015 Performance handling multiple transactions simultaneously. The screens of the self-service booths have been modified to be more Call Center user-friendly and the types of transactions it can handle have In order to continuously improve its services, the Company also been increased making it more convenient for customers has set targets for the True Call Center, aiming to make it the to make payments without having to queue for service at best center, providing excellent and fast services within 2018. counters. True has plans to further develop and increase The target for the average handle time (AHT) is 5.20 minutes convenience for customers by analyzing data in the CRM for the Mobile Enquiry department and 5.45 minutes for the system in order to anticipate customers’ needs and use the Mobile Convergence department. The target for abandoned information to improve services and response times. calls is less than 5% of all calls received and a Service Level of 20 seconds for answering calls, or 75% of all calls. User-Friendly Self-Service Booths True Money Co., Ltd was contracted to develop the user-friendly The key to improving Call Center service quality is monitoring self-service booths which were designed and fitted with a new and measuring customer satisfaction. In 2015, two methods onscreen interface for easier use. These self-service booths of satisfaction evaluation were implemented. The first method are located at various True Shops. Customers are given is immediate satisfaction survey using the Interactive Voice demonstrations at the shop on how the self-service booths Response (IVR) while the second method is direct satisfaction work and on how such usage can help save time. This has survey through random calls to ask for opinions from customers resulted in an increase in the volume of payment transactions. Moreover, the introduction of the QR Code service facilitated As part of its commitment to improve services, the Company making payments for customers where they could generate continues to develop its human resources by providing training the QR Code with their billing information from the self-service to all levels of Call Center employees. This includes Supervisors booth or from a mobile application, and then make payment who were trained using the Teletech program, which helps to at the Fast Lane counter, which takes only 20-30 seconds increase the level of operations at the supervisor level to be to process the transaction. In early 2016, it is expected that more systematic and continuous. A team is responsible for True will be able to increase the number of transactions at the monitoring implementation, and in the past 100% of Supervisor self-service booths from 650,000 to 1,400,000 transactions, level employees were trained, with 100% of team members which can help reduce operating costs by Baht 5,300,000 receiving coaching within the determined timeframe. per month (from freeing up manpower by approximately 300 people). New Call Center employees are trained for a period of 45-60 days before beginning work at True’s various customer True also measures customer satisfaction via the iCSAT service centers. This preparation is necessary to enable Call System where an evaluation SMS is immediately sent to the Center staff to handle enquiries effectively, make appropriate customer after having received services. In February 2015 the recommendations, as well as offer the right solutions to solve customer satisfaction was measured at 79.25% and increased customer problems. to 90.31% in December of the same year. 26 Sustainabillity Report “Term Waan” Project project, training courses were developed by industry experts In line with its focus on becoming the Best in Customer and True employees received training on how to deliver the Service, True initiated its in-house “Term Waan” project to best possible customer service experience that will result in establish standards in providing services that will increase high levels of customer satisfaction from all True customer customer satisfaction at all True customer service centers. touch points. Service quality is controlled, measured, and monitored using various tools such as Transaction Monitoring and CCTV The Company has also set goals to increase the success Monitoring, iCSAT system to measure customer satisfaction of rate in solving customer problems within a determined time individual employees, as well as audio and video recordings while (% On Time) while the other goal is to reduce to the number of employees are providing services to customers. In addition, customer complaints, requiring employees at each customer True implemented the Retail Professional Service project to service branch to handle customer enquiries and complaints further elevate service quality to higher standards, based on a One-Stop-Service basis, and to strictly follow True’s on those from the aviation and hotel businesses. Under this Case Management Framework guidelines. True Shops Customer satisfaction (percentage) Population size 2012 2013 2014 2015 True Shops Customer satisfaction 88.55 88.40 83.40 84.90 (percentage) *Customer database *Customer database migrated to a new system migrated to a new system Population size 18,066 18,220 11,862 27 DATA PRIVACY AND SECURITY Maintaining security of data and protecting customers’ privacy Security Steering Committee (ISSC) with Mr. Ruangkrai is the core of True’s business operations in order to deliver Ransiphol, Director of Information Technology Operations, service satisfaction coupled with customer confidence. The and Mr. Pichit Thanyodom, Director of Information Technology Company adheres to maintaining data privacy and security Development, as joint Chairpersons for the ISSC for maintaining measures and keeps tight control in order to protect customer data security for all the Company’s customers. Customer data information with stability, transparency, and appropriate safety is a key responsibility of True and is monitored at all management. times. True implements stringent data security policies which contribute to the stability of business operations and service Management Approach provision to customers. The Company’s seven key data security The Company adheres to the quality rating system used for policies cover customers, contractors, business partners, Information Security Management (ISM) by strictly following service providers, and subsidiary companies. ISO 27000 standards, supervised by the Company’s Information Information Information Information System access IT law and Approve Using security and classification security in project control policy regulation encryption production policy handling policy management policy method work data work policy instruction instruction policy policy 28 Sustainabillity Report The policies provide the Company with key mechanisms to 2015 Performance protect customer privacy through operations and channels External auditing is carried out on an annual basis by TÜV Nord, for complaints regarding breach of personal information. a company authorized to issue ISO27001:2013 certifications, These include: indicating transparency in the security system and to create • Sealed letter addressed to the Board Committee, Audit confidence in the standards used for maintaining customer Committee, President & CEO, Human Resources Department data security. True also has firewall protection and an Intruder and Fraud & Cyber-Crime Department, True Corporation, Detection system where penetration tests are conducted at No 18, True Tower, Rachadapisek Road, Huay Kwang, least once a year. Huay Kwang, Bangkok 10310 or • Email to the Audit Committee (auditcommittee@truceorp. The data security system is managed and monitored closely co.th); Human Resources (sarinra_won@truecorp.co.th); and in 2015 there were no reports on data breaches and and Director of the Fraud & Cyber-Crime Department no complaints from external parties. This is in part due to (nopadol_som@truecorp.co.th) or the initiation of various projects which helped improve the • Online via the Company’s website: http://www3.truecorp. efficiency in work related to data security such as training co.th for the Company’s IT Department employees in terms of IT security management via E-learning. The passing score was The Company also has data security systems which closely 70% where 82.94% of IT security department employees who follow the Information and classification handling to determine participated in the training received the passing score. the level of confidentiality in a stable security system for which there are four levels: True’s unique convergence strategy creates the most benefit 1. Public data data that can be disclosed to the public for customers by combining product and service offerings 2. Internal use data data that is only for use within the organization including related networks and technologies to different 3. Confidential data data which can only be used by certain lifestyle needs. In 2015, the Company’s convergence strategy groups where the owner of the data specifies type of access played an important role in bringing together telecommunications and who in the group can access products and services which were packaged together consisting 4. Secret data data such as the entire True Group customer of 4G LTE and 3G mobile phone services and broadband database. Internet using FTTx, Docsis and xDSL technologies, along Maintaining security of customer data is an issue all the with pay TV subscriptions and fixed-line telephone services. Company’s employees place great importance in order to This resulted in an increase in revenue by providing overall keep information confidential and not distribute information services by 10.1% compared to the same quarter in 2014 or without approval. Employee(s) who do not complying with a total of Baht 18.8 billion. these regulations will face disciplinary measures according to the Company’s Code of Conduct. 29 SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT The Company is committed to supply chain management Commission (IEC) and the Federal Communications Commission that is systematic and operates according to standards at (FCC). each step in order to increase efficiency in procuring quality products and services as well as taking into consideration The principles in selecting vendors for True include evaluation corporate governance of social and environmental aspects of technical and commercial aspects. All key vendors in the related to the supply chain. This will help strengthen the Customer Premise Equipment group must pass the Quality Company’s supply chain management to grow sustainably. Supplier Assurance in order to assess partner qualities such as safety. Product testing and evaluation on appropriateness Management Approach for use in Thailand must also be carried out in laboratories The Company has established a Centralized Management that meet standard requirements such as the Electric and Structure and improved procurement operations process to Electronics Testing Center and the Electric and Electronics Institute. use the same standards across the organization, dividing procurement responsibilities according to five key areas: In addition, new suppliers must pass the Pre-Vendor Verification 1) Radio Core Network and Transmission 2) IT and Broadcasting assessment which covers Financial Risks, Business Ethics 3) General and Commercial Procurement 4) Operation and and Transparency, and Connected Transaction as well as a Maintenance 5) Procurement System Management and Repair Pre-Factory and Quality Audit Questionnaire for key vendors in Center. All departments operate based on the key principle order to assess their potential in terms of production capacity, of taking into consideration customers, vendors, and benefits quality of goods and services, safety, work environment and to the organization through the procurement of goods and training for employees. Vendors who pass the assessment services that are of good quality, appropriately priced, and are included on the Approved Vendor List and are able to foster a good relationship with the suppliers. conduct business with the Company The Company’s procurement procedures are outlined in the Supplier Risk Assessment handbook for ethical business practices as well as included True Group assesses the risk of vendors on an annual basis in the Company’s Code of Conduct. The procurement policies following four main vendor categories: 1) strategic vendors or and procedures are also based on social responsibility and critical vendors; 2) vendors with leverage; 3) high transaction corporate governance. vendors; and 4) bottleneck vendors in the case of lack of supply. Various criteria are used including evaluation of The Company’s procurement contacts with major suppliers expenses which includes vendors with the highest expenses comprise six key areas: 1) work environment; 2) work of 80% of the expense value for all procurement, analysis of sanitation and safety; 3) business ethics and anti-corruption; the importance of the vendor such as unable to use alternate 4) transparency of related items; 5) recommendations for products, number of vendors and product value as well as subcontracting; and 6) quality assurance systems. effectiveness in vendor operations. Vendor Selection Supplier Operations Audit The Company uses a vendor selection process that is The Company places importance on vendors in the strategic transparent with emphasis on choosing vendors who operate (critical) group, and they are categorized as key vendors which strictly according to the law and have a management system require planning in terms of monitoring and determining methods which follows internationally accepted standards such as to reduce risks. Vendors must be audited and assessed in ISO9001:2008, ISO14001, and TS16949. This includes product terms of effectiveness of operations based on questionnaire standards from organizations recognized internationally such as responses every six months. Assessment of these vendors Underwriters Laboratories (UL), International Electrotechnical also includes on-site visits and inspections by True’s Quality 30 Sustainabillity Report Control Department on a regular basis. Monthly status reports using Sales and Operations Planning (S&OP), SEQOS are submitted to the Committees for each product group. Warehouse Management Software and SAP Software in order to prevent product stock shortages, enabling the ability to 2015 Performance deliver products to customers in a timely manner. Training was provided to staff in order to use the system efficiently. Management of Vendors The Company is currently in the process of implementing the In 2015, True had a total of 2,105 vendors, of which 48 are internationally-acclaimed JDA software which can be used considered as critical vendors (accounting for a total of 80% to measure outcomes on a real-time basis, check product of the total procurement value) and 24 new vendors which prices, and analyze operations, as well as the supply chain in passed review and assessment based on questionnaires and a comprehensive and efficient manner. inspection by the Company’s Quality Control Department. In 2016, True plans to merge stock from its subsidiaries Improvement in Supply Chain Management True Distribution & Sales and True Visions in order to reduce The Company is continuously improving management of its rental and management costs and increase efficiency in supply chain by increasing efficiency of the procurement managing stock with vendors responsible for delivery. It is process to be more simple and convenient to use such expected that this will help reduce costs by THB 40 million as creating an online vendor evaluation system as well as annually. developing an online vendor relationship management system leading to a systematic process and easier problem solving. Capacity Building of Suppliers The E-Procurement system was developed and vendors were The Company is committed to working with vendors to improve encouraged to use this for transparency in processing and their potential as a way of creating confidence enabling the reducing steps and unnecessary waste of resources such as vendor to meet the standards of the organization and deliver paperwork. In 2015, orders made through the E-Procurement goods and services that are safe for consumers in accordance system increased 32.89% from 2014. with international standards. In 2015, True improved the potential of a lithium battery and charger factory in China by providing In addition, the Company has improved the stock keeping and training for the vendor on production processes and quality distribution process in terms of supply chain management control in factories. True sa ved mo re than THB 7,2 01.29 m from a m ore effic illion ient sup ply chain manage ment sy stem Million baht 31 COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR The Company supports free and fair competition as a way of building confidence for investors, vendors, and consumers by operating transparently, following ethical and good governance practices under Trade Competition Laws. This includes local rules and regulations related to Thailand as well as international. The Company uses the Code of Conduct and ethical business handbook as guidelines which all True employees must adhere to and strictly follow. These cover guidelines regarding fair trade competition, market share, as well as training for new employees on policies relating to fair competition. The Company has various communications channels for stakeholders to report Code of Conduct violations or any other actions that do not comply with ethical business practices. In 2015, True did not receive any complaints or leads on corruption or misconduct, but did receive five complaints relating to services provided by the Company. The Audit Committee assigned the responsible departments to handle these issues, which were consequently resolved successfully. 32 Sustainabillity Report 33 INNOVATION MANAGEMENT Innovations are a key factor to the success and growth of own TrueVisions TV channel. There are no limits on the topic the Company. True’s focus is on creating and developing new in order to provide opportunities for the public to freely create innovations which are most beneficial and fulfill customer needs innovations. The competition winners will have the chance to and provide up-to-date services that respond to everyday further develop their work commercially with True. lifestyles. The Company supports innovations which will increase efficiency in the use of its resources by creating a conducive work In order to adjust operations in innovation management, True’s environment, making True a learning organization. The Company President and CEO, Mr. Suphachai Chearavanont, has coordinated encourages employees to develop creativity and innovations with executives from the Charoen Pokphand Group, of which which are beneficial to the organization and society in general. True is a part, to jointly determine visions for innovation and Innovations are also used to further create and improve development of new products and services, in response to services from a commercial aspect, which will help the the wider variety of customers that are covered by the various organization move towards becoming the leader in innovations businesses within the conglomerate. True’s ultimate goal is for telecommunications and information technology. to become the country’s leader in telecommunications, and ready to step into the global arena. Management Approach True uses an “open house” approach to innovation management, 2015 Performance with the Company’s Innovation Center as the key department working with other departments in order to develop a variety Internal Innovations Competition of innovations both internally and externally in collaboration The Company’s internal competition “True Innovation Awards with research institutes, universities, and private companies. for True” is organized by the Innovations Center and is divided In addition, ongoing training in innovations is provided to into three groups: 1) Innovations to increase efficiency at work; employees in order to encourage development of their creativity 2) Innovations to meet customer needs; and 3) Innovations and use the knowledge gained to adapt for use at work as for society. The Award Committee consists of representatives well as improve work systems to be more efficient. from various departments with the President and CEO as the committee head and also serving as one of the judges. In 2015, The Company organizes the “True Innovation Awards for True” two teams received the top prize: a device to measure and which is an internal competition of innovations created by compare WiFi signal levels from modems under the innovations employees in the organization and held annually as a way of to improve efficiency at work category; and a Smart Exam encouraging and providing opportunities for employees to System from the innovations for society category. In 2015, develop and use their creativity. This is in line with transforming one innovation from True was patented, while since the launch the Company into becoming a learning organization that of the internal competition in 2013, three innovations have further develops innovations from the competition which show already been patented. potential for commercial purposes. This will also lead to creation of innovations for the variety of services provided by True Strategic Innovation which can be subsequently launched in a timely manner in The Company has partnered with the National Science and response to the changing trends and needs of the market Technology Development Agency to develop new innovations and industry. in response to usage requirements within the organization, and to increase work efficiency. In 2015, four new innovations The Company also encourages the creation of innovations were introduced: and offers a new world of learning among the general public, 1. Optical Character Recognition (OCR) system for data on reinforcing its goal of becoming a learning organization. Open ID cards and driver’s licenses from photographs and to the public, the “True Innovation Awards” is broadcast on its analyzed on the Cloud. This is a system which converts 34 Sustainabillity Report an image into editable and searchable data (characters) True Lab for businesses which need to use ID cards such as for The Company launched the True Lab program in 2012 as employment applications. By taking a picture of the ID a pilot project to encourage development of innovation and card, the information (i.e. first name, last name, address, educational research and connect academia with business etc.) are converted into characters and immediately appear sector needs. The Company signed MOUs with 8 leading in the electronic application form. This helps reduce steps academic institutions to build research centers in the universities required in filling out the application as well as mistakes from as well as install communications technology and other manually inputting personal information. This is currently in equipment such as computers, printers, projectors, furniture, the development process, with no plans for commercialization. and security systems. The True Labs enabled students and 2. Analysis of comments and opinions using the S-Sense employees of these academic institutions to use the centers automatic analysis system which is a tool that gathers as sources for learning, researching and exchanging ideas. and analyzes data on social media based on key words or search words. For example, searching for the word “True” There are currently four True Lab locations: True Lab Chiang Mai can reveal what people are looking for and can be used as University; True Lab Mahidol University; True Lab Srinakarinwirot information when developing related products and services. University; and True Lab Thammasart University. True Labs are 3. Cloud storage for health data is currently in the research also being planned for Mahanakorn University of Technology and development phase. and Chulalongkorn University and the Company is in the 4. Voice recognition software for the PARTY TV box is a process of finding locations for the centers. In 2015, two more software that can convert the human voice spoken in Thai institutions signed MoU’s comprising Kasetsart University and into commands to change TV channels on TrueVisions. King Mongkut’s Institute of Technology Ladkrabang. The budget This is already in use and was demonstrated at the for construction of all research centers was Baht 53,800,000, Smarthome True Shop at EmQuartier Department Store, while the budget for the research grant was Baht 4,554,340. but is not yet available for commercial launch as it is still undergoing improvements. True has provided scholarships to students since 2013 and up until 2015 a total of 92 research studies were funded amounting to a total of Baht 7,054,340 according to the following categories: Type of Research 2013 2014 2015 Total (no. of studies) (no. of studies) (no. of studies) Business Research 23 23 Mechanical/Robot/Equipment 10 1 4 15 Software/Mobile Application/IT 24 22 2 48 True Lab Contest 6 6 Research Budget 3,750,000 1,747,000 1,557,340 7,054,340 35 Mari have already been planted and have helped reduce carbon “Mari” is a virtual Call Center agent that utilizes advanced natural emissions amounting to 53,000 tons. speech recognition technology to help answer basic customer enquiries as well as route calls to the appropriate human Moreover, the implementation of this project also received Call Center agent. Mari is able to provide accurate service to support from various government agencies including the customers according to their needs and preferences, and this Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives, the Royal Project has resulted in improved efficiency in handling customer calls Foundation, Department of Forestry, Department of National at True’s Call Centers. Mari is the prototype virtual Call Center Parks, Wildlife and Plant Conservation, Department of Marine agent and has been further developed and customized and Coastal Resources, Thailand Greenhouse Gas Management by True Voice (a subsidiary company) to be applied for (Public Organization) and HM Queen Sirikit Park Foundation, commercialization in other industries. In 2015, Mari helped to help achieve tangible results. reduce costs for the organization by approximately Baht 17,073,000. “Plant…We Grow Together” The “Plant…We Grow Together” project was launched in 2015 and brings innovation and technology to environmental conservation with the We Grow application which was developed as a mechanism to assist with the planting of trees. When a tree is planted, its related information can be shared on social media networks via the application and the tree’s growth can be followed. The project encourages the creation of greenery in personal spaces and in communities. The We Grow application WE GROW provides information on how to plant and take care of trees TOGETHER and connects networks of people who are planting trees with geo-location functionality. Moreover, it contains information on different tree varieties as well as tips on how to care for trees. Focused on reducing global warming, it acts as a central database for collecting the most comprehensive information on trees worldwide. The goal of the campaign is to plant 6 million trees nationwide in 2015. At present 4.3 million trees 36 Sustainabillity Report 42nd International Exhibition of Inventions held in Geneva and organized by the Swiss Government and World Intellectual Property Organization where the judging panel comprised a committee of experts from all over the world. The application was also awarded the Special Prize of Innovation Distinction from Saudi Arabia, which received over 1,000 submissions from 45 countries. True was the only Thai telecommunications company which received a gold medal and the special recognition award. There are currently four applications in the True Autistic MEM: My Eye Memory Autistic Application Application series with separate functionalities: 1. Enhancing skills related to focusing, exercising small muscle groups, and mimicking MEM: My Eye Memory 2. Enhancing academic skills, exercising small muscle groups, In 2015, True unveiled a new innovation, the My Eye Memory and mimicking (MEM), a memory assistance tool for the blind or visually-impaired. 3. Enhancing language and communication skills MEM can help improve the ability for blind and visually-impaired 4. Enhancing social learning skills, memory, and communicapeople to communicate and improve the quality of life for the tions in order to be able to assimilate into society disabled. This invention was a result of the winning project from the True Innovation Awards (for the general public) in More than 90 families from the Autism Foundation and 2012 where the award went to a team from Mahidol University. Association for Parents of Persons with Autism have helped the True provided support and assistance in mobilizing funds in Company with the testing of the application on children with order to continue development, which took approximately two autism. The parents found that the autistic application helped years. To date, 100 devices have been produced and distributed, their children improve the use of their fingers, eyes, temper of which half were for the Office of the Basic Education control, social skills, concentration, and interest. In addition small Commission of Thailand, and the other half for the Ratchasuda muscle functionality also improved. Those using the application College through the Buddharaksa Foundation. The Company were able to adjust and live with others. True is continuing to plans to further develop this innovation to promote and help the develop the application in order to include additional necessary blind, with proceeds going towards the support for the Thai skills and to adapt for wider use in society. Government’s Fund for Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities. Autistic Application The Company in collaboration with the Autism Foundation of Thailand, and with over 90 families from the Association of Parents of Persons with Autism, as well as with academics, developed the autistic application to support learning development and help people with autism assimilate better into society. The application assists people with autism in the development of their skills and abilities so that they can become self-sufficient in daily life and in society. Moreover, the application helps parents and care givers is of people with autism improve their skills and development in various activities in this area. The autistic application has proved to be very successful. The True Autistic Application was awarded the 2014 Gold Medal for Software and Communications Technology at the 37 DIGITAL INCLUSION True believes that everyone has the right to access communications 2015 Performance technology on an equal basis. The Company’s ongoing focus True expanded broadband Internet services to more than and commitment is therefore developing telecommunications six million households in 2015 and expects to reach the technology so that all members in society can access basic target of over 10 million households within 2016. telecommunications infrastructures. This is to help reduce duce economic and social inequalities which can be hamperedd by social status and physical limitations. Management Approach The Company is dedicated to creating opportunities for more than 10 million households to have access to information ation technology in order to raise the telecommunications infrastructure cture level to international standards. The goal is to expand access ss to information on the Internet with better telecommunications ions technology by using fiber optic networks capable of reaching hing speeds of up of to 10 Gbps and covering the widest area. True’s goal is to Mobile phone signal reach will expand to include all areas reas increase access in Thailand, which will not only help growth of a digital gital to information economy, but will also enable all Thais in all areas to access cess technology using information technology. The Company is committed to creating ating Broadband Internet a society with more equality in accessing communications ions technology among the disabled, population in remote areas, reas, with coverage low income groups, as well as educational and medical servicervice to more than provider centers. 10 million households The Company constantly monitors the nationwide expansion sion in 2016 of telecommunications technology access and has dividedd the country into 14 regions which cover all provinces in Thailand.and. Each region is overseen by the Regional General Manager ager (RGM) under whom the Head of Province is responsiblee for provincial level issues such as surveying, analyzing data, and improving channels to provide broadband Internet to the highest hest number of people in that particular area. In addition, True provides support to the National Broadband b d In I promoting ti access to t information i f ti technology t h l in i remotet Network in cooperation with the Ministry of Information and areas, True has improved Internet services to cover remote Communication Technology with the goal to increase access areas and penetrated areas with low usage in the provinces. to information technology via broadband Internet to more than This was implemented using Home Wireless Broadband 10 million households within 2016. technology that receives 3G/4G cellular signals which already has nationwide coverage, and then converts them into WiFi signals for home usage. 38 Sustainabillity Report Disabled Groups In order to promote equality in access to communications ons technology for the disabled, True and the Autism Foundationation of Thailand collaborated to promote knowledge and skillss to use the True Autistic Application and provided training for 200 had more than 100,000 parents, teachers, volunteers and representatives from 49 Skills Development Centers for People with Autism, and 100 people ople from the Skills Development Center for People with Autism tism in Bangkok. True also provided the Autistic Foundation with 2,000 of its own house-branded True Smart tablets equipped ped Hot Spots with the True Autistic Application. These tablets are for use se in improving skills in learning and communication, and to increase ease nationwide in 2015 the potential of people living with autism. The training was held under the Company’s 9th project under the “Love Dad: Do Good For HM the King” project which is also in line with True’s commitment under the concept “Creating a Better Life for the Disabled,” with the belief that the power of giving can provide a better quality of life to members of society. Low Income Groups There are more than 10,000 households located in remote mote areas with low Internet usage which comprise the low incomeome group. To promote more affordable access to information tion technology, True has provided a monthly package of Baht 299 teaching and learning, equal to that in cities. More details can for broadband Internet at the economy pack rate. This has be found under “Corporate Citizenship and Philanthropy.” been designed to help reduce the burden on the low income group customers enabling them to access broadband Internet The Company has also cooperated with the Government and at an affordable price. In 2016, the Company will increase private agencies to support free access to telecommunications promoting Internet access to this customer group in the form technology using broadband Internet. In collaboration with of Home Wireless Broadband. the Ministry of Information and Communication Technology (ICT), True provides more than 50,000 ICT free WiFi hot spots Medical Services Groups from 100,000 hot spots nationwide. The Company has also The Company is committed to helping improve medical cooperated with the Bangkok Metropolitan Administration services for the public through its 3G technology program that (BMA), and Pattaya City in Chonburi province to provide free provides communications assistance to Community Health Bangkok WiFi and Pattaya WiFi access in these cities. Another Centers in provincial areas. Additional information can be partner is the Airports of Thailand Public Company Limited found under “Corporate Citizenship and Philanthropy.” (AOT), in providing AOT Free WiFi by TrueMove H at six international airports in Thailand: Suvarnabhumi, Don Muang, Education Groups Chiang Mai, Chiang Rai, Phuket, and Hat Yai enabling Thai True provides support to education in remote areas in terms of and foreign travellers at these venues with access to free and access to telecommunications technology to promote efficient fast communications. 39 ENERGY AND CARBON Sustainabillity Report The Company is focused on improving the efficiency of energy Free Flow Cooling Systems consumption and reducing carbon dioxide emissions as well as In the past, the Company’s Remote Concentrator Units (RCU) continuously implementing programs as part of alleviating relied on air conditioners which consumed energy and resulted global warming. in high electricity costs and equipment maintenance as well as the depreciation value over time. True invented the Free Management Approach Flow Cooling System to replace the use of air conditioners True manages energy consumption and carbon via its while maintaining full functionality of telephone communications Working Committee for Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emission systems in the telephone exchange centers. This helped Management, which is responsible for implementing policies conserve 8.5 million units of energy per year for the Company related to social responsibility for environmental and energy when compared to electricity costs when the cooling system conservation. The Company’s goal is to reduce greenhouse was installed in 2012, saving Baht 15 million annually, or gas (GHG) emissions by 20% within 2020 (in comparison to equivalent to a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions of 2010 as the baseline year). 4,989 tons of carbon dioxide. In addition, the Company evaluates climate change risks that Battery Regeneration are related to the business including legal aspects and physical Batteries at telephone exchange centers are categorized by impacts which may occur such as temperature fluctuations the length of use. Electromagnetic radiation stimulation is used and rising sea levels which may impact True’s operations. to extend the life of batteries nearing expiration. This method These analyses are carried out with regard to related business helps reduce the amount of sulfate build up and enables opportunities as well as guidelines for handling climate change the battery to hold the charge longer. This is currently done with in cooperation with leading networks and organizations with batteries at 800 telephone exchange centers, reducing to promote the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. costs by Baht 28 million and reducing 355 tons of battery The Company has been reporting its carbon emissions to waste equivalent to greenhouse gas reduction of over 13,621 the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) since 2012 and has tons of carbon. cooperated with various agencies domestically such as the Thai Greenhouse Gas Management Organization (Public eBill Organization) to expand carbon offsets and support the In 2015, 11.62% of all True’s customers opted into the eBill voluntary domestic carbon market. (Electronic Bill) program, which was over the target of 8.8%.* This helped reduce the use of paper by more than 8.98 million 2015 Performance pages, or greenhouse gas emissions of 51 tons of carbon. In 2015, True was able to reduce the amount of greenhouse In order to maintain this positive momentum, the Company’s gas emissions by 25.0 % when compared to 2010 by using goal is to increase the number of customers participating in energy more efficiently and reducing greenhouse gas emissions the program to 15% in 2016. through various programs as described below: In addition, True Information Technology Co., Ltd., a subsidiary company, received the Thai Greenhouse Gas Management Organization (Public Organization) Carbon Footprint Certificate in 2015. * Target adjusted during the year 41 Performance 2012 2013 2014 2015*1 Total energy consumption (MWh) 457,562 534,969 482,441 584,073 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) (tons CO2e) 7,842 15,234 15,486 18,235 Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) (tons CO2e) 247,026 278,254 286,547 296,908 *1 The scope of 2015 data was adjusted to exclude non-core businesses and used emission factors according to IPPC * Energy consumption calculations for Scopes 1 and 2 include only fuel and electricity from available data which were combined by amount of usage Resource Optimization Water Consumption The Company recognizes the value of water which is crucial In 2015, the amount of water consumption increased due to to life and has implemented the 3Rs (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle) comprehensive collection of water usage data to cover more principle in water management. Most water consumption by office premises, and an increase in the number of people the Company is for washing and cleaning inside the building. using the building compared to the previous year. 42 Sustainabillity Report Water Consumption in True Office Buildings (cubic meters) 2012 2013 2014 2015 Head Office, True Tower 1 88,592 106,070 True Tower 2 50,413 53,617 CP Tower 2 556 (6th, 9th, 11th, 19th-21st Floors) Rungroj Building 8,148 Pakin Building (4th Floor) 459 Regional Offices (10 locations) 16,551 Total 139,005 185,401 Note: Data collection on water consumption started with True Tower 1 (head office) and True Tower 2 in 2014 while other buildings were added later in 2015. 43 E-WASTE MANAGEMENT The Company takes into consideration environmental impacts acts and the safety of customers, and has an E-Waste management ment program in the organization. This is separated into: 1) E-Waste aste Old Mobile Phones Recycled as a result of internal operations and; 2) policies for E-Waste aste as a result of customers using products and services. E-Waste management in the organization began with the “Battery Regeneration” program, which allows extended use 1,201,696 2,965,109 of batteries at telephone exchange centers and helps reduceduce number of handsets number of handsets E-waste. Batteries are grouped by length of use and ones which are close to expiring are selected and their usagee life 10.1 tons 16.8 tons is extended via electromagnetic radiation stimulation which hich helps reduce the amount of sulfate build up in the battery, tery, allowing it to keep the charge longer. This method is currently ently used with batteries at 800 telephone exchange centers and since the beginning this program has reduced costs by Baht 28 million and reduced E-Waste from batteries by 355 tons, ons, equivalent to 13,621 tons of carbon. Batteries that cannot be regenerated are sold to businessessses which purchase equipment or handle waste that are certified ified 2014 2015 by the Ministry of Industries. Regular inspections are carried rried out as part of the internal E-Waste management program m in order to test whether anything can be reused. If not feasible, ible, they are sold to companies or representatives who have h passed industry standards for further handling and safe f disposal. Exchange Old for New Phone Project For New True began the Exchange Old for New Phone program for cus“Old Phones” tomers as a way of participating in reducing electronic waste aste Phones and the parts and equipment are then recycled. Customers can exchange old phones for new ones and subscribe to services vices at special rates. As for the old phones which are regarded rded as electronic and hazardous wastes, these are then sentt by True to companies with expertise in disposing according ding to general standards and applicable laws. In the past year, the number of recycled phones has more than doubled. 44 ELECTRO MAGNETIC FIELDS Sustainabillity Report True is aware of the concerns that communities living near and national institutions along with the NBTC’s safety standards cell sites have regarding the impact of electromagnetic fields were used to communicate and create understanding among on health of people living in these communities. In setting the local community. Data from empirical research on the up these cell sites, True strictly adheres to the guidelines electromagnetic waves emitted from True’s cell sites have provided by the Office of the National Broadcasting and indicated very low levels, and even lower than the recommended Telecommunications Commissions (NBTC), which are also safety levels determined by the NBTC and international included in the regulations for when applying for the license organizations. to install cell sites. Various communications activities on the impacts of electromagnetic Moreover, the Company takes a proactive approach in this waves include public hearings, seminars with renowned experts matter by creating understanding among related stakeholders and group meetings with local communities. The Company’s regarding electromagnetic field impacts following the installation technicians are also trained on the impacts of electromagnetic of cell sites. Communications is done through local authorities, field emissions so that they are knowledgeable before community leaders who are opinion leaders, and directly passing the information on to communities. Funding support is with people living in the area. Research on the impacts of provided on an ongoing basis to academics to research electromagnetic fields from reputable international organizations the impacts of electromagnetic waves on health. Communication Channels for Stakeholders www True communicates the impacts of electromagnetic fields to stakeholders through various communications channels Website Information on website Welcome pack Information in welcome package to customers Investors Information to shareholders Community engagement Engagement with local communities Employees Information to employees The Company is committed to building good relationships The Company responds to and handles immediately any with communities and over the past year carried out various negative community reactions to the installing of cell sites. activities to create understanding on electromagnetic fields In 2015, True’s plans to install 6,000 cell sites for the Digital in Tambon Mae Hia, Chiang Mai Province in order to build Telecommunications Infrastructure Fund (DIF) were opposed assurance among stakeholders as well as assessing public by several communities. In response, the Company organized response regarding installation of cell sites. In 2016 True will 180 meetings to create understanding and invite participation continue to engage with the community through the “Mae Hia from the community which resulted in a mix of allowing and Model” project, which will be carried out at least 12 times. not allowing the cell sites to be installed. This is in addition to discussions that increase understanding with community leaders and/or the community before installing cell sites and meetings held with the Sub District Administration to create understanding on electromagnetic waves. 45 ABOUT THIS REPORT The Sustainability Report 2015 was created in order to • The Sustainability Report should be checked by an external party communicate on topics stakeholders were interested in and were to increase the credibility of the report. Recommendations important to the Company during 2015 in terms of economic, can also be used to improve operations. social and environmental areas. This report follows the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines * True Mobile (7 companies) , TrueOnline (12 companies) and at the Core level, according to international standards. TrueVisions 11 (companies) Scope of Report (G4-17, G4-22, G4-23) Assessment of Sustainability Material Issues (G4-18) The scope of the Sustainability Report 2015 from True Corporation The Company assesses sustainability material issues every Public Company covers operations of all companies involved year in order to identify those that are of importance to the with the three core businesses including True Mobile, TrueOnline organization and issues which are of interest to internal and and TrueVisions. * This is the same scope used for the 2015 external stakeholders. Communications regarding management Annual Report, from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015. as well as operations related to the issues should be made through the Sustainability Report. The assessment of material Stakeholder Engagement (G4-24, G4-25, G4-26) issues important to sustainability consists of 4 steps: The Company’s stakeholders can be categorized into six main groups including employees, customers, vendors, Step 1: Identifying issues important to the company based on creditors, investors and government agencies. True has an strategy, risks, challenges, including results from stakeholder ongoing involvement with all stakeholders through engagement and considering the extent of impacts both appropriate channels and allows for expression of opinions internally and externally. leading to communications and exchange of information in the most efficient way. The Company takes into consideration Step 2: Prioritizing the issues by importance, taking into the opinions and key issues from having interactions with consideration the importance to the Company and stakeholder stakeholders in order to further develop the organization and interests. maintain good relationships with all stakeholders. Step 3: Verifying the accuracy of the material issues assessment Stakeholder Opinions (G4-27) by presenting to the Corporate Social Responsibility and In addition to communicating and participating with each Sustainable Development Committee in order to review and stakeholder group, the Company also asked for opinions approve the issues and related information appearing in the from stakeholder representatives to use when considering Sustainability Report. issues important to sustainability for True. This includes the following topics: Step 4: Reviewing material issues related to the sustainable • Sustainability management at True should include more growth of the Company in the past and use the results to identify external stakeholders in order to have additional information key issues for the next report in order to create sustainable for analysis and use in management. growth. • As a telecommunications business, True should consider giving importance to innovations management as this is a key factor for the Company and creating motivation and retaining employees as an important resource for the organization need to be taken into consideration. 46 Sustainabillity Report Corporate Digital Inclusion Citizenship Human Capital Development Innovation Service Quality E-Waste Significance to Stakeholders Energy & Data Privacy Carbon and Security EMF Employee Health, Safety, and Wellness Supply Chain Human Rights Competitive Behavior Resource Optimization Significance to True Results from Materiality Assessment on Sustainability, True Corporation Plc 2015 (G4-19) 1. Digital Inclusion 8. E-Waste Management 2. Innovation Management 9. Electromagnetic Fields (EMF) 3. Human Capital Development 10. Resource Optimization 4. Corporate Citizenship and Philanthropy 11. Service Quality 5. Human Rights 12. Data Privacy and Security 6. Employee Health, Safety and Wellness 13. Competitive Behavior 7. Energy and Carbon 14. Supply Chain Management 47 Material Issues for Sustainability of True Corporation Plc and Impact Boundaries (G4-19, G4-20, G4-21) Material Issues GRI Aspects Impact Boundary Internal External TrueOnline True Mobile TrueVisions Vendors Customers Society 1. Digital Inclusion      2. Innovation Management      3. Human Capital Development • Training and Education    4. Corporate Citizenship and Philanthropy • Local Communities     • Indirect Economic Impacts 5. Human Rights       6. Employee Health, Safety, and Wellness • Occupational Health and Safety    7. Energy and Carbon • Energy     • Emission 8. E-Waste Management • Effluents and Waste     9. Electromagnetic Fields (EMF)      10. Resource Optimization • Water     11. Service Quality     12. Data Privacy and Security • Customer Privacy     13. Competitive Behavior • Anti-competitive Behavior     14. Supply Chain Management • Supplier Assessment for     Labor Practices For additional information contact the Corporate Social Responsibility Strategy & Sustainable Development Department at email CSR-SD@truecorp.co.th or Telephone 02 699 2799 48 Sustainabillity Report Stakeholder’s Opinion on True’s Sustainability In terms of sustainability for the economy, Dr Surachai recommended that True should harness the potential of its integrated communications technology which has an IT system capable of handling big data that could help support other businesses in the country since most business operators and consumers are engaged with Internet of Things (IoT) technology. This can also be extended to startup entrepreneurs in the digital era. The Company should collect and analyze consumer behavior data to develop new products and services that best serve customers, which will also benefit the Company’s business. Moreover, such data can help the Government sector and other organizations to design and plan for national projects in the future. However, at the same time, True should be aware of and manage data privacy and cyber security. For the environment, Dr. Surachai commented that he did not have a clear picture of True’s contributions to environmental sustainability. He suggested that the Company engage in True Corporation Plc published the 2015 Sustainability activities relating to natural resources and disaster management Report to disclose material aspects of its sustainable and pollution reduction such as promoting eco-friendly products development covering economic, social and environmental and services or green products. Dr. Surachai cited an example dimensions. The Company has received the kind assistance of air pollution problems in the North of Thailand which he from Dr. Surachai Sathitkunrat, Director for Energy and suggested that IT and communications technology (such Environment Department of the National Science Technology as those of True) could be applied to manage big data and Innovation Policy Office (STI) in providing his comments and and operate data transmission systems to generate timely suggestions on True’s sustainability. Dr. Surachai represents notifications. Such technology could be used to help forecast the academic community and is a national sustainable and analyze disasters in advance enabling necessary preparations development policy maker. to be made. Dr. Surachai observed that True, with its integrated communications Dr. Surachai viewed that True’s material sustainability aspects services and nationwide network covering mobile, broadband, which focus on the development of telecommunications WiFi, and pay TV, is able to communicate beneficial knowledge infrastructure, innovation to develop products and services, to the public through social media and online networks. along with its social and environmental responsibilities are good However, True should also place importance on the management initiatives that work well in creating sustainable business of negative impacts resulting from inaccurate or misleading growth. information that has spread through social and various online media. 49 GRI CONTENT INDEX, UNGC PRINCIPLES AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES General Standard Number (or Link) Omissions / External UNGC Sustainable Disclosures Remarks Assurance Principle Development Goals Strategy and G4-1 2 Analysis Organizational G4-3 10, 46 Profile G4-4 4 G4-5 10, Annual report 2015, 51 G4-6 4, Annual report 2015, 21 G4-7 Annual report 2015, 85-86 G4-8 4, Annual report 2015, 9 G4-9 Annual report 2015, 51-62 G4-10 Annual report 2015, 93 6 8 G4-11 Zero percent of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements G4-12 4, 30 G4-13 6-7, Annual report 2015, 12-14 G4-14 11, 41 G4-15 16-18, 37-39, 45 G4-16 9, 11, 23 Identified Material G4-17 46,  Aspects and Annual report 2015, Boundaries 18-20 G4-18 47  G4-19 48  G4-20 49  G4-21 49  G4-22 46  G4-23 46  Stakeholder G4-24 5  Engagement G4-25 5  G4-26 5  G4-27 46  Report Profile G4-28 46 G4-29 46 G4-30 46 G4-31 48 G4-32 46, Content Index 50-51, G4-33 External Assurance 52-53 50 Sustainabillity Report General Standard Number (or Link) Omissions / External UNGC Sustainable Disclosures Remarks Assurance Principle Development Goals Governance G4-34 9, Annual report 2015, 85-89 Ethics and G4-56 10, 10 16 Integrity Website:http:// true.listedcompany.com/ conduct.html Remark: Download Annual Report 2015 at http://true.listedcompany.com/misc/AR/20160318-true-ar2015-en-02.pdf SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Material DMA and Number (or Link) Omissions / External UNGC Sustainable Aspects Indicators Remarks Assurance Principle Development Goals Economic G4-DMA 6-7 Performance G4-EC1 6-7 Indirect Economic G4-DMA 16-18, 38-39 Impacts G4-EC7 16-18, 35-39 9, 11 G4-EC8 16-18, 38-39 1, 8 Energy G4-DMA 41-42 G4-EN3 41-42  7, 8 12, 13 Water G4-DMA 42-43 G4-EN8 43 7, 8 Emissions G4-DMA 41-42 G4-EN15 42  7, 8 12, 13 G4-EN16 42  7, 8 12, 13 G4-EN19 41 8 13 Occupational G4-DMA 19-22 6 Health and Safety G4-LA5 19 6 8 G4-LA6 22 6 3, 8 G4-LA7 21 6 3, 8 Training and G4-DMA 13-15 Education G4-LA9 14  6 8 G4-LA10 14-15 6 8 G4-LA11 13  6 8 Supplier Assessment G4-DMA 30-31 for Labor Practices G4-LA14 30-31 Local G4-DMA 45 Communities G4-SO2 45 Anti-Communities G4-DMA 32 Behavior G4-SO7 32 Customer G4-DMA 28-29 Privacy G4-PR8 29 51 ASSURANCE STATEMENT LRQA Assurance Statement Relating to True Corporation Public Company Limited’senvironmental and social indicators within the Sustainability Report for the calendar year 2015 This Assurance Statement has been prepared for True Corporation Public Company Limited in accordance with our contract but is intended for the readers of this Report. Terms of engagement Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Ltd. (LRQA) was commissioned by True Corporation Public Company Limited (TRUE) to provide independent assurance on the environmental and social indicators within its 2015 Sustainability Development Report (“the report”) against the assurance criteria below to a limited level of assurance and at the materiality of the professional judgement of the verifier using LRQA’s verification procedure. LRQA’s verification procedure is based on current best practise and uses the principles of AA1000AS (2008) inclusivity, materiality, responsiveness and reliability of performance data and processes defined in ISAE3000. Our assurance engagement covered the operations and activities of TRUE’s three business units -. TrueMobile, TrueVisions and TrueOnline and their thirty subsidiary companies in Bangkok, Thailand and specifically the following requirements: x Confirming that the material issues reported reflect the concerns of TRUE’s stakeholders x Evaluating whether the selected environmental and social indicators are reliable and have taken account of GRI G4’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. The selected environmental and social indicators are listed below: Environmental1: energy consumption within the organization (G4-EN3), direct energy greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) (G4-EN15), energy indirect greenhouse gas emission (Scope 2) (G4-EN16) Note 1: G4-EN3, EN15 and EN16 covers 16,16 and 11 subsidiary companies, respectively Social2: Average hours of training per year per employee by gender and by employee category (G4-LA9), and Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development review, by gender and by employee category (G4-LA11) Note 2: G4-LA9 and LA11 covers 30 subsidiary companies Our assurance engagement excluded the data and information of TRUE’s Group operations and activities (other than those defined in the reporting boundary above) and any third-parties mentioned in the Report. LRQA’s responsibility is only to TRUE. LRQA disclaims any liability or responsibility to others as explained in the end footnote. TRUE’s responsibility is for collecting, aggregating, analysing and presenting all the data and information within the Report and for maintaining effective internal controls over the systems from which the Report is derived. Ultimately, the Report has been approved by, and remains the responsibility of TRUE. LRQA’s opinion Based on LRQA’s approach nothing has come to our attention that would cause us to believe that TRUE has not: x Met the requirements above x Disclosed reliable data and information for the selected environmental and social indicators which have taken account of GRI G4’s requirements x Covered all the environmental and social issues that are important to the stakeholders and readers of this Report. The opinion expressed is formed on the basis of a limited level of assurance and at the materiality of the professional judgement of the verifier. Note: The extent of evidence-gathering for a limited assurance engagement is less than for a reasonable assurance engagement. Limited assurance engagements focus on aggregated data rather than physically checking source data at sites. LRQA’s approach LRQA’s assurance engagements are carried out in accordance with our verification procedure. The following tasks though were undertaken as part of the evidence gathering process for this assurance engagement: x Assessing TRUE’s approach to stakeholder engagement to confirm that issues raised by stakeholders were captured correctly. We did this by reviewing documents and associated records. 52 This document is subject to the provision on page 2. Sustainabillity Report  x Reviewing TRUE’s process for identifying and determining material issues to confirm that the right issues were included in their Report. We did this by benchmarking reports written by TRUE and its peers to ensure that sector specific issues were included for comparability. We also tested the filters used in determining material issues to evaluate whether TRUE makes informed business decisions that may create opportunities that contribute towards sustainable development. x Auditing TRUE’s data management systems to confirm that there were no significant errors, omissions or misstatements in the Report. We did this by reviewing the effectiveness of data handling procedures, instructions and systems, including those for internal verification. We also spoke with those key people responsible for compiling the data and drafting the Report. x Visiting the TRUE’s Head office to sample evidence for the selected environmental and social indicators to confirm their reliability. Observations Further observations and findings, made during the assurance engagement, are: x Stakeholder inclusivity: TRUE has stakeholder engagement processes which collect their views and expectations, however these processes have focused on internal stakeholders. We believe that these processes should be extended to capture external stakeholders too and whether they have any different views and expectations. x Materiality: We are not aware of any material issues concerning TRUE’s environmental and social performance that have been excluded from the Report. TRUE has processes in place for identifying and evaluating their material issues which are determined by a set of risk criteria. x Responsiveness: Although TRUE has communication channels in place to respond to stakeholders, we believe that future Reports should provide readers with more information about how TRUE is managing their material issues, especially on how targets are set to improve environmental and social performance and then the outcome(s) achieved. x Reliability: Although TRUE has a centralised data management systems for data collection which covers group operations and the subsidiary companies, we believe that TRUE should establish an internal verification mechanism to further improve the consistency of data collected and its reliability. LRQA’s competence and independence LRQA ensures the selection of appropriately qualified individuals based on their qualifications, training and experience. The outcome of all verification and certification assessments is then internally reviewed by senior management to ensure that the approach applied is rigorous and transparent. This verification is the only work undertaken by LRQA for TRUE and as such does not compromise our independence or impartiality. Signed Dated: 26 May 2016 Nit Tanasuthiseri, LRQA Lead Verifier On behalf of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Lloyd’s Register International (Thailand) Limited 14th Floor, Sirinrat Building, 3388/46 Rama IV Road Klongton, Klongtoey, Bangkok 10110 THAILAND LRQA Reference: BGK6038044 Lloyd's Register Group Limited, its affiliates and subsidiaries, including Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited (LRQA), and their respective officers, employees or agents are, individually and collectively, referred to in this clause as 'Lloyd's Register'. Lloyd's Register assumes no responsibility and shall not be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance on the information or advice in this document or howsoever provided, unless that person has signed a contract with the relevant Lloyd's Register entity for the provision of this information or advice and in that case any responsibility or liability is exclusively on the terms and conditions set out in that contract. The English version of this Assurance Statement is the only valid version. Lloyd’s Register Group Limited assumes no responsibility for versions translated into other languages. This Assurance Statement is only valid when published with the Report to which it refers. It may only be reproduced in its entirety. Copyright © Lloyd's Register Quality Assurance Limited, 2016. A member of the Lloyd’s Register Group. 53
