COMMUNICATIO N ON PROGRESS PERIOD 2015-2016 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF OPERATIONAL OFFICER To our stakeholders I am pleased to confirm that Ecofleet reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Due to our company’s rapid growth, it has become necessary to integrate and consolidate our CSR policies and procedures throughout our organisation. We are therefore in the process of establishing a share point environment through which management and employees will share knowledge and information about Ecofleet’s sustainability work. In the coming year, we will discuss and adopt the UN sustainable development goals that are relevant to our business and continue to work with the Global Compact ten principles throughout our daily operations. Stig Lyngsie COO, Partner Human Rights and Labour Policies and goals The wellbeing of our employees is very important to us and we make a concentrated effort to create a stress free and comfortable working environment. Ecofleet recognises its responsibility to seek and protect human rights within our operations, throughout our value chain and in the communities where we operate. Ecofleet supports the principles contained in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), the United Nations Global Compact and the fundamental principles that protect workers’ rights defined in International Labour Organisation (ILO) core conventions. We expect that all our business partners work with human rights issues in a responsible manner, and we expect that all our business partners support the fundamental principles described in UDHR and ILOs core conventions as a minimum. In the coming year, Ecofleet will continue to work with human rights and labour issues internally, and will work towards ensuring that our suppliers are all aligned with the UNGC principles. Assessment Assessment of our policies, procedures, working conditions and employee rights occurs through: a) The compulsory annual work environment evaluation. This is a process which enables us to look at both the practical and psychological aspects associated to the working conditions within our daily operations b) An employee satisfaction survey that is directly linked to a KPI report sent to the board and is part of the management performance evaluation. c) A scoring system based on employee input. A score of less than 75% is considered unacceptable. d) Human rights and labour issues are also an open discussion point at our monthly management Meetings. e) Two yearly meetings with an external CSR consultant where the consultant goes through and helps us with keeping focus on various CSR topics. For reference, we refer to key documents like the “United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights”, and relevant conventions and standards of the ILO, as well as other international standards, national and international laws. Regarding our supply chain, we reserve the right to engage third party auditors to audit the production site. Implementation Within our operations, we respect human rights primarily by providing safe and healthy working conditions for our employees and ensuring that human rights such as freedom of association, equal opportunity etc. are incorporated in human resource practices. Ecofleet seeks to identify, assess and manage human rights impacts within our spheres of influence and activities in line with the company’s strategies and procedures. All employees are issued with a contract of employment which clearly states the terms and conditions of working at Ecofleet. The contracts are in line with the applicable local laws and legislations of the countries in which Ecofleet operates. We have a process in place based on corporate commitment, assessment/due-diligence, defining and implementing actions and measuring/communicating our results. Our assessment procedures allow us to evaluate the employees well-being and if employee satisfaction is identified below 75% (Based on our scoring system), a specific procedure is then set in motion to correct the impact. The procedure involves management, the area/department managers and the employees. Together, a corrective action plan is prepared and implemented. The action plan takes into account the wellbeing, development and requests from the employee, as well as their adjustment to new company strategies and development. A quarterly evaluation helps us to assess whether the action plan is on track and whether adjustments need to be made. The management together with the Area managers hold a yearly evaluation meeting with employees and the results are presented to the board. The procedure diagrammatically Measurement of outcomes Our employee satisfaction rate for 2015-2016 period is 29, measured on a scale of -100 to +100. This score shows very clear improvement compared to the previous 2014-2015 period. Over the last year, 5 employees have undergone competence development, by participating in courses such as Project Management (PRINCE2) and SEO courses (Search Engine Optimization). The percentage of sick days is at a low 6% We have cooperated with our local municipality in offering jobs to disabled persons and have one such person working with us. We comply with all relevant rules and regulations in the countries we operate and Ecofleet has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights/Labour violations. Anti-Corruption Policies and goals Bribery and corruption in any form is strictly prohibited and it is strictly prohibited to offer or receive gifts unless they are approved by Ecofleet’s management and are reasonable, proportionate and made in good faith. Facilitation payments are not allowed and It is not allowed to:  Select a business partner based on a receipt of gifts, hospitality or payment.  Make political contributions from company funds. Contributions made to charities or community projects must be approved by the Ecofleet management and made in good faith. Business partners:  Must demonstrate a high degree of integrity, honesty, professionalism and compliance with Ecofleet’s anti-bribery policy requirements.  Must have a policy that prohibits bribery and corruption in any form. We will continue to work with anti-corruption issues in the next period through further communication to Ecofleet employees and business partners Assessment All expenses and transactions must be reported, properly documented and recorded. These records are used to assess whether any violations have occurred. Third party accountants are also informed about our anti-corruption policy and are instructed to point out discrepancies in financial records. Implementation We have formulated a specific anti-corruption policy that is being communicated to all stakeholders. The CO is ultimately responsible for handling any corruption or bribery issues. Measurement of outcomes Ecofleet has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption and bribery in any of the countries that we operate in. External accountants used by Ecofleet have not yet identified any related corruption or bribery Environment Policies and goals Ecofleet is aware of the environmental impacts and at a minimum we comply with all applicable laws and regulations. Our policy is to reduce of environmental impacts throughout our operations. Our goal is to reach a stage where our impacts are minimised to the full potential according to available technologies and procedures. Our goal for the next period is to continue to reduce our CO2 foot print in the areas of energy use, waste management by using the principles of prevention, reduction reuse and recycling and reduce our customers CO2 footprint relating to their vehicle fleet. Assessment Ecofleet uses external consultants to assess our impacts and to suggest actions that could minimise our environmental impacts. Implementation Internally, we keep track and reduce our environmental impacts in energy use, waste, product use and transport. Product use impacts are reduced through the use of Ecolabelled products, energy impacts through employee awareness and energy saving technologies, waste impacts by using digital means rather than solids for information, filing etc. Transport or fleet management is what we specialise in so we optimise transport processes and reduce CO2 both internally and especially with our customer through our Green driving Module. Concerning the packaging and shipment of our products, we cooperate with our suppliers and carriers and are in the process of examining the possibilities of reducing CO2. This work will continue in the coming year. Measurement of outcomes Our use of Ecolabelled products has increased during the last year. F.X. Use Ecolabelled paper has increased from approximately 50 to 100%. We have reduced both transport and packaging through our:  Prevention procedure where units are tested remotely minimising faulty products.  RMA (Return Merchandize Authorization). Defect units that need to be repaired are tested and in many cases repaired remotely by changing the firmware using GPRS. As part of our RMA, we have introduced a refurbishing process for older units that prolongs the end of life to more than 5 years. Another initiative we implemented this last year is the setting up of a AV meeting system that enables us to hold meetings with employees based in different countries using high resolution camera and widescreen monitors. This has resulted in reducing the number of trips for management by more than 50%. One of our suppliers is now using recycle components in their packaging. Ecofleet has measurable results and holds records of CO2 reductions associated to our fleet management activities of all participating customers. Supply chain We seek to engage in open dialogue with stakeholders and contribute within the scope of our capabilities to promote the ten principles of Global Compact. We contact all our suppliers and send our responsible procurement guidelines document which includes requirements and guidelines about:  Responsible business behaviour and operating principles  Quality guidelines  Respectful treatment, use of company security forces, products liability, legal compliance  Our Code of conduct based on GC ten principles  A questionnaire relating to the above This has been our starting point by which we use to map our suppliers. Depending on the results, we then engage in a dialogue for the purpose of continuous environmental and social impacts improvement. Within the framework of our Values, we respect the cultures, customs and values of the people in communities where we operate and take into account their needs, concerns, and aspirations. We seek to play a positive role, within our spheres of influence, in capacitybuilding for the realization of human/labour rights. Closing statement A big part of our first year of working with the 10 principles has focused on developing our policies in specific areas and the development of our “responsible procurement” document has been one of the paramount results. This document includes guidelines for responsible operating procedures in the areas of: a. Social responsibility b. Ethical behaviour c. Environmental performance d. Business behaviour e. Quality assurance f. Verification and Compliance In this last year period and forward to the next period, we are focusing on systemising our CSR work through our existing operating systems, processes and tools such as LEAN and SIGMA 6. As we move further into our CSR work and as we develop various procedures to deal with CSR issues, it is evident that these must become a part of our Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). It is also evident that the way of working with CSR is also progressing with more and more ideas, information and tools that become available. As a result of some of last year’s developments, we are now in the process of studying the United Nations 17 SDGs to decide which of these are linked to our operations and how to adopt and integrate them.
