TBC Bank UN Global Compact Communication on Progress #3 Statement of the CEO Corporate Social Responsibility is a relatively new concept in Georgia. However, TBC Bank has been dedicated to community and social development, human rights protection and promotion, and ethical business practices through its many programs, initiatives and campaigns since the first years of its founding. In 2015, TBC Bank continued to deliver on its medium-term targets set out at the time of our IPO. We maintained strong profitability and outperformed market growth, while sustaining robust balance sheet quality. Moreover, we continued to place particular emphasis on our shareholders, customers, employees, and community, which we have always viewed as fundamental to our long-term success. Culture of Giving Back TBC Bank continues to work tirelessly on identifying the most effective and important means of giving back to our community and our employees. We act through a well-developed and comprehensive corporate social responsibility strategy to focus on traditional, as well as innovative projects that benefit culture, arts, sports and the wider society. This year, I would like to highlight two important projects that help us promote Georgian culture and the achievements of our people beyond local borders. Georgian National Rugby Team Georgia has a deeply rooted tradition of excellence in sports. The Georgian rugby team has achieved outstanding success and spotlighted the talent of our athletes in an international arena. Through our new exclusive partnership with the National Rugby team we will support their aspirations and ambitious goals for years to come. Georgian National Ballet and Opera Theatre TBC Bank has a tradition of supporting Georgian arts. This year, we started a partnership with the Georgian National Ballet and Opera Theatre in order to work toward developing this exquisite art form in our country and promoting their talent to international audiences. Our full CSR program includes these and other vital projects that continued in 2015, and is presented in the Strategic Report of the 2015 Annual Report, available on the IR website. Our third Communication on Progress provides details on the actions and measures TBC Bank has taken during 2015. We are proud and honored to share the commitment to doing business responsibly with other prominent members of the network and look forward to your comments and feedback on our work. Vakhtang Butskhrikidze Chief Executive Officer TBC at a Glance We create new opportunities for the success of people and businesses. TBC Bank is a leading universal banking group in Georgia with an unmatched market share of retail deposits at 34.3%1, and a number two position in total loans and deposits with 28.7% and 29.0% market share, respectively. We service over 1.6 million clients through a diversified multichannel platform that comprises 135 branches (including TBC Kredit branches), one of the largest networks of ATMs and POS terminals in Georgia, global award-winning internet banking, market-leading mobile, iPad and iPhone banking, a call centre, and TBC Pay terminals and kiosks. We employ over 5,300 people2 across our operations, more than half of whom have been with TBC for four or more years. Our Multichannel Distribution Platform TBC Bank’s globally recognized multichannel distribution platform complements our full service model perfectly. While our branches are carefully designed with a primary focus on customer satisfaction, our leading multichannel distribution platform allows us to offload routine transactions from branches to echannels. As a result, TBC has achieved a market-leading portfolio of gross loans per branch of GEL 36 million3. Over the past year, our multichannel capabilities have been recognized as best in the country and in the wider region, as well as being acclaimed globally. In 2016, TBC launched an entirely new concept of branch design with a particular focus on customer experience. The new design reflects TBC Bank’s welcoming, user-friendly and transparent approach to banking and has been created in partnership with Allen International, a strategic design consultancy focused on financial services. The redesigned branches leverage TBC Bank's strength in multichannel banking and feature cutting-edge e-banking tools and technology. The new concept was developed specifically for TBC Bank as a result of a comprehensive tailored study of the Bank’s existing branches and its clients’ needs and aspirations. Customer Experience TBC Bank has one of the best-known and most trusted brands in Georgia. As a result of the Bank’s tireless focus on customer-centric service and continued investment in introducing the most advanced banking technologies on the market, TBC Bank has built a strong reputation and long-standing relationships with its customers. According to internal and external research, TBC Bank maintained 1 All market share data is quoted according to the figures published by the NBG. 2 Including employees of all TBC Bank subsidiaries. 3 Gross loan portfolio according to NBG accounting standards for comparison purposes. market leading positions in customer experience in 2015 with the highest Customer Satisfaction (CSAT)4 and Net Promoter (NPS)5 scores in the country’s banking industry. TBC Bank Brand TBC Bank has one of the best-known and most trusted brands in Georgia. This is largely due to our high quality customer experience, strong reputation, long-standing relationships with customers, traditional focus on social responsibility, and targeted marketing campaigns. Over the years, we have received a number of prestigious industry awards, including being named as Best Bank in Georgia seven times by Global Finance magazine and The Banker and three times by EMEA Finance and Euromoney. Products and Services TBC Bank offers a wide range of banking products and services to its retail, corporate, SME and micro clients with the majority of our business concentrated in Georgia, which accounted for 99% of TBC's total assets and 100% of its net income as at and for the year ended 31 December 2015. Segment Reviews 4 CSAT Score is derived from Survey conducted by ACT (independent research company) and is based on different measures. Survey type face to face interviews, Sample size 2000 respondents per bank 5 The NPS is derived from the survey conducted by 2 separate research companies: ACT and IPM and measures the likelihood that a customer would recommend TBC to a friend. Final score is an average of scores from those separate surveys. IPM survey is phone based, Sample size 2000 respondents per bank. Retail Banking TBC Bank is a market leader in retail loans and retail deposits as at 31 December 2015. The retail segment represents 59.1% of the total deposit portfolio and 43.5% of the total loan portfolio, making it the Group’s largest segment in terms of both deposits and loans. We offer a full range of products to our retail customers, account and deposit products through our cutting-edge multichannel platform and a comprehensive distribution network, with special products and services offered to affluent and high net worth clients. We serve more than one million retail customers. By 31 December 2015, the Group’s retail loan portfolio reached GEL 2,020 million with the market share for individuals at 31.6%. At the same time, our market share in deposits of individuals stood at 34.3%. Corporate Banking Corporate Banking is a traditionally strong area of the Bank representing 32.3% of TBC’s total loan portfolio and 24.0% of the total deposits portfolio. We serve more than 1,400 corporate clients in Georgia, offering diverse lending, card and deposit products (including syndicated lending), foreign exchange operations, hedging, trade and project finance products (including factoring), escrow services, cash collection, insurance packages (through GPI Holding, a partner insurance company), leasing (through TBC Leasing) and brokerage and research services (through its brokerage and corporate advisory arm, TBC Capital). As at 31 December 2015, we held the second largest market share for legal entity loans and deposits of 26.2% and 23.4%, respectively. SME Banking SME banking accounted for 13.5% and 15.2% of TBC’s total loans and total deposits portfolios, respectively. TBC offers a diverse range of products and services to its SME segment customers, including trade finance, project finance, asset finance and working capital loans. We serve approximately 67,000 clients. TBC Bank remains the only bank to offer important education and valueadded services to SME businesses through its Business Support Program (see page # for additional information). Micro Banking (Bank Constanta) TBC Bank completed the merger with Bank Constanta in January 2015. The micro banking segment is the smallest but fastest growing segment of the Group, accounting for 10.6% and 1.8% of total loans and total deposits, respectively. This segment offers various types of loan and deposit products tailored to client needs. As at 31 December 2015, we served approximately 479,000 micro banking customers in Georgia. Subsidiaries In addition to its core banking business that TBC conducts within its retail, corporate, SME and micro segments through TBC Bank and TBC Kredit, TBC conducts supplementary operations through its other subsidiaries. These operations represented 1.9% of our total assets and 2.1% of our consolidated net income for the year ended 31 December 2015. Group Shares in Total Assets Shareholders Ratings TBC Bank is rated by Fitch Rating Agency and Moody’s Investor Services. The Bank’s current ratings are BB(Long Term IDR)/ B (Short Term IDR) assigned by Fitch and B1 (FC)/ Ba3 (LC) assigned by Moody’s. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT In June 2014, TBC Bank listed its shares on the London Stock Exchange through GDRs. As a public company, we are firmly committed to achieving highest standards of corporate governance, which are in accordance with all applicable regulatory requirements, best recommended practice, Basel requirements and the Bank’s future development plans. The Supervisory Board has the ultimate responsibility for the Bank’s business, risk strategy and financial soundness, as well as how the Bank organizes and governs itself with the goal of ensuring the long-term success of the Bank in order to best serve the needs of shareholders. Even before the Bank’s IPO in 2014, TBC was committed to building a robust corporate governance framework supported by its International Financial Institution (IFI) shareholders. In this Corporate Governance Review, we prepared a comprehensive assessment and analysis of the work of Board. The full report is provided in the 2015, Annual Report and this COP refers to pages contained with the Annual Report. Our Risk Management Chapter is presented on page 99 and in the Risks, Ethics and Compliance Committee Report on page 93. The Supervisory Board is charged with the responsibility of ensuring that the Bank’s Management achieves its strategic objectives. During the year, Management reviewed the Bank’s strategy, addressed in greater detail in the Strategic Report on page 14, and confirmed the updated strategy for years 2016-2020. The Supervisory Board carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks affecting TBC Bank, and these are discussed in greater detail in the Chapter on Principal Risks and Uncertainties in the Strategic Report on page 14. The Supervisory Board reviewed and approved our new Risk Appetite Framework and Risk Appetite Statement, as well as the updated Operation Risks Framework, and the new Risk Management Strategic Initiatives. TBC takes great pride in the fact that it is one of the best and largest employers in the Georgian private sector. The Bank looks to create a working environment where the best people strive to excel in their fields every day. We believe our advanced corporate governance ensures a fully engaged relationship between our company and our shareholders and stakeholders. The Bank’s comprehensive investor communications programme has allowed its top management to meet with investors and shareholders on four separate roadshows during 2015. Moreover, our Investor Relations website offers transparent, accurate and timely information to our investors. More information on the dialogue between TBC Bank and its shareholders is provided on page 199 of the Bank’s Annual Report (please find the link below). Please find the full description of TBC Bank Corporate Governance in the Bank’s Annual Report, page 78. RISK MANAGEMENT Risk Management Objectives and Principles TBC Bank operates a strong and independent, business minded risk management system. Its main objective is to contribute to the sustainability of risk adjusted returns through implementation of an efficient risk management system. Four major principles in the course of risk management have been adopted to enable the accomplishment of major objectives: Govern risks in a transparent manner to obtain understanding and trust. Consistency and transparency in risk related processes and policies represent preconditions for gaining trust from various stakeholders. The communication of risk goals and strategic priorities to governing bodies and the provision of a comprehensive follow-up in an accountable manner are key priorities for risk staff. Promote sustainable growth and TBC Bank’s resiliency through prudent risk management. Risk management represents a backstop against excessive risk-taking. Capital adequacy management and strong forward-looking tools and decision-making ensure TBC Bank’s sustainability and resiliency. Ensure that risk management is an enabler of TBC Bank's strategy. Risk staff provide assurance on the feasibility of the achievement of objectives through risk identification and management. Identification and the adequate pricing of risks, as well as risk mitigation actions, help generate desired returns and achieve planned targets. Ensure that risk management represents a competitive advantage for TBC Bank. Comprehensive, transparent and prudent risk governance facilitates understanding and trust from multiple stakeholders and ensures the sustainability and resiliency of the business model and the positioning of risk management as TBC Bank’s competitive advantage and strategic enabler. Key Risks The key risks faced by TBC Bank include credit risk, liquidity and market risks (including interest rate risk and foreign currency risk) and operational risk. Moreover, strategic, reputational and compliance risks are also recognised. Credit risk. As a provider of banking services, TBC Bank is exposed to risk of losses due to the failure of a customer or counterparty to meet its obligations to settle outstanding amounts in accordance with agreed terms. Credit risk is the most material risk faced by the Bank as long as it is engaged mainly in traditional lending activity with a simple balance sheet. Due to high dollarisation of the economy, currency induced credit risk is one of the significant components of credit risk, which relates to risks arising from foreign currency-denominated loans to un-hedged borrowers in the Bank’s portfolio. Credit risk also includes concentration risk, which is the risk related to credit portfolio quality deterioration due to large exposures provided to single borrowers or groups of connected borrowers, or loan concentration in certain economic industries. Liquidity Risk. Liquidity risk is inherent in banking operations. Both funding and market liquidity risks can emerge from a number of factors which are beyond TBC’s control. Due to financial market instability, factors such as a downgrade in credit ratings or other negative developments can affect the price or ability to access funding necessary to make payments in respect of the Bank’s future indebtedness. Market Risk. TBC Bank does not operate a trading book. Thus, its exposure to market risk comprises foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk in the banking book. Accordingly TBC's only exposure to market risk is foreign exchange risk in its structural book , comprising its regular commercial banking activities having no trading, arbitrage or speculative intent. Due to high dollarization of the economy in Georgia, movements in foreign exchange rates, can adverse effect TBC’s financial position. Interest Rate Risk arises from potential changes in market interest rates that can adversely affect the value of TBC's financial assets and liabilities. This risk can arise from maturity mismatches of assets and liabilities, as well as from the repricing characteristics of such assets and liabilities. Operational Risk. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed processes, people and systems or from external events. It includes legal risk, but excludes strategic and reputational risk. Reputational Risk. Reputational risk is the possible loss of the organisation’s reputational capital resulting in decline of the organisation’s overall value and/or increased regulatory or other costs. It includes adverse events related to ethics, safety, security, sustainability, quality, and innovation. Strategic Risk. Changes in market conditions, customer behaviour, and technology may all negatively impact the Bank’s results if adaptability to the environment is compromised. Respectively the Bank is exposed to strategic risk. Compliance Risk. The Bank is exposed to compliance risk given that it is governed by local regulations as well as creditor covenants. See detailed description of key risk factors in Strategic Report, Principal Risks and Uncertainties. Please find the full description of TBC Bank Corporate Governance in the Bank’s Annual Report, page 99. PEOPLE TBC Bank places special emphasis on its highly professional workforce, which is one of the key competitive advantages of the Bank. In 2015, the Bank continued strengthening its corporate culture, developing the people, who invest their time and effort in the Bank’s success, and providing them with interesting opportunities to grow with the company. At the end of 2015, TBC Bank, together with its subsidiaries, employed 5,262 people, 145 or 3% more than as of the same period in 2014. TBC Bank alone employed 91% of the total workforce. The remaining 9% of our staff were employed by TBC Kredit, TBC Pay, TBC Leasing and other smaller subsidiaries. Turnover by department At 11% in 2015, TBC bank has one of the lowest turn-over rates in the country due to TBC's competitive compensation and benefits policies, career development opportunities and its strategy of internal promotions. A relatively high index in 2015 was due to the merger with the former Bank Constanta. Due to the functional reorganization and merger of different head office units, part of the employees of the former Bank Constanta left the Bank with proper compensation. 2013 2014 2015 Head office + branches 7% (153) 7% (185) 11% (568) Finance 5% (2) 14% (6) 30% (14) Corporate 13% (6) 8% (5) 9% (5) Retail & SME 8% (8) 11% (31) 12% (38) Operations 4% (12) 3% (13) 12% (54) Risks 9% (7) 7% (6) 8% (15) IT 12% (14) 8% (10) 20% (31) Micro, Marketing & PR 0%(0) 0% (0) 56% (33) Branches 7% (89) 7% (103) 15% (361) Equal Opportunity Employment and Gender Balance TBC Bank is an equal opportunity employer. As part of our Code of Conduct we do not discriminate in employment decisions based on gender, ethnicity, religion, disability or other protected categories. Performance Assessment and Remuneration HR has developed an extensive policy to evaluate professional growth and skills of our employees. Branches and other front office staff have a performance based motivation system (linked to financial and other operational KPIs) that was developed by external consultants. Certain Head Office staff is evaluated against a Management by Objectives (MBO) system where an employee and the respective manager agree to the goals and objectives that are closely aligned with the broad organizational strategic objectives. The process includes ongoing tracking and biannual feedback on employee achievements. Performance Assessment and final feedback is standardised across the Bank and is based on a uniform scoring system that managers are required to use. In 2015, TBC Bank adopted a new, 3-year compensation system for the members of the senior and middle management, developed in partnership with EY. Employee Communication and Survey Regular communication with employees is an integral part of the Bank’s corporate culture. TBC ensures that the entire team is up to date with the latest information of the Bank’s activities via our executive presentations, TBC magazine, intranet content and different corporate events organised by the HR Department. Since 2014, the Bank has appointed contact persons to maintain smooth communication between branches and the head office. Additionally, a specialised SMS service to the entire staff – TBC Family – also supplements the HR Department’s traditional communication channels. The HR department regularly conducts Employee Satisfaction and Engagement Surveys in order to assess the attitude of our staff members and take actions accordingly. In 2015, the survey was conducted by VU University of Amsterdam, a leading research university in Europe. The latest survey generated an extremely high participation rate at 74% of all employees responding to the questionnaire. Employee Benefits Policy TBC Bank Provides various types of non-wage compensation to employees including bonuses, paid annual leave and sick leave, competitive pension and health benefits and non-monetary benefits. TBC Bank highly values its staff and recognizes that the Bank’s success largely depends on the outstanding performance of its workforce and thus, TBC offers a market-leading employee benefits package. Employee Training and Leadership Development TBC Bank’s HR Strategy is to have the best employees on the market with high performance and company loyalty. Its HR management system is supported by a tailored IT system to manage personnel through career planning, training and performance evaluations. Since 2013, the Bank implements part of its mandatory and voluntary training programs through a distance learning system, which allows employees to acquire knowledge and skills at their own pace and at lesser cost to the Bank. In addition to this, TBC Bank provides internal training programs via TBC Academy, an in-house educational resource that provides employees an opportunity to acquire knowledge in various banking disciplines and features lecturers from TBC's top and middle management. TBC Academy concentrates on offering learning opportunities in customer service, negotiation skills, conflict resolution, time management, business communication, team building and banking products. Additionally, certain mandatory training programs are provided to employees based on required skills for their respective departments. TBC will continue setting new instruments to improve employee qualifications in order to acquire and maintain the best professionals on the market. MBA and Qualifications In addition to in-house training opportunities, TBC Bank provides support to the best employees for external training, financing internationally acknowledged qualifications such as CFA and ACCA as per the departments’ requirements. TBC also operates a scholarship fund, created in 2012, that has already financed 20 middle managers from the Bank who have had their MBAs co-financed both locally as well as internationally. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSBILITY At TBC Bank, we firmly believe in our responsibility to support the community, the environment and the wider stakeholders among which we operate. The Bank organizes its CSR Strategy into four main areas: workplace, market place, environment and community. Our Community sponsorship program is further broken down into themes of focus that complement our brand and tradition. Workplace TBC Bank is dedicated to creating the best workplace experience for its employees. We offer employees one of the most competitive benefits packages in the country, as well as advanced professional education and training opportunities. Projects implemented for TBC Bank employees include:  TBC Fund for Employees with Large Families (founded in 2013);  TBC Academy providing training and workshops in different areas of business and banking free of charge for TBC Bank employees (founded in 2011);  Tuition funding for middle management employees for MBA-level study;  Full social benefits package, including health insurance, pension schemes, and fully-paid maternity and paternity leave. These and other matters concerning employee relations are covered in greater detail on page #. Marketplace TBC Bank has a traditional commitment to supporting small and medium size businesses. We have a track record for attracting dedicated facilities for SME financing – including local currency and sectorspecific funds for high-priority industries in the country (such as agriculture, healthcare and energy). Additionally, TBC Bank is the first bank in the region to offer value-added services to its SME clients that include networking, educational and consulting opportunities provided free of charge. These services are implemented through the Bank’s pioneering Business Support Programme launched in 2013 with support from IFC and ADB and in partnership with IBM, Ernst & Young and BDO. The achievements of the Business Support Programme are covered in greater detail on page #. Environment TBC Bank believes it has one of the most advanced Environmental and Social Risk Management systems in the region. Our ESMS Policy is aligned with the requirements of all relevant recommended best practices. The system has been developed in cooperation with EBRD, IFC, DEG, ADB, and FMO and includes provisions that are often much stricter than national requirements. The Bank also ensures that its clients and sub-contractors comply with international social and environmental standards. ESMS Policy TBC Bank was one of the first banks in the country to develop an Environmental and Social Management System (ESMS). The ESMS Policy focuses on the environmental and social issues associated with commercial lending and investments. The main provisions of the ESMS policy are as follows:  Environmental and social (E&S) risks associated with the Bank’s operations, relying on tools like EBRD’s Environmental and Social Risk Management Manual, IFC’s web-based ES toolkit, FMOs Sectoral Guidelines for Environmental and Social Risk Assessment, IFC’s Sustainability Framework and Performance Standards and Guidance Notes, UNEP-FI’s Guide to Banking and Sustainability, and ADB’s ESMS Template for Banks and Funds.  Protection of human and labour rights, especially those of vulnerable population groups. TBC Bank regularly updates the SEMS document,, which ensures that the Bank effectively manages environmental and social risks associated with its operations in order to minimize its impact on the environment and its stakeholders. Full details of the TBC Bank ESMS policy are available on the Bank’s Investor Relations website. Community TBC Bank differentiates itself through an impactful, long-term and significant financial commitment to developing culture, art and music in Georgia, as well as by contributing to the maintenance of the Georgian national heritage. Our investment and support in the community has continued with a traditional focus, and took on several new directions during 2015. Community Projects implemented by TBC Bank in 2015 include:  Support fund for 13 June victims  Exclusive sponsorship of the Georgian National Rugby Team  Exclusive sponsorship of the Georgian National Ballet and Opera Theatre  An exclusive exhibition of Georgian cultural heritage  The major Georgian Literary Award Saba  The Saba Electronic Bookstore  The first digital TV station Artarea  TBC Art Gallery and TBC Gallery for Young Georgian Artists Support Fund for 13 June Victims In 2015, Tbilisi, the capital city of Georgia, had to deal with the consequences of serious flood damage, resulting in an estimated GEL 40 million in damage. In support of the families that have suffered from the disaster, TBC Bank has set up a special fund and donated GEL 50,000 to mitigate some of the material damage incurred by Tbilisi residents. TBC also started a fund that generated the largest public participation ever recorded in the country – with the help of its customers, employees, partners and other stakeholders, the Bank raised over GEL 1 million for the victims of the Fund. One of the areas most affected by the flood was a small public park, located in the centre of the city. In order to further support the rehabilitation of the city following the 13 June events, TBC Bank donated an additional GEL 50,000 to build a social café in the renovated park. Rugby TBC Bank is the new exclusive sponsor of the Georgian rugby union and has become the main sponsor at all levels of the game in Georgia. The major goal of this partnership is to promote rugby and rugby values in Georgian society and to make rugby an inseparable part of Georgian culture and to increase the popularity of the sport in Georgia, and the region.. Georgia is currently considered a second tier rugby union nation and is one of the world’s fastest growing rugby nations in terms of participation. The Georgian National Rugby team have won the European Nations Cup 8 times, most recently during the 2015 season. Ballet TBC Bank is the new exclusive sponsor the Georgian National Ballet and Opera Theatre. The main goal of this partnership is to popularize ballet and implement social and cultural projects. The Georgian National Ballet is the only professional ballet company in Georgia and attracts collaboration from the world’s leading artists. #WriteInGeorgian (#წერექართულად) TBC Bank has a well-established track-record as a major sponsor of Georgian cultural heritage. We continue to support traditional causes by maintaining, restoring and promoting achievements of historic value for the country. In 2015, TBC Bank launched a campaign #WriteinGeorgian in order to preserve the unique cultural heritage that is the Georgian language. The campaign encourages the use of the Georgian alphabet and Georgian words in everyday and business communication. Projects launched under this initiative include the creation of a Georgian alphabet add-in for iPhones, iPads and android smartphones, children’s alphabet board games and educational materials published through the Bank’s innovative e-book store SABA. In 2015, TBC also sponsored an international art festival Fest i Nova 2015 G-15 that featured local and international modern artists. During the festival, TBC presented a creative installation dedicated to the Georgian language and Georgian alphabet. Ancient Georgian Treasures at TBC Galleries TBC Bank continues to showcase unique artifacts of Georgian culture. Our projects raise awareness of the importance of preserving and understanding our unique Georgian heritage. In 2015, TBC Gallery hosted an exhibition of archeological findings from an ancient Georgian monastery in Cyprus. The Monastery is a site-museum in Cyprus and has become a popular tourist destination on the island. The artifacts from the Monastery were virtually unknown to the wider Georgian public and were featured at the TBC Gallery for the first time in an exclusive display. The Bank also continues to support the Oni Local Museum that preserves a unique collection of ancient Georgian openwork bronze buckles featured at TBC Art Gallery in 2014. Discovering Young Artists The TBC Art Gallery actively presented a number of significant art events to the public throughout 2015. Several innovative exhibitions supported young Georgian artists and offered viewers a new take on contemporary expression. During the year, the TBC Art Gallery and TBC Galleries host over 80 exhibitions. Among these, the Kutaisi branch of TBC Gallery featured a multimedia exhibit “URB EX” by Gio Sumbadze, who explores modern urban cities. In contrast, the Tbilisi branch of TBC Gallery hosted an installation “My Home”, originally created for Vico Vitri Arte, a popular Italian art project. The exhibition united Georgian and foreign artists who explore cultural and national identity through their work. Additionally, TBC continued many of its traditional projects created to support young Georgian artists through the following initiatives: Artarea www.artarea.tv Artarea is the first Georgian TV channel dedicated to art continued to provide viewers with news on the latest developments and achievements in culture and arts. Through Artarea, TBC sponsored 33 public lectures on art and music, 22 concerts, and 13 exhibitions. These events attracted over 5000 viewers. Space for Contemporary Artists TBC Bank continued to operate the first digital space dedicated to modern video art titled ART WALL. Located at one of the Bank’s branches in the central part of the capital city, the Wall presents open-air art shows by established and promising Georgian artists. In 2015, TBC achieved another breakthrough in our customer experience by introducing an innovative, customer-centric branch design, created in partnership with Allen International. In addition to the cutting-edge banking technology, customers are treated to an exclusive exhibition of young artists within our newly branches. Please see page # for more information on the new branch design. Promotion of Young Photographers In 2015, TBC continued its traditional project first launched in 2004. Kolga, a photo competition for young artists, seeks to discover and promote yet unknown photographers. The winning pieces were displayed at the Bank’s head office. Literary Award Saba and SABA Online Bookstore TBC continued to support the Saba Literary Awards Programme, one of the most respected and anticipated literary events in the country. TBC Bank founded the program in 2003 with 2015 marking the 14th anniversary of the ceremony. To this date, the Bank has recognized over 90 authors and awarded c. GEL 445,000 in prizes. SABA online bookstore, available at www.saba.com.ge, is a satellite project to the Awards Programme. The project has been gaining popularity among the local and expatriate communities. The e-bookstore, which also introduced the first Georgian e-reader apps for Android and iOS in 2014, promotes Georgian literature beyond the country’s borders and allows new authors to be discovered and promoted. In 2015, SABA e-store traveled to schools in the regions of the country, where TBC created small electronic libraries, equipped with tablets and 600 pre-installed e-books. PROGRESS ON CG PRINCIPLES GC Principles 1-2: Human Rights ESMS Policy Our SEMS provides that the Bank manages the environmental and social risks associated with its operations in order to minimize impacts on the environment and our stakeholders and to enhance long term returns to our shareholders. TBC Bank ESME policy is available through the Bank’s Investor Relationswebsite. Please refer to the section titled Corporate Social Responsibility Environment for more details. GC Principles 3-6: Labor TBC Bank’s HR strategy is fully in line with the local requirements and international best practices. The Bank complies with and endorses labour standards that are well above the national minimum as required by the current labor code, including in important areas as health insurance, adequate working environment and competitive pay. TBC Bank is also committed to protecting all policies against child labor. Please refer to the section titled People for more details on trainings, professional development and employee performance assessment. GC Principles 7-9: Environment ESMS Policy The ESMS policy fully covers local requirements and international best practices with regards to standards of environmental protection. Please refer to the ESMS policy document (linked above) for additional details. The Bank ensures that all of its clients are in compliance with the guidelines and requirements detailed in the SEMS document. Environmental reporting guidelines are covered in detail in Annexes D and E of the SEMS policy document. Please refer to the section titled Corporate Social Responsibility Environment for more details. GC Principles 10: Anti-Corruption Local Legislation Overview The authority that coordinates the AML/CTF processes in country is Financial Monitoring Service (FMS) of Georgia. FMS of Georgia is a member of Moneyval (Committee of Experts on the Evaluation of AntiMoney Laundering Measures and the Financing of Terrorism) and actively cooperates with international organizations and foreign Financial Intelligence Units. AML/CTF Overview TBC Bank is committed to high standards of anti-money laundering/counter terrorist financing (AML/CTF) and requires all TBC group companies, management and employees to adhere to these standards in order to prevent the use of TBC’s products and services for money laundering/terrorist financing purposes. Implemented AML/CTF compliance program comprises written policies, procedures, internal controls and systems including but not limited to:  The identification of potential AML/CTF risks relevant to each bank’s activities.  Global and local AML/CTF policies and procedures to ensure compliance with AML laws and regulations.  Customer identification and verification ( including beneficial owners)  Rules regarding transactions of Politically Exposed Persons (PEPs)  Enhanced due diligence of increased risk clients  Internal procedures for monitoring and reporting suspicious activities of the Bank’s customers  Customer screening against global list of terrorists and specially designated nationalities, relevant financial and other sanctions lists  Maintenance of relevant records  Regular staff training and awareness raising  Management of regulatory inquiries and incidents  Coordinating day-to-day compliance by responsible compliance staff Standards set out in the internal AML/CTF policy are based on applicable legal and regulatory requirements to prevent TBC Bank and its clients from money laundering, terrorist financing or other fraudulent activities. TBC Bank conducts its business in compliance with the following general principles: Know Your Client and Customer Identification procedures KYC procedures include the following key elements: customer identification, customer acceptance policy, risk management and permanent monitoring of high risk clients’ accounts. Prior to executing any type of business, the Bank determines and documents the true identity of customers and obtains information about the purpose and real nature of the business. The Bank obtains and documents any additional information, appropriate to the assessment of the money laundering risk with a risksensitive approach. TBC Bank clarifies whether the customer is acting on behalf of third party or legal entity as trustee or intermediary. In such cases, the Bank obtains satisfactory evidence about the identity of any intermediaries and of the persons upon whose behalf they are acting, as well as the nature of the trust measures in place. KYC procedures are always complied with when customers open accounts and establish a new business relationship. The Bank's AML/CTF and KYC procedures are conducted on a risk-based approach. Consequently, anonymous accounts are not opened in the Bank. TBC Bank has an automated controlling system in place whereby the Bank, constantly monitors private individuals and legal entities against global watch lists. Correspondent Banking Relationship The Bank does not have correspondent relations with shell-banks . The Bank always determines the reputation of correspondent institutions, including whether they have been subject to money laundering or terrorist financing investigations or other regulatory actions/sanctions. Monitoring and Reporting of Suspicious Transactions and Activities In accordance with the requirements of the law of Georgia on Facilitating the Prevention of Illicit Income Legalization, TBC Bank implements and maintains measures for handling suspicious transactions. The Bank considers indications that a customer's money originated from unlawful activities or other money laundering activities and reports all identified instances of suspicious activities to the relevant authorities. The Bank avoids providing support or assistance to parties seeking to deceive law enforcement authorities through the provision of false, altered, incomplete or missing information. Reporting of suspicious transactions/activities complies with the law of Georgia on Facilitating the Prevention of Illicit Income Legalization, with the Order N 4 of the Head of Financial Monitoring Service of Georgia on Receiving, Systemizing and Processing the Information by Commercial Banks and with other normative acts and regulations. Accordingly, all the staff is diligent in monitoring of any unusual or suspicious transactions/activities based on the relevant applicable criteria. All employees of TBC Bank who come into a direct or indirect contact with customers are trained to deal with and respond to transactions that raise suspicion of money laundering or financing of terrorism. Record and Document Keeping Records of all documents obtained for the purpose of identification and all transaction data, as well as other documents are kept electronically for at least 15 years. If you have any questions or require additional information regarding TBC Bank’s AntiMoney Laundering efforts, please contact: FMS@tbcbank.com.ge Chief Compliance Officer JSC TBC Bank FATCA Disclosure JSC TBC Bank and its subsidiary FFIs were registered with the IRS to be FATCA compliant on 2nd of May, 2014. The FATCA regulations require JSC TBC Bank to review existing onboarding and withholding processes and enhance them accordingly with the regulations, where required. JSC TBC Bank must collect and verify appropriate client information, then report to local government authorities that have entered into intergovernmental agreements. GIIN assigned to JSC TBC Bank is the following: YWY4EU.00000.LE.268. JSC TBC Bank is proactively implementing changes to its current business in order to comply with FATCA regulations while best serving its clients and counterparties. Please refer to the section titled Risk Management for more information, as well as the Investor Relations website. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Human Rights and Environment (SEMS) There have not been any complaints or violations observed in terms of Human rights and environmental policies as provided in the ESMS document. TBC Bank continues to rigorously endorse the ESMS requirements and standards among all of its partners and submits reports on each of its clients every six months. Please refer to the section titled Corporate Social Responsibility Environment for more details. Labour (HR) TBC Bank performs employee satisfaction surveys annually, where the Bank consistently achieves high levels of employee satisfaction. Please refer to the section titled People for more details. Anti-corruption (AML) The Bank is fully compliant with all relevant local and international AML, KYC and Compliance legislation.
