COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS CSR REPORT 2015 THE UNITED NATI O NS G LO BAL CO M PAC T T E N P R I N C I P L E S The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is the world’s largest voluntary corporate citizenship initiative. The UNGC issues Ten Principles on Human Rights, Labour Standards, the Environment and Corruption. Membership of the UNGC requires companies to issue a ‘Communication on Progress’ report annually. This report is our seventh COP and it outlines Shop Direct’s activities in support of these Ten Principles. HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 1 Principle 3 Principle 7 Principle 10 Businesses should support and respect Businesses should uphold the freedom of Businesses should support a precautionary Businesses should work against all forms the protection of internationally-proclaimed association and the effective recognition of approach to environmental challenges; of corruption, including extortion and human rights; and the right to collective bargaining; bribery. Principle 8 Principle 2 Principle 4 Undertake initiatives to promote greater Make sure that they are not complicit in The elimination of all forms of forced and environmental responsibility; and human rights abuses. compulsory labour; Principle 9 Principle 5 Encourage the development and diffusion The effective abolition of child labour; and of environmentally-friendly technologies. Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 2 CEO CO M M I TM ENT I am proud to report that 2015 was another year of strong progress at Shop Direct. We produced our last catalogues in January and are now the UK’s second largest pureplay digital retailer. Our 2015 financial year was our third consecutive year of record sales and profits. It was particularly pleasing that we managed to report such a strong trading performance while taking important steps forward on our journey to world class. As is befitting of a world class digital retailer, we continue to support the United Nations Global Compact and to abide by the Ten Principles in all of our business operations. We place a strong focus on maintaining strong ethical and environmental standards and being the best possible citizen we can in the communities in which we operate. With that in mind, we developed our existing relationships with the ETI and the Bangladesh Accord during the year, and forged an important new partnership with SEDEX. We also took the decision to reinvigorate our CSR board of senior internal stakeholders, inviting several new members of our leadership team to join and appointing our group product director as chair. This group is tasked with driving and embedding our CSR agenda across Shop Direct and is playing an important role in keeping us honest – particularly in emerging areas, such as data security and privacy. We have numerous initiatives underway that will drive us ever closer to world class and I look forward to updating on those in 2017. In the meantime, this report provides an overview of key activities undertaken across the business during 2015. We hope you enjoy it and find it useful. Alex Baldock Group chief executive M A K E G O O D THI N G S E A S I LY ACCE S S I BL E T O M ORE P E OP L E • 3 THE CSR BO ARD Matt Dixon Group product director Dan Rubel Jonathan Wall Andy Wolfe John Pears Paul Wright Kenyatte Nelson Group strategy & eCommerce director Chief information Credit risk & operations Global sourcing director Marketing director communications director officer director Peter Johnson Sarah Willett Jeremy Darke Rob Hardman Tony Druce Head of internal audit People director Head of IT security Commercial director Head of global supply management 4 L ABO UR, HUM AN RI G HTS AND S O U R C I N G POLICIES Bangladesh Accord on Fire & Building Safety. states the following: Year Factory audits Shop Direct continues to have strict policies in place on labour, human rights and sourcing: SUMMARY “We will not tolerate forced labour, bonded labour 2013 400 During 2015, we maintained our commitment to or labour which involves physical or mental • We have a code of conduct based on the UNGC Principles via our team of in-house experts abuse. This means that suppliers must not use or 2014 400 Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) base code and membership of the SEDEX factory audit threaten workers with any physical punishment, 2015 300 sharing platform. verbal or sexual harassment or dominate or • All suppliers sign our terms of purchase restrain workers by force, authority or threats. Table: Factory ethical & environmental audits agreement and by doing so agree to abide HUMAN RIGHTS Workers must not be required to lodge ‘deposits’ and revisits by the terms of the Shop Direct code of We maintained our policy that all factories or their identity papers with their employer and conduct producing our own brand product must they must be free to leave their employer SUPPLY CHAIN MONITORING have an appropriate ethical audit, after reasonable notice.” During 2015, factory audits were completed in • We check every factory manufacturing our thereby ensuring that no abuses Bangladesh, Belgium, China, Estonia, India, own brand product prior to contract and of human rights took place. The Shop Direct factory Indonesia, Malaysia, the Netherlands, Pakistan, assign a grade (green, amber and red) We did not source from monitoring programme Poland, Romania, Sri Lanka, Turkey, Vietnam and countries with UK, EU found no cases of the UK. Topics covered by the audit included or UN-mandated modern slavery, people health and safety, forced labour (modern slavery • The following issues are deemed zero trade sanctions or trafficking or forced and trafficking), child labour, discrimination, tolerance: child labour, forced labour, embargoes during labour in 2015/16. working conditions and employment terms, wages dangerous working conditions, access the year. Nor did and hours and the environment. denied to property and/or documents, bribery and corruption we source from CHILD LABOUR Myanmar due to Our ethical and These figures include site reviews conducted continuing human environmental code by Shop Direct’s own factory auditors, audits • If issues are found at an existing Shop rights abuses in of conduct clearly completed on behalf of Shop Direct by accredited Direct factory then we work with that factory Rakhine province. outlines a strong third parties, and desk reviews of existing to put things right position on child audits. SEDEX membership, which was new for FORCED LABOUR labour: Shop Direct in 2015, has delivered improved • We have strict product sourcing policies transparency for existing audits and also allowed & THE MODERN on diamond sourcing, timber sourcing and us to share audits with other retailers and SEDEX SLAVERY ACT 2015 “Exploitation of design ethics members. child labour is totally The UK Government’s unacceptable under any • We continue to maintain a strict no fur PLANS FOR 2016 Modern Slavery Act 2015 circumstances. Suppliers policy and rigid guidelines on the use of During the SEDEX on-boarding process, aims to specifically address 21st must not employ any person skins, based on industry best practice we identified a number of key gaps, both century forms of modern slavery. under the minimum legal working Shop Direct takes this legislation extremely age applicable to their country and under in the availability of data and audits as well PARTNERSHIPS seriously and we have continued to monitor our no circumstances must they employ anybody as improvements that could be made to our In 2015, we became a member of SEDEX, the own brand supply chain for modern slavery. under the age of 14 years.” processes. These need to be addressed as a global factory audit sharing platform, adding to priority. In next year’s report, we will update on our existing membership of the Ethical Trading steps taken in this area and the outputs. The Shop Direct ethical and environmental code The Shop Direct factory monitoring programme Initiative and our role as a signatory to the of conduct, which is signed by all suppliers, found no cases of child labour in 2015/16. 5 PEO PLE POLICIES CELEBRATING SUCCESS THROUGH OUR WORLD CLASS TALENT WORLD CLASS ENGAGEMENT Shop Direct is compliant with all UK employment PURPOSE AND VALUES Shop Direct supports colleagues to be the best they At Shop Direct, we believe that happy people law and we proactively look to integrate updates Our world class digital recognition scheme, Shine, can be through Talent Online – our digital home for = happy customers = happy shareholders. We and improvements. Our people activity can be celebrates the great work done by our colleagues. talent – which includes acquisition, development prioritise this to such an extent that colleague grouped under five policies: Each month, colleagues are allocated points and maximising performance. Colleagues engagement is one of our key strategic KPIs, to award to anyone within the business, via a across the business can now digitally manage measured twice a year through an annual • Shop Direct is a purpose and values-led Facebook-style feed. Colleagues can recognise one their performance goals and reviews, access engagement survey and temperature check. Our business another in three different ways: personalised development and view relevant job engagement score for 2015 was 84% – truly world opportunities. class and within the upper quartile of companies • We aim to attract and retain world class talent • Delivering on our purpose awards 500 globally. points – which hold a monetary value of £5 During 2015, we focused on improving our digital • We release our talent’s full potential – to recognise someone for doing a capabilities and skills, introduced an IT PLANS FOR 2016 piece of work that connects to apprenticeship programme and To keep up the pace as we move closer to world our purpose; colleagues internships in our eCommerce class, we’ll be focusing our energy in five key areas • We inspire internal stakeholders through have one opportunity and fashion teams, and began during 2016: communications per month to award to build closer links with these points, while universities and local Digital workplace: interventions across technology, • We focus on structured ways of working to managers have schools. workplace and ways of working will bring together ensure we are fit for world class two a world class mindset with our values and retail LEGISLATION AND expertise PARTNERSHIPS • Living our GOVERNANCE All people services are provided in line with values Being mindful of the Increased productivity: we will continue to create government policy and adhere to legal requirements recognises new National Living and sustain a productive and efficient organisation, and governance. We work closely to ensure we a colleague Wage legislation, through process improvement, technological uphold our positive working relationship with our for displaying we reviewed our change and sourcing trade union, USDAW. We also seek to maintain a values-led current pay ranges close relationship with affiliated groups such as the behaviours, and implemented Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development Talent and leadership: we will focus our abilities with no limit our obligations early. to nurture, hire and develop talent in a way that and we are an active member of the British Retail on these This benefitted 64 Consortium. challenges and inspires; our Talent Online services recognitions colleagues aged up will be extended to our overseas colleagues and to 25. we will be introducing succession and career paths SUMMARY • Just say thanks is for online We have a clear purpose – to make good things those little things that In addition, we introduced a easily accessible to more people – and set of values really count, with no limit pension governance forum to – trusted, ambitious, proud, innovative and together Celebration: we will remain led by our values, on the number colleagues can educate colleagues and issued our empower colleagues and celebrate success, – that underpin our strategy and guide our business award first pensions newsletter. and our people in everything we do. As part of this, including rolling out Shine to our offices in Ireland our people strategy states that “we’ll have the most and Asia We regularly reward our top recognising and We also set up a Remuneration Committee (RemCo) capable and committed people, free to make the recognised colleagues across the business, for our regulated financial services business. Customer closeness: we will enable our people most of their talent, ideas and energy, focused on acknowledging over 200 colleagues per quarter as RemCo is independently chaired and aims to to get closer to our customer, empowering them to delivering our purpose. They’ll be bound together ‘Shine superheroes’. ensure we adopt FCA best practice. make decisions to serve her better by a set of high standards and behaviours and we’ll invest in them to release their full potential.” Since launching Shine in June 2014, recognition This year, we also further expanded our flexible has become part of the Shop Direct DNA with more benefits offer, providing more choice, and widened than 500,000 recognitions made by colleagues. In the scheme to include more colleagues. that time, our recognition approach and platform has become widely recognised as industry leading and has won and been shortlisted for several awards. 6 BO DY I M AG E POLICIES PARTNERSHIPS • Never comment or endorse cosmetic Shop Direct has a number of policies surrounding We work with a variety of external model surgery in any content we produce body image and model booking to ensure we agencies, all of which must adhere to our policies. produce positive content relevant to our customer: Shop Direct retains control of all images used on • Always produce positive editorial content our sites. around physical or mental disability • All adult models must be a minimum of 18 where relevant years old (target age pitch 30 years) SUMMARY In 2015, we increased the ethnic diversity within PLANS FOR 2016 • We only use models that are a minimum of a our signed off model board from 5% to over 30%. During 2016, we will maintain our existing female UK size 8 through to a size 16 level of ethnic diversity across our model In addition, we actively increased female adult board. Following this year’s customer • We actively exclude models that appear model minimum age range requirements to reflect research recommendations, we also plan underweight the age of our target customer (no younger than to review our brand imagery and model 18 but should look at least 25 and ideally 30). pitch to reflect the results. Specifically, • All ethnicities and nationalities are desirable we will be looking to promote inclusivity by to represent the diversity of our customer We also commissioned a research project to including models who are more mature and base understand consumer preferences towards model who have more achievable and healthy body age, racial mix and body shape, in order to help shapes. • All child models must appear within healthy us create more inclusive brand imagery. body weight parameters, in line with agerelated expectations THROUGH OUR BRANDED LIFESTYLE CONTENT WE: • All models are booked through established agencies to ensure any required visas and • Actively looked to encourage a healthy licences are in place lifestyle based around proven medical recommendations of exercise and • We ensure that model agencies are consumption of healthy foods; for example, informed of any body shape concerns we we do not encourage purchase of meal may have; in such cases, the model will replacement programmes or extreme diets not be booked again until an assessment is complete • Do not comment on celebrity weight gain or weight loss and only comment positively on lifestyle/celebrity-related articles 7 CHARI TY POLICIES FUNDS RAISED from three projects approved by our senior Shop Direct supports an annual charity based on Following the change in strategy launched in stakeholders. a business-wide colleague vote. Our colleagues October 2015, our colleagues set the target to choose from three options to support a digitallyraise £200,000 within 12 months to build a digital We will boost the amount we are able to donate focused project that will deliver maximum impact app for Liverpool-based children’s hospital, Alder to our chosen charity by hosting our biennial in the communities we live and work via a variety Hey. ball in December 2016. of colleague fundraising activities. The following policies underpin our approach: CORPORATE SUPPORT Colleagues can fundraise towards our chosen • Shop Direct match funds colleague charity and project or a charity of their choice. fundraising of up to £200 per activity via our Shop Direct will boost any funds raised via our online portal, Helping Hand digital matched funding portal, Helping Hand. • We also raise funds for charity through a Our colleagues can also choose to donate to biennial themed ball good causes via payroll giving. We received a Gold Standard award as recognition of our • We donate all of our sample clothing to our commitment in the area. chosen charity partner, which they sell to raise funds to support their cause GOING DIGITAL In addition, we built a digital charity hub • We do not support any charities with to support all colleagues to maximise their political or religious links fundraising efforts: PARTNERSHIPS • Matched funding portal, Helping Hand, and In 2015, our people chose as our charitable payroll giving are now available online with project of the year the creation of a groundan approval time of two weeks breaking new app for Alder Hey Children’s Hospital, which will enable the hospital to • Branded Just Giving fundraising portals communicate with patients and their families in a are available that link directly to matched way they understand. We also joined Alder Hey’s funding innovation board and are providing significant pro bono technical support to develop the app. • The digital portal links to our internal recognition scheme and enables more SUMMARY structured reporting on progress In 2015, we rebooted our charity strategy to focus all of our fundraising efforts behind one PLANS FOR 2016 key charitable project – a project that is in line By October 2016, we hope to reach our £200k with our purpose and enables us to bring our fundraising target for the Alder Hey app. We will digital expertise to bear for the benefit our local then ask our colleagues to select our 2016/17 communities. charitable project via an all-company vote, 8 ENVI RO NM ENT AND RECYC L I N G POLICIES Stewardship Council fish, and Red Tractor colleagues taking advantage of the scheme since produce in our catering facilities. it was introduced. Our total Bike2Work spend to • Shop Direct is a zero waste to landfill date is £127,371. retailer We also continued to provide pool bikes to colleagues at head office, enabling them to In addition, our total business mileage dropped • We constantly review the wellbeing of our exercise during lunchtimes and breaks whilst significantly, supported by the ongoing use colleagues and look for ways to encourage continuing to encourage their use for travel to and of video conferencing systems across all a healthier workforce through a wellbeing from work. locations: approach WASTE • Air mileage reduced by 191,000 • We complete internal health and safety In addition to being a zero waste to landfill miles audits on a regular basis and comply with retailer, we ceased production of all full-sized all relevant legislation catalogues in 2015, and are now a 100% pureplay • Rail mileage reduced by 50,000 digital retailer. This helped us to substantially miles • We promote public transport and car share reduce paper waste and production, which in turn schemes to all of our colleagues enabled us to reinvest in improving the online • Road mileage reduced by 163,000 journey and enhancing self-service options for miles customers on our websites. PARTNERSHIPS We are proud to hold the Carbon Trust PLANS FOR 2016 accreditation and to continue our successful We also continued to increase recycling at all We will develop our wellbeing strategy under ‘cycle scheme’ partnership with Bike2Work. sites by using awareness campaigns and working the banner ‘wellbeing@shopdirect’, with five key closely with our waste provider. focus areas: SUMMARY We are a zero waste to landfill retailer with TRAVEL • Workplace We will develop a group-wide approach to focus Carbon Trust accreditation and, in 2015, we made We continue to act as a responsible corporate on those wellbeing issues that are most important substantial further progress on our journey to citizen, providing information to colleagues on to our colleagues, drawing on feedback from a • Work/life balance environmental best practice. We also increased various ‘travel to work’ options. recent survey. our focus on wellbeing for the benefit of all of our • General health colleagues. In 2015, we further promoted the use of public We aim to further develop nutritional information transport and car sharing through our bespoke for our catering outlets, with full Guideline Daily online tool, Travel & Share, and launched this • Healthy eating Amounts on our cold food range, signposting WELLBEING During 2015, our focus on employee wellbeing initiative to colleagues in our main fulfilment site healthier options, holding health awareness in North Manchester. We now have 230 car pools • Fitness events and introducing a ‘healthy me’ app. continued to grow. To boost our colleagues’ access to health services, we offered flu jabs set up across the business. to all employees, with an 11% uptake. We also We will introduce wellbeing classes, personal continued to provide Fairtrade chocolate and Our successful Bike2Work scheme continued training sessions and advice sessions within a juices, Rainforest Alliance tea and coffee, Marine to be offered to colleagues with a total of 185 dedicated wellbeing zone in our head office. 9 ANTI CO RRUPTI O N POLICIES SUMMARY A working group will continue to meet on a Shop Direct has a zero tolerance approach to We work against corruption in all its forms, quarterly basis to consider bribery and corruption corruption, underpinned by a number of key including extortion and bribery. (and wider fraud) risks and controls. All of this policies and processes: information will be shared with the internal CSR During 2015, we conducted our annual refresher board for additional knowledge share and cross• Any gifts, hospitality and entertaining must training on key policies. This was run, for the first business understanding. be formally approved in advance and must time, on our online learning system and had very be appropriate, proportionate and not have high levels of participation and engagement. the ability to unduly influence All our internal policies continued to be regularly • Any potential conflicts of interest must reviewed as part of our ongoing assurance be declared and registered and potential activity, whilst our ‘gifts and hospitality’ mitigating action considered by the and ‘conflicts of interest’ policies were reappropriate director communicated to all relevant colleagues across the business. • A confidential whistleblowing line is in operation by a third party, with any reported The bribery and corruption risk assessment was incidents being investigated independently updated and used as a key input into the internal audit planning process, where specific fraud • All new suppliers receive Shop Direct’s risks are considered in every audit. code of conduct and a statement of our zero tolerance approach to bribery and PLANS FOR 2016 corruption; existing suppliers also receive All Shop Direct’s updated policies are in the reinforcement communications periodically process of being translated, communicated and rolled out to our colleagues in our Asia sourcing • We review bribery and corruption risks on operation. We also plan to update and refresh all an annual basis and factor these into our of our online training modules for all colleagues to audit planning process access via our online portal. • All employees are trained annually on the We will evaluate the use of enhanced technology above key policies, including a knowledge to monitor potential bribery and corruption risks. check 10 DATA SECURI TY AND PRI V A C Y POLICIES Our data privacy and information security PLANS FOR 2016 programmes and practices are focused on We are continuing to increase our investment in • Customer notice: we inform our customers processing information appropriately and lawfully strengthening our information security programme about which of their data is being collected (in accordance with regulatory requirements), to detect, protect against and respond to and the purpose of collecting it while providing confidentiality, integrity and information security incidents, regardless availability. of their origin. Our programme balances • Customer access: we are establishing investments in technology, processes, transparency by enabling customers to view We have several external partnerships that we training and awareness to reduce the the information held about them, ensuring draw on to bolster our security. These include likelihood and impact of security incidents. accuracy and relevancy regional crime units, the City of London Police and CERT UK (the Computer Emergency • Customer data security: we ensure that our Response Team for UK Government). customers’ data is appropriately protected from unauthorised access, distribution, loss SUMMARY or corruption We implement and use technology in an appropriate manner to protect customer and • Enforcement: we hold our colleagues confidential data. To help our colleagues accountable for complying with our internal understand the importance of privacy and data policies that define acceptable behaviour security, each individual must complete our online training module on protecting customer data, information security and the Data Protection Act. PARTNERSHIPS We believe that solid data privacy and information security programmes are essential components Our data security programme delivered several of a world class digital retailer. We are committed enhancements in 2015, continuing to improve our to protecting customer information, personal data ability to prevent, detect and respond to security and information assets. incidents in the ever-changing threat landscape that is contextualised to our business. 11 FI NANCI AL SERVI CES POLICIES We work closely with free debt advice charities, wider society. In addition to the fraud protection such as StepChange, as well as calling on measures we have undertaken internally, we • Shop Direct monitors customers’ financial expertise from leading charity Samaritans, to also continue to educate our customers on fraud wellbeing every month, both in terms of ensure customers have the most appropriate threats, such as phishing scams on the internet account performance and using external available options for support. and the need to protect their personal data. bureaux data in every credit decision SUMMARY For customers who have experienced fraud, • Credit decisions are assessed through We are proud of the range of financial services we ensure, through our dedicated identity highly predictive automated scoring, which products we offer and the role we play in our theft team, that they are given the right provides consistency and robustness of customers’ lives. We have a variety of policies in advice and support. decision making place to ensure we bring good products within reach of our customers in a responsible way. PLANS FOR 2016 • As a responsible lender, Shop Direct refuses credit where we feel it is TRANSPARENT FINANCIAL SERVICES Throughout 2016, we will continue to unaffordable for customers to sustain We take a proactive approach to assessing the test and develop additional tools to help financial wellbeing of our customers: us further understand and monitor our • We use a wide range of controls/tools to customers’ affordability. We are enhancing protect our customers and ourselves from • We accept only around 30% of new credit our system capability to use a wider range of fraud applications information to better understand our customers’ behaviour and be able to personalise our account PARTNERSHIPS • We decline nearly 12% of existing customer decisions. Shop Direct Financial Services is the sole provider order requests for extending credit due to of credit facilities to support our retail offering. concerns over affordability or fraud We will continue to monitor customers’ financial This enables customers to finance their purchases wellbeing every month, both in terms of account using easy to understand credit products. In There are times when our customers experience performance and using external bureaux data in addition, we partner with other responsible financial difficulty for a variety of reasons. every credit decision. lenders to offer personal loan and credit card While the vast majority of customers are able to facilities to customers. resolve any difficulties, we sometimes have to In addition, all our credit decisions will continue increase the level of support we give. At such to be assessed through highly predictive All credit facilities are provided in line with the times, our colleagues work with customers to find automated scoring, which provides consistency Consumer Credit Directive 2010 and we comply appropriate solutions, including referring them for and robustness of decision making. with regulatory guidance and industry codes independent debt advice when required. and practices, such as the Finance and Leasing Association Lending Code. We are authorised COMBATTING FRAUD and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. We continued to invest heavily in measures to prevent and detect criminal activity and lessen the effects this can have upon our customers and 12 I N SUM M ARY In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. Our newly reinvigorated CSR board will continue to drive CSR activities across Shop Direct and ensure we hold ourselves accountable for meeting our commitments. I look forward to reporting on our progress next year. Alex Baldock Group chief executive 13
