CRAMO CARE Cramo Group Sustainability report 2015 WWW.CRAMO.COM CRAMO • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 21 The Cramo Group is one of the leading European full-service rental providers in the construction sector. Cramo rents out machinery, equipment and modular space to construction companies, manufacturers and the public sector. Cramo Care is our framework for integrating sustainability into our operations and services. Cramo has been a signatory of the UN Global Compact since 2009. These, our common values, form the backbone of everything we do: • We are committed to customer satisfaction • We conduct our business in a credible way • We use creativity to attain sustainable customer solutions 2 CRAMO • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 CONTENTS CRAMO CARE 4 DOING THINGS RIGHT 6 Employee care Environmental care Social care SUSTAINABLE CUSTOMER SOLUTIONS 13 Customer care ABOUT CRAMO 17 GRI INDEX 18 CRAMO Sustainable business is built on trust; it means taking a life cycle perspective in our operations. SUSTAINABILITY We care about attracting responsible employees and suppliers across our entire organisation, and at every step of the value chain, in order to excel in customer REPORT 2015 satisfaction. As sharing economy, rental has a direct impact on an efficient resource utilisation and on the optimisation of transports and logistics. It also influences the transformation to a more circular and sustainable economy through the design of solutions and – indirectly – products (ergonomics and safety as well as robustness and recyclability). Leif Gustafsson, President and CEO CRAMO • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 3 CRAMO CARE Cramo Care is our way to operate and monitor our Group’s work with corporate responsibility to ensure that it results in customer value. Our customers should trust our commitment to high business ethics and to delivering sustainable solutions to the market. Equipment rental has its clear sustainability advantages compared to purchasing specialised equipment. Our customers share rental equipment with many other users, resulting in an exceptionally efficient use of the equipment. During the year, we strengthened our cooperation with suppliers when it comes to business ethics. We implemented a new supplier code of conduct with the purpose of efficiently working together to safeguard high ethical standards throughout the value chain. As a company, what we do or don’t do, to some degree has an impact that often goes beyond that Anders Collman of our business operations. Thus, we encourage Director, Corporate Communications active cooperation with local authorities and and Sustainability communities to foster positive development; we promote non-discriminatory introductions to working life, we support sports and healthy lifestyles, and we regularly engage in social, nonprofit NGO projects. In 2015, we all witnessed an extensive refugee crisis. Cramo employees wanted to make a difference and provide concrete support. In this CRAMO CARE report you can read about the firm commitment Code of Conduct and and engagement from all parts of our Business Ethics organisation. Supplier Code of Conduct UN Global Compact Doing things right is important for Cramo. ISO 26000 We work continuously to anchor and ensure compliance with our values throughout our CUSTOMER CARE EMPLOYEE CARE organisation. We are happy to share our work • Customer satisfaction • Diversity and equality • Safe solutions • Safety and results in order to maintain customer trust • Energy-efficient solutions CORPORATE • Recruitment and and a sustainable profit. • Anti-corruption and high RESPONSIBILITY competence development business ethics • Dialogue, empowerment FINANCIAL and satisfaction Anders Collman, ENVIRONMENTAL Director Corporate Communications SOCIAL and Sustainability ENVIRONMENTAL CARE SOCIAL CARE • Energy efficiency • Local engagement • Resource efficiency • Compliance with laws, • Waste management regulations and agreements • Low emissions 4 CRAMO • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 MONITORING BUSINESS ETHICS AT CRAMO Cramo’s values and ethical guidelines demonstrate how we strive to conduct good business. Cramo is a signatory of the UN Global Compact principles for responsible business. Our ethical guidelines, the Code of Conduct, aims to: • ensure that our customers can trust that we work with integrity and high business ethics. Customer satisfaction is key. • continuously develop our workplaces in terms of health, safety and efficiency. • develop our products and services, and bring them to the market with special focus on Cramo signed the worksite safety and the environment. UN Global Compact principles in 2009 Our ethical guidelines are systematically communicated and anchored. Under the framework of the Cramo Story, we train our employees in our values. This strengthens our corporate culture with the purpose of excelling in customer satisfaction and giving the customer a great day at work. The Cramo Story has highest priority in all Cramo markets. Cramopol is one of the tools we use for Cramo Lithuania plays an important role training and anchoring of our values. It is in the Clear Wave (Baltoji Banga) initiative. an engaging and fun game for facilitating The initiative aims at raising awareness on discussions for employees and management the importance of transparent and ethical on ethical dilemmas and how to deal with business practice and good governance them. among companies in Lithuania. Anticorruption practices are key issues. Ethical breaches can happen despite solid prevention methods. We encourage everyone Cramo Sweden has introduced a unique new to call attention to any ethical concern or approach to recruitment, which is based on suspected misconduct. Concerns can be Cramo’s values. Our common values are the reported directly to the management or backbone for creating customer value. The anonymously through our whistleblowing new recruitment model will be evaluated for service. We also encourage and support further use within Cramo. our suppliers to follow up their ethics work, including the use of an efficient whistleblowing Cramo Poland’s management team and service. depot managers meet every year in January for a “kick-off”. This time Cramopol was With transparent communication, we build on the agenda and very much appreciated. trust among our customers, employees Cramopol has improved the understanding and shareholders. We want to encourage of ethical dilemmas from year to year while it and provide a platform for dialogue and has been in use. development. Sustainable business is built on cooperation with all stakeholders. Cramopol being played by employees in Poland. CRAMO • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 5 DOING THINGS RIGHT EMPLOYEE CARE Cramo has 2,500 employees in 14 countries. We want to offer safe, healthy and developing workplaces for everyone. Our results are dependent on challenging and developing key competence. Cramo Diversity A corporate culture based on diversity is important to Cramo’s positive development. We want men and women of different ages and backgrounds to have the same development possibilities at Cramo. 2015 was the year for strengthening our work on increased diversity. One activity was establishing networks for women working in the depots of Cramo Sweden. The work will continue in 2016 with the goal of establishing networks for women in all Swedish regions. Cramo should have no barriers for recruiting disabled people. We want to have a work environment where diversity is appreciated. During the year, Cramo Sweden won a prize for inspiring efforts and engagement in being able to providing jobs for disabled people. We hope that our work will Networks for women in Cramo Sweden inspire other companies to follow suit. Cramo Safety Health and safety is key. Cramo has successfully implemented the OHSAS 18001 occupational health management system in Finland and Sweden, the target being certification in all Cramo markets. We want to offer safe and stimulating workplaces. Systematic and preventative work, including risk assessments and identification of potential hazards, is prioritised throughout the Group. Cramo Development Cramo Development is our common framework for employee onboarding, training and skills development across the Cramo Group. The purpose of Cramo Development is to encourage the professional growth of all employees throughout their career, thus ensuring professionalism and efficiency at all levels in the Group. Cramo Development defines the skills and competence needed for each position. The training modules, such as on-the-job Cramo School and Cramo Academy (management training), are continuously developed and adapted to new customer demands and local needs. Annual average training per employee was 15 hours. Cramo Dialogue is a structured employee dialogue for monitoring and continuously strengthening employee satisfaction and dedication. It is an efficient tool for setting personal development targets and prioritising activities for improvement. It is our policy that all employees have a yearly Cramo Group performance review. 6 CRAMO • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 We aim to constantly develop training models and methods that support an efficient, ever-evolving organisation. During the year, Cramo Finland successfully implemented Skype-based trainings for depot managers. Cramo Finland also started using an electronic form for performance appraisals, to be used before the actual appraisal with a supervisor takes place. This facilitates the monitoring of training needs and following up of performance appraisal. The form is also an excellent tool for documenting agreed matters. Tatu Hauhio Managing Director, Cramo Finland Cramo actively supports a healthy lifestyle among its employees through various activities such as cycling tours or “step counting” activities within the organisation, sponsored participation in external sports events, professional “Quit smoking” support, subsidised individual health care activities and so on. Health and safety Sweden Finland Norway Denmark Eastern Europe Central Europe Sick leave 3.7% 5% 7.1% 3.4% 3.6% 5.6% Men 3.7% 5.2% 7.4% 3.3% 2.8% 5.7% Women 3.4% 4.4% 4.5% 4.0% 9.6% 4.8% Number of work-related accidents* FTE year end 825 448 219 97 466 350 Total 5 21 2 1 6 29 Men 4 21 2 1 6 27 Women 1 0 0 0 0 2 *Number of registered work-related accidents leading to at least one full day absence. CRAMO • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 7 2,473 employees in total Management by gender Diversity Gender Diversity Age Board of Directors (8 members) 3% 6% 13% 28% 25% 34% 87% 75% 29% Men Women -23 46-59 Men Women 24-35 6036-45 Employee contracts Employees by country/region Group management (9 members) 6% 17% 34% 17% 100% 94% 9% 19% 4% Permanent hires Sweden Denmark Men Women Temporary hires Eastern Finland Europe Norway Central Europe Employee turnover rate: 16 % Employee turnover New employees Total 395 Total 372 Men 345 Men 325 Women 50 Women 47 -23 32 -23 34 24-35 129 24-35 178 36-45 105 36-45 82 46-59 90 46-59 76 6039 602 8 CRAMO • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 ENVIRONMENTAL CARE We take a precautionary approach to environmental decisions. Reducing energy consumption and cutting energy costs are key issues for Cramo and our customers. ISO management standards 9001 and 14001 are implemented in Cramo Finland, Sweden, Denmark and Norway, and we have annual energy targets in these markets. Certification is ongoing, targeting all Cramo markets. One of Cramo’s focus areas during the year has been to intitiate an upgrade to LED lighting in Cramo depot signage. LED lamps have an impressive lifespan and are cost effective. Another focus was energy efficient heating. In Cramo Lithuania and Cramo Latvia, several Cramo depos installed temperature thermostats. These thermostats help to reduce electrical consumption for heating by 30 percent. Cramo Group participates in the international climate initiative, the Carbon Disclosure Project, where we report our emissions on a yearly basis. Emissions are monitored using the international Greenhouse Gas Protocol for emission calculations. Climate emissions, ton CO2 Sweden Finland Norway Denmark Eastern Europe Central Europe Direct energy consumption company owned vehicles 1,589 444 633 416 2,362 1,815 heating 76 86 136 46 51 54 Purchased energy electricity 166 991 266 56 1,515 198 heating 564 781 1 0 93 169 Indirect energy consumption business travel 336 134 n/a n/a n/a n/a other sources 6,122 237 n/a n/a n/a n/a Our depots work systematically with energy-saving measures such as insulating doors and switching to energy-efficient lighting. CRAMO • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 9 Transport and travel Our rental services include the transport of machinery, equipment and modular space solutions to our customers. Items are also transported between depots and to customer sites. With efficient route optimisation, we strive to reduce transports and emissions. Better driving patterns is another way to reduce energy consumption. Cramo is developing better driving patterns which will lead to cost savings, faster deliveries and a reduced carbon footprint. During 2015, Cramo Finland recruited new employees who will further improve this area. Cramo also puts important demands on transporters when it comes to good working conditions, environmental concerns and traffic safety. Reducing business travel is another concern. We promote and facilitate web and phone meetings when possible. Video conferences are increasingly used throughout the Group. Waste reduction We work systematically to increase material efficiency and to reduce our waste, especially mixed waste and waste to landfill. Waste and recycling Total weight of waste, tonnes 4,314 Of which; Non-hazardous waste 3,883 Hazardous waste 631 Handling method, % recycling 43% waste to landfill 28% incineration 22% other/unspecified 7% Cramo Adapteo has employed systematic waste management for a long time. In September 2015, Cramo Adapteo provided excess construction material to Humanbridge, a global aid organisation. Caroline Holmgren QSE coordinator, Cramo Adapteo AB We have worked actively to reduce waste and achieved good results. It is important to minimise landfill, for reasons of cost and the environment. We follow the results closely, with quarterly measurement and communication to the depots. For 2015, targets were a maximum of 6% for mixed waste and a maximum of 6.5% for landfill. We analyse and develop action plans for depots at risk of failing to meet objectives. Martin Freland QSE Manager, Cramo Sweden 10 CRAMO • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 We are not constructors ourselves, but as the best full-service rental provider, we play an important part in the development in the industry. It is with great pride that we take the challenge to participate in the expert jury of the most prestigious competition in our industry, “The construction of the year”. Security at construction sites and sustainable development are in focus; areas in which Cramo has long since been an expert. Göran Carlson Managing Director, Cramo Sweden The Winery Hotel, nominee for The construction of the year CRAMO • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 11 SOCIAL CARE Since 2007, we have partnered with the non-profit organisation SOS Children’s Villages to support children in difficult situations who need extended care. Over the years, Cramo has helped financing children’s villages in Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Ukraine and Russia. In 2015, Cramo expanded the support for SOS Children’s Villages because of the refugee situation. It was the strong commitment of our staff that got us to act. Central initiative spreads In addition to the annual financial support from Cramo Group there are various complementary, local activities in most Cramo countries. Cramo Poland arranged a visit for five of its employees to the SOS Village in Krasnik, with the purpose to learn more and to stimulate further engagement among all Cramo employees. The visit resulted in a stronger commitment internally, paired with further promotion and participation in funding activities. Cramo in the Czech and Slovak republics gave a local contribution as did Cramo Norway, where some depots also have their own sponsored child. In Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania Cramo assisted local SOS organisations with marketing, business contacts and created local events to collect money from customers and employees. In the Baltics Cramo also offered the local emergency organisations free access to Cramo’s product range and in some cases even summer jobs and training for young people Cramo Poland visit SOS Children’s villages in Krasnik. from the SOS Villages. Cramo Adapteo Denmark offers a solution to the refugee accommodation in Cramo modules. The modules are equipped with bedroom, private bathroom and a kitchenette where residents can cook. The modules comply with the applicable requirements for temporary habitation. We have a long and positive experience of working with SOS Children’s Villages. There are many ways to help, but our view is that direct financial support to ongoing projects is the most effective way in the current situation that prevails throughout Europe. But we also value the terms allowing for our employees to contribute to voluntary work during working hours, as well as the ability to use our modules for temporary accommodation. Anders Collman Director, Corporate Communications and Sustainability 12 CRAMO • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 SUSTAINABLE CUSTOMER SOLUTIONS CUSTOMER CARE Customer satisfaction is everything to Cramo. We want to listen to our customers’ needs and ideas. From 2015, all of the Cramo market organisations have a dedicated contact person, a customer-dedicated Ombudsman, with whom our customers easily can get in touch with and address any issue or discuss good ideas. This gives us an excellent platform for dialogue and quick awareness of customer needs. Our vision is zero accidents at construction sites Cramo wants to be a role model for all rental, and safety is our first priority. Cramo School is our successful concept for offering training to customers in order to efficiently create awareness and competence to prevent accidents at construction sites. Cramo School receives an increasing number of requests for safety training. Our target is zero accidents at construction sites. Safety training in Cramo Finland Fall injuries are among the most frequent work-related accidents at sites. Falls are often caused by a lack of safety routines or knowledge gaps. Minimising these risks requires training. One of Cramo School’s strengths is to connect theory to practice in the training; how to think for avoiding unnecessary risks and how to work safely. Some of our inspiring success stories The old Riga Bus Factory building has a new life and is nowadays the Jelgava Business Park. To start with, the old factory building was demolished. Then new, modern warehouses were built. During the reconstruction period, Cramo Latvia was there to help with our services and expertise in safety. More than 80 people involved in the reconstruction participated in Cramo School courses. Cramo Sweden is proud that Cramo School is becoming increasingly popular and in demand from our customers. In 2015, Cramo Sweden conducted 775 training courses. Cramo Latvia There are 19 new windmills in one of the biggest wind farms in Cramo Lithuania, with Cramo as sole equipment supplier. Cramo’s expertise in safety was a key positive experience for the customer. Feedback from the customer: “Even though it was just a short stop-over, I have put my impressions from the site visit into the Safety Walk format. I was really impressed by the way the site was set up and the way systems were followed.” In Poland, old and worn out equipment is still in use at construction sites. However, awareness of the risks this brings has grown significantly during the past few years. Cramo Poland plays an active part as a role model contributing to the Polish Association for Safety at Work and also to Polish BKA. The associations work actively to promote and increase awareness Cramo Lithuania and safety issues at construction sites all over the country. CRAMO • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 13 ENERGY-EFFICIENT SOLUTIONS Being more efficient when it comes to energy Monitoring energy consumption usage is a concern for all our customers. We are With Cramo’s mobile surveillance system, committed to developing solutions for increased Monitoring Construction, energy consumption energy efficiency, thus reducing our customers’ can be reduced by approximately 20 percent. energy consumption and costs. Cramo has a life The system makes it possible to measure cycle perspective when developing sustainable temperature, humidity and energy use on site customer solutions. With our experience, Cramo with a mobile phone. The service is also offered adds to customer value, cost efficiency and with camera surveillance. The system gives minimised waste at construction sites. instant feedback on energy saving measures, such as closing doors and lowering the Efficient heating and cooling temperature at night. Cramo supplies district heating and cooling, which implies important environmental benefits. Waste management These are cost-efficient solutions for our During the year, the concept of customer care customers. Temporary heating based on districtand recycling was developed heavily. Cramo produced heat is one of our key knowledge Finland takes increased responsibility for, and areas. It has a smaller environmental footprint supports customer sites’ recycling systems. than on-site produced direct electric, gas or oilThis is cost efficient for the customer and an based heating. Cramo Finland is market leader important contribution to environmental care. in temporary heating, supporting increasing number of customers with a cost-efficient Cramo Germany wanted to facilitate for solution that also gives environmental benefits. customers to take environmentally-sound decisions, and developed a sticker to be placed Cramo Norway is appointed green supplier to a on environmentally friendly rental equipment. major construction project at Fornebu, supplying district heating, cooling and efficient ventilation solutions. The customer benefits from zero air or ground emissions, less shipping requirements, and less use of detergents. Also, the healthy indoor climate is a great advantage. Cramo takes increased responsibility in customers’ recycling system at their work sites. 14 CRAMO • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 One of Scandinavia’s largest fairs within road and construction equipment was arranged on 6-10 May just outside central Oslo. Cramo Norway had an area of 300 m2, and displayed modular space for building and construction. The environmental strengths of our solution were of key interest to the visitors. CRAMO ADAPTEO With our Green Modular Space Solutions, we help our customers to efficiently and sustainably meet their fluctuating need for space. The Green Modular Space solutions can be designed to meet special customer needs; for example an inspiring and calm school environment. They are also specifically designed to be energy-efficient. Besides direct current, they can also be heated with environmentally adapted heat sources, such as a water heating system that can be connected to district heating. A water system can result in up to 70 percent reduced carbon dioxide emissions. The modules are well insulated, equipped with carboncontrolled ventilation and presence-controlled lighting, and can be fitted with solar panels. New C90 Modular system launched Cramo Adapteo made a successful introduction of the modular system, C90. The energyefficient solution implies an important customer advantage regarding cost efficiency and environmental concerns. Modular system C90 sdfkljasldfk asflkasjdflöjkasflö CRAMO • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 15 Last but not least… Courtesy of Cramo Germany, the gorillas at Munich Zoo were extremely pleased with their new climbing trees. The trees had to be perfectly fixed into the ground. An excavator and a wheel-loader were used to dig sufficiently-deep holes. The sensitive gorillas should not be exposed to the exhaust fumes from the machines. Therefore, Cramo delivered an emission-free hybrid excavator and equipped the wheel-loader with a special system for exhaust emission purification. A perfect example of intelligent environmental and gorilla friendly engagement. 16 CRAMO • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 ABOUT CRAMO Cramo is a full-service provider that rents out machinery, equipment and modular space to construction companies, manufacturers and the public sector. Cramo’s aim is to be a role model in rental, offering cutting-edge sustainable solutions. Cramo has 2,500 skilled employees and is represented in 15 markets. We operate under the Cramo brand in Finland, Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Germany, Austria, Hungary, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Russia (Kaliningrad). In Russia and Ukraine, operations are run under the brand of the 50 percent-owned joint venture Fortrent. 59 percent of the employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. The network of almost 350 depots supplies a wide variety of rental products and services based on local demand. With over 220,000 equipment items for rent and over 150,000 customers, Cramo serves construction firms, manufacturers, the public sector and private customers. Cramo is a Nordic mid-cap company in the industrials sector, listed on the Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd. Our headquarters are located in Vantaa, Finland. President and CEO: Leif Gustafsson Chairman of the Board: Helene Biström ABOUT THE REPORT The report contains standard disclosures following the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. We comply with the new G4 generation of GRI reporting guidelines. The contents of this report cover sustainability issues identified as being business critical to our stakeholders. Our prioritised stakeholders are our customers, employees, shareholders, business partners, regulatory authorities and local governments. Contact If you have any questions regarding this sustainability report, please contact: Anders Collman, Head of Corporate Communications and Sustainability Anders Collman E-mail: anders.collman@cramo.com Director, Corporate Communications and Sustainability This report was produced with the capable assistance of TripleB. CRAMO • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 17 GRI INDICATORS General standard disclosures Strategy and analysis Page G4-1 CEO statement 3 Organisational profile G4-3 Name of the organisation 17 G4-4 Primary brands, products and services 17 G4-5 Location of head office 17 G4-6 Countries of operations 17 G4-7 Ownership and legal form 17 G4-8 Markets served 17 G4-9 Scale of the organisation 17 G4-10 Employees 8 G4-11 Collective bargaining agreements 17 G4-12 Supply chain Most of our machinery and equipment is purchased from suppliers in Europe, the USA and Japan. G4-13 Significant changes No significant changes G4-14 Precautionary approach 9 G4-15 Initiatives 5 G4-16 Associations 5 Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 Organisational structure Annual report G4-18 Process for defining report content 17 G4-19 Material aspects 19 G4-20 Aspect boundaries within the organisation 19 G4-21 Aspect boundaries outside the organisation 19 G4-22 Explanation of the effect of any restatements of No restatement information provided in previous reports G4-23 Significant changes in the scope, boundaries, No changes measurement methods Stakeholder engagement G4-24 List of stakeholders 17 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 17 G4-26 Stakeholder engagement 6 G4-27 Stakeholder key concerns 13-15 Report profile G4-28 Reporting period January 1 December 31, 2015 G4-29 Date of most recent report December 31, 2015 G4-30 Reporting cycle Calender year G4-31 Contact point 17 G4-32 Reporting follows GRI G4 Core 17 G4-33 Assurance No assurance Governance G4-34 Governance structure 17, Annual report Ethics and integrity G4-56 Ethical framework 5 G4-58 Whistleblowing service 5 18 CRAMO • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Specific standard disclosures Material aspect Indicator Page DMA* 4 Economic Economic performance G4-EC1 Annual report Direct economic value Economic impacts G4-EC7 Impact of infrastructure investments and 13-15 services supported G4-EC8 13-15 Indirect economic impact Environmental Energy G4-EN7 14-15 Energy reductions in services Emissions G4-EN15 9 Direct GHG (Scope 1) G4-EN16 9 Indirect GHG (Scope 2) G4-EN17 9 Indirect GHG (Scope 3) Effluents and waste G4-EN23 10 Weight of waste Labour practices and decent work Occupational Health and Safety G4-LA6 7 Injuries Training and education G4-LA9 6 Average hours of training G4-LA10 6 Programs for skills management G4-LA11 6 Performance reviews Diversity and equal opportunity G4-LA12 8 Composition of the board and group management Human rights Non-discrimination G4-HR3 No legal cases Legal cases of discrimination Society Anti-corruption G4-SO5 No legal cases Reported anti-corruption cases *Disclosures on Management Approach, i.e. how Cramo manage the economic, environmental and social impacts related to material aspects. CRAMO • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 19 Printed March 2016 GROUP HEADQUARTERS Cramo Plc Kalliosolantie 2 FI-01740 Vantaa Finland www.cramo.com 20 FOR A GREAT DAY AT WORK CRAMO • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015
