Innovating for Better Health Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report Table of contents ABOUT TEVA 3 Teva at a glance 3 Message from our President and CEO: Erez Vigodman 5 Citizenship at Teva 6 2014 citizenship highlights 7 A European perspective on generic medicine 9 Innovating for Better Health 10 Affordable healthcare 11 Integrated healthcare innovation 16 Bio-medical research excellence 27 Patient safety 30 Patient support 37 Responsible Business Conduct 43 Ethical standards 44 Environment and safety 48 EHS strategy 50 Energy and emissions management 52 Environmental performance 53 Good environmental practice from around Teva 54 Occupational health and safety performance 55 Excellence awards for safe operations 57 Employee engagement 58 Community solidarity 66 Governance and reporting 71 Governance, compliance and risk management 72 About this report 76 UNGC Principles 77 GRI Content Index 78 About Teva Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report Teva multipurpose plant in Jerusalem, Israel. Teva at a glance Established in 1901, Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. is today a leading global pharmaceutical company. We deliver high-quality, healthcare and development division to create new solutions for millions of patients every day. ways of addressing unmet patient needs by Headquartered in Israel, Teva is the world’s combining drug development capabilities largest generic medicines producer, leveraging with devices, services and technologies. Our a portfolio of more than 1,000 molecules net revenues in 2014 amounted to $20.3 to produce generic products in nearly every billion, we employ 43,000 people and deliver major therapeutic area. In specialty medicines, medicines to people in about 100 markets we have a world-leading position in innovative around the world. For information about our treatments for disorders of the Central financial performance, governance and risk Nervous System, including pain and migraine, management, see our Form 20-F submitted to as well as a strong portfolio of respiratory the SEC on February 9, 2015. products. We integrate our generics and specialty capabilities in our global research Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 3 About Teva We operate over 40 pharmaceutical In 2014, we undertook a company-wide, manufacturing plants in North America, Latin inclusive process to review and revise our America, Europe, Asia and Israel, and we corporate purpose and core values as the continue to expand organically and through foundation of our commitment to bring the acquisitions. In addition to our manufacturing highest quality health outcomes to millions sites, we operate 20 active pharmaceutical of patients around the world. Our new purpose ingredient (API) sites and more than 20 and core values, which were formally launched research and development centers. in 2015, will help us work more effectively together to deliver our commitments to all our stakeholders. Highlights We fill 1 in 8 prescriptions in the U.S. We deliver medicines 1 in 6 prescriptions in the UK to people in over and 1 in 10 in Germany. 100 countries. We changed the game in healthcare by shaping the U.S. generics market and other markets around the world, making medicines affordable for millions of patients, and saving healthcare systems many billions of dollars each year. We have one of the The lives of hundreds of thousands of multiple largest most and sclerosis (MS) patients and their families were improved with our leading advanced innovative MS treatment. In 2014, we introduced operational networks of a new formulation for patients, pharmaceutical facilities enabling them to adhere to a treatment in the world. regimen with only 3 shots a week , demonstrating our continued commitment to always improving their health and wellbeing. Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 4 About Teva Innovating for Better Health Message from Teva’s President and CEO, Erez Vigodman I am proud to share with you Teva’s Global and four new specialty medicines. We have been Corporate Social Responsibility Highlights, which working to reinforce our world-class portfolio of outlines the different ways in which we work to generic medicines, specialty medicines and the meet our patients’ needs and improve people’s combination of the two, optimize our operational health around the world. network, and explore innovation areas such as personalized medicine and e-health through The needs of patients, caregivers and healthcare partnering with leading healthcare and research systems today are in the midst of unprecedented institutions. In that same year, we donated over change. Population growth, environmental $108 million to support our communities around transformations and emerging health concerns the world. We also reduced the price on goldcreate new challenges for communities, companies standard therapies and medicines in key markets, and governments around the world. As one of the helping healthcare services, payers and patients world’s largest pharmaceutical companies, with a save billions of dollars. broad reach and depth of impact, we recognize the need to evolve and innovate in order to meet—and We continue to build Teva’s industry-leading overcome—these challenges. pipeline of promising new products and medicines We are committed to improving health and making that support wellness and prevention, as well as people feel better, continuously looking at our treatment and cures for diseases across a broad portfolio of solutions and beyond. This commitment range of therapeutic areas and unmet needs. In is embedded in our strategic direction and guides 2014, we invested over $1.4 billion in research and our business decisions. We take action wherever development and committed to invest over $20 our knowledge and expertise can create better million in clinical development. outcomes, and this includes our commitment Our passion—as great today as it was when Teva to improve healthcare, act responsibly, nurture was founded as a single pharmacy in Jerusalem—is our employees’ potential and engage with the the fundamental aim to save money for healthcare communities in which we live. systems, allowing for efficient use of resources In this report, we share with you the stories of how and ultimately achieve better outcomes for we are meeting this commitment: how we innovate patients. I am proud of what the people of Teva and collaborate with our stakeholders to address have accomplished. Guided by our unwavering unmet patient needs, develop new therapies, commitment to conducting our business responsibly expand the availability and affordability of our and ethically, we continue to influence healthcare medicines and respond to the needs of our local decisions for billions of people around the world. communities. Sincerely, In 2014, we reached over 200 million patients every day and launched 315 new generic products Erez Vigodman Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 5 About Teva Citizenship at Teva At Teva, the Corporate Responsibility Committee of our Board of Directors oversees and guides our strategy and program for being a responsible corporate citizen. A dedicated team reporting to the Group Executive Vice President for Corporate Marketing Excellence and Communications leads our global strategy, policy development and reporting, and supports local teams in embedding responsible citizenship into our corporate culture and practices around the world. “Teva has always been a values-driven business with an aim to make a positive overall contribution to society. This was the case even before anyone coined the terms citizenship or sustainability. Teva has been growing and transforming its global business infrastructure in the last year, and we are also developing a global citizenship strategy. At the same time, we are working to align our reporting to global standards that include the Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 framework.” Ayala Miller, Vice President, Global Corporate Citizenship Our most material impacts In November 2012, we completed an initial assessment of our most important citizenship impacts with guidance from a range of both internal and external stakeholders. Since that time, we have reviewed the outcome of this assessment on an informal basis and believe that the impacts identified remain valid today. Innovating for Better Health Ethical business conduct Patient safety Human rights Affordability of medicines Anti-bribery and corruption Availability of medicines Health and safety Strengthening healthcare infrastructure Product labeling Clinical trials Transparency and disclosure In 2015-2016, alongside our global business strategic planning and transformation process, we will review our material impacts and publish an updated list in our next Citizenship Report. Engaging internal stakeholders with our Citizenship Report In order to learn more about how our Citizenship Report is used, we conducted an internal survey among managers who were directly involved in the preparation of our 2013 report. The results provided insights that we have used in the development of this current report. 45% of managers surveyed recommended reading the report to colleagues and 18% referred customers to the report. 72% of those surveyed believed the report accurately reflected the way Teva does business. Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 6 About Teva 2014 citizenship highlights We established a med-tech We launched our As the largest innovation hub in partnership with EHS Excellence single provider Philips Healthcare and the Office of Awards and of medicines to the Chief Scientist in Israel. recognized the UK’s National our sites for Health Service excellence in (NHS), we saved In 2014, we maintained 137 EHS practices $4.3 billion clinical studies at more than and outcomes. from the NHS 4,100 sites in 58 countries in drug bill in 2014. different therapeutical areas. In 2014, we We donated Teva’s generic drug prices assisted flood more than were reduced by 8.4% in relief efforts $108 million the U.S. in 2013 double the in the Balkan to support our average price reduction of the countries with communities 280 top generic drugs sold medicines to around the in the U.S. market. the value of world. $160,000. We invested $20 million in clinical We have committed to investing development and up to $1 million up to $15 million over 5 years to for research into dementia in fund top researchers and research partnership with the UK’s National students in neuroscience at 10 Health Service. leading Israeli research universities. In 2014, we audited 26 Teva sites We support We launched for EHS compliance and performed more than 500 315 new corrective actions where relevant. community generic products partners around worldwide in the world. 2014. Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 7 About Teva In 2014, we conducted a global Between In 2014, our total survey that achieved an 82% 2012-2014, waste generated participation rate across our global we reduced reduced by 3% employee population. our total versus 2013, greenhouse gas and by 17% emissions by over two years 80% of our employees strongly 6%. since 2012. agree that Teva lives up to high ethical standards. We trained 20,000 We significantly improved global more than employees safety performance with a 32% 12,000 refreshed their reduction in recordable injuries and employees in understanding lost days due to injury. compliance. of our compliance policies online. We supported the development In 2014, women represented 46% of the EGA Code of Conduct on of our permanent workforce, Interactions with the Healthcare 49% of our total management at Community and adopted it in our all levels, and 35% of executives policies. and very senior management. We were not required to pay any In 2014, we In 2014, significant sanctions or fines relating recycled 33% we reduced to compliance in 2014. of our total our total water waste. withdrawal by 17%. Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 8 A European perspective on generic medicines Adrian Van Den Hoven, Director General, The European Generic and Biosimilar medicines Association (EGA). EGA represents the generic, biosimilar and value-added medicines industries in Europe. “Generic medicines are essential to increase patient access to high quality, cost-effective medicines.” “Our generic and biosimilar industries are at the heart of public health delivery. Generic medicines improve the sustainability of healthcare systems where 80% of costs are linked to chronic diseases. More than 56% of prescriptions are dispensed as generic medicines but this represents only 22% of the total expenditure on medicines. In Europe, more can be done to remove barriers that limit generic competition and more efforts should be made to ensure efficient prescribing and dispensing of generic medicines by healthcare professionals.” “Over the last ten years, generic medicines have increased access to medicines by 100% in key therapy areas.” “Imagine what this has meant for millions of European patients in terms of access to affordable, gold standard therapies. Without generic medicines, payers in Europe would have had to pay €100 billion more in 2014. Through the EGA, pharmaceutical companies should engage with healthcare community and policy-makers to create competitive and sustainable markets where companies can invest in innovation. For years, this industry has put itself on the sidelines. Now it is the most important healthcare provider for medicines.” “The current healthcare strategy of short term cost-cutting combined with ultra-high cost originator products for smaller and smaller groups of patients is unsustainable.” “Our industry is best placed to bring balance to healthcare policy debates recognizing the need for greater efficiency of healthcare delivery combined with the need to invest in access and sustainable innovation.” Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 9 Innovating for Better Health Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report We have been around for more than one hundred years and with every year that passes, we intensify our efforts towards Innovating for Better Health. From our modest beginning as a small At the same time, healthcare challenges pharmacy in Jerusalem, to a global continue to evolve. Many unmet healthcare pharmaceutical company reaching millions needs remain and new needs are emerging of patients each day, we have pioneered the as our world changes. Population growth, life development and expansion of the generic expectancies, technological developments, drug market and introduced world-leading climate change impacts, changing lifestyles novel medicines to meet different therapeutic in developed and developing countries – the needs. Our constant quest for new and better landscape of healthcare never stands still. healthcare solutions has helped transform the state of healthcare around the world, And neither do we. improving the lives of billions of patients and As we continue our journey as a business their communities and reducing the healthcare and a responsible and accountable corporate burden on national economies. citizen, Innovating for Better Health is both an imperative and an inspiration. Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 10 Innovating for Better Health Affordable healthcare We believe that affordable healthcare should be available to all and as a global pharmaceutical company, we make a constant effort to make this possible. Affordable healthcare affects not only emerging registration in national markets for the benefit economies and those living in extreme poverty. of local patients. Our continued focus on It also affects the quality of life for populations operational efficiencies enables us to maintain of the developed world. National economies competitive market pricing positions. We also are strengthened when their populations enjoy support the development of targeted access good health. By helping to increase access to medicines through collaboration with a to affordable healthcare, we make a positive range of institutions via our Global Health contribution to the global economy. Program and through our collaborations in local markets to ensure local availability and Much of our core business drives access to continuity of supply. affordable healthcare through our ongoing investment in new generic products and their Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 11 Innovating for Better Health Highlights affordable healthcare In 2014, we estimate that our We launched In the U.S., global generic sales shaved 315 new one out of tens of billions of dollars generic every 8 off the prices of medicines around products prescriptions the world, benefiting national worldwide in contains a economies, individual patients and 2014. Teva generic their families. product. As the largest single provider of Our generic drug prices were medicines to the UK’s National reduced by 8.4% in the U.S. in Health Service (NHS), we saved 2013 double the average price $4.3 billion from the NHS reduction of the 280 top generic drug bill in 2014. drugs sold in the U.S. market. “The off-patent medicines industry is an essential and integral part of healthcare delivery across Europe, supplying over 90% of the volume demand for medicines, while contributing just 47% of the cost. In 2014, generic medicines reduced the region’s medicine bill by 61%, both through directly offering products at lower prices and by introducing competition that drives down the cost of originator brands that are off-patent. In the seven chronic disease areas analyzed, this has had the general effect of doubling patients’ access to treatment, while holding costs steady. Although these benefits accrue differently across EU member countries, the implication is clear: the generic medicines industry has been vital to sustaining healthcare benefits in the region.” (IMS, The Role of Generic Medicines in Sustaining Healthcare Systems: A European Perspective, 2015) Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 12 Innovating for Better Health The advantages of generics In 2014, we again reached more than largest generic R&D teams in the industry, 200 million patients with our generic we invested $517 million in R&D specifically medicines in more than 100 countries. to advance our generic offering. We continue In the U.S., one out of every 8 prescriptions to expand our resources to develop novel drug contains a Teva generic product. Similarly, delivery platforms to improve accessibility as the largest single provider of medicines and patient comfort to promote adherence to the UK’s National Health Service (NHS), to treatment regimens. As a global we saved $4.3 billion from the NHS drug bill pharmaceutical leader, we aim to ensure the in 2014 (IMS Health NPA, June 2014). We highest quality of performance in every market continue to lower the costs of generics each by using advanced simulations to analyze year. In 2013-2014, we achieved our goal of the performance of generic drugs in the body reducing net costs of generics by $650 million, and conduct testing of our drugs under many enabling us to reduce market prices of many different conditions. key generic formulations. This was confirmed by independent research into the price of Recognizing the dependence of patients on generics in the U.S. market (AARP, 2015). our generic portfolio, we are committed to continuity of supply and maintain marketIn 2014, we successfully launched 315 generic driven stocks of generic medicines, especially products around the world with a value of in areas where drug shortages are a risk. approximately $1 billion. With one of the “As the largest supplier of generics in the U.S. market, we bring cost savings to patients each year and also reduce our costs on an ongoing basis. We are continuously working to make products more accessible, especially when there are drug shortages in the market. In these cases, we can step up production to fill the gap. With more than 1,000 molecules in our portfolio, there is almost no medicine that we cannot make more accessible and more affordable.” Maureen Cavanaugh, SVP, U.S. Generics Sales & Marketing Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 13 Innovating for Better Health Keeping generics affordable for seniors One of the most vulnerable populations when We are a major influencer of the price of it comes to affordable healthcare is seniors. generic drugs in America. Of the 280 generic As they advance in age, they are challenged prescription drug products analyzed in 2013, by increasing healthcare needs including the we supplied 66 individual medicines, almost onset of chronic illnesses in the context of a quarter of the generic drugs available in rising costs of living. According to independent the U.S. market, including 50% of the top ten research published in early 2015 by the generics by sales value. Conscious of the need U.S. NGO, AARP, almost two-thirds of older to ensure generic medicines remain affordable Americans take three or more prescription for older Americans as well as other patients, drugs at an average retail cost of $850 per we reduced the price of four most frequently patient per year. Any decrease in the price of prescribed generic drugs by 7 21%. Overall, generics therefore brings direct, significant our generic drug prices reduced by 8.4% benefit for older Americans. double the average price reduction of 280 generic prescription drugs examined by AARP. At the same time, the general inflation rate rose by 1.5%. Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 14 Innovating for Better Health Providing resources to address healthcare needs Teva’s Global Health Program was established new drugs for Family Planning by providing in 2013 to address unmet global public health specific knowledge and development expertise, challenges in emerging markets. In this assessing the feasibility of new treatments program, we provide essential R&D resources and determining scale-up requirements. to develop solutions to treat critical diseases We also collaborate with other organizations and address global public health issues. We to advance solutions for global maternal and have been working to address life-threatening child health challenges. diseases such as HIV/AIDS and necessary “Teva Global Public Health (TGPH) program provides a framework for new corporate engagements with global public health challenges in emerging markets and beyond. Being an integral part of the R&D organization allows us to bring to the table extraordinary expertise in drug development, extending the New Therapeutic Entities (NTE) approach to global health initiatives. This is quite a unique approach in the world of pharma.” Dr. Inon Schenker, Senior Director, Global Public Health Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 15 Innovating for Better Health An integrated approach to healthcare innovation We maintain an integrated approach to our R&D efforts, leveraging our full suite of capabilities across generic, specialty and OTC medicine development. This approach is what has enabled Teva to uniquely differentiate itself through a strategy of innovation around existing molecules (the product of which are known as New Therapeutic Entities or NTEs). We maintain a robust pipeline of products, investment in our specialty medicines pipeline, combining the best of what we know with the innovation is the life-blood of our company. opportunity of what we have yet to discover. By focusing on patient outcomes and our Our annual $1.4 billion spend on R&D utilizes different capabilities, we are able to make our expansive scope of core capabilities to a unique and scalable difference. deliver innovation that combines technologies, systems and processes in an integrated and Beyond innovation in the medicines synergistic way. themselves, we continuously look at ways to improve patient outcomes beyond just the We have advanced innovation in healthcare pill. For example, advancing personalized in multiple ways throughout our hundred medicine for a better match between unique years’ history. From the leadership of patient characteristics and treatment efficacy, generic medicines that has transformed the or offering patient solutions that increase accessibility and affordability of healthcare adherence to treatment regimens, we ensure for billions, to new therapeutic entities that innovation is not only integrated, but also address unmet healthcare needs, to continued highly efficient. Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 16 Innovating for Better Health Highlights Integrative healthcare innovation In 2014, we submitted our new We are abuse deterrent opioid to the FDA – developing a breakthrough solution personalized for painkiller overdose. medicine solutions to prevent disease that occurs due to shared genetic characteristics. We established a med-tech In 2014, we conducted 130 clinical innovation hub in partnership trials for innovative medicines with Philips Healthcare and the across 27 programs with more than Office of the Chief Scientist in Israel. 15,000 patients enrolled. Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 17 Innovating for Better Health Specialty innovation In 2014, we launched 4 new specialty U.S. FDA in early 2015. This new product has medicines in the therapeutic fields of a novel design that helps address a problem respiratory, Central Nervous System (CNS), prevalent in 60% of asthma patients that do pain management and multiple sclerosis. not use traditional metered-dose inhalers In addition, we submitted seven files for correctly. registration of new medicines with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) The development of specialty medicines is and continued to work on many specialty supported by our network of clinical trials medicines in our pipeline. A breath-actuated, at different phases for each development. In multi-dose, dry-powder inhaler for the 2014, we conducted 130 clinical trials across treatment of asthma was approved by the 27 programs with more than 15,000 patients enrolled. “Our specialty innovation pipeline stepped up in 2014. We continue to invest in new specialty products to treat a range of conditions. We are always developing new ways to improve patient outcomes including finding innovative solutions for populations with specific treatment needs.” Jon Isaacsohn, Chief Medical Officer Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 18 Innovating for Better Health New Therapeutic Entities One of the most promising aspects of our positioned to apply all we know from our innovation that demonstrates our commitment specialty medicines development with the to innovating for better health and healthcare vast experience we have in the development outcomes for patients is the development of generics. Putting this all together enables of New Therapeutic Entities (NTEs). NTEs us to deliver breakthrough solutions to are new forms of generic medicines that we known healthcare issues. We currently have formulate for delivery or use in a novel way to 15 NTE products in our pipeline in different provide solutions for specific unmet patient therapeutic areas including respiratory, pain needs. The goal of our NTE development is to management and CNS and we continue to enhance patient outcomes through developing invest for rapid expansion of our NTE program. new treatment approaches using existing Many of our NTEs are in advanced stages molecules. of development, such as a longer-acting, ready-to-use treatment for schizophrenia As the world’s biggest maker of generic drugs, that is subcutaneously injected and easier to with more than 250 formulation researchers administer than current treatments, and a new in house, more than 1,000 molecules in our portfolio of HIV medication that will enable portfolio and more than 5 distinct complex more cost-effective treatment regimens with drug delivery technologies, we are uniquely a lower pill burden. “Because our NTEs are based on known molecules with proven efficacy, we are able to develop and deliver NTEs both faster and at lower cost than the process for new chemical entities. NTEs take three to six years to develop, at a cost of $10 million to $50 million, compared with new drugs that take 10 to 15 years and $1 billion to $2 billion. In this way, we can reach more patients with affordable and faster healthcare solutions.” Elizabeth Kogan, SVP, Global Generics R&D Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 19 Innovating for Better Health Abuse-deterrent pain-killers Opioid analgesics (pain relief medicines) While this extended-release technology is are frequently used in the management of effective, latest research shows that this is chronic pain, including chronic low back pain. relevant for only around 15% of the known However, between 1997 and 2010, the per millions of opioid abusers who manipulate capita use of prescription opioid analgesics in extended-release opioids (e.g. by crushing the U.S. increased more than six-fold, and was into powder) for snorting, injection or oral accompanied by an equally dramatic increase ingestion of the powder. By far the vast in the non-medical use of these drugs. This majority of those overdosing on painkillers is believed to correlate to a steep increase in are those who take several intact immediatedeaths from overdoses of such drugs. The U.S. release opioids at the same time. This may be Center for Disease Control and Prevention intentional – to feel an immediate sense of named prescription drug abuse and overdose euphoria, or as a route to committing suicide. as one of the top 5 health threats for 2014. It may also be unintentional, for example, in The three main routes of extended release seniors who may not recall having already opioid abuse are crushing into a powder for consumed their dose. snorting or swallowing, dissolving in water to inject, or dose-dumping with alcohol. By applying our NTE approach to research for deterring this kind of abuse, cited by the FDA In order to address this issue, we developed as the most critical opioid–abuse problem, we an extended-release hydrocodone-based tablet have developed a unique immediate-release to provide sustained relief from pain severe technology that is capable of delaying the enough to require daily, around-the-clock, onset and lowering the magnitude of the long-term opioid treatment and for which clinical effects of painkillers when multiple alternative treatment options are inadequate. intact tablets are ingested. This means that Our technology includes our CIMA® Abusethose seeking a “rush” from painkillers won’t Deterrence Technology (ADT) platform and get it immediately, those who are suicidal incorporates physical characteristics designed have time to reconsider (and many, given the to limit the effects of alcohol and tablet chance, regret their suicide attempts) and manipulation on drug release (dose dumping), those who are found to have unintentionally thus reducing the potential for abuse and overdosed can be taken to a hospital to receive adverse consequences of overdose. We have treatment. Our approach is unique – there submitted our request for approval of this are no solutions on the market anywhere important medication to the FDA. today that address this problem. In 2015, we submitted this technology to the FDA and are continuing clinical trials with a target to be marketing this NTE medicine during 2017. Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 20 Innovating for Better Health Innovation in mobile healthcare Erez Vigodman, Teva president and CEO; Assaf Barnea, CEO of Sanara Ventures; Frans Van Houten, president of Philips International In early 2015, we created Sanara Ventures, a market. Each company, once approved by strategic joint venture partnership between the program, can receive up to $700,000 Teva and Philips Healthcare in Israel, to in funding to advance their initiatives. The advance innovation in medical devices and Office of the Chief Scientist covers 85% of mobile health. The initiative was selected by the funding and the remaining 15%, plus all the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Israeli associated support and management costs, Ministry of the Economy to receive funding to is funded by us and Philips Healthcare through support technology innovation in healthcare. Sanara Ventures. Through Sanara Ventures, we have committed to supporting up to 80 early stage technology To date, more than 400 companies have companies over a period of 8 years to guide applied to become part of the Sanara Ventures and accelerate the launch of innovative innovation hub, and the Sanara team has met medical devices and mobile health services or with more than 55 early stage companies with products. Sanara Ventures provides financing, promising potential. Four of these have already business mentoring and technological support been selected to move to the next stage while to assist selected companies to reach a global several others are in due diligence. “Our interest was to invest in new technologies beyond our traditional core expertise in making medicines. We know that improving patient outcomes is not just about medicine. We have to go beyond the pill to ensure that relevant treatment includes resources and tools that integrate with patient lifestyles and this means using advanced technologies that we are not expert in. Therefore, a partnership with Philips Healthcare, a world leader in medical devices and technology development, seemed to be the ideal route, building on the complementary strengths of both partners. When we achieve our objective of selecting 80 companies over 8 years, our collective investment will reach more than $25 million.” Avinoam Sapir, General Manager, Teva Israel Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 21 Innovating for Better Health Sanara Ventures: focus areas → Disease management throughout the care cycle → Telemedicine, sensors and remote monitoring → Medical imaging → Drug delivery and drug-device combinations → Healthcare IT, mobile health (mHealth) “The added value that Sanara brings is a market validation process that defines the right way to use technology in medical applications. When we invest in companies, we help them shape not only the business model but the way the technology can be best utilized for better healthcare outcomes for patients.” Yossi Ofek, Managing Director, Pharma Innovative Solutions, Teva Israel Providing resources for trialing new healthcare solutions The mission of our Investigator Sponsored research. We make our research resources Studies treatment (ISS) Program at Teva is to and funding available to these investigators support research that helps understanding, in order to support innovative trials, concepts and treatment options of different disease and approaches. We award support based on states which ultimately aids the advancement scientific merit, patient safety, unmet medical of quality healthcare. The ISS Program is open need, availability of funds, and feasibility of to all investigators, who might be private the proposal. In 2014, we reviewed 85 ISS practices, hospitals, community health centers, protocols, and approved 44 for support. cooperative groups, physician networks, In total, we are currently running 171 active academic medical centers, and universities protocols. who are interested in conducting their own “We advance healthcare innovation by opening up our resources to new trial concepts and approaches. By making our research resources and funding available to gain new understanding of diseases entities and their treatment, we contribute to the continual improvement of patient health.” Julie Mathena, Director, ISS & Phase IV Coordination Marketing Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 22 Innovating for Better Health Personalized medicine – increasing healthcare efficacy Through the advent of technology and Personalized medicine uses scientific insights, research methodologies, we are closer than advanced technologies and big data analytics ever to being able to diagnose disease early, to enable tailored treatments that deliver the anticipate the course of disease, and identify best disease management strategies to the those patients that will benefit most from a patient. This branch of our research improves drug, as well as those most susceptible to healthcare outcomes at a personal level adverse drug events. “Personalized Medicine” and for entire communities while enabling is the field of medicine tasked with addressing considerable savings in healthcare costs these aspects of drug and disease, resulting in through personalized treatment with optimal optimized well-being for the individual patient. efficacy. “Our patients don’t simply want medicines – they want better health outcomes. At Teva, we know that to achieve these outcomes, we have to change our way of thinking and working. By matching patients to the best treatments based on their genetic profile and other predictive factors, personalized medicine is changing the way drugs are developed and prescribed. It offers significant potential for improving patient quality of life and quality of care across a broad range of diseases and conditions.” Dr. Iris Grossman, VP, Head of Personalized and Predictive Medicine and Big Data Analytics Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 23 Innovating for Better Health Personalized response to drugs Personalized genetic characteristics Recently, we completed research on over We have supported pharmacogenomics 1,000 patients to assess the potential research among Bedouin, Druze and Christian benefits of using genetic markers in multiple Arab populations in Israel. These populations sclerosis (MS) to guide the therapeutic face unique risks of genetic diseases due to choice of available therapies. With the goal the strong cultural bond within them that of developing a predictive tool to identify leads to a high instance of marriage within the patients most likely to benefit from a particular community, resulting in genetic modifications drug, we found that a combination of genetic over time. In collaboration with Professor variants can identify a patient group with a Tzipora Falik-Zaccai, founder of the Institute reduced risk of relapse when treated with our of Human Genetics at the Western Galilee drug. This is an important development as Medical Center in northern Israel, we identified for the first time, we may provide physicians specific genetic modifications that will with the possibility to predict response to enable us to develop targeted treatments to an MS drug via a personalized genetic test, prevent serious disease development in these thereby improving the efficiency of treatment communities and others with similar social for the patient and reducing the overall cost of infrastructures. We shared our initial findings treatment for MS patients over time. at Israel’s 2014 Biomed Conference. “Identifying the genetic cause of disease allows entire communities to benefit from diagnostic services and testing of at-risk couples during pregnancy. This research contributes greatly to the understanding of the biological mechanisms essential to human health and the development of novel therapeutic approaches.” Tzipora Falik-Zaccai, Associate Professor, Medical Genetics & Pediatrics, Founder and Head, Institute of Human Genetics, Western Galilee Medical Center Nahariya, Israel Ensuring patient safety through drug insights One of the main pillars of Personalized benefit and reduce risk. In collaboration with Medicine is to ensure that patients receive industry leaders in genomics, Teva published the safest and most effective medicines in 2014 multiple articles in well-respected available. To this end, comparing medicines peer-reviewed journals addressing research and determining their molecular, and into the safety and efficacy of differentially ultimately clinical, impact is imperative. manufactured complex drugs, suggesting We are using state-of-the-art approaches to differential biological impacts that warrant compare between drugs to maximize patient further investigation. Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 24 Always Improving Innovating for Better Health Health Medical excellence Excellence in research and applied solutions is the key to Innovating for Better Health. Deepening our understanding through scientific research leads to innovation that helps us address unmet patient needs. As a large global pharma player, we feel we operations to develop new and more effective have a role to play in contributing to a culture medicines and improved delivery systems. of excellence throughout our healthcare In addition, we encourage the development of systems. With patients at the center of our a culture of medical and scientific excellence in focus, medical excellence serves not only our industry and collaborate with a multitude our business interest, it raises the bar for the of partners to encourage knowledge sharing, broader healthcare community. capability building and better outcomes for patients. We invest almost $1.4 billion each year in research and development in our own Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 25 Innovating Always Improving for Better Health Health Highlights medical excellence We have committed to investing up We supported Teva to $15 million over 5 years to fund 25 neuroscience established the top researchers and research publications in world largest students in neuroscience at 10 leading scientific global research leading Israeli research universities. journals by partnership Teva sponsored collaboration researchers. in Huntington’s We helped establish a new state-of disease the-art autism registry in Israel to research . advance discovery of new therapies. We invested in new We invested $20 million in clinical research centers development and up to an additional in Israel in partnership $1 million for research into dementia with a leading university. over 3 years in partnership with the UK’s National Health Service. “Since being accepted into the NNE program in 2013, I have had the opportunity to meet with leading scientists as I progress my research in the area of molecular and computational neuroscience. In particular, I am working on developing ways to address the progression of Alzheimer’s disease. The collaborative community offered by the NNE program has been highly valuable to me.” Shahar Barbash, PhD Graduate Student, Hebrew University of Jerusalem, NNE class of 2013 Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 26 Innovating for Better Health Bio-medical research excellence President of Global R&D and Chief Scientific Officer Michael Hayden in a meeting with NNE grantees during the 2014 Annual Scientific Neuroscience Conference in Israel Teva established the Israeli National Network In 2014, we hosted several events to of Excellence in Neuroscience (NNE) in 2012 encourage scientific conversations and to create a collaborative scientific research collaboration including a series of talks on community to develop therapeutic approaches scientific medical developments at the annual for some of the most challenging neurological Biomed conference in Israel in 2014. At our diseases. Israel is a world leader in Annual Scientific Neuroscience Meeting we neuroscience research, ranked 5th globally in encouraged scientific exchanges between neuroscience publications per capita. Focusing NNE scientists and Teva R&D leaders that on new ways to understand and treat diseases led to 12 specific collaborative opportunities of the brain, NNE builds on existing strengths that are currently being progressed. We have of Israeli science and adds further value. established the NNE Young Scientists’ Day as an annual Teva event at the Israeli BioMed Teva has committed to invest up to $15M over Conference. 5 years to fund top researchers and research students at 10 leading Israeli research NNE grantees have established a strong institutes as part of the NNE program. collaborative community which has produced The first cohort of more than 40 researchers joint research studies, resulting in 25 is already making advancements researching publications in leading scientific journals to the treatment of diseases such as Alzheimer’s date. This is a tangible contribution of the NNE disease, Multiple Sclerosis, ALS, Huntington’s to advancing the field of neuroscience to help Disease and Parkinson’s disease. Potential patients around the world. At the end of 2014 new therapies have already been identified we published a new request for proposals for and vital work is now in progress to further the second round of NNE grants. validate the concepts generated by Israel’s brightest neuroscientists as part of the NNE program. Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 27 Innovating for Better Health Investing in research centers Dr. Michael Hayden, President of Global R&D and Chief Scientific Officer at Teva; The Rabbi Prof. Daniel Hershkowitz, President of Bar Ilan University; Erez Vigodman, Teva President and CEO; Silvan Shalom, the Minister for the Development of the Negev and Galilee; Prof. Ran Tur-Kaspa, BIU Medical School Dean; In addition to our support for neuroscience The Teva Center for Neuroscience Research through our NNE program, we maintain several assists the Faculty of Medicine in the Galilee scientific research collaborations and continue to develop unique research and teaching to invest heavily in research. In 2014, we programs, including the establishment of partnered with Bar Ilan University to invest a new autism registry in Safed that will be $4 million in the establishment of two stateavailable to all researchers in the country. of-the-art research centers in the north of The Teva Center for Human genetics, at the Israel to advance the research in the fields of Western Galilee Hospital, Nahariya, focuses genetic diseases and autism and contribute on research of the high frequency geneticssignificantly to the development of local dependent morbidity in the Galilee in order to medical services. develop new therapeutic approaches to reduce morbidity. “Teva and Bar Ilan University are constructing together a new infrastructure for scientific excellence in the northern part of Israel. By initiating a new center dedicated for autism research and an advanced institute for the study of rare genetic disorders, the Galilee will have, now and in the future, an important role in promoting scientific knowledge in Israel.” Dr. Michael Hayden, President of Global R&D and Chief Scientific Officer “Thanks to the important contribution of Teva, we will be able to establish a national registry of people with autism spectrum disorders in Israel and collect tissue samples to enable identification of environmental factors, as well as biological pathways that are disturbed. This will lead to the identification of therapeutic targets. This information is essential to find a treatment for autism spectrum disorders.” Dr. Evan Elliott, Head of the Molecular Neurobiology and Behavioral Laboratory, Faculty of Medicine, Safed, Israel, and Director of Teva’s Brain Research Program Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 28 Innovating for Better Health Partnering with the UK Government for dementia research Dr. Michael Hayden, Teva President of Global R&D and Chief Scientific Officer; Prime Minister of Israel, Mr. Benjamin Netanayu; David Cameron, The Rt. Hon Prime Minister of the UK; Erez Vigodman, Teva President and CEO, launching the partnership in Jerusalem, Israel. The global cost of managing dementia This reduces complexity and increases currently exceeds $604 billion per year the speed and efficiency of running drug around the world. According to the World development program. Our collaboration will Health Organization, the number of people provide access to advance clinical studies and living with dementia is set to reach 115 to well characterized cohorts of patients from million in less than 40 years. This places a within the National Health Service. burden on national economies, and working collaboratively to improve solutions will We will invest approximately $20 million not only help many patients, it will free up in clinical research in the UK as part of this healthcare budgets for the benefit of many initiative as well as provide funding of up other patients. to $1 million for early stage work over three years in UK academic and medical centers for In 2014, we announced our collaboration with understanding new approaches to treatment of the National Health Service National Institute dementia and neurodegenerative diseases. We for Health Research (NIHR) Office for Clinical will contribute our vast expertise in speed and Research Infrastructure (NOCRI) in the UK for efficiency of drug development and leadership a joint clinical drug development initiative. in Central Nervous System (CNS) research The initiative features a novel model to support this partnership in understanding created by the NOCRI to streamline clinical mechanisms of different causes and types of development in the UK with a single point of dementia, and creating new approaches to entry into the UK health system. treatment. “This is an excellent area for Britain and Israel to collaborate on. The meaning of Teva is nature, and it is in the nature of Israelis and Brits to be entrepreneurial. Success in technology, innovation, and the pharmaceutical and healthcare industries are a must if Israel and Britain are to compete in the global race.” The Rt. Hon David Cameron, Prime Minister, United Kingdom Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 29 Always Improving Innovating for Better Health Health Patient safety We are deeply committed to the safety of our patients as they use the medicines we develop and market and as they participate in clinical trials to test medicines in development. It is our ethical duty to protect our patients every market where our products are sold. while safeguarding our business against risk. Safety officers undergo regular training on all new drug safety regulations and guidelines, Our strong record on the safety of our complete their knowledge through attendance medicines throughout our history is a at professional pharmaceutical meetings and testimony to the intensive efforts we conferences and participate in our annual continuously invest in embedding a culture mandatory global patient safety training of safety and in our safety management program. Patient safety is addressed at Teva infrastructures at all levels of our company. through our high standards of manufacturing We are constantly vigilant regarding new and continuous quality assurance processes, legislation relating to our medicines and through our pharmacovigilance (PhV) regarding compliance with all applicable operations, throughout our clinical trial activity laws. We maintain a worldwide network of and in our fight to eliminate drug counterfeits. highly trained local safety officers, most of whom are physicians or pharmacists, covering Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 30 Always Improving Innovating for Better Health Health Highlights patient safety In 2014, we maintained 137 In 2014, we wrote 1,337 periodic clinical studies at more than safety reports and 193 Risk 4,100 sites in 58 countries in Management Plans for our products, different therapeutical areas. both generic and branded. Our adherence to GPvP (Good Pharmacovigilance Practice), Good Laboratory Practice (GLP), Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) and Good Clinical Practice (GCP) is recognized by FDA (U.S.) approval at 26 of our plants, and EMA (Europe) approval at 31 plants. Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 31 Innovating for Better Health Maintaining world-class pharmacovigilance Our Pharmacovigilance (PhV) unit and Risk managers in our global patient safety and Management Planning team work closely pharmacovigilance, regulatory affairs, medical together to monitor, identify, analyze and affairs and legal departments continued its report potential safety risks associated with activities in 2014, meeting almost every the use of a Teva product or device. While month to review all aspects of safety and PhV many drugs are approved for the general performance. During the year, the CSB oversaw population, their effects may vary when used 31 product safety audits of our factories and by a mass market. These effects are closely third party manufacturing sites. monitored and reviewed in order to provide the most up-to-date patient safety information. Due to increased awareness of drug safety and worldwide pharmacovigilance legislation, In 2014, our pharmacovigilance unit improved we have seen a 10% increase in adverse current safety monitoring processes. We also event reports over the past year. The amount expanded our internal communication of of cases also depends on the activities in a pharmacovigilance-related matters and our country or procedural approaches in different internal PhV portal currently has almost 400 countries. Nonetheless, this is an indication of users who join monthly discussions on patient greater vigilance in matters affecting patient safety and PhV. safety and we welcome this awareness and meticulously follow up every incident that Our Corporate Safety Board (CSB) that comes to our attention. includes our Chief Medical Officer and senior “Our role in pharmacovigilance is all about the patient experience. Although it’s clear that there are shared characteristics, symptoms and reactions among patients that take certain treatments, in some cases, lifestyle habits or circumstances can change the way a group of patients or specific patients respond to a certain drug. We have a mission to understand the full range of reactions our drugs cause and to ensure that they are safe at all time for all patients as far as possible. We use all our resources around the world to encourage reports of adverse events, investigate them and find solutions.” Hedva Voliovitch, VP, Global Patient Safety & Pharmacovigilance Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 32 Innovating for Better Health Assuring the integrity of clinical trials Patient safety is our primary focus throughout entered the market. In 2014, we maintained the process of pharmaceutical development. 137 clinical studies at more than 4,100 sites in Clinical trials play a crucial role in helping 58 countries in different therapeutical areas. ensure that medicines are safe and effective before they are brought to market. We follow In 2014, we improved our communications the most advanced global standards for and streamlined processes with our Contract clinical trials, with emphasis on protecting Research Organizations (CROs), for example, the safety of potential patients as well as in the area of safety monitoring systems trial participants. All trials are conducted in for the benefit of patients. We also worked accordance with the international Declaration with CROs to respond to emerging ethical of Helsinki, which lays out ethical principles issues and created a new ethical standard for medical research involving human subjects. regarding consent and screening, for example, We conduct clinical trials only when trial data to fulfil our ethical obligation to include is critical to product development and we use eligible patients even if our trial objectives rigorous designs in order to not unnecessarily regarding number of patients have been met. expose participants to experimental drugs. We maintain a continuous audit plan for our To maximize patient safety, we have CROs and in early 2015 we made 135 oversight voluntarily expanded the scope of our trials to visits. include tests and evaluations after drugs have “Since 2012, we have outsourced the conduct of our clinical trials to a small number of global Contract Research Organizations (CROs) who have proven capabilities and exemplary reliability and credibility, as well as strong citizenship profiles in terms of upholding human rights. Our contracts in this area are for three years of activity, demonstrating a level of mutual trust and high quality of service .” Limor Zeev, CMO Business Operations Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 33 Innovating for Better Health Addressing counterfeit drugs Counterfeit drugs present risks to the Our Counterfeit Event Response team works pharmaceutical industry and to the safety around the world to address counterfeit issues of our patients. We aim to ensure that our as they arise, often in collaboration with local patients receive authentic, safe and reliable regulatory authorities. A recent example of our products. We combat counterfeit medicines activity in a large country in South America through multiple approaches in the detection has started to yield positive results. In this and rapid response to counterfeit activity country, around 35% of all medicines sold including implementing security measures are counterfeit, posing a major problem for throughout the supply chain; product integrity the safety of patients who consume these measures such as bar codes and serialization medicines. and the support of public campaigns to raise awareness of the dangers of counterfeit medicines as needed. “In one of our large markets in South America, we are working with the national regulatory authority through the Association of National Pharmaceuticals Industries to address reported instances of counterfeiting while implementing additional measures to secure products sold. We have approved new anti-counterfeit technology for certain products and initiated an informational campaign for distributors and customers to help them understand the complexity and prevent counterfeit medicines entering the market as far as possible. Similarly we are conducting audits at printing companies to ensure security measures are in place, and are closely monitoring facilities for storage and destruction of rejected products. At the same time, we are pursuing counterfeit operations through legal means and initiating civil and criminal actions against those who break the law and endanger patients.” Yehudah Livneh, Global Government Affairs “We maintain a formal anti-counterfeit policy with a goal to protect the safety of our patients and preserve the integrity of our supply chain. We aim to minimize and mitigate the risk of counterfeit drug penetration. We play an active role, along with many other players in the industry and with governments to vigorously drive collaboration for the adoption of anti-counterfeit measures for all generic products.” Kobi Mor, Head of Global Corporate Security Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 34 Innovating for Better Health Quality metrics We are continually looking for new ways to Engineering (ISPE) and commenced a pilot collect, manage and analyze a broader set of program on new metrics such as compliance metrics and at the same time improve our quality, tracking of recalls, remediation quality metrics system across the company. efforts and more. The goal is to establish a With broad data analysis capabilities, we will set of harmonized metrics across the industry be able to better support product quality, build that will enable comparable and meaningful predictive analytics and develop knowledge understanding of quality impacts in the management. We have worked with teams at pharma supply chain. the International Society for Pharmaceutical “The data used to ensure quality supply chains is changing rapidly in the pharmaceutical industry. We are evolving a robust set of metrics and at the same time sharing our knowledge with regulatory agencies such as the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Both regulatory agencies and pharmaceutical companies are looking to improve how these metrics are used within the industry to ensure the highest possible degree of patient safety.” Laura Cannon, Senior Director of Quality Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 35 Innovating for Better Health Quality in manufacturing and supply The scope of our global quality team includes we had 104 regulatory inspections in 2014 the entire spectrum of our supply chain from at 66 of our sites by 43 different agencies sourcing through manufacturing and supply which resulted in zero critical observations. to our customers. Teva continued in 2014 to In addition, we continued to enhance the proactively enhance regulatory compliance processes and controls to ensure the quality of of our manufacturing sites, and of our third our products for the entire product life cycle party suppliers and distributors. For example, from development through commercialization. “Our manufacturing network is continuously optimized so that our customers can have full confidence in our supply chain. This is enabled by high-volume, technologically-advanced manufacturing and distribution facilities that allow us to deliver new products swiftly and reliably. We continually review our capabilities and capacity to ensure we can consistently deliver best-in-class products.” Uri Hillel, Senior Vice President, Quality Compliance & R&D Quality Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 36 Always Improving Innovating for Better HealthHealth Patient support Innovating for Better Health means taking a holistic approach supporting patients and promoting proper adherence to treatment regimens. We care about improving health, so we care In addition, in our local markets around about helping patients get the best out of the the world, we maintain collaborative and medicines and treatments available to them. supportive relationships with numerous This also serves our business – we do better patient associations and organizations that when our patients do better. assist patients to understand their rights, improve access to medicine and offer practical Through our patient solutions division, we support to patients as they deal with the dayprovide assistance to patients to help them to-day challenges of fighting disease. get the best out of their prescribed therapies. Highlights patient support Our Patient Support Programs We ranked second reached nearly 300,000 among 18 patients in thirty countries, providing pharmaceutical assistance and support to help them companies in a global get the most out of their medicines. survey of 165 neurological patient organizations for We advanced a host of patient support our record of patient initiatives in dozens of countries safety, useful higharound the world designed to increase quality products awareness, adherence and prevention and stakeholder in several therapeutic areas. transparency. Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 37 Innovating for Better Health Providing practical support for patients Healthcare providers are charged with the Global Patient Solutions, with a dedicated responsibility of prescribing medicines and team of nurses and other patient support treatment regimens for patients, but they do professionals to provide patient services not have the ability to monitor the way their both virtually and by visiting patients in their patients follow the prescribed treatment. homes and instructing patients or caregivers As a pharmaceutical manufacturer, our interest how to administer their medicines properly. goes beyond having our drugs prescribed. We We also have established call-centers staffed are most interested in the health of the patient with trained professionals who provide and her or his recovery. We are therefore important information to patients. In addition, becoming more focused on how medicines we partner with many patient organizations are used and not only what medicines are around the world, such as the MS International prescribed. Foundation, and over 250 global, regional and local patient organizations, to provide For more than ten years, we have maintained assistance in developing programs for Patient Support Programs to assist patients enhanced MS care and adherence to in adhering to Multiple Sclerosis treatments, treatment. with extremely positive results and high levels of patient satisfaction. In 2014, we created “We have found time and time again that factors often unrelated to a disease or its prescribed treatment can influence healthcare outcomes for the patient. If the patient does not adhere to the treatment regimen, then its success may be compromised. Non-adherence may derive from multiple factors such as memory, motivation or difficulty of administering or simply understanding their treatment. Similarly, patients affected by more than one condition may have several treatments to be taken in parallel. Taking medicines in a way that does not cause conflict or reduce the efficacy of other medicines is also important.” Jason DeGoes, Senior Vice President, Patient Solutions Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 38 Innovating for Better Health Avoiding errors in taking medicines In France, in order to improve adherence adherence easier, such as standardization to prescribed treatments, we launched the of numbers of tablets in each packaging unit Marguerite Prevention program targeting and adapting medicine boxes to the needs of multi-medicated, independent elderly people. elderly patients. Building on this, we launched A multidisciplinary working group consisting a public campaign in 2014 to raise awareness of doctors, pharmacists, psycho-sociology while taking action at Teva France by experts and elderly persons’ associations met implementing some of the recommended tools, over a nine month period in order to better such as new packaging for certain generic understand the healthcare journey of older medicines and publishing helpful materials for patients and the circumstances and behaviors patients for distribution by pharmacists. leading to poor adherence. Following analysis, the group published a White Paper listing So far, our 20 recommendations have gained 20 recommendations for solutions for both significant attention in France with key players health professionals and older patients to in the healthcare sector. We have met with foster better adherence to treatments. The leaders at the Ministry of Health and other recommendations include greater coordination national offices and they are considering how between different healthcare providers and this approach can be applied more broadly caregivers and practical tips to help make in the healthcare system in France. In France, 10% of hospitalizations amongst people over 70 years old are attributed to errors in taking medicines. On average, patients over 75 consult more than 3 doctors (general practitioner, cardiologist, ophthalmologist, urologist, nephrologist, etc.) and take an average of 4.5 medicines each day. Over 43% of them take between 5 and 10 medicines per day. (Paquid Study, Bordeaux Segalen University) Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 39 Innovating for Better Health Advancing diabetes care In Teva Poland, we supported the Polish 100 video training sessions for over 1,100 Diabetes Association with a campaign to general practitioners to raise awareness improve the detection of diabetes. In Poland, and enlist their support to help increase approximately 3 million people suffer from the detection rate of diabetes in Poland. diabetes, but it is estimated that a further The goal is to create a register of diabetes 2 million are not aware of their disease and patients in Poland which will help the Polish remain undiagnosed and unsupported. Diabetes Association assess the scale of the Our 2014 campaign, “A Coalition for the Early disease and ensure appropriate resources are Diagnosis of Diabetes” included a team of allocated to provide treatment. specialist physicians that delivered more than Living with your liver Another successful approach to innovating liver health study in Poland and engaged in a for better health at Teva Poland included a preventive campaign to “Know Your Liver”. special offer of free liver ultrasound scans that In 2014, our HepaBus, a medical truck reached more than 2,500 patients. Research designed especially for this project with two shows that only 25% of the population has built-in ultrasound units, covered 4,500 any understanding of their liver functioning kilometers in three weeks, visiting 15 cities and about one in three Poles are able to in Poland, offering liver ultrasound scans free detect abnormalities in their liver function. of charge to all local residents who came to In collaboration with the Polish Association for be tested. We performed 2,590 patient liver the Study of Liver, we supported the first ever scans with the help of 24 physicians. Ask about urology Teva Poland established a urology call center sometimes have to wait longer than 6 months. pilot program to help overcome the challenge Our Urology Call Center was a pilot project to of insufficient availability of physicians to facilitate access to an urology specialist for an address all patient queries and needs. initial consultation. During the 28 days of the In Poland, the average number of patients initiative, more than 400 patients contacted per urologist exceeds 3,500. To make an the call center and received advice. appointment with a specialist, patients Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 40 Innovating for Better Health Helping make more medicines available to patients Globally, we support patients with financial cancer, pain and other diseases at no cost assistance and product donations through a to patients in the U.S. who meet certain range of channels at an investment of tens insurance and income criteria. In 2014, of millions of dollars each year. In the U.S. we provided medicines worth $41 million alone, in 2014, we donated over $66 million to (Wholesale Acquisition Cost, WAC) to patients ensure that thousands of patients can benefit though our Teva Cares foundation in the U.S. from increased access to multiple sclerosis and other essential medical treatments. A large Another route that we employ to support share of this sum was routed to the Patient patients is through donation of medicines via Access Network Foundation (an independent different channels, mainly via Direct Relief, non-profit organization that supports access to an organization that helps people affected by medication for people with medical insurance poverty or emergency situations by mobilizing such as Medicare) while remaining funds essential medical resources. In 2014, we were donated through other channels to help donated medicines worth more than $27 patients afford the drugs they need. million (cost value) to Direct Relief and other organizations. We are one of Direct Relief’s In addition, our Teva Cares Foundation works most significant contributors of medicines for to improve patient access to medication by those in need. providing Teva medications for treatment of Recognition for supporting patient groups We were pleased to be recognized in an scores for our record on patient safety and independent 2014 global survey carried out transparency. Patients noted our dedication by PatientView, a research and publishing to the continued development of CNS-focused company focusing on the patient agenda. treatments and our patient support programs. The survey, entitled “The Corporate Reputation In addition, fair pricing and the high quality of Pharma in 2014”, assessed reputational of our generics portfolio contributed to this factors of the top 18 pharmaceutical ranking. The strength of our R&D portfolio companies worldwide though a survey of addressing neurological diseases is also a key 165 patient groups from 32 countries with factor in patient appreciation for our efforts. an interest in neurological conditions. We 2014 was the first year we were included in were ranked in second place overall with high the PatientView survey. “We are honored to be recognized by neurological patient groups who do such important work on behalf of those they support around the world. At Teva, our focus on CNS (including multiple sclerosis, neurodegenerative diseases, pain and migraine) is at the core of what we do, and we are committed to the continued development of safe and effective treatments, innovative technologies and comprehensive support programs that address the unmet needs of those who live with debilitating neurological diseases.” Mike Derkacz, Senior Vice President and Head of Global CNS Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 41 Innovating for Better Health “Teva’s commitment to patients cannot be underscored. Due to their ongoing support, we are able to take guidelines-based clinical messages and present them in a simplified, patientfriendly manner in English & Spanish. One key impact area is the awareness and advocacy work for dose counters on all inhalers. We know this project alone has saved many lives by ensuring patients receive active ingredient at the time they need it most. Together, Teva and Allergy & Asthma Network are dedicated to ending needless death and suffering due to asthma, allergies and related conditions.” Tonya Winders, President & Chief Executive Officer, Allergy & Asthma Network “As a global leader in respiratory medicine, the American Academy of Allergy, Asthma and Immunology is at the forefront of the finest in research, education and clinical care of the patient with allergic disease. Teva Pharmaceuticals has exhibited commitment to both the allergy/immunology specialty and the allergy/immunology patient by supporting many of these initiatives, and the AAAAI is proud of our professional relationship with Teva Pharmaceuticals. We continue to work to enhance the expertise of the specialty and the clinical care addressing patient needs.” Robert F. Lemanske, MD, AAAAI President Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 42 Responsible Business Conduct Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report Our business is dependent upon the trust of our stakeholders who demand that we operate with integrity and accountability for our social and environmental impacts. We have a responsibility to all our stakeholders, beyond our commitment to patients, to embed a culture of citizenship and make an overall positive contribution to society now and for generations to come. Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 43 Responsible Business Conduct Ethical standards We care deeply about continuing to make a positive contribution to society and we value the trust of our stakeholders, recognizing that we must prove ourselves worthy of that trust with every action and interaction, every week, day and minute. Trust provides us with our social license to We remain committed to the UNGC’s ten operate. principles and annual publication of a Communication on Progress. We maintain our Code of Business Conduct in 22 languages to guide employees in required In addition, we play an active role in ethical behaviors. All new employees receive advancing ethical frameworks in our industry ethical training upon joining the company and through, for example, the European Generic all employees participate in refresher training and Biosimilar Medicines Association (EGA). in the Code of Conduct every two years. Additionally, during 2014, we have been In 2013, 95% of our employees worldwide strengthening our global ethical standards with completed an in-person or online training the addition of focused policies on different course in our Code of Conduct. In 2014, 95% aspects of our interactions with stakeholders of new hires completed the training, which such as regulators, healthcare professionals represents around 8% of the Teva population and others. We have been establishing and in that year. Beyond our Code of Conduct, embedding policies and procedures in these we publicly commit to upholding ethical areas for relevant employees within the standards throughout our business through our company at a global level. participation in the UN Global Compact since 2010. Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 44 Responsible Business Conduct Supporting improved industry-wide ethical standards “We have consistently adopted the most rigorous compliance standards globally in line with European regulations. We also wanted to help raise the standard of ethical behavior for the generics industry as a whole. As a member of the European Generic Medicines Association (EGA) a non-profit, non-governmental organization representing industry associations and companies from across Europe, we took a leading role in the working group to develop an industry-wide Code of Conduct. The working group consists of industry compliance experts collaborating to help shape and develop a uniform ethical code to guide generics companies on their interactions with the healthcare community.” Erick Tyssier, Head of Government Affairs Europe The EGA Code of Conduct on Interactions transparency, such as disclosure of financial with the Healthcare Community (EGA Code) and non-financial support as well as guidelines was published in March 2015 following for promotional materials and information extensive collaborative work in the prior year. for patients and healthcare providers. A This EGA Code aims to set a framework of requirement of the EGA membership is standards and principles that promotes trust, that EGA national associations accept the responsible behavior and respect, between conditions of the EGA Code or a comparable pharmaceutical companies and the healthcare code that is at least as strict as the EGA community, including healthcare professionals, Code. Teva has incorporated the provisions healthcare organizations, patients and patient of the EGA Code in all our European internal organizations. It includes guidelines for corporate policy positions. “As a member of the EGA working group, one of our areas of contribution was to raise the standard regarding interactions with healthcare providers, in order to ensure that pharmaceutical companies act ethically and avoid potential conflicts of interest. While the EGA code is a leap forward in our industry, there is still more to be done and Teva continues to be actively involved in the EGA’s compliance activities.” Michael Gyr, European Regional Compliance Officer Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 45 Responsible Business Conduct Political contributions As a corporation,Teva made $29,300 in seeking elected office at the State and Federal contributions to state political parties and level that we believe align with our interests candidates in the United States. We did not as a corporation with an objective to advance make political contributions in any of the affordable and accessible healthcare for other countries where we operate. In our U.S. patients. All contributions to the PAC are subsidiary, we maintain a Political Action voluntary and in accordance with the Federal Committee (PAC) to which employees may Election Campaign Act. In 2014, the Teva PAC choose to make personal contributions. The contributed $146,000 to State and Federal Teva PAC makes donations to candidates candidates. Highlights All our employees are trained in Teva’s Code We supported the development of of Conduct at least once every the EGA Code two years. of Conduct on Interactions with the Healthcare Community and adopted it in our policies. Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 46 Responsible Business Conduct Ethical supply chain In 2014, we spent more than $9 billion demanding quality and service standards. with more than 50,000 suppliers. 40% of We perform quality audits against our our procurement expenditure is for direct manufacturing and quality standards on materials for production and the remainder hundreds of suppliers each year and closely covers non-manufacturing and services. 47% monitor their performance in meeting relevant of our procurement expenditure is in Europe, standards and implementing identified 25% in the U.S. and 17% in Israel. corrective actions. Our supply network is an essential part of our In addition to meeting price, quality and ability to deliver our medicines and healthcare service requirements, we also expect our products to our customers and patients, and suppliers to adhere to a set of values and we rely on suppliers to support not only our approaches to doing business that align with business continuity, but to help protect us our own. We are working to develop a Supplier against risk arising from environment, health, Code of Conduct that will formally lay out safety and human rights considerations. our expectations in this area with a target to As a minimum, our suppliers are expected implement this using a risk-based approach to comply with all applicable regulations though our supply network. in all relevant markets, and conform to our Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 47 Responsible Business Conduct Environment and safety Our employees are the passion, spirit and expertise that Teva needs to make a positive difference to healthcare and patients around the world. Our journey towards environmental, health and safety (EHS) excellence ensures that we will protect, enhance, and create business value for our organization, while at the same time furthering our ability to expand global access to affordable medicines for the benefit of patients. Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 48 Responsible Business Conduct Highlights – Environment & Safety In 2014, we self-audited 26 We launched We significantly Teva sites for EHS regulatory our EHS improved our compliance and established Excellence global safety Awards and performance corrective and preventative actions recognized with a 32% plans that are being tracked to sites for reduction in closure where gaps were identified. excellence in recordable EHS practices injuries and and outcomes. lost days due to injury. In 2014, In 2014, we used 4% more energy we reduced and generated 2% more greenhouse our total water gas emissions than in 2014. However, withdrawal since 2012, we’ve reduced our energy by 17%. consumption by 4% and our emissions by 6%. We continue to implement initiatives to reduce both energy and GHG emissions. In 2014, hazardous waste was In 2014, we recycled 33% of our 77% of total waste, of which total waste. Some of our best sites 30% was recycled or reused. recycle more than 90%. Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 49 Responsible Business Conduct EHS strategy “We are building a culture within Teva that values and rewards excellence in EHS, visible leadership commitment, and meaningful employee involvement. We strive to incorporate Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) considerations throughout the full life cycle of Teva’s products. We continue to implement our new global EHS Management System which goes beyond basic compliance, establishing expectations for all operations and guiding our facilities to reach world class levels of EHS performance. In 2014, we issued 19 new global EHS standards that strengthen our global governance and oversight of EHS management. Our long-term goal is Target Zero zero incidents, zero injuries and zero releases.” Peter Taschner, EVP, Global EHS and Engineering Following the establishment of TargetZERO and standards. We are on track to complete in 2012, we have been developing and the roll-out of our global EHS management implementing a suite of global EHS processes to system by mid-2016. Operating facilities will align our global organization, ensure the right then have a couple of years to become fully performance, and monitor our progress. We are compliant with expectations. establishing the direction and standards for each aspect of our activity. This ranges from risk In addition, our EHS management system management to integration of EHS into product is fully aligned with international quality and process design as well as to engagement of standards such as ISO 14001 and OHSAS our employees around the world. The energy, 18001. Many of our sites around the world enthusiasm and actions of all employees will have achieved certification to one or both of create our future success. The first and most these standards. For others, compliance with basic step is to ensure compliance at all our our EHS management system facilitates future sites with regulation and internal policies certification. Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 50 Responsible Business Conduct EHS Journey to Excellence Systems Risk Sustainability Compliance Performance Stewardship Culture EHS Journey to Excellence As part of TargetZERO, in early 2014, we audit for compliance with local regulatory implemented a new global EHS audit program requirements and Teva EHS Management as a uniform, centralized approach to System standards. During 2014, we completed identifying gaps and implementing corrective 26 audits and established corrective and and preventive action. All Teva locations preventative actions for all findings. including manufacturing, research laboratories, offices and warehouses undergo a periodic Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 51 Responsible Business Conduct Energy and emissions management We are implementing a cost saving energy management masterplan to achieve a 15% reduction of CO2e emissions by 2020 compared to our 2012 baseline. Teva's API plant Teva-Tech in Israel We will achieve energy efficiencies through We have started to implement new solutions investment in engineering improvements, at a range of our facilities. One of the most energy management systems, adopting new immediate investments we can make is in technologies, and applying “Energy by Design” our lighting systems. In 2014, for example, principles to seek energy savings in every we completed a lighting retrofit at one of our project. At the same time, we are taking facilities in Toronto Canada that provides advantage of independent power sources packaging and distribution of our products based on natural gas, such as the conversion for the Canadian market. The facility area is of our Indian site in Goa to sourcing from 340,000 sq.ft., and it delivers 26 million units an independent power provider producing to the market each year. In 2014, we retrofitted electricity from natural gas. We continue to 384 lighting fixtures within the warehousing consider opportunities to source renewable areas from metal halide to T5HO lighting with energy and establish cogeneration or green motion sensors. This initiative saves over energy production where possible. 1 million kWh per year and more than 170 metric tons of greenhouse gas emissions while reducing waste due to longer replacement times of new fixtures. Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 52 Responsible Business Conduct Environmental performance Total energy by Scope in MWh Total GHG emissions by Scope in tons CO2e 2,896,240 2,668,393 2,786,608 971,686 901,476 917,782 1,231,034 1,182,662 1,297,500 593,982 556,071 594,833 1,665,206 1,603,946 1,370,893 377,704 306,643 361,711 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Total Scope Total Scope Total Energy GHG emissions GHG emissions Total GHG 1 Energy 2 Energy (Scope 1) (Scope 2) emissions Emissions of ODS R22 in tons CO2e Water performance in M3 000s 9,103 8,680 6.55 7,196 6,540 5.52 5,959 5,539 2.02 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Water withdrawal in M3 Water discharge in M3 Waste in metric tons Hazardous and non-hazardous waste 218,427 218,427 186,972 180,975 186,972 180,975 48,933 94,439 59,468 42,415 82,363 107,567 169,494 121,507 138,560 123,988 104,609 79,405 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Landfill and Total waste Hazardous Non-hazardous Total waste incineration Recycled waste waste Notes: → Environmental data covers all Teva's owned or managed facilities around the world. → Most of our water is withdrawn from municipal supplies. → Some data from 2012/2013 has been restated to account for improved data monitoring. A minor amount is sourced from ground wells. → CO2e emissions and other emission factors are calculated using the GHG Protocol set guidelines. → Scope 1 energy includes: natural gas, diesel fuel, kerosene, LPG, propane and motor gasoline. → We record only R22 as our main ODS. Minor amounts of other solvents are not included. Scope 2 energy includes purchased electricity and purchased steam. Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 53 Responsible Business Conduct Good environmental practice from around Teva In 2014, we launched our EHS Excellence Awards to recognize outstanding performance in different aspects of EHS and to share learning among all our sites. More than 40 Teva sites submitted good practice examples. These included reducing emissions in the Czech Republic, reducing pollutants in Ireland and increasing operational efficiencies and reducing waste in Italy. Reducing emissions: In our Opava factory 134a have been minimized to the lowest in the Czech Republic, we made a change levels technically possible and the waste that saves more than 3,000 metric tons of management systems have been configured to greenhouse gas emissions per year. In 2014, ensure that the waste gas is of a high quality we installed a condensing economizer to which can be readily converted for resale. increase the efficiency and utilization of natural gas, the basic source of energy for Increasing efficiencies: In our Villanterio the central steam boiler room at the site. site in Italy, we manufacture the active Utilizing the condensing heat of water, which pharmaceutical ingredient allopurinol that is produced during the combustion of natural is used to prevent the buildup of uric acid in gas, significantly increases the efficiency the body to prevent liver or kidney diseases. of the boilers and reduces our natural gas The allopurinol process yields different types consumption. of waste. Following detailed analysis of the waste streams, we improved the process by Reducing pollutants: In Waterford, a new segregating process elements, increasing process was introduced to recover and recovery of solvents and installing new safely dispose of the propellant gas, HFC equipment. As a result, we increased the yield 134a. We developed a state-of-the-art liquid of active ingredient by 2.4% and reduced the and vapor phase gas recovery system to total unrecovered waste generated through capture HFC 134a and prevent its release this process. into the environment. Emissions of HFC Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 54 Responsible Business Conduct Occupational health and safety performance At Teva, we believe that everyone has the right to a safe and healthy working environment, and that all injuries and incidents are preventable. Our long-term goal of TargetZERO drives We rigorously investigate all workplace meaningful continuous improvement of safety injuries and near-misses, developing and risks in the workplace and the safety for all our implementing corrective and preventive employees. In addition to compliance with all actions to prevent recurrence. applicable safety regulations throughout our operations, we are striving to create a culture We were deeply saddened by the loss of two of safety excellence that will impact the way Teva employees this year as a result of a flashour employees approach everything they do. fire that occurred during a manual cleaning operation using flammable solvent. Following During 2014, we continued to significantly this incident, we have developed and globally reduce the number of work-related injuries at implemented expectations to re-evaluate the our facilities around the world and the total use of flammable solvents for manual cleaning number of lost workdays. Since 2012, we have and minimum safeguards to be followed almost halved the number of injuries and lost where they cannot be substituted with a safer days due to injury, indicating a reduction in alternative. both the number and the severity of injuries. Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 55 Responsible Business Conduct Reduction in workplace injuries and lost days 2012-2014 1.25 0.72 0.89 0.52 0.42 0.61 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Injury rate per 200,000 hours worked Lost day rate per 200,000 hours worked Detailed safety performance data 2012 2014 Injuries Change 2012 2013 2014 in 2014 Number of recordable injuries 440 306 209 -32% Rate of injuries that resulted in lost 1.25 0.89 0.61 -31% workdays per 200,000 hours worked Lost days Change 2012 2013 2014 in 2014 Number of lost days 2,428 2,028 1,383 -32% Total number of injuries resulting in 252 179 144 -20% lost workdays Rate of injuries that resulted in lost 0.72 0.52 0.42 -19% workdays per 200,000 hours worked Fatalities 2012 2013 2014 Number of fatalities 2 1 2 Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 56 Responsible Business Conduct Excellence awards for safe operations In 2014, our U.S. Salt Lake City site was recognized as part of our annual EHS Excellence Awards for a holistic approach to improving safety culture and practice and positive results to date. Teva Salt Lake City site, U.S.A The site undertook a safety culture change management was proud to receive the U.S. initiative that included activities to improve National Safety Council Safety Leadership awareness, new communications practices, Award in 2014 for 5 consecutive years without regular departmental meetings, safety a lost time incident. Also in 2014, the Salt inspections, risk assessments and recording Lake City site received the U.S. National Safety of near misses and investigation. Overall, Salt Council Million Work Hours Award for working Lake City site’s safety performance improved 1 million hours without a lost time incident. dramatically in just a couple of years. The site “The benefits of TargetZERO have been to focus on safety, an increased culture of safety, a reduction of our Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) and maintaining our Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) at zero. Employees feel more engaged and feel more ownership of the site’s safety programs. By improving culture and performance, the site benefits from having healthy and safe employees on the lines, improving production efficiency. Incidents have decreased from 27 in 2008 to 13 in 2013.” Cody Andrew, Salt Lake City site. Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 57 Responsible Business Conduct Employee Engagement Our employees are the passion, spirit and expertise that Teva needs to make a positive difference to healthcare and patients around the world. Teva multipurpose plant employees in Jerusalem, Israel For our business to succeed, we must competitively and embrace an open and remain attractive to the tens of thousands diverse culture where all are free to contribute of employees that currently form our at their best. As a healthcare company, our organization and to those who will join in the drive toward Innovating for Better Health future. This means maintaining a workplace is relevant to our employees as it is to our where individuals can grow and develop patients, so we promote health and wellbeing and find expression for their creativity. We in our workplace. We observe globally aim to empower employees to contribute to recognized human rights standards in our advancing our sustainable business objectives. workplace, ensuring freedom of association, and avoidance of discrimination in all its We provide professional development forms. We do not condone child or forced opportunities for over 40,000 employees, labor. investing in their training and career development. We reward employees Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 58 Responsible Business Conduct Highlights In 2014, women represented In 2014, we had a total 46% of our permanent workforce, workforce of just over 43,000 employees. 49% of our total management at all levels, and 35% of executives and very senior In 2014, employee turnover management. was 11%. In 2014, women represented 47% of new hires. In 2014, we conducted a survey that achieved an 82% participation 80% of our employees strongly rate across our global agree that Teva lives up to high ethical employee population. standards. In 2014, we completed the development of a new Standard for Leadership framework that clearly sets expectations for leadership and management behavior in Teva. Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 59 Responsible Business Conduct Our employees by the numbers Total workforce FTE Year 2012 2013 2014 Total workforce FTE 45,948 44,945 43,009 Permanent employee FTEs in 2014 December 31 Location 2012 2013 2014 United States 8,011 7,372 6,608 Europe 19,749 19,811 18,232 Rest of the World (excluding Israel 10,791 10,599 11,202 Israel 7,397 7,163 6,967 Total 45,948 44,945 43,009 Global workforce by employment type and gender in 2014 Contract Type Female Male Total Permanent full time 18,512 22,276 40,788 Permanent part time (FTE) 262 28 290 Supervised workers 966 965 1,931 Total 19,740 23,269 43,009 Permanent workforce in 2014 <age 30 age 30-50 >age 50 Total Female new hires 583 926 132 1,641 Male new hires 650 993 180 1,823 Total new hires 1,233 1,919 312 3,464 Female leavers 438 1,235 354 2,027 Male leavers 515 1,463 528 2,506 Total leavers 953 2,698 882 4,533 Net workforce change in 2014 280 -779 -570 -1,069 Turnover (%) 2% 6% 2% 10.9% Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 60 Responsible Business Conduct Creating Teva for the future Overall, we have four main strategic goals for → Grow talented employees and inspirational our global Human Resources activities. leaders. → Support Teva’s 2021 business strategy. → Enable an integrated employee experience to transform the way we work. → Build a strong and enduring culture with engaged employees. “During 2014, we continued the Human Resources (HR) Transformation, in full alignment with Teva’s Transformation Journey. HR is supporting this journey by creating better people management practices and providing a better employee experience as we shape our processes and as we migrate into a service-oriented operating model. In everything we do, we are putting our people at the center. I believe that the strong connection between our leaders and our employees, supported by our HR professionals is key to our success. We will continue to build a professional HR organization that will take us – and Teva – forward, well into the future.” Mark Sabag, Group EVP, Human Resources Employee opinions In 2014, we conducted a global survey that that we make through our work. We believe achieved an 82% participation rate across this is one of the most important aspects of our global employee population. In particular attracting and retaining employees. Overall, we wanted to check whether employees are our employees confirmed that Teva appreciates engaged with our values as an organization diversity, operates ethically and responsibly and the meaningful contribution to society and makes a difference to society. Statement % agree My team appreciates similarities and differences among employees. 82% My job makes a difference in people’s lives. 70% Teva has a positive impact on society and the communities in which it operates. 73% Teva is environmentally responsible. 78% Teva lives up to high ethical standards. 80% Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 61 Responsible Business Conduct Employee leadership and development Teva China employees in a training session In 2014, we completed the development of a new Standard for Leadership framework that clearly sets expectations for leadership and management behavior in Teva to help deliver our overall business strategy and direction. The new framework defines four key leadership characteristics that we are cascading through our entire organization through 2014 and in coming years. → Imagine & Inspire – → Experiment & Adapt – to redefine what’s possible to accelerate breakthrough → Connect & Build – → Design & Act – to realize our full potential to transform our business We have already engaged hundreds of leaders in workshops to embed these new leadership behaviors and supplemented these workshops with training and development toolkits available to all employees on our internal virtual network. At the same time, we have advanced a new talent review process, using the new Standard for Leadership to identify the leaders of the future and ensure development opportunities are in place for them and others that are following on their heels. “At Teva, one way in which we are fostering the development of our people is through Functional Academies. These Academies target strategic capabilities for the function and take a blended approach to development by combining current job experience, managerial coaching, and experiential learning in a classroom (e.g. via simulations) to maximize development and business outcomes. In the past year, for example, we have run a Brand Academy for European marketing managers, with more than 500 managers participating in 2014, and a similar Sales Academy, with more than 300 European first line sales managers taking part.” Steve Kortick, Senior Director, Leadership & Development Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 62 Responsible Business Conduct Encouraging diversity We value diversity and believe that an and encourage mutual support for those with inclusive workplace helps us do better similar needs and challenges. Each ERG has business and contributes to creating a strong an executive sponsor and co-leaders to help and vibrant society where we all embrace and drive programming and enhance employee appreciate differences. Throughout our global engagement. Each of the ERGs is in a different business, we aim to live up to the principles stage of development, and while some are just of inclusion and take a strategic approach getting started and reaching out to potential to proactively encourage diversity among participants, others have already developed a our employees as well as in our interactions program of events and activities that members with patients and communities and business are starting to find beneficial. There is also partners. programming that spans the ERGs with a goal of creating forums to share and learn from An example of our commitment to diversity each other. In total, around 1,000 employees is in our U.S. and Canada operations, where, are already members of one or more of our in early 2014, we launched our inclusion ERGs with the Women’s Network being the network with a total of eight Employee largest at 400 members. Resource Groups (ERGs) to improve the sense of community among our employees Teva Inclusion Networks: Abilities (People working with Disabilities), African Heritage Network, Asian Heritage Network, Hispanic/Latino Heritiage (LGBT) Pride Network, Men at Teva, Vets at Teva, Women at Teva. Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 63 Responsible Business Conduct Employee wellbeing Healthy employees who invest in their own benefit as we are more effective in delivering wellbeing are most likely to be a positive our objectives. Throughout Teva, we aim to influence in the workplace and be more encourage and support employees to lead productive at work. They also present less healthier lifestyles and we maintain a wide risk to work continuity though lower sickness range of global health and wellbeing programs rates and absences. When employees lead in each county in line with local norms, needs healthy lifestyles, they benefit and we benefit and preferences. In 2014, innovative wellbeing as a business, and of course, our patients programs were advanced in several countries. Health and wellbeing in our U.S. facilities 1,777 2,437 Active employee members of Teva onsite Employees who completed a Biometric fitness centers Screening and Health Risk Questionnaire in the U.S. in 2014 25 163 Number of Employees used our Smoking Employees participated in our Cessation program Weight Watchers program Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 64 Responsible Business Conduct Wellbeing programs around the world “We subsidize gym memberships at all U.S. sites and operate on-site fitness centers at our larger sites. We offer a regular schedule of group exercise classes and personal fitness coaching throughout the year. In 2015, Teva U.S. launched a new initiative to create a culture of health, including incentives to motivate employees to better understand and improve their health through wellness checks and biometric screenings. We continue to offer additional options, including smoking cessation and weight reduction programs and Employee Assistance Programs to provide emotional and mental health support to employees and their families. We also encourage our employees to participate in health-focused athletic events in our communities where they can represent Teva.” Lesley Billow, SVP HR, Teva Americas “In Croatia, we provide sports and active lifestyle activities, healthy food and medical check-ups. We also offer education on preparing healthy food and our company restaurants serve healthy meals following the advice of the country’s most famous nutritionists. In addition, we provide medical screenings as a benefit for our employees about 90% of our employees regularly check their medical condition.” Blagica Petrovac Sikic, Director HR, Croatia, SEE, Italy, Bulgaria “In Germany, we promote sports and have an on-site sports hall on site and cooperate with external sport activity providers to make health activities convenient and accessible for employees. This includes yoga courses in the lunch break or badminton competitions after work and more. We also offer medical support through an in-house physical therapist. In 2014, we installed our internal Rehabilitation Management program to assist employees to improve their overall health.” Jens-Peter Stehnke, HR Director, Teva Germany, Austria, Switzerland “In Teva UK, we enable flexibility for employees to select health benefits to fit their lifestyle. Possible benefits include private medical insurance, critical illness insurance, corporate gym membership, dental insurance, cycle to work scheme, health cash plan and health screening. We offer free fitness sessions across all our sites on a twice weekly basis and also provide employee assistance for emotional and mental health support to employees and their families.” Lynda Wilebore, FCIPD HR Director, Teva UK “In Israel, we maintain one of the best packages available in the local market for our employees, focusing on health insurance and encouraging sport and work-life balance. We offer full health and dental insurance for all employees and in 2014, we introduced a new program that we believe is the best available, offering all employees an annual complete health screening program at a nominated medical center close to their place of work or their home. The screening is fully funded by the company and takes a full day, half of which is paid work time. In Israel, if all employees participate, and we hope they do, it means a potential investment of more than $2 million per year.” Galit Slavin, Wellbeing Center Manager, Teva Israel “In Israel, we provide a holistic offering to employees to help them feel and be well. This includes a nutrition program with dieticians and nutritionists at each site all employees can book a consultation and attend workshops to improve their awareness and overall diet. We maintain several exercise groups onsite including yoga, Pilates and other forms of light exercise. We encourage employees to take part in sports events and Teva is the largest employer in Israel in terms of employee participation in corporate sports leagues and other sponsored sports events in different cities. Just recently, for example, we started a group of 50 women with little sports experience and coached them up to participation in a national Women’s Triathlon event.” Lior Cohen, Get in Shape Manager, Teva Israel Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 65 Responsible Business Conduct Community solidarity Our 43,000+ employees are all members of local communities in the countries where we operate and they want to feel proud to work for a company that supports local needs and strengthens local social infrastructure. Teva Poland employees renovating a children’s hospital playroom The focus of our community support is contributing funds and employee time to help advancing health and wellbeing in the improve the quality of life in local communities communities where we operate. In addition, in diverse ways. In all cases, we aim to build we support initiatives to promote and improve lasting partnerships with social organizations science education and show solidarity by to help create long-term systemic change. Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 66 Responsible Business Conduct Highlights In 2014, we held our first national three-day volunteering We support more than 500 community partners campaign in Israel and around the world. 2,500 employees donated thousands of hours in tens of In 2014, we assisted flood relief separate activities efforts in the Balkan countries around the country. with medicines to the value of We donated more than $160,000. $108 million to support our communities around the world. Corporate giving Teva corporate giving in $millions In 2014, we again contributed more than 109.5 108.9 $100 million to community causes, with 82.2 29.4 a strong focus on initiatives that advance 61.9 health and wellbeing, as well as supporting 32.1 the advancement of science education and community needs around the world. Overall, 79.5 we supported more than 500 community 50.1 47.6 partners in our different countries of operation. 2012 2013 2014 Cash donations Products and in-kind donations Total giving Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 67 Responsible Business Conduct Community activity highlights around the world In Poland, more than 60 In Hungary, Teva launched In Israel, as part of National employees were involved a new initiative to teach Science Day, Teva set up a in renovating playrooms employees and members of temporary interactive science for hospitalized children in the community resuscitation center in Tel Aviv welcoming pediatric wards that Teva techniques to potentially help thousands of young visitors funded. The playrooms are save lives before the arrival of to learn about science topics. professionally designed to an ambulance. We launched the Many Teva scientists gave support the therapeutic campaign nationwide with 40 lectures around the country for process. The first playroom was Hungarian journalists to help young audiences. completed in November 2014 raise awareness. and the program continues in hospitals in the Łódzki, Podlaski and Mazowiecki regions. In the UK, Teva was awarded In Israel, we held a nationwide In Estonia, Teva employees the Gold Quality Mark award three-day volunteering event for participated in a charity run at our Castleford site where all Teva employees, offering a to raise funds. Teva matched more than 10% of employees wide selection of activities that every $ raised by employees donate to their chosen charities employees could select in line with more than $5 from the through Payroll Giving. with their personal passions company. All funds were Employees also supported and preferences. More than donated to the Tartu University fundraisers such as a fancy 2,500 employees got involved Children’s Hospital fund to dress day in aid of children in in activities ranging from support therapeutic water need, Movember, and cycling picking fruit and vegetables programs for children suffering races to support MS. for the needy, renovating from juvenile rheumatoid nine homes, recreational club arthritis. centers for at-risk youth and foster homes. In the U.S., Teva employees In Israel, Teva employees In Canada, Teva employees in Kansas donated toys to our helped fill more than 1,000 supported the Teva Canada annual toy drive, partnering wishes for children living in Survivor Scholarship Program with the Shadow Buddies foster homes as part of the Teva at Childhood Cancer Canada Foundation that provides volunteering week initiative. through a variety of fundraisers condition-specific dolls that including raffles, pizza sales, help educate newly diagnosed cafeteria collection boxes and children and their families payroll deductions. about a medical condition and its treatment. Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 68 Responsible Business Conduct Community activity highlights around the world In Croatia, Teva maintains four In Lithuania, Teva employees In Latvia, Teva employees raised annual blood drives in cooperation engaged in many activities, funds for the local Palliative Care with the Croatian Red Cross including raising funds for a Society. and the Croatian Institute of children’s charity and donating Transfusion Medicine. Hundreds of furniture and candles at Christmas employees donate blood each year. time. In Italy, more than 160 employees In Chile, our employees In the Czech Republic, our again participated in Teva Italia’s contributed funds that were employees support one of the annual V-Day (volunteer-day), held matched by Teva to a total of largest children’s hospitals with at ten different social organizations almost $70,000 to Fundación donations and fundraising, and a across Italy, supporting Nuestros Hijos, to purchase Teva Day where employees spend disadvantaged children, families in computer equipment and birthday time entertaining hospitalized need and victims of abuse. gifts for children suffering from children. cancer. Also, around 80 Teva employees in Chile host monthly “fun chemistry” classes for children supported by the Fundación. In the UK, Teva employees at In Israel, we again honored Teva’s In the UK, 24 Teva employees took Castleford and Eastbourne sites former CEO with the Teva Award part in the 112 mile course of the took part in Business in the for Excellence in Memory of Eli Étape du Dales cycling challenge, Community’s Responsible Business Hurvitz by recognizing excellence raising funds for the MS Trust. Week with activities such as in education, science and culture. collecting litter, donating to food banks, and collecting books and clothes to donate to those in need. In Israel, we again honored In the Czech and Slovak In Canada, 40 Teva employees scientists making groundbreaking Republics, Teva teams held a joint engaged fellow employees during biological discoveries that Christmas party in support of MS a month-long raffle, auction and contribute to the development of patients. Employees purchased loads of fun prizes to raise funds medicines with the annual Teva products made by MS patients and awareness for prostate cancer, Founders Prize and research grants supported by the Multiple Sclerosis testicular cancer and male mental for researchers who excel in life Association HOPE that helps MS health initiatives in support of the sciences and biomedical fields. patients improve their physical work of the Movember Foundation. The prizes are awarded by Teva in condition through arts and crafts partnership with the Israel National activities. Academy of Sciences and the Israel Science Foundation. Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 69 Responsible Business Conduct Caring for communities when disasters strike The need for access to medicines is especially At the end of 2014, in response to a severe acute when climate disasters strike vulnerable Ebola outbreak, Teva’s NGO partner, Direct communities. We believe we have a duty to Relief, prepared the largest shipment of assist, and we do so by donating medicine medical goods in its 66-year history. We through well-established humanitarian worked quickly to help with this rapid organizations that coordinate and support response, and contributed more than 65,000 relief efforts. units of medicine which were included in an emergency shipment. Direct Relief’s ability In 2014, we assisted relief efforts in the Balkan to send emergency aid rapidly is heavily countries Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina dependent on contributions from corporate and Croatia following the heaviest rains and partners such as Teva. Our support enabled floods in 120 years that affected close to 3 the immediate mobilization of resources million people, including more than 100,000 to address the urgent needs of healthcare that were displaced from their homes. Teva workers and people affected by Ebola donated medicines to a value of more than throughout the region. $160,000 and we established a fundraising campaign that raised more than $20,000 from employees including Teva’s matched funds. Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 70 Governance and reporting Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report For a complex global business such as Teva, robust governance, detailed compliance and proactive risk management are the foundations of doing business in a sustainable way. We aim to go beyond minimal compliance with all the stakeholders we impact. Within this legislation to create a culture of compliance approach, transparency is the key to ensuring that proactively assesses all forms of risk and our stakeholders know that we take their ensures frameworks are in place to protect interests seriously and operate ethically. our business, our patients, our employees and Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 71 Governance and reporting Governance, compliance and risk management Our business continuity depends on strong corporate infrastructures led right from the top of our organization and aligned through every level and stage of our activity. We face risk with each action and interaction, independent directors and overall, maintains whether this is economic, reputational, social six standing committees to advise and guide or environmental risk. We care about being the Board in fulfilling its duties. Full details able to improve healthcare for patients as our of our governance structure and policies can core mission. Good governance, compliance be found on our website and in our filings to and effective risk management is the platform the U.S. Securities and Exchange commission for all our activities for the benefit of patients. (SEC). Beyond the support of the Board of Directors, we maintain active compliance We adhere to best practice in terms of and risk management programs supported by corporate governance and our Board of communications and training and due diligence Directors retains a key interest in our role as a processes. In the last year, we have updated good corporate citizen through the Corporate key compliance and risk-related policies and Responsibility Committee of the Board. developed new guidance in key areas for Our Board of Directors is composed of 15 applicable managers and employees. Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 72 Governance and reporting Highlights governance and reporting We held compliance training sessions with more than 12,000 employees in attendance. 20,000 employees We introduced a refreshed their understanding new policy for of our compliance policies interactions with online. healthcare professionals. Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 73 Governance and reporting Expanding compliance education Our Global R&D employees during a compliance training, Frazer PA, USA. In 2014, we published internally our new Teva on different topics. The policy is designed to global policy on interactions with members of ensure that we always comply with applicable the healthcare community that clearly defines local legislation wherever we operate, but also, the standards of engagement and payments that we take precautions to ensure that all gifts to healthcare professionals, including but are modest and payments are substantiated not limited to fees for services, serving as and relevant to the business need with no experts in marketing or scientific meetings, influence on the prescribing of medicines or and speaking on our behalf or participating other direct marketing efforts. in advisory boards as subject matter experts “In 2014, we have continued our momentum in terms of building our culture of compliance and we have implemented more extensive communications and training programs and published updates to some of our compliance policies while developing new ones to fill the gaps. In 2014, we trained over 12,000 employees on global compliance policies in face to face training and more than 20,000 employees read our global compliance policies online and confirmed they understood. One of our key areas of focus has been creating greater clarity around guidelines for giving gifts, hospitality and medical samples. We are also taking a more proactive stand by, for example, sending out reminders of relevant policy statements relating to gifts to all applicable employees ahead of the holiday season.” Rachel Batykefer, Associate Director, Global Compliance Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 74 Governance and reporting Intensifying risk management Our new risk management approach is based on advancing actions in each of the four areas of doing more. Focused Objective → Focus on fewer, strategic corporate risks. → External independent data and analytics. → Enhance responsibility for risk → Objective scenario analysis. management in different business units. More Real-time Integrated → New risk sensing systems. → New risk committee. → Discussions at executive level. → More risk officers in business units. → Faster response to real-time risk information. “2014 was a year where we intensified our risk management infrastructure and processes, and expanded our risk management network throughout the organization. We now have 16 trained and qualified risk officers throughout the company. In 2014, we mapped all parts of the business for current and potential risks, and shifted our thinking toward making risk management more strategic and embedding it as part of our corporate culture. This has become our risk management evolution – and it’s based on doing more in four key areas. In each of these areas we have started to engage with new processes and install new procedures. This is an ongoing process for Teva.” Adina Fishman, Head of Global Risk Management Unit In 2014, we specifically addressed opportunities to improve our risk countermeasures in a range of areas including: → Working with European finance specialists to help us identify gaps in identification of risks and in creating mitigating action plans for a range of risk management procedures that we have in place relating to anti-money laundering, anti-fraud and regulatory compliance. → We worked on our due diligence process and improved communication, collaboration, design and implementation of a more robust corporate due diligence progress. → We worked with an IT security team to identify cyber risk scenarios at some of our main operational sites and prepared new incident response documents. Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 75 Governance and reporting About this report This is Teva’s third annual global Citizenship Report and our sixth report overall (the first three reports reflected our operations in Israel only). This report describes our approach to citizenship and the key actions we have taken during 2014 to improve our contribution to healthcare around the world and maintain ethical practices. Quantitative data in this report relates to the This report adopts the principles for 2014 calendar year unless otherwise stated. defining report content set out in the G4 Our last report covered 2013. The selection guidelines. These are: Materiality (the issues of content for this report was driven by our most important for our long-term business materiality assessment of 2012, management growth and which are of most importance assessments of currently relevant topics and to stakeholders), Stakeholder Inclusiveness insights from stakeholders gained through our (responding to stakeholder expectations and interactions with them during the past year. interests), Sustainability Context (presenting our performance in the wider context of This report adopts disclosures from the Global sustainability issues) and Completeness Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 sustainability (inclusion of all the information that reflects reporting guidelines and includes a G4 content significant economic impacts in order to enable index. We expect to report against G4 core stakeholders to assess our performance). option with our next report. GRI is a not-for-profit, multi-stakeholder We do not seek external assurance for organization that acts to increase the level of our report. As a complex global operation, business transparency through sustainability we maintain many internal checks of our reporting. The G4 guidelines are considered information and will reconsider external to be the most advanced sustainability assurance processes when we have fully reporting framework available today, used adopted the G4 reporting framework and all by many of the thousands of companies that necessary data collection infrastructures are in publish annual sustainability reports. For more place. information, please see: www.globalreporting. org. Additional information about Teva and our global business can be found on our global corporate website, www.tevapharm.com. This report also complies with our commitment to submit an annual Thank you for your interest in this report. Communication on Progress to the UN Global We welcome your feedback and suggestions. Compact. Please contact our Corporate Responsibility Vice President Ayala Miller: teva.social.responsibility@tevapharm.com Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 76 Governance and reporting UNGC Principles The UN Global Compact (UNGC) is a strategic policy initiative of the United Nations which encourages companies around the world to adhere to ten principles of responsible business relating to human rights, labor standards, environmental protection and anticorruption. Teva has participated in the UNGC since 2010. GRI G4 Aspects / Global Compact Principles Disclosures Our Position 1 Businesses should support and respect the Human Rights We conduct our business responsibly protection of internationally proclaimed according to the highest ethical standards, human rights. including respect for all human beings and acknowledgement of their rights. We are 2 Businesses should make sure that they are Human Rights working towards fuller implementation of these not complicit in human rights abuses. Local Communities principles throughout our supply network. 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of G4-11 We respect the rights of employees to freedom association and the effective recognition Freedom of of association and collective bargaining. We of the right to collective bargaining. Association maintain a collaborative relationship with Labor Relations employees and address issues relating to their rights in a positive manner. 4 Businesses should support the elimination Forced and We do not engage in any practice which of all forms of forced and compulsory Compulsory Labor could be construed as forced labor. All Teva labor. employees are employed lawfully and of their own free will. 5 Businesses should support the effective Child Labor We respect and support the rights of children abolition of child labor. and we are committed to safeguarding their interests. We do not employ children in any part of our business. 6 Businesses should support the elimination G4-10 We maintain a policy of equal opportunity of discrimination in respect of employment Labor Practices and inclusive practices for new and current and occupation. and Decent Work employees in all matters relating to their employment with Teva. 7 Businesses should support a precautionary Environmental approach to environmental challenges. We adopt environmentally-oriented practices in all our operations conserve 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives Environmental resources wherever possible. to promote greater environmental responsibility. 9 Businesses should encourage Environmental the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 10 Businesses should work against corruption Anti-Corruption We are committed to behaving with in all its forms, including extortion and Public Policy integrity and act against all forms of bribery. corruption. Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 77 Governance and reporting GRI Content Index This report contains Standard Disclosures from the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. G4 General Standard Disclosure Page/Link G4-1 Leadership statement. Page 5 G4-3 Organization name. Page 3 G4-4 Brands, products, and services. Page 3 G4-5 Headquarters location. Page 3 G4-6 Countries of operation. Page 4 G4-7 Ownership and legal form. Page 3 G4-8 Markets served. Page 3 G4-9 Scale of the organization. Page 3 G4-10 Employee information. Page 60 G4-13 Significant changes. None G4-14 Precautionary principle. Page 75 G4-15 External charters. Page 45, 46 G4-17 Entities included. All global entities under operational control as detailed in our Annual Report. G4-18 Process for defining report content. Page 76 G4-19 Material Aspects identified. Page 6 G4-23 Changes in Scope and Aspect Boundaries. Primary stakeholders with whom we engage are: employees, customers, patient associations, healthcare professionals and the healthcare industry, governments and regulators, community and environmental organizations and investors. No specific engagement was undertaken for the purposes of this report. G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged. The key topics arising from engagement with internal and external stakeholders are reflected in our material issues on page 6 G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement. Page 6 G4-27 Key topics from stakeholder engagement. G4-28 Reporting period. Page 76 G4-29 Recent previous report. Page 76 G4-30 Reporting cycle. Annual G4-31 Contact point. Page 76 G4-32 “In accordance” option and Content Index. Page 76 G4-33 Policy with regard to external assurance. Page 76 G4-34 Governance structure of the organization. Page 72 G4-56 Values, principles and codes of ethics. Page 44 Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 78 Governance and reporting Specific Standard Disclosures Material G4 Material Page / Impact Aspect Indicator Detail Link Patient Product G4-PR2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning No incidents. Safety Responsibility health and safety impacts of products and services Affordability Indirect G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts Pages 11-15 of medicines economic impacts Human Investment G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on Partially reported rights human rights policies or procedures ethics training, page 44 NonG4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination No incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken discrimination reported. Assessment G4-HR9 Operations that have been subject to human Almost all of our rights reviews or impact assessments own operations have been assessed for human rights compliance. Certain external suppliers have been assessed on an as-needed basis. Bribery and Anti-corruption G4-SO3 Operations assessed for risks related Page 75 corruption to corruption and the significant risks identified Anti-corruption G4-SO4 Communication and training on antiPage 74 corruption policies and procedures Anti-corruption G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and No confirmed actions taken incidents of corruption. Clinical Product G4-PR1 Product and service categories for which As a pharmaceutical trials Responsibility health and safety impacts are assessed company, 100% of our products are assessed for health and safety. See Patient Safety chapter on page 30. Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 79 Governance and reporting Specific Standard Disclosures Material G4 Material Page / Impact Aspect Indicator Detail Link Transparency Indirect N/A Reporting our impacts We publish an and economic annual Citizenship disclosure impacts Report covering our ESG impacts and also report annually to the Carbon Disclosure Project. Strengthening Indirect G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts Pages 26-30 healthcare economic infrastructure impacts Health and Labor Practices G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, Pages 56, 57 safety occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism Product Product G4-PR3 Product and service information As a pharmaceutical labeling and Service information and labeling company, we Labeling comply with strictlyregulated product labeling for 100% of our products. G4-PR4 Non-compliance concerning product and No confirmed service information and labeling incidents of noncompliance. Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 80 Governance and reporting Page / Additional indicators Indicator Detail Link Economic Economic G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and Not reported impacts distributed Environment Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the Page 53 organization Environment Energy G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Page 52 Environment Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Page 53 Environment Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Page 53 (Scope 1) G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) Page 53 emissions (Scope 2) G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) Page 54 emissions G4-EN20 Emissions of ozonePage 53 depleting substances (ODS) Environment Effluents and G4-EN22 Total water discharge Page 53 Waste G4-EN23 Total weight of waste Page 53 G4-EN25 Weight of transported, imported, Page 53 exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous Labor Employment G4-LA1 New employee hires and employee Page 60 turnover Labor Diversity G4-LA12 Breakdown of employees per employee Page 60 and Equal category according to indicators of Opportunity diversity Social Local G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with 100% of our operations Communities implemented local community have local community engagement, impact assessments, and engagement programs. See development programs pages 68-69 for examples from around the world. Social Grievance G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on No grievances reported. Mechanisms society filed, addressed, and resolved for Impacts on through formal grievance mechanisms Society Teva 2014 Global Citizenship Report 81
