2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Contents Performance Highlights 2 3.7 Ecology and Environmental Protection 77 Stakeholder Engagement and the Key Events 4 3.8 79 Corporation’s Social Reporting Subsidiaries’ Traditions in Sustainable Awards and Achievements 8 4 84 Development Shareholders, Investors and Chairman’s Message 12 4.1 87 Management Efficiency About the Report and Materiality HR and Social Policy, Personnel Training 1 14 4.2 89 of Disclosed Topics and Human Rights Local Communities and Investments in 2 Corporate Profile 22 4.3 95 Quality of Life in Locations of Operation Business Partners, Suppliers and Promotion 2.1 General Information 23 4.4 100 of Responsible Business Practices Environmental NGOs and Managing 2.2 Corporate Governance 31 4.5 102 Environmental Impact Public Organisations and Charitable Activity 2.3 Procurement 35 4.6 107 Management 2.4 Risk Management 37 4.7 Consumers and Product Liability 109 Scientific Community and Innovation 2.5 Anti-Corruption Efforts 39 4.8 112 Management Higher Education Institutions and 2.6 Business Ethics 42 4.9 Investments 115 in Human Capital 3 Managing Sustainable Development 44 5 Appendices 118 3.1 CSR Management System in the Corporation 45 5.1 Sustainable Development Results in 2014 119 CSR Management of Subsidiaries and 3.2 49 Affiliates 5.2 CSR Regulation at Sistema 120 3.3 HR Management 51 5.3 GRI Content Index 121 Contribution to the Development of Locations 3.4 64 Implementation of Principles of the UN Global of Operations 5.4 126 Compact Investment in Human Resources and 3.5 68 Conclusion on the Review of Sistema’s 2014 Development of Innovative Capacity Sustainability Report by the RUIE Council for 5.5 127 Non-Financial Reporting for the Purpose of 3.6 Charitable Activities of the Corporation 73 Public Assurance 5.6 Glossary and Abbreviations 128 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS1 VEN U ES OIBDA E RATING P AYME ARITABLE LO Y E E RE OP AX N CH E MP S T T i i PROFIT 2013 589.3 2013 177.4 2013 113.6 2013 93.1 2013 1.8 2013 167,544 2014 631.9 2014 165.2 2014 60.9 2014 100 2014 0.9 2014 155,779 change +7.2% change -6.9% change -46.4% change +7.4% change -50% change -7% Tax payments to federal Revenues, OIBDA, Operating profit, Charitable and community Total number of employees, and regional budgets, RUB bln. RUB bln. RUB bln. expenditures, RUB bln. persons RUB bln. UR N VIDENT S T ME N UNTEER CS R RE T DI E OL I NV T V S i i НO N Y PR А А EК U IИTИ QЦ OJECTS 2013 0.96 2013 3 2013 95.4 2013 3 300 2013 32 2014 2.06 2014 5 2014 115.8 2014 8 038 2014 53 change +114.6% change +2 p.p. change +21.4% change +143.6% change +65.6% Dividend yield Return on equity, Sistema Group's investment Sistema's corporate volunteer Number of CSR projects of of shareholders, % RUB programme, RUB bln. movement, persons Sistema Group's companies (percentage points) 1 Consolidated financial indicators of the Joint-Stock Financial Corporation Sistema are given excluding Bashneft JSOC. 2 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 3 KEY EVENTS JANUARY FEBRUARY MARCH APRIL MAY JUNE i i WORLD ECONOMIC BECAME A MEMBER INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC WORLD PETROLEUM FORUM OF THE OSPT ALLIANCE SIGNED AN AGREEMENT CONGRESS OF VOLUNTEERS FORUM CONGRESS Sistema’s delegation headed by Board NIIME and Mikron became a memSITRONICS and the government of the Employees of MTS, MGTS, MTS Bank, Sistema’s delegation headed by Board Sistema took part in the 21st World Chairman Vladimir Evtushenkov took part ber of the OSPT (Open Standard for Republic of Dagestan signed an agreeStream, and Sistema took part in the 2nd Chairman Vladimir Evtushenkov and Petroleum Congress in Moscow. in the World Economic Forum in Davos. Public Transport) Alliance established ment on development of an integrated congress of volunteers’ that was held in CEO Mikhail Shamolin took part in in 2010 by leading payment service republican safety system through impleMinsk, Belarus. the 18th St. Petersburg International providers to develop new-generation mentation of the Safe Region, System Economic Forum. fare payment systems. 112 and other projects. SITRONICS and Cisco signed a letter of intent on strategic partnership in LIFT TO THE FUTURE development and implementation of the latest information technologies in An interregional scientific and various fields. educational summer camp was INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE SIGNED AN AGREEMENT organised in Smolensk as part of Sistema’s Lift to the Future programme. ON ENERGY PRODUCTION SIGNED AN AGREEMENT Sistema and the government of the Bashkirian Power Grid Company (BPGC) RTI and the All-Russian Scientific Republic of Karelia signed a general took part in the International Conference Research Institute of Aviation Materials cooperation agreement . on Energy Production and Management (VIAM) signed a cooperation agreement in the 21st Century — the Quest for RTI and the Russian Academy of on development of the composites Sustainable Energy, which took place in Sciences signed a cooperation agreeindustry in Russia. SIGNED AN AGREEMENT Yekaterinburg and brought together 150 SUPPORTED THE RUSCITECH ment on cooperation in R&D and innovations, which envisages joint experts from 27 countries. MTS and the government of the FORUM Krasnoyarsk Territory signed an development of a number of promising MTS signed a cooperation agreement agreement on social and economic technologies. with the government of the Khantycooperation in 2014—2016 on the Mansi Autonomous District, under sidelines of the 11th Krasnoyarsk RTI Group supported the RuSciTech which the company will participate in Economic Forum. Forum USA 2014: International Colimplementation of regional social and laboration in Science, High Technology charitable programmes. and Education, which took place at the Arizona State University in Tempe. LAUNCH AN INNOVATIVE PROJECT VOLUNTEER CENTRE WAS The Board of Directors of BPGC ESTABLISHED decided to launch an innovative project for upgrading power grids in Ufa with A Corporate Volunteer Centre was CREATIVE CHARITABLE Smart Grid components. established on the basis of Sistema PROJECT Charitable Foundation to bring together volunteers from Sistema’s subsidiaries. MTS and Konstantin Khabensky’s Charitable Foundation launched an all-Russian creative charitable project, The Mowgli Generation, which involved Russian theatre and movie stars, over COMMUNITY CLEANUP 1,000 children from different regions of Russia, and millions of Internet users. SUMMER GAMES All funds raised within the project are Over 3,000 employees of the Corused for treatment of children under poration took part in a community Sistema organised its 12th Summer MTS’s charitable programme Give cleanup organised by Sistema at the Games that were attended by over 3,000 Good! (dobroedelo.mts.ru) and KonMain Botanical Garden of the Russian employees of the Corporation and their stantin Khabensky’s Foundation. Academy of Sciences in Moscow. family members. 4 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 5 KEY EVENTS JULY AUGUST SEPTEMBER OCTOBER NOVEMBER DECEMBER HIGH LEVEL OF EMPLOYER CONSTRUCTION RUSSIAN-INDIAN YOUTH APPEAL LIFT TO THE FUTURE OF THE ICE STADIUM SIGNED AN AGREEMENT PUPPET THEATRE INNOVATION SUMMIT PROGRAMME RAEX (Expert RA Rating Agency) conThe first design reference mark for Sistema Charitable Foundation and Detsky Mir Group founded a volunteer During Russian President Vladimir firmed Sistema’s employer appeal rating an ice stadium was ceremoniously the St Martha and Mary Convent of puppet theatre for social adjustment of Putin’s official visit to India, Sistema, An interregional scientific and educadisadvantaged children. at A.hr, which means a high level of tional summer camp was organised in set in Kumertau (Bashkortostan). Mercy signed an agreement on longtogether with its subsidiaries MTS employer appeal. Bashkortostan as part of Sistema’s Lift The funds for construction of the term cooperation, which envisages and Sistema Shyam TeleServices Ltd. to the Future programme. stadium were provided by Sistema establishment of a multifunctional and with support from the Russian Charitable Foundation. centre for disabled children. Embassy in India, organised the first The All-Russian Scientific and EduRussian-Indian Youth Innovation Summit cational School Lift to the Future took and organisethe interactive cultural place in Moscow to complete the race and technological exhibition From of interregional summer camps held in Russia With Progress, devoted to the LIFT TO THE FUTURE Smolensk, Vladimir, and Bashkortostan. contribution of Russian inventors to the PROGRAMME REHABILITATION OF global technical progress. The International Student Scientific CHAMPIONS Conference Lift to the Future was held An interregional scientific and educain Moscow in the form of the globSIGNED AN AGREEMENT tional summer camp was organised in ally renowned International Student Sistema Charitable Foundation and Vladimir as part of Sistema’s Lift to the Science Fair (ISSF). MOSCOW INTERNATIONAL the Russian Paralympic Committee Future programme. MTS concluded an agreement on FORUM organised treatment and rehabilitation social and economic partnership of champions and prize winners of with the government of the Udmurt RTI Group presented its latest the Paralympic Games and world Republic, under which the company will invest over RUB 757 mln. in the developments at the 2nd Moscow championships, members of Russian CHARITABLE FAIR International Forum for Innovative paralympic teams, and veterans of the development of telecom infrastructure Development, Open Innovations, and at Paralympic Games at Altai Resort, a in the Republic. the Open Innovations Expo. health resort in the Altai Republic. Detsky Mir organised the first charitable fair at its flagship store BPGC and the Ministry of Education of RTI sponsored the Transport and at Vozdvizhenka 10 in Moscow. the Republic of Bashkortostan signed a Infrastructure section during the Moscow cooperation agreement on prevention International Forum for Innovative of child injuries caused by electrical Development, Open Innovations. appliances. VOLUNTEERS AWARDS Over 50 MTS volunteers received honorary certificates and awards during a ceremony that was organised CONGRESS OF YOUNG VALDAY CLUB in Moscow on the occasion of the PROFESSIONALS International Volunteer Day. Sistema Charitable Foundation gave out special Sistema Charitable Foundation for the prizes for the best volunteer projects. Targin held the first congress of young first time provided support for the Valday professionals, which brought together international discussion club that took over 60 young employees and top place in Sochi and was attended by managers of the company. Russian President Vladimir Putin. 6 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 7 AWARDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS OF SISTEMA 30 managers It came in No.1 of Sistema and its Vsevolod Rozanov, Elena Vitchak, Sistema was ranked in the telecom subsidiaries were Senior Vice President Vice President Sistema ranked No.13 for product sales and data transmission included in the Top 100 and Head of the Finance and Head of the 11th among Russia’s in 2014 in the RAEX-600 sector and was also Russian Managers and Investment Function HR Department largest public companies rating of the largest mentioned in the list compiled at Sistema, received of Sistema, won in terms of revenue Russian companies nomination by the Association an Adam Smith Award the annual ARISTOS in Forbes’ 2014 rating. prepared by the Expert for sustainable of Managers jointly for the Best Financing award as the Best RA Rating Agency. development. with the Kommersant Solution. HRDirector. Publishing House. RE VENUE PR O D UC T OM AND D TOP 100 F INANC BEST EC ST 11 13 1 30 TEL A BE IN G th th th AT PERSON T RA M SO R NSMISSIO N DIRECTO R SALES AN S LUTION H AGER Sistema won a prize Sistema was named David Iakobashvili, for the Best Corporate among leaders of the Sistema was ranked The Russian Institute an independent director Media System at the 11th National Business Rating 18th in the rating of Directors confirmed of Sistema’s Board annual All-Russian Award based on independent of 100 Most Expensive Sistema’s rating of of Directors, was included Best Corporate Media assessment of economic Public Companies NRKU 8, which denotes in the Top 50 independent 2014 organised by the performance in 2013-2014, of Russia compiled Advanced Practices directors list compiled Russian Association making it to Top 10 among by the RIA Rating Agency. of Corporate Governance. by the National Director of Communication Russian companies of the Year Award 2014. Directors and Corporate and Top 7 in Moscow. Publishing (AKMR). OST EXPE N O R POR AT E TOP 50 T CORPOR LE ADE R S M C S 8 E 18 E BE AT 100 SIV th th CO OV D ED F RS M BUSINES M IR IA SYSTE IES S NC G E O MPAN ERNA ECTO 8 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 9 AWARDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS OF SUBSIDIARIES AND AFFILIATES MTS’ federal social educational proDetsky Mir Group won the ject Network for All Ages on Internet The Sokol Woodworking Golden Teddy Bear, a national literacy for older people won the MTS won the Grand Prix Plant (a subsidiary of award of the children’s goods BPGC received a special first prize in the Accessible Internet for Social Responsibility Segezha Group) won the contest of educational programmes MTS was named industry, in two categories: prize for efficient Internet and Charity for its national National Golden Mercury for the elderly organised by the the best Russian employer The Best Social Project communications as contest Children Teach Awards 2014 as the Best Russian Ministry of Labour and Social by HeadHunter Recruitment of the Year for Operation The Most Open Grid Company Adults at the Crystal Pyramid Exporter of Consumer Goods Security. It was also included in the Holding and Pricewaterhouse Toys, a project to set up chilat the 4th national contest Awards 2014, held and the Lesprom Awards top 20 best Russian social projects by Coopers International dren’s playrooms in Russian Best Russian Electric Grids the Social Projects and Programmes on the sidelines of the 2014 in the Wooden Design Consulting Group. hospitals and orphanages and organised by the Foundation and won The Moscow summit of HR directors category for its Father The Best Store for Children EnergoNews website. Times Awards organised by The of Russia and CIS. Frost’s Residence project for its flagship store Moscow Times newspaper as the in the Olympic Sochi. at Vozdvizhenka 10, Moscow. best CSR project of the year. C ESSIBL SOCIAL B E ST S T SOCIA ST RUSSIA E SP RO M AC BE E L 1 1 E L B N th GRAND th PRIX RE SP TY EM EL EC DS AW 1 IN LI 4 TERNET ONSIBI PLOY ER PR OJECT TRIC G RI AR DS-20 MTS received an employer Ron Sommer, Chairman Maksim Kalinin, Secretary of the MTS Board confidence certificate from of the Board of Directors NIIME and Mikron of Directors, was named the Russian Chamber of of MTS, was included in the among the 25 Best Corporate RTI’s magazine (a part of RTI Group and the Commerce and Industry, top 25 board chairmen list Governance Directors. Intellect&Technology won largest manufacturer and Federation of Trade Unions, of 2014. Rating were Rating were compiled the Silver Threads national exporter of microelectronics and State Labour Inspectorate compiled by the Independent by the Independent corporate media award in Russia and CIS) won of Moscow. The certificate Directors Association Directors Association for High-Level Solving the prestigious CNews confirms the company’s and the Russian Union and the Russian Union of Corporate Tasks. AWARDS 2014 in the Russian compliance with the labour of Industrialists of Industrialists Technologies category. legislation. and Entrepreneurs. and Entrepreneurs. P LO YE TOP 25 E 2 5 B ST H -LEVE SSIAN EM R IG RU H L CNews AWARDS O IA OF C EN 2014 BO A D ED ES ON RD RP TE CH I NC IR RS C M CHAIR E NOLOG M FIDE ECTO ORATE 10 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 11 Chairman’s Message the face of economic sanctions and communication networks by 50% depreciation of the national curand started commercial operation rency, when it becomes especially of 4G in 62 regions of Russia. Indifficult to maintain the high rates creasing penetration of high-speed of growth and to raise funds, a key Internet, including in remote areas role in cooperation with shareholdof our country, creates opportuers, investors, analysts, and other nities for wider use of innovative stakeholders belongs to responsiservices related to telehealth, ble business conduct, competent smart home, transport monitorcorporate management, and strict ing, energy accounting, etc. In compliance with generally accepted 2014, MTS’ retail chain expanded ethical norms and global standards to include over 300 new outlets of transparency, including in disclocombining telecommunication and sure of non-financial information. banking services for the benefit of A consistent social policy, use of millions of customers. To make it innovations for development of imeasier for all categories of cusport-substituting technologies and tomers to use new services, MTS competitive products, investments and MTS Bank organise educationin human capital — motivation, adal projects raising mobile, InterDear colleagues and partners, vanced training of employees, and net, and financial awareness. ladies and gentlemen! support of young talents —remain our priorities and the guarantee In 2014, BPGC’s investment activity We are glad to present to you Sisof sustainable development of the remained focused on construction tema’s 2014 Sustainability Report, Corporation as one of Russia’s bigof new and reconstruction and which was for the first time pregest taxpayers and employers. retrofit of existing power facilities. pared in accordance with the latest The company carried out a large version of the international GRI G4 In 2014, Sistema continued its amount of work to overhaul the Guidelines. In this report, we tried transformation into an investment power grid infrastructure in Ufa, to show the most relevant inforcompany that creates shareholder introducing Smart Grid compomation about the key social and value through constant reinvestnents in cooperation with foreign managerial aspects of the Corporament in current assets and new partners, Siemens and The Israel tion’s business and describe in the projects. We focus on progressive Electric Corporation. State-of-themost comprehensive and transpardevelopment of our subsidiaries, art electrical equipment was inent way our approaches to responmany of which already domistalled in a pilot area; a Customer sible investment in the Russian nate their market segments and Service Centre was established to economy, achievements and plans make a substantial contribution improve communication between of development of corporate soto essential areas ranging from customers and the company. The cial responsibility, and the best telecommunications, microeleccompany launched construction CSR and environmental practices tronics, and radio engineering to of four substations that are of key of our subsidiaries. medicine, pharmaceutics, and importance for industrial developagriculture. By taking into account ment of the Republic of Bashkorto2014 was marked by an economic both economic and social factors, stan. About 28 thousand metering crisis caused by a drop in oil prices, and concentrating on improvedevices were installed as part of depreciation of the rouble, and ment of the Group’s operational the energy saving and efficiency declining production and consumer efficiency and acquisition of new programme; the Safe Childhood demand. Both the government and promising assets, our portfolio social and educational programme the private sector were forced to strategy yields tangible finanwas launched to reduce injuries reconsider future development of cial results and brings positive caused by household electrithe market in general and individchanges to society. cal appliances. ual industries in particular, while investors had to adjust their stratConsiderable investments are anWhile sales in most retail segments egies. However, despite all the obnually allocated for infrastructure fell, Detsky Mir demonstrated a jective complications and subjective projects that improve the availabiltwo-digit growth rate in 2014 and factors affecting the macroeconomity and quality of services. Notably, continues growing fast, proving the ic situation, our development has in the past year, MTS increased efficiency of its customer-oriented never stopped. On the contrary, in the rate of construction of mobile business model and social policy. 12 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE In 2014, it opened 72 stores — a In 2014, Sistema acquired new and opportunities for career and record number in the chain’s timber and pulp-and-paper asprofessional growth. Attention to history — including the largest sets that were consolidated into social issues is an integral part of children’s goods hypermarket of in Segezha Group. The business segour corporate culture. Employees Vozdvizhenka Street, Moscow. The ment, which is new for us, requires of our companies regularly volhypermarket uses a store-for-kids special attention to environmental unteer at orphanages, support concept that is unique for Russia, issues and at the same time creveterans, and participate in enviwith interactive zones and innovaates opportunities for the Corporonmental campaigns. In 2014, a tive shop equipment. The company ration’s enhanced cooperation with Volunteer Centre was established also introduced LED lighting in Russian regions where it can act as on the basis of Sistema Charitaa number of its stores, achieving a strategic investor creating jobs ble Foundation. It brings together substantial energy saving. At the in the real sector and a modern, caring employees of the Corporasame time, Detsky Mir has been competitive world-class production to carry out large-scale tasks consistently increasing the share of tion environment. for the public good. We believe domestic goods in its stores, while that social responsibility must be its regional expansion is accomWe cooperate with Russian reintegral to business processes of panied by proactive involvement in gional authorities on a systematic every company of the Group and the life of local communities and basis and plan to develop pribe on every manager’s agenda. We efforts to engage customers in vate-state partnership by concludregularly monitor our subsidiaries’ charitable campaigns to support ing agreements on social and ecoprogress in the field of CSR and children in need. nomic cooperation. Paying equal make concerted efforts to enhance attention to the true development their integration and improve the In 2014, Medsi Group started needs of the regions and its own efficiency of their social projects implementing an investment business, the Corporation offers through creation of common valprogramme aimed at retrofitting a unique industrial experience ues for the business and society. and reorienting several existing and expertise, supplies integrated clinics, hospitals, and health high-tech solutions, such as Smart Sistema has been investing in resorts, including construction City and Safe Region, and makes Russia for over 20 years and will of a new state-of-the-art clinical social investments. For instance, continue contributing to building diagnostic centre in Krasnaya in 2009—2014, the company allothe country’s innovation and export Presnya Street. In the reporting cated over RUB 6 billion to finance capacity, developing the knowlperiod, the company consistently social infrastructure and charitaedge-driven economy, ensuring developed partner relations with ble projects within a cooperation technological independence, food leading foreign healthcare organagreement between Sistema and security, and better living condiisation and equipment manufacthe Republic of Bashkortostan. tions for people. turers to acquire cutting-edge equipment for its clinics, introIn 2014, Bashkortostan hosted one We view this Report as an imporduce international experience, of the three scientific and educatant tool of self-diagnostics in the technologies, and quality standtional summer camps of our Lift to field of sustainable development ards to Medsi’s business, and the Future flagship programme for and a dialogue with all stakeholdtrain medical personnel. talented children from across Rusers about our impact on sociesia. A total of 150 thousand school ty and environment, needed to The companies of Sistema Group and university students, educators, maximize the effect of our social continued building up the innovayoung scientists, and recent graduinvestment and reduce potential tion capacity of domestic microeates participated in the programme risks. We are open to dialogue and lectronics and radio engineering. over the last 4 years. We offer them will welcome your feedback, sugOur Mikron plant in Zelenograd various opportunities for all-round gestions, and proposals on future has launched production of 90 nm development and implementation cooperation. (G4-1) microchips and is working on the of innovative projects. After all, technology to produce 65 nm chips. proactive and creative thinkers are RTI started preliminary design our main value. studies and development of key Sistema’s technologies to produce a range of Today, the Corporation employs Board Chairman own air drones, aerospace systems, nearly 150 thousand employees and global and regional surveilacross Russia, and we offer all V. P. Evtushenkov lance systems. of them good working conditions MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 13 1. ABOUT THE REPORT AND MATERIALITY OF DISCLOSED TOPICS 14 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE The Joint-Stock Financial CorporaThis Report was prepared to activities in these fields in 2014. tion Sistema (hereinafter referred to inform a wide range of stakehold(G4-28), (G4-30) The previous Report as Sistema, Sistema Group, or the ers (the public) of the principles, for 2012—2013 was published in Corporation) proceeds with preparing goals, and actual and prospective November 2014. (G4-29) Visit the non-financial reports and presents its performance of Sistema in the Corporation’s official website for second Sustainability Report (herefields of sustainable development its social and annual reports2. inafter referred to as the Report). and corporate social responsibility. Previously, the Corporation pubThe Report provides a comprelished social reports. hensive description of Sistema’s Use of GRI Guidelines The Report contains no substantial The first three chapters of the Remodifications to the aspect boundport cover the existing corporate This Report has been prepared on aries or redefinition of the indicagovernance system, procurement the basis of G4 Sustainability Retors used in the previous reports activities, risk management, anporting Guidelines of the Global Reof the Corporation. Only Sistema’s ti-corruption efforts, and business porting Initiative (GRI) in accordance GRI indicators data is disclosed. ethics. Special attention is paid to with the Core disclosure option . The (G4-22), (G4-23) detailed description of the Corpolocation of standard reporting comration’s investments in various asponents and performance indicators The Report presents Sistema’s pects of sustainable development. is provided in Annex 3. (G4-32) The performance, financial, and ecoReport was prepared with considernomic indicators on the basics of Chapter 4 describes the best ation for the UN Global Compact’s the accounting statements prepractices of corporate social Principles, provisions of the Social pared in accordance with the Rusresponsibility applied in SisteCharter of Russian Business, indicasian Accounting Standards (RAS). ma Group. These are the leading tors of the Sustainable Development The key performance indicators practices in their respective fields Vector Index and the basic efficiency of the Group, excluding Bashand may set the pace for other indicators elaborated by the Russian neft, are presented in accordance companies of the Corporation and Union of Industrialists and Entrewith the International Finaneven other Russian businesses. preneurs (RUIE), and, finally, recomcial Reporting Standard (IFRS). mendations of specialized internaThe list of legal persons whose Disclaimer tional analytic and rating agencies, statements were included in the namely, Sustainalytics (Assessment consolidated financial statements The 2014 unaudited non-financial Report dated April 2014) and Vigeo is available at Corporation’s the report contains assessment and Rating (Rating Report dated January website 3. (G4-17) forecasts on financial, economic, 2015) which assess sustainability social, and other indicators which of companies using ESG indicators Content of the Report characterize the Corporation’s (environmental, social and corpodevelopment. Due to a number of rate governance). Priority topics of the 2014 Report reasons (including fast-changare as follows: ing market situation and many Report Boundaries other risks directly affecting 1. Promoting a sustainable Sistema and it’s A/Ss), actual Unless otherwise stated, all indidevelopment management events or results of subsequent cator values refer to Sistema. The system in the Corporation. reports may considerably differ indicators may refer to the whole from those stated in the assumpCorporation, including subsidiaries 2. Supporting traditions of tions or forecasts. and affiliates (hereinafter referred Sistema’s subsidiaries and to as S/As), with such cases being affiliates in the field of expressly specified. sustainable development. 2 http://www.sistema.com/social-responsibility/social-reports/ http://www.sistema.com/investors-shareholders/information-disclosure/annual-reports/ 3 http://www.sistema.com/investors-shareholders/financial-results/ MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 15 Public (External) Assurance conducted. During the survey we Number of Questionnaires, of the Report polled the following: pcs. 1. Shareholders (independent The Sistema’s 2014 Sustainabilmember of the Board of ity Report was for the first time Directors). publicly assured by an independent party, the Non-Financial Reporting 2. Management. Board of RUIE. The Conclusion on the Review of Sistema’s 2014 Sus3. Personnel. tainability Report is presented in Annex 5. The resultant feedback to 4. Subsidiaries and affiliates. 14 the Sistema’s 2014 Sustainability 5. Investment community (Bank of Report will be taken into account America Securities-Merrill Lynch 19 in subsequent reports of the CorRussia, VTB Bank, Deutsche poration. (G4-33) Bank, Open Capital Investment Fund, URALSIB Capital). Please refer any questions about the Report or its contents to Dmi6. State regulatory (supervisory) try Kolchugin, Sistema’s Exterand local self-governing nal Communications Manager, authorities (the Ministry Internal stakeholders by phone: 8 (495) 228-15-00, or of Natural Resources and e-mail: kolchugin@sistema.ru. Environment of the Republic External stakeholders (G4-31) of Karelia, the Department of Labour and Social Security Defining Material Topics of Moscow). (Aspects) 7. Professional communities In accordance with the require(Russian Managers Association). 3. Identification of the ments of the G4 Sustainability Corporation’s Impact on 8. Public environmental Reporting Guidelines, the CorpoSustainable Development Aspects organisations (World Wild Fund ration assessed the materiality To generate a materiality ma(WWF), Terra Viva International of the topics (aspects) disclosed trix, the Corporation conducted a Ecological Movement). in the Report. To identify matesurvey among the working group rial aspects, we used the fullest that prepared the 2014 Report. list of possible aspects and took See details on the principles of The working group consisted of: into account the specifics of the selection of stakeholders in clause Corporation’s business, matters 3.8. Stakeholder Engagement and • E. Chuikov — Vice President, of economic efficiency, social the Corporation’s Social Reporting. Head of the Sistema’s Corporate and environmental impact of the Communications Function; Corporation, etc. During the survey the stakeholders rated the materiality of each • E. Vitchak — Vice President, The stages of the materiality idenof the topics proposed for disHead of the Sistema’s HR tification process are as follows: (G4-18) closure in the Report on a fiveDepartment; grade scale and could add other 1. Identification of Material aspects outside the scope of the • I. Petrov — Sistema’s Corporate Topics (Aspects) GRI Guidelines. Secretary; To identify material topics, we Based on the survey conducted • S. Kopytov — Sistema’s used a list of 46 aspects of GRI among representatives of the Managing PR Director; G4 Guidelines corresponding to stakeholders, the initial list of sustainable development areas material topics was graded, and a • D. Kolchugin — External (economy, society, and ecology). new material topic, Corporation’s Communications Manager, charitable activities, was added. the Sistema’s Corporate 2. Prioritization 25 topics were excluded from the Communications Function. graded list, since the respondents To identify, add and clarify the were least interested in them. The Corporation’s impact on each topics most relevant for the CorpoAfter that, a more precise list of of the 22 material topics identified ration’s business, a survey among material topics was compiled. See during the survey of the stakehold33 representatives of key groups Table. Disclosure of Material Asers was rated by the members of of Sistema’s stakeholders was pects and Indicators in the Report. the working group on a five-grade 16 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE scale, which allowed prioritizing Sistema in a graphic form. The the aspects according to Sistema’s horizontal axis shows the rating impact on them. of the Corporation’s impact on the relevant aspects, the vertical 4. Generation of Materiality Matrix one — materiality assessment of the aspects by the stakeholders. Based on the surveys among the stakeholders and the working The topics in the upper part of the team, a materiality matrix was materiality matrix were recognized generated to show the sustainable as the priority ones and subject to development topics material for disclosure in the Report. Materiality Matrix 5 4,5 Economic 4 Social 3,5 Environmental 3 2,5 2 1,5 1 1,5 2 2,5 3 3,5 4 4,5 5 5 1 Materiality Assessment by Stakeholders 4,5 2 3 4 5 4 7 6 9 11 8 12 10 14 13 15 17 3,5 16 20 21 18 22 19 2,5 3 3,5 4 4,5 5 Corporation’s Impact on Sustainable Development Aspects MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 17 Disclosure of Material Aspects and Indicators in the Report4 (G4-19) Disclosures on Management Approach (G4-DMA) Material AsIndicators DisMaterial Aspect Disclosure of Indiclosed Within Name cators in the Report pect No. the Aspect Materiality Governance, p. 3.4. Contribution Economic Sistema’s economic performance is one of the 30, 64-65, G4-EC1 to Development 1 performance key performance indicators of the Corporation. 120 G4-EC4 of Locations of Operations One of the Sistema’s main tasks is to support 51-52, G4-LA1 3.3. HR Manage2 Employment and develop human resources with considera54-55, 120 G4-LA2 ment tion for the Corporation’s growth areas. Sistema combats any corruption which is viewed as a threat to the Corporation’s reputation, G4-SO4 2.5. Anti-Corrup3 Anti-Corruption 39-41, 120 efficiency and its ability to attract additional G4-SO5 tion Efforts financial resources. OccupationSistema maintains labour efficiency and miti3.3. HR Manage4 al Health and gates risks by caring for health and safety of its 54 G4-LA5 ment Safety employees. The Sistema’s key area is investment, therefore, the Corporation does not directly affect Sistema considers a possibility of Customer Health health and safety of customers. The Corporation consolidated disclosure of certain 5 109-111 and Safety recognizes the importance of health and safety indicators related to this aspect of its S/As’ customers. However, this aspect is within future reporting campaigns. managed individually by each S/A. Through personnel training and development, Training and Sistema can quickly adapt to changing external G4-LA9 3.3. HR Manage6 55-58, 120 Education conditions, improve performance, achieve cerG4-LA10 ment tain goals, and increase its business value. By investing in environmental safety and various 3.7. Corporate SoTotal Environenvironmental projects, the Corporation contributes cial Programmes 7 mental Invest77-78, 120 G4-EN31 to conservation of favourable environment, biodiverand Environmental ment sity, and ecosystems in Russia and worldwide. Projects Compliance with laws and regulations is an ab3.8. Stakeholder Compliance with solute priority of the Corporation, which makes Engagement and 8 Laws and Reguit possible to build meaningful mutual relations 82 G4-SO8 the Corporation’s lations with the stakeholders and minimize potential Social Reporting punitive sanctions of governmental agencies. The Sistema’s key area is investment, therefore, the Employment Corporation does not directly affect employment Market Presence markets in its locations of operation. The Corporation G4-EC6 3.3. HR Manage9 in Locations of recognizes the importance of its S/As’ impact on emG4-EC5 ment Operation ployment markets in several regions. However, this aspect is managed individually by each S/A. 4 Aspect boundaries: Sistema. (G4-20) The aspects are identified as material only within the organisation. (G4-21) 18 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE Disclosures on Management Approach (G4-DMA) Material AsIndicators DisMaterial Aspect Disclosure of Indiclosed Within Name cators in the Report pect No. the Aspect Materiality Governance, p. Compliance with Require10 ments in the 109-111 Field of Product The Sistema’s key area is investment, therefore, Responsibility Sistema considers a possibility the Corporation is not directly engaged in proof consolidated disclosure duction. The Corporation recognizes the imporof certain indicators related tance of its S/As’ compliance with the product to this aspect within future liability requirements. However, this aspect is Compliance with reporting campaigns. managed individually by each S/A. 102-106, 11 Environmental 120 Requirements Non-discrimination of the employees enables the Corporation to fulfill the Non-Discrimi2.6. Business 12 potential of every employee to the fullest 42-43, 120 G4-HR3 nation Ethics extent possible and achieve a positive effect on operating efficiency. Cooperation of the Corporation’s management with the employees helps to increase the manLabour/Manage3.3. HR Manage13 agerial efficiency, minimize any negative impact 54, 120 G4-LA4 ment relations ment on the employees, increase their motivation, satisfaction, and labour efficiency. Environmental Impact of Prod14 ucts and ServicThe aspect was not identified as material. es of the Reporting Company Through compliance with the standards on 3.8. Stakeholder transparent and honest business conduct and Anti-Competitive Engagement and 15 rejection of measures that could limit competi82, 120 G4-SO7 Behaviour Social Reporting tion, the Corporation mitigates reputation and of Corporation financial risks. Product and Ser16 The aspect was not identified as material. vice Labeling Sistema’s security employees must Security Pracnot only respond in a timely and adequate 2.6. Business 17 42-43 G4-HR7 tices manner to prevent crime, but also observe Ethics human rights. MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 19 Disclosures on Management Approach (G4-DMA) Material AsIndicators DisMaterial Aspect Disclosure of Indiclosed Within Name cators in the Report pect No. the Aspect Materiality Governance, p. The Sistema’s key area is investment, therefore, the Corporation generates neither atmospheric Sistema considers a possibility of emissions nor production waste. The CorporaEmissions, Effluconsolidated disclosure of certain 18 tion recognizes the importance of estimation of ents, and Waste indicators relating to this aspect emissions, effluents, and waste for a number of within future reporting campaigns. the Corporation's S/As. However, this aspect is managed individually by each S/A. In implementation of investment projects, Sis2.6. Business 19 Investment tema respects human rights with due diligence 42-43, 120 G4-HR1 Ethics and, thus, mitigates reputation risks. 3.2. Management of Subsidiaries With its assets located across Russia, Sistema and Affiliates has a substantial impact on local population. in the Field of Local CommuBuilding fruitful and meaningful relations with Corporate Social 20 73-76, 120 G4-SO1 nities local residents improves the quality of life, Responsibility reduces the Corporation’s risks, and prevents social strain. 3.6. Charitable Activities of Corporation Sistema strives for a meaningful dialogue and 3.4. Contribution transparent cooperation with all government Political Contrito Development of 21 authorities. Care for this aspect helps the 82 G4-SO6 butions Locations of operCorporation to mitigate political, economic, and ations reputation risks. As a socially responsible company, Sistema is committed to making a tangible contribution to Charitable the development of the Russian society, im22 Activity of the 73-76 -5 provement of living conditions, and solution of Company important social problems, which is beneficial for business development 5 This aspect was added by the stakeholders during the identification of materiality and has no GRI G4 indicators. 20 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE Boundaries of Aspects of the Group companies for development for which Sistema (Disclosed Topics) introduction of and compliance is directly responsible or has with adequate procedures shared responsibility with S/As. Sistema has an unequal impact and business processes in The matters of the subsidiaries’ on the aspects material for the such fields as environmental areas of responsibility are partially stakeholders, With some of the protection, emission abatement, covered in Chapter 4. aspects being directly connected occupational health and safety, with the operation of certain S/ quality assurance, and safety of Taking into account the materiality As and their industry specifics. products and services. Sistema of the identified aspects for the As an investment company has indirect influence on decisions stakeholders, the subsequent Sistema places a priority on of the companies in these fields, reporting will seek to disclose the management quality and primarily through membership information on all relevant topics introduction of high corporate of Sistema’s representatives in in a more comprehensive way on governance standards into S/As’ Boards of Directors and the basis of consolidated data on its portfolio companies. This investment programmes. the S/As, wherever practicable approach assumes no direct and applicable. control by the Corporate Centre This Report mostly covers and implies sole responsibility those aspects of sustainable Distribution of Responsibility for Management of Sustainable Development Aspects Between Sistema and S/As AREA OF SHARED SISTEMA SUBSIDIARIES AND AFFILIATES RESPONSIBILITY • Personnel management; • Corporate social • Responsibility towards responsibility; customers for the quality • Economic responsibility; and safety of products; • Corporate governance; • Risk management; • Environment; • Ethics; • Responsible invest• Industrial and occupament. • Anti-corruption policy; tional health and safety • Procurement MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 21 2. CORPORATE PROFILE 2.1 General Information 23 2.2 Corporate Governance 31 2.3 Procurement 35 2.4 Risk Management 37 2.5 Anti-Corruption Efforts 39 2.6 Business Ethics 42 22 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE 2.1 General Information Sistema is one of the largest public companies operating in over ten works on their development and diversified financial companies sectors, including telecommunishareholder value growth. in Russia. Founded in 1993, today cations, high technology, power Sistema holds key positions in the industry, retail trade, logging and Due to a wide scope of activities Russian investment market and is timber processing, pharmaceuthe Sistema’s portfolio compaa major private investor in the real tics, healthcare services, railroad nies, they serve over 100 milsector of the Russian economy. transportation, agriculture, filion customers in Russia, CIS, (G4-3) (G4-7) nance, mass media, hotel industry, Europe, and Asia. real estate, etc. As the majority The Sistema’s investment portshareholder in most of its portfoThe Sistema’s head office is in folio includes mainly Russian lio companies, Sistema efficiently Moscow. (G4-5) Participation of the Corporation and Its Representatives in the Work of Public Organisations Sistema is a member of the follow• Management Board of the Rus• Supervisory Board of the Founing organisations and associations: sian Chamber of Commerce and dation for the Support of Russian Industry (Chairman of the SciOlympians; • Russian Union of Industrialists Tech Innovations and High-Tech and Entrepreneurs; Committee); • Supervisory Board of the Russian Military Historical Society; • Chamber of Commerce and In• Russian-Arab and Russian-Saudi dustry of the Russian Federation; Business Councils (Chairman of • Supervisory Board of the So-Edithe Russian Part); nenie Deaf-Blind Support Fund. • Russian Institute of Directors; • Presidium of the National CounRepresentatives of Sistema are • EU/Russia Industrialists’ cil on Corporate Governance; members of relevant advisory Round Table; structures of reputable associ• EU/Russia Industrialists’ ations and public organisations, • Business Council for Cooperation Round Table; including: with India; • Management Board of the Mos• CSR and Demographic Policy • Russian-Chinese Business Council; cow Confederation of IndustrialCommittee of RUIE; ists and Entrepreneurs; • Russo-British Chamber • CSR Committee of the Russian of Commerce; • Supervisory Board of the State Managers Association; Russian Museum Development • Belgian-Luxembourg Chamber of Foundation, Friends of the Rus• Committee of AKMR for PromoCommerce in Russia. sian Museum (Chairman); tion of Social Responsibility and Charity in Mass Media. V. Evtushenkov, Sistema’s Board • Supervisory Board of the LomonChairman, is a member of the folosov Moscow State University; Representatives of Sistema lowing entities: Charitable Foundation participate • Supervisory Board of Graduate in the activities of the following • Administrative Office of the School of Management of Saint organisations: Russian Union of Industrialists Petersburg State University; and Entrepreneurs (Head of the • Donors Forum; Industrial Policy, Natural Mo• Supervisory Board of the Russian nopolies Regulation, and Tariffs Geographical Society; • National Council on Corporate Committee); Volunteering. (G4-16)(G4-15) MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 23 SISTEMA’S KEY ASSETS 1 2 3 4 TelecommuHigh technology Retail trade Finance nications 2 USA 5 87 171 15 713 7 994 3 760 persons persons persons persons 5 6 7 8 5 5 5 2 5 Logging and timber Railway processing Oilfield services transportation Energy industry 5 13 12 7 6 5 5 13 18 2 6 18 9 262 18 824 1 301 7 447 5 1 2 persons persons persons persons 6 6 10 2 17 18 5 7 1 10 10 9 10 11 12 2 18 18 18 7 7 7 10 15 18 6 2 7 8 6 10 SSTL 15 18 10 7 6 6 18 7 Telecommu18 15 18 nications Healthcare services Retail trade Mass Media 5 6 18 10 1 18 1 770 6 424 2 120 413 3 persons persons persons persons 1 13 14 15 16 1 РЗ Агро Группа компаний Information Hotel business Pharmaceutics Agriculture technologies 2 1 249 321 932 286 persons persons persons persons 2 17 18 19 20 13 Leader Invest, Biznes Nedvizhimost, 13 Namibia Mosdachtrest 2 13 7 16 High technology Retail trade Real estate Retail trade 5 12 10 19 630 859 560 2 956 persons persons persons persons 15 1 3 11 18 20 4 14 The asset acquired in 2014 Companies with a federation-wide geographic network 24 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 25 Sistema’s Key Assets (G4-4) (G4-6) (G4-8) (G4-9) (G4-13) Asset Description Geography Range of Activity Mobile TeleSystems Number one telecom operator in 83 regions in Russia, Ukraine, >104 mln. subscribers subRussia and CIS Turkmenistan, Armenia, Uzbekistan, scriber base leader in Russia and Belarus > 4,250 outlets RTI Group Major Russian industrial holding company, Russia, Germany, PRC, Taiwan, USA 5th place in sales of microdeveloper and manufacturer of high-tech prodchips among European fully ucts and infrastructure solutions using own integrated manufacturers microelectronic technologies 3,500 customers in 60 countries Detsky Mir Group Largest retailer of children’s goods in Russia Russia, Kazakhstan Stores 322 and CIS, market leader Total sales area 390,000 m2 Visitors per year > 109 mln. MTS Bank MTS Bank is engaged in banking activities in Russia TOP 50 Russian banks Russia providing a complete range of financial services to individuals and corporate Volume of assets — over RUB customers. 200 bln. Segezha Group Russian wood processing group with large verRussia, Denmark, Ireland, Finland, Largest forest user in Eurotically integrated infrastructure and full-cycle France, the Netherlands, Germany, pean Russia Total forest area (the asset acquired logging and high-level timber processing. The Italy, Czech Republic, Romania, 5.5 mln. ha in 2014) holding consists of 9 Russian and 8 European and Turkey enterprises of timber, woodworking, and 94% of leased areas are FSC pulp-and-paper industries, including paper certified. packaging production plants. Targin Large Russian multi-product oilfield services Republic of Bashkortostan, Khan55 drilling installations holding company that operates in the main oilty-Mansi Autonomous Area, Nenets and-gas Russian and Serbian regions Autonomous Area, Yamalo-Nenets 2 plants for designing, proAutonomous Area, Samara, Orenduction, and modernization of burg, Tyumen and Irkutsk Regions, oilfield equipment and Republic of Serbia SG-Trans One of the leading railroad stock operators in Irkutsk, Leningrad, Volgograd, OrenCarriages in operation 34,500 Russia rendering a full range of services on burg, Ryazan, Tyumen, and Samara transportation of a large variety of gas, bulkRegions, Republic of Bashkortostan, 30% share in the segment of oil, petrochemical, ore mining and smeltRepublic of Tatarstan transportation of oil-and-gas ing, and construction loads across Russia, products by rail Europe, and CIS Bashkirian Power Grid The company combines distribution and Republic of Bashkortostan Spread of networks 80,000 km Company (BPGC) transmission grid assets, renders services on electric power transmission to population and Annual investment proorganisations gramme RUB 3.3 bln. Sistema Shyam TeleMobile operator rendering telecom India (Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Subscribers 9.1 mln. Services Limited (SSTL) services in India West Bengal, West Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Gujarat, Calcutta, Delhi) High-speed data transmission services are available in 850 cities of the country Medsi Group Leading federal network of private healthcare Moscow; Moscow, Bryansk, VolgDoctors > 1,800 institutions in Russia; the company offers a ograd, Nizhny Novgorod, Tyumen full range of services in prevention, diagnosis, Regions, Altai Territory and Perm Over 6 mln. visitors per year and treatment of diseases, both child and Territory, Republic of Crimea adult rehabilitation. 26 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE Asset Description Geography Range of Activity Concept Group One of the leading fashion retailers in Russia Russia >287 stores in 103 cities in with the highest revenue growth rate Russia (the asset acquired in 2014) Sistema Mass-Media One of the leading mass media holding compaRussia (9 federal districts), CIS and Own TV channels 9 nies in Russia. The company manages assets in Baltic countries, Georgia, countries off-the-air broadcasting, TV and movie content of the Middle East, Central and Audience > 30 mln. production and distribution, and advertisEastern Europe ing services VAO Intourist Largest Russian touristic holding company Russia, Italy, Czech Republic, 8 hotels in operation successfully operating in the hotel business Namibia segment for many years Room capacity > 2,500 Binnopharm Pharmaceutical company managing one of Moscow (Zelenograd) Moscow Region Total production space 32,000 the largest Russian industrial fully-integrated (Krasnogorsk) m2 manufacture of biotechnological medicines in compliance with international quality standards Doses of HBV per year > 5 mln. RZ Agro Group One of the largest producers of grain and Rostov Region, Stavropol Territory, Gross output — 470,000 oilseeds in the South of Russia. Krasnodar Territory tonnes Total land bank 125,300 ha, with 91% being in operation Sitronics High-technology company in IT and system Moscow Developer of the integrated integration – Russian leader in production of automated population security large-scale intellectual systems. system and intellectual transport systems for Moscow. Technopark Sarov Collaborative project of Sistema, Rosatom, Nizhny Novgorod Region Resident companies 54 and RUSNANO Fund for Infrastructure and Educational Programmes on implementation Total turnover of companies in of innovation projects focused on economic the territory of technopark in development .of Russia. 2014 > RUB 1.3 bln. SG Trading Independent distributor of liquefied petroTver, Ryazan, Volgograd, Voronezh, LPG storage bases 11 leum gas (LPG) Rostov, Samara, Irkutsk, and Omsk Regions, Republic of Khakassia, 53 automobile gas-filling Karachay-Cherkess Republic, stations Krasnodar Territory, Krasnoyarsk Territory, and Perm Territory Leader Invest, Biznes Companies specializing in real estate manageMoscow, Moscow Region 12 residential real estate Nedvizhimost, Mosment and development facilities with total area of dachtrest 388 thousand m2 are under construction Controlled area 772,000 m2 Cottage fund 60,100 m2 OZON Group Leading e-commerce platform in Russia with Russia Online purchases in Russia strong brand and own logistic service 15% of the total number (the asset acquired in 2014) Russian online buyers 20% of the total number Unique visitors per month 21 mln. MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 27 Corporation’s Mission 3. Our Strategy • Payout to shareholders of up to 30% of profit. Our corporation`s Mission is longWe are focused on achieving speterm growth of the shareholder cific results: 4. Our Efficiency value through efficient management of the asset portfolio and • Internal rate of return on investOur remuneration depends on the high returns on investments. ments above weighted-average Corporation’s actual revenue: cost of capital (IRR>WACC) with Corporation’s Values a 5-7-year payback period; • Remuneration to investment managers completely depends on 1. Our business • Focus on investment with cash generated for Sistema by a a positive net cash flow; relevant portfolio; We create value due to our competencies: • Acquiring assets with debt sustain• Cash can be received from diviability(Debt/OIBDA of acquired asdends or monetization of assets; • Assessment and development set < 3.0x) to preserve the Group’s of business strategies for our stable financial standing; • Remuneration is paid after deassets without engaging in their ducting the portfolio’s expenses operation; • Keeping consolidated and the Central Bank’s rate. Debt/EBITDA at 2x; • Monitoring of M&A opportunities in existing and new sectors; • Development and implementation Value Creation Chain (G4-12) of asset monetization plans; • Shareholders’ • New Resources: • Hiring efficient management for dividends investments • Competence and affiliated companies; experience • Financial • Providing comprehensive support resources to our assets in attracting finan1 • Management cial and other resources; Sea resources n opp rchi tio ort ng ca un fo • Reputational • Increasing operational efficiency llo i ti resources la es of acquired assets through reC ap nv ri s e structuring and attracting indusit a e tm try partners to enhance compent tence and share financial risks. 2. Our Principles of Operation 4 Sistema 2 New investments: ol In Our structure is compact and comde cr • Strategy rs eas Development petitive: ne val e Mo tiz ue • Business at eh ion ar optimisation 3 • we manage assets in sh accordance with the principle • Synergy with the Group companies of transaction initiation and industry-specific competence • Management efficiency of a portfolio manager; • Profit on sales • Preparation for monetization • our team consists of strategic • Dividend yield experts, economists, and communications professionals. 28 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE Impaired assets UNDERVALUED ASSETS With poor management system Shareholders are not interested in development of the company Average cost of transactions — USD 100–15 mln. (Sistema expenses) ATTRACTIVELY PRICED or higher in case of LBO structure OUR INVESTMENT STRATEGY… Consumer sector — private healthcare, children’s goods, clothes and shoes, and online retail. IN PROMISING SECTORS Basic sectors with export potential, where Russia has competitive and constant structural advantages — low cost, availability of resources and end markets IN RUSSIA Constant focus on investment in Russia and CIS Improvement of operating efficiency OPTIMIZE Optimizing the expenses, structure and business itself Hiring talented management team FIND MANAGEMENT Introducing efficient incentive system AND VALUE CREATION Access to capital markets, industrial-specific competence, and PROVIDE RESOURCES EXPERIENCE... reputation resources Searching new growth and development areas WORK OUT A STRATEGY Monitoring market opportunities of inorganic growth BALANCE Balanced contribution of assets to the NAV portfolio Sector diversification — balance between cyclic and protective industries DIVERSIFICATION Revenue diversification — balance between the currency structure and natural volatility hedging ...GUARANTEE SUCCESSFUL PERFORMANCE Favourable debt load of the Corporate Centre STRONG FINANCIAL Stable generation of cash through dividends and monetization POSITION Liquidity cushion for attractive MLA opportunities Advanced dividend policy ”In 2014, despite all difficulties, Sistema share in Concept Group, another success once again showed the sustainability of its story in retail trade; also, we invested in business model. The Group increased its the leaders of the wood processing industry revenue by 7.2% in the reporting period, that look very promising and have great and our business is still largely diversified opportunities in respect of value creation. and has a well-balanced investment We are enthusiastic about the future of the portfolio. Today, our companies are far Russian market and are going to develop more resistant to crises in economy than our portfolio both due to the organic growth they were in 2008. Our investment portfolio strategy and M&A transactions, which will includes a number of promising assets ensure high yield and establish a steady that present unique opportunities for the platform for the shareholder value growth”. business development even in challenging macroeconomic conditions. In 2014, we Mikhail Shamolin, acquired a share in OZON and, therefore, Sistema’s President access to the e-commerce market; then, a MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 29 Investment Strategy ment: cash accumulation through assets and new promising projects dividends and monetization of for long-term profit. The Sistema’s business model as assets (sale of shares, IPO), disan investment company consists in tribution of actual profit Sistema’s The following indicators characcreation of value for shareholders shareholders in the form of diviterize the efficiency of this value through constant capital reinvestdends, and reinvestment in actual creation chain: Cash Flows Number of developing assets that paid dividends 55.6 3.9 20.3 2.0 19.9 0.9 3.6% 3.7% 6.9% dividends dividends on M&A 2012 2013 2014 received paid transactions RUB bln. RUB bln. % of received dividends The Corporation’s Investment Programme, RUB bln. 2012 (excluding Bashneft) 2013 2014 Investment Programme of Sistema 103.2 95.4 115.8 Group In 2014, Sistema acquired: • 85% of the shares of Step Group Within three years, the Corporation which includes 5 agriculture has invested more than 310 bln. rubles • 49% of the ordinary shares enterprises in the Krasnodar in various Russian economic sectors of Biznes Nedvizhimost for Territory for USD 64 million; of strategic importance, including in communications and telecommunications, RUB 3.1 billion; microelectronics, healthcare, electric • 40% of the shares of a holding power industry, etc. Some of Sistema’s • 50% of the shares of NVision Group company that holds the assets of investments into the capital assets make for USD 92.5 million; Concept Group for RUB 1 billion; up about 1% of the Russia-wide indicator6. • 100% of the shares of Sokol PPM • 10.8% of the shares of 6 Based on the data of the Federal State and 100% of DerevoobrabotkaOzon Holdings Limited for Statistics Service Proekt for USD 287 million; USD 75 million. 30 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE 2.2 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Equity Capital (LSE) as Global Depositary Receipts (GDRs). GDRs are listed Principles and Its Structure on the LSE under the ticker SSA. Maintaining the quality of corpoSistema has 9,650,000,000 outOne GDR represents 20 ordinary rate governance and transparency standing ordinary shares, with shares. The company’s shares are at the level of the world’s best a par value of RUB 0.09 per also listed on the Moscow Expractices is one of the essential share. The equity capital totals change under the ticker AFKS. elements of the strategy of SisRUB 868,500,000. tema as an investment company. Sistema’s GDRs are included in Competent corporate governance Vladimir Evtushenkov, Sistema’s Board the MSCI Russia Index. Inclusion and informational transparency Chairman , is its principal shareholder in MSCI indices is a sign of interenable the company to attract with 64.19%. national recognition of the compapartners and investors on terms of ny, which helps to strengthen the mutual trust and confidence and The company’s shares are traded issuer’s positive reputation among increase return on equity through on the London Stock Exchange large institutional investors. more efficient managerial decisions. The Corporation’s corporate governance system is based on the following core principles: • transparency and clarity of all Structure of Shareholders of Sistema7 processes for investors and partners; 1.4% • transparent dividend policy; 0.8% 6.5% • a proactive and competent Board of Directors; 9.5% • making investment decisions in accordance with the established procedures; 17.6% 64.2% • attention of the Board of Directors to all transactions with related parties; • active participation of the Board of Directors in strategic planning; • corporate governance development in portfolio companies. V. P. Evtushenkov Sistema Finance Investments (ordinary shares)8 Sistema is guided by these prinDeutsche Bank (GDR program) ciples in all areas of its activity, Sistema Holding Limited (GDR)8 National Settlement Depository including strategic and financial Other9 (Moscow Stock Exchange) management, HR and social policy, reporting, control and audit, and risk management. 7 As of January 23, 2015 8 Shares and GDRs on the books of Sistema 9 Sistema’s insiders (management, members of the Board of Directors, etc.) MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 31 Corporate Governance Structure (G4-34) GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS BOARD OF DIRECTORS’COMMITTEES Strategy Committee Secretariat of the Chairman of the Board of Directors Nomination, Remuneration, and Corporate Governance Committee Secretariat of the Board of Directors CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF Investor Relations and Dividend DIRECTORS Policy Committee BOARD OF DIRECTORS Ethics and Control Committee Audit, Finance, and Risk Auditor Auditing Commission Committee CEO COMMITTEES Tender Committee CEO, CHAIRMAN OF THE Secretariat of CEO MANAGEMENT BOARD HR Committee MANAGEMENT BOARD Security Committee Internal Control Committee MANAGERS OF INVESTMENT IT Committee PORTFOLIOS Discipline Committee Finance and Investment Committee SUBSIDIARIES AND AFFILIATES 32 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE Board Committees Committee Name Members Main Tasks 2014 Meetings and Agenda Items The Committee was established to support the establishment and implementation of the corporate HR policy, maintain and develop an efficient corporate governance system conforming to international standards and facilitating enhancement of the Corporation management. The Committee conducts detailed discussions and analyses of the management issues in Sistema in the In 2014, the Committee held 8 meetings and following fields: considered 26 matters, including: R. Kocharyan 1. preliminary consideration of: • 12 matters on developing the personnel (Chairman), • candidate members for the Sistema’s Board of motivation, performance assessment, and Appointment, A. Goncharuk, Directors; bonus payment system in Sistema; Remuneration, and B. Dicky, • potential top managers for the Corporation and • 8 matters concerning the systems of Corporate Governance D. Zubov, portfolio companies; corporate governance and protection of Committee J. Krecke, • candidate members for the Boards of Directors shareholders’ rights; R. Munnings of portfolio companies; • 6 matters concerning preliminary • potential Corporate Secretary of the Corporation; consideration of candidates. 2. Corporate policy of personnel motivation and remuneration; 3. Assessment of management performance and identification of criteria of bonus payment to the employees of the Corporation; 4. Corporate governance systems of the Corporation and portfolio companies, protection of rights and interests of shareholders. The Committee conducts detailed discussions and analyses of the management issues in Sistema in In 2014, the Committee held 13 meetings and the following fields: considered 74 matters, including: • preparation and audit of the Corporation’s • 35 matters concerning the assessment financial statements, and control of these of individual transactions put before the processes; Sistema’s Board of Directors; R. Munnings • interaction with the Corporation’s external • 15 matters concerning preparation and (Chairman), auditors; audit of financial statements; S. Boev, • assessment of risk management system Audit, Finance, and • 8 matters on financial planning and risk P. Mandelson, M. and compliance with applicable legislative Risk Committee management processes; Holtzman, requirements in the field of financial reporting, • 6 matters on interaction with external S. Tchuruk, audit, and planning; auditors, their selection and performance and D. Iakobashvili • budget process and financial modeling; assessment; • internal audit; • 2 matters concerning the processes of • warning system to detect potential unethical internal control, audit, and warning system practices; to detect unethical practices; • preliminary assessment of major transactions • 8 organisational and other matters. and transactions that the Corporation has interest in; 1. The Committee discusses and analyses Sistema’s strategic management issues and controls the strategic management cycle in Sistema and its subsidiaries, including: • review of strategic planning methods; V. Evtushenkov • preliminary approval of the Corporation’s (Chairman), strategy and strategic goals; S. Boev, • consideration of mergers, takeovers, and major In 2014, the Committee held 11 meetings A. Goncharuk, R. Strategy Committee investment projects. and considered 12 matters concerning the Kocharyan, M. 2. In all cases the Committee preliminarily strategy of Sistema’s portfolio companies. Shamolin, considers: D. Iakobashvili, • all mergers and takeovers of Sistema Group M. Hecker which in monetary terms exceed USD 100 mln.; • all projects of Sistema Group connected with expansion of the Corporation to new markets; • all projects of Sistema Group with substantial participation of the state. MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 33 Committee Name Members Main Tasks 2014 Meetings and Agenda Items The Committee conducts detailed discussions and analyses of the Sistema’s management issues in the In 2014, the Committee held 7 meetings and following fields: considered 16 matters, including: A. Goncharuk • 6 matters concerning the internal audits of (Chairman), • internal control and audit (jointly with the Audit, Internal Control and Audit Service and control S. Boev, Finance, and Risks Committee); environment quality; Ethics and Control B. Dicky, • 4 matters concerning the functional strategy Committee • functions of corporate security assurance; R. Kocharyan, and internal regulation in the field of internal R. Munnings, • monitoring of compliance with the Corporate control and security; and S. Tchuruk Code of Ethics; • 2 matters concerning the anti-corruption system; • anti-corruption system in the Corporation and • 4 organisational matters. companies of Sistema Group. See details on activities of the Committee in clause 2.6. Business Ethics The Committee conducts detailed discussions and analyses of the Sistema’s management issues in the following fields: D. Iakobashvili • maintaining efficient communication with In 2014, the Committee held 7 meetings and (Chairman), the financial community and government considered 7 matters which were mainly Investor Relations J. Krecke, authorities, strengthening the investment related to activities of the Corporation in and Dividend Policy P. Mandelson, R. appeal of Sistema’s securities; investor relations. Special attention was paid Committee Munnings, to the matters of interaction of the investment M. Holtzman, • Sistema’s dividend policy, including community with independent directors of the M. Shamolin recommendations to the Corporation’s Board of Sistema’s Board of Directors. Directors on the amount of dividends to be paid; • protection of rights and interests of Sistema’s shareholders. In 2014, the Sistema’s Board of 2015–16 Plans 3. Maintaining the corporate Directors approved a new edition of governance system at a high level the Provisions on Audit, Finance, and 1. Implementation of the and bringing its components Risks Committee and Appointment, dividend policy. in line with the new listing Remuneration, and Corporate requirements of the Moscow Governance Committee. The scope of 2. Improvement of the Board Stock Exchange. functions of these Committees was meeting procedures, promoting defined more precisely in accordance involvement of the Board 4. Carrying out a corporate with the new listing requirements of members in development of the governance audit in S/As. the Moscow Stock Exchange. corporate strategy and individual projects, and development 5. External performance See detailed information on the equity of communication between assessment of Sistema’s Board capital, corporate governance, and the Board members and the of Directors for compliance with dividend policy of the Corporation in management. the new Corporate Governance the Sistema’s 2014 Annual Report.10 Code recommended by the Russian Central Bank in 2014. 10 http://www.sistema.com/investors-shareholders/presentations-and-annual-reports/ http://www.sistema.com/fileadmin/user_upload/annual_reports/sistema_05-06_eng_web.pdf 34 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE 2.3 Procurement Procurement management at 7. Focus on cooperation with qualSistema and its S/As is based on ified suppliers and mitigation PROCUREMENT the principles of fair competition, of risks resulting from business PRINCIPLES IN SISTEMA economic feasibility, openness and relationships with contrac1. Principle of Competitiveness. The principle is implemented through transparency for potential suptors who may be involved in procedures aimed at ensuring a pliers who are able to meet the corruption. reasonable level of competition among Corporation’s requirements in full potential suppliers. and on time, in compliance with 8. Development of expert knowl2. Principle of Equality. The principle the specified quality and at the edge and competence of the is implemented through provision best possible prices. Corporation’s employees in of equal competitive opportunities and uniform rules for all bidders in terms of preparation and makthe procurement process before the A procurement regulatory frameing of procurement decisions. launch of the tender process. work that is continuously improved 3. Principle of Economic Feasibility. in accordance with the best prac9. Electronic procurement using The principle is implemented tices is introduced and used at an electronic trading system. through assessment of the need for Sistema and its S/As. In Novemprocurement in terms of economic ber 2014, Sistema put into effect 10. Use of standard forms and feasibility at any procurement stage. Availability of funds in the budget of new Terms of Reference of the templates of draft contracts, the Corporation does not mean the Tender Committee and enhanced procurement and other need for procurement. the Committee’s role in assessdocumentation. 4. Principle of Openness in Relations ment of the economic feasibility with Suppliers. The principle is of procurement. Category procurement manageimplemented through use of open ment is being introduced at Sistecompetitive procedures as the priority form of procurement. Procurement Management ma. According to this method, all Methods: acquisitions are broken down into 5. Principle of Transparency of categories (subcategories) based Procurement Process. The principle is implemented through the possibility of 1. Creation of conditions for develon functional and/or use propermonitoring and controlling any stage opment of fair competition. ties and applications. This allows of the procurement process. to standardize delivery specifica6. Principle of Compliance with 2. Procurement planning. tions and develop a common proFundamental Provisions and curement management approach Requirements of the Corporate Anti3. Competitive selection of supin order to reduce costs and conCorruption Policy. pliers wherever possible and solidate procurement of the Group appropriate, and greater control for the synergetic effect. over decision making in situand management requirements is ations where it is impossible In order to minimize the risks generally conducted using open and inappropriate. of supply disruption and corrupt procedures, with the information practices, the work continues on being published on the official 4. Consideration of specifics maintenance and updating the website of the Corporation in the of purchased goods, works, register of reliable suppliers who Procurement section11, as well as services and other assets, comply with ethical and environusing e-commerce tools. Sistema’s markets, and conditions of mental principles of the Corporacommerce section based on Sberprocurement. tion for procurement management. bank-AST electronic trading facility has been introduced and success5. Collective decision making with In 2014, the total procurement of fully operated for this purpose regard to the most important the Corporate Centre amounted to since 2011. 12 issues of organisation of proRUB 2 bln. Most of the funds were curement in general, and indiused to purchase works and serIn order to improve the procurevidual acquisitions in particular. vices related to investment transment efficiency, the following actions in accordance with the measures were taken in 2014: 6. Ongoing monitoring and regcore business of the Corporation. ular scheduled and, if neces1. Reassignment of the procuresary, unscheduled control over The procurement intended to meet ment function to the Finance procurement. the Corporation’s administrative and Investment Function. 11 http://www.sistema.ru/zakupki 12 http://afk.com.sberbank-ast.ru/ MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 35 2. Election of new members of the omy in comparison with the document – the Tender ProceTender Committee and iminitial price of the price quotadures and Procurement Code. provement of their competenctions) amounted to 9.54 %. es. Senior Vice President, Head 2. Analysis and consolidation of the Finance and Investment 2. The share of electronic trade of the Corporation’s needs in Function, assumed the chair of reached 25% of the total volume certain categories of goods in the Committee. of the Corporate Centre proorder to conduct consolidatcurement for business and aded procurement and get extra 3. Development and introduction ministrative purposes. In some discounts. of the new Tender Committee categories, such as IT, about regulations, review of its format 90% of procurement is made 3. Reform of procurement proand the frequency of meetings. through the e-commerce site. cesses at Targin and Segezha Group in order to increase their 4. Consolidation of IT require3. Major IT vendors offered disimpact on production performents of the Corporation. counts for delivery of software mance. and hardware to the Corpora5. Implementation of a pilot tion. 4. Increasing the share of the project on consolidated proCorporation’s procurement curement in the Advertising 2015 Plans using e-commerce sites via the category. Sistema’s commerce section. Based on the analysis of the 2014 Procurement optimisation activities performance, a procurement 5. Conducting a series of workin 2014 had the following results: efficiency improvement plan was shops on procurement organdeveloped for 2015; it envisages: isation to share best practices 1. General economic efficiency of and provide methodological procurement procedures (econ1. Updating the primary regulatory support to S/As. Procurement MANAGEMENT BOARD OF SISTEMA Management System GOALS AND OBJECTIVES FINANCE AND INVESTMENT FUNCTION METHODS AND TOOLS PLANNING OF CARRYING OUT OF PROCUREMENT EXECUTION AND PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES PERFORMANCE OF CONTRACT INITIATOR OF PROCUREMENT INITIATOR OF PROCUREMENT INITIATOR OF PROCUREMENT TENDER COMMITTEE (STRUCTURAL SUBDIVISIONS) (STRUCTURAL SUBDIVISIONS) (STRUCTURAL SUBDIVISIONS) FINANCE AND INVESTMENT FINANCE AND INVESTMENT SECURITY AND IT FUNCTION FUNCTION DEPARTMENT PROCUREMENT COMMITTEES INTERNAL CONTROL AND TENDER COMMITTEE CONTRACTOR OF STRUCTURAL SUBDIVISIONS AUDIT FUNCTION 36 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE 2.4 Risk Management The risks faced by the Corporation The Corporation uses the systemESG Risks of the Corporation are manifestations of processes and atic approach to risk management factors that are often impossible or integrated in the current business ESG (environmental, social and corpobarely possible for Sistema to control. processes. Enterprise risk managerate governance) risks can significantly That is why efficient risk assessment ment (ERM) is intended to ensure impact the performance of the Corand management is an important reasonable assurance of achievement poration and its investment portfolio component of the development of strategic goals and maintain the value. When developing its activities, strategy of Sistema. risk level within the limits acceptable Sistema acknowledges and allows for for the Corporation’s shareholders multiple environmental, social, and Corporate Risk and management. Sistema’s ERM corporate governance risks, which Management is based on international standards, makes it possible to clearly correlate guidelines, and risk management business targets of the Corporation The aim of the Corporation in the field best practices. ERM covers all strucwith a broad range of the stakeholders’ of risk management is to improve tural subdivisions of the Corporate public aspirations. efficiency of managerial decisions by Centre and all key subsidiaries of analysing the associated risks and to Sistema. Enterprise risk management In 2014, ESG risk management ensure effective control of such risks. helps to identify and address risks resulted in the absence of serious when making key decisions in order to production accidents, emergencies, Risk management makes an integral achieve the goals and strengthen the and environmental damage. All the part of Sistema’s internal environbusiness leadership. Corporation enterprises are provided ment and includes: with comprehensive insurance proWithin the ERM framework the emtection against environmental risks. • introduction of a risk-based apployees responsible for risk manThe Corporation meets the assumed proach into all aspects of management shall prepare quarterly risk social responsibilities. agement activities; reports, including risk register and risk map of the Corporate Centre, Economic, policy, legal, and tax risks • systematic analysis of identiand a comprehensive list of risk reare described in detail in the 2014 fied risks; sponse actions. Annual Report of the Corporation (see pp. 108-112). • development of a risk control The Audit, Finance and Risk Comand risk management efficiency mittee under the Board of Directors 2015 Plans monitoring system;¬ has been established and operates at Sistema. Moreover, in order to identify The plans of the Corporation for de• understanding of basic risk all risks and perform correct risk veloping a risk management system management principles and apassessment, the Risk Subcommittee (ERM) are aimed at: proaches by all employees; of the Audit, Finance and Risk Committee was established in the Corpo1. Improvement of existing risk man• provision of the necessary ration. It consists of expert members agement facilities and procedures regulatory and methodologfrom various structural subdivisions both at the level of the Corporate ical support; of the Corporation. Apart from corCentre and at the level of S/As with porate risks, the Subcommittee also a special focus on financial risk • distribution of risk management considers S/As’ key risks that may management. powers and responsibilities affect the stabililty of the Sistema’s among structural subdivisions development. 2. ERM introduction into new assets of the Corporation; in accordance with the corporate Risk committees of Sistema’s portfostandards. • use of various methods of inforlio companies operate similar to that mation, approaches to discussion of the Corporate Centre. The Corpoand making of decisions, including rate Centre ensures that risk-related by collective bodies, in the area of issues are addressed at meetings of risk management. the S/As’ Boards of Directors. MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 37 ESG Risks of the Corporation (G4-2) Impact Risk Name Summary Management Level The Corporation is fully aware of its social responsibility for preservation of favourable environment, regularly controls its activities to ensure environmental compliance, and implements environmental protection programmes at the S/As’ level. Production activity of some Sistema has no significant impact on the environment. However, Corporation’s companies involves following the precautionary principle the company tends to avoid causing the risk of environmental disruption any potential harm to the environment, even if there is no accurate or pollution, which may result in civil scientific evidence of harm caused by a certain activity. The Corporation liability and remedial actions. is committed to preserving natural resources, and thus makes Environmental environmental risk assessment and efforts to prevent and reduce the Low Risks The most common environmental negative impact on the environment. (G4-14) risks are accidents and incidents at production facilities resulting in land Companies of the Corporation invest heavily in environmental pollution, excess emissions of harmful campaings, including production modernization and introduction of substances into the atmosphere, and state-of-the-art clean technologies to reduce the negative impact surface water body pollution. on the environment. The Group enterprises organise insurance of civil liability of hazardous facility owners for damage inflicted by emergencies at such hazardous facilities and general third party liability, including for environmental disruption. See details in clause 3.7. Ecology and Environment Protection In order to reduce the probability of such risks the Corporation’s manufacturing companies use OHSE systems that ensure continuous monitoring of processing equipment condition, implementation of equipment upgrade programmes, carrying out production accident/ Activities of the Corporation’s incident prevention measures, and promotion of OHSE culture. subsidiaries at all stages of production In order to mitigate the risks, accident causes are analysed, and the Occupational are intertwined with occupational existing procedures are subsequently adjusted, including by means of Health & Safety health and safety and environmental enhanced control over equipment quality, OHSE training of employees, Low and Environmental risks, such as failure of production and assurance of continued readiness to emergencies. Risks equipment, damage caused to A comprehensive insurance programme is implemented in the equipment and people’s health, or Corporation’s companies, including compliance with mandatory third party liability. insurance standards in accordance with the Russian Federation law (mandatory insurance of hazardous industrial facilities, public liability insurance, construction and installation insurance), as well as voluntary insurance of property and production personnel against accidents. Our employees are the foundation of the Sistema’s success. High level of motivation and competence of the personnel directly influences financial In order to manage these risks, the Corporation carries out a performance of each subdivision and number of activities aimed at recruiting and retaining highly-trained the Corporation as a whole. There professionals, analyses the internal corporate environment, develops are three categories of personnel and improves the relevant HR management, social development, and management risks: corporate culture procedures and policies. The Group companies Personnel • risks related to corporate culture implement succession pool, personnel training and development Management and harmonization due to integration of programmes to meet current and future qualified manpower needs Average Social Policy Risks new assets; of the Corporation. • risks related to fulfillment of Sistema Group provides its employees with competitive remuneration social obligations assumed by the and a package of social benefits. Corporation; See details on personnel programmes in clause 3.3. Corporate • risks of lack of competent managers Personnel Management. and skilled personnel involved in current and future projects. 38 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE 2.5 Anti-Corruption Efforts Anti-corruption efforts are the efforts of the Corporation, Provisions of local regulatory acts focus of the Corporation. Sistema including measures to prevent and on anti-corruption activities are counters corruption in any form address causes and prerequisites binding on all employees of the that is considered one of the of corruption. The Policy also Corporation. Employees hired by systematic threats to sustainable promotes the anti-corruption Sistema shall sign an undertaking business development. mindset manifested in intolerance to comply with the anti-corruption of the employees to corrupt laws. (G4-SO4) The Anti-Corruption Policy is the practices. The Policy sets the primary document defining and basic anti-corruption principles regulating the anti-corruption observed at Sistema Principles of Anti-Corruption Efforts The Corporation’s activities are based on rejection of any forms and Rejection of Corruption manifestations of corruption (zero tolerance principle) in daily operations and Prohibition of Corrupt and strategic projects, including in relations with shareholders, investors, Practices contractors, state and local government officials, political parties, its own employees, S/As, their management and employees, and other persons. The Corporation regularly identifies and updates indicators of corruption risks Periodic Risk Assessment typical of its activities and potentially vulnerable business processes. The Corporation develops and implements adequate anti-corruption Adequacy of Anti-Corruption procedures reasonably relevant to the identified risks and controls compliance Procedures with these procedures. The Corporation makes reasonable efforts to mitigate the risk of business relations with contractors potentially involved in corrupt practices through assessment of their tolerance to bribery, checking availability of their own antiControl of Contractors’ corruption procedures and policies, their willingness to observe requirements Activities of the Anti-Corruption Policy of Sistema and include anti-corruption undertakings in contracts, as well as provide mutual assistance for ethical business conduct and corruption prevention. The Corporation explains principles and rules of law, provisions of the Informing and Training Anti-Corruption Policy and other regulatory documents relating to anticorruption efforts. The Corporation ensures monitoring of the implemented anti-corruption Control and Monitoring procedures, controls compliance with them, and improves them, if necessary. MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 39 Structure of Antigrammes and in-class workshops The Hotline allows the managers Corruption Efforts the employees must familiarize and employees of Sistema, subwith provisions of applicable ansidiaries, contractors, and other Management ti-corruption law, principles and persons dealing with the Corporequirements of the Corporate Anration and S/As to report potential The main set of measures to ti-Corruption Policy, relevant intercorrupt practices and their reacombat corrupt practices in the nal documents and changes made sonable suspicions to the CorpoCorporation is carried out by the therein. The training is also aimed ration’s top management (even Security Department, which faces at promotion of proper anti-coranonymously). All calls to the the following challenges: ruption culture in the company and hotline are recorded and analysed. mitigation of corruption risks. Then, if there are reasonable • to fight corruption when carrying grounds, official investigations are out investment, procurement, 84 employees of the Corporate initiated to confirm the relevant and contract activities; Centre completed the online facts. The investigation findings course and passed the test on are be reported to the top man• to organise identification, prevenAnti-Corruption Requirements agement. tion, and suppression of actions of the Russian Federation and of entities and individuals inthe UK in 2014. Over 130 calls were received by tending to commit or committing the Hotline in 2014. All the relecorrupt practices that cause maThe online anti-corruption training vant messages were investigated. terial and/or reputation damage is conducted in the form of direct Moreover, in order to improve the to the Corporation; e-mails sent via the distance learnHotline’s efficiency, the Proing system (DLS) and must be held gramme’s focus was expanded to • to implement a mechanism for at least once every two years, or in include not only the employees, mitigating corruption risks of case of material changes in the apbut also contractors of the Cortransactions that require control plicable anti-corruption law and/or poration, and the Hotline page on of compliance with the corporate Corporate Anti-Corruption Policy – the Corporation’s official website procedures, and transactions of within one month from the effective was updated 13. acquisition/disposal of assets of date of these amendments. the Corporation and S/As (includAs part of the combat against coring M&A transactions); In-class anti-corruption training ruption and monitoring of procurefor employees of various levels ment activities, 4 cases of collu• to compensate for damage is held in the form of workshops, sion between dishonest suppliers caused by corrupt practices, mitround tables, etc. at the initiative of were revealed in 2014. Companies igation and/or liquidation of the the top management and/or CEO of caught to be engaged in corrupt effects of corruption offenses; the Corporation. practices were excluded from procurement. (G4-SO5) • to inform the Corporation on Employees’ cases of corruption and resultant Whistleblowing Anti-corruption procedures were economic damage. integrated into business processes Programme with the participation of external Anti-Corruption consultants: Training The Employees’ Whistleblowing programme was introduced in 2008 • BPGC; to combat potential abuse, fraud, The Corporation employees must and corrupt practices at Sistema. • Sistema Shyam Teleservices Ltd. attend regular anti-corruption In 2014, the programme was sub(SSTL, MTS India); trainings. Through training in form stantially updated and transformed of web-based e-learning prointo Sistema’s Hotline. • MTS Bank. 13 http://www.sistema.com/about-sistema/hot-line/ 40 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE Introduction of anti-corruption and supplement of the corporate corrupt practices that cause maprocedures, analysis of business documents were given. terial and/or reputation damage processes and identification of to the Corporation; corruption risks and means to mitiThe external consultant report gate them are still underway at: was submitted to the Ethics and • to compensate for damage Control Committee of the Board caused by corrupt practices, mit• NVision Group; of Directors for consideration. An igation and/or liquidation of the action plan for implementation of effects of corruption offenses; • Medsi Group. the provided recommendations was developed. Currently they are being • to inform the Corporation on Efficiency of the Hotline at S/As is introduced, along with amendcases of corruption and resultant to be assessed in 2015. ments to the corporate documents. economic damage. External Assessment 2015–16 Plans • to cooperate with public and of Anti-Corruption administrative authorities, inThe following main anti-corruption cluding law enforcement agenProcedures activities are planned in the Corpocies; to provide assistance to law ration: enforcement agencies and the In 2011—2012, Sistema developed Federal Security Service of the and introduced several anti-cor• to fight corruption when carrying Russian Federation in activities ruption procedures in cooperation out investment, procurement, aimed at investigation of corrupwith external consultants: and contract activities; tion offenses; • 14 high risk business processes; • to implement a mechanism for • to monitor relevance of and mitigating corruption risks of compliance with the provisions • 6 moderate risk business protransactions that require control of regulations governing the cesses; and of compliance with the corporate implementation of the Corporate procedures, and transactions of Anti-Corruption Policy; • 11 neutral business processes. acquisition/disposal of assets of the Corporation and S/As (includ• to use information resources In 2014, the Corporation again ing M&A transactions); in order to take anti-corruption engaged an external consultant to measures; perform an independent audit of • to use anti-corruption mechathe existing anti-corruption pronisms as part of the HR policy (to • to improve the Sistema’s ancedures. The assessment showed identify corruption and affiliation ti-corruption system; both high quality of preparation of of potential employees when hiranti-corruption corporate docuing, as well as commercial enti• to carry out inspections of S/As’ ments and completeness of the ties established by the employees financial and economic activities; procedures stipulated therein. and acting as contractors of the Based on the analysis of interCorporation); • to develop and take measures to views with the employees and a combat unfair competition. set of corporate documents, the • to implement a mechanism regconsultant praised the overall ulating the procedure to resolve efficiency of the anti-corruption conflicts of interests; procedures and their understanding by the Sistema’s personnel. • to organise identification, prevention, and suppression of actions Following the audit findings, recof entities and individuals inommendations for amendment tending to commit or committing MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 41 2.6 Business Ethics In its activities, Sistema focuses on Ethical principles and values of the Corporation high ethical standards of business dealing. The Corporation fully takes into account socially significant aspects of its activities and recognizes the responsibility regarding During its existence, the Corporation managed all groups of the stakeholders. to gain trust of thousands of contractors and millions of consumers around the world by Ethical matters are on the agenda of Trust building friendly partnership relations with the meetings of Sistema’s Board of its shareholders, investors and employees, Directors on a regular basis. To mainwhich Corporation is committed to maintain, tain high ethical standards among the strengthen and develop. Corporation’s employees, a Code of Ethics has been developed with due regard for the best practices and ethical codes of a number of the leading Russian and international companies. A transparent information policy not only guarantees the right of all persons interested The Code of Ethics reflects the in obtaining reliable and up-to-date information Openness commitment of the Corporation on the activities of the Corporation, but it is also and its management to high ethical one of the most important components of our standards of transparent and honcorporate culture. est business aimed at improving corporate culture, adherence to best practices of corporate governance and appropriate level of business reputation of the CorpoThe personnel policy of the Corporation ration and companies of Sistema provides equal opportunities for all employees Group. (G4-56) Respect for people regardless of their national or religious affiliations, political views, personal beliefs, At implementing the provisions of gender, way of life and age. the Code of Ethics Sistema sets the following objectives: • to ensure compliance with the principles and requirements of the The Corporation takes management decisions Code of Ethics by all Corporate on the basis of duly verified data, and the choice employees, regardless of their Impartiality and of contracting parties, partners and cooperation rank and position; objectivity with them is carried out on transparent, fair market basis without any unsound preferences • to form a uniform system of ethior prejudices. cal values by defining the criteria for conscientious and ethical conduct in relations with authorities, business partners, shareholders and colleagues. The Corporation refrains from engaging in unethical, illegal or unfair activity. It also makes • to preserve and enhance the Rejection of efforts to ensure that its business partners, Corporation’s credibility in the corruption and contracting parties, employees and S/As adhere eyes of the investment community unfair competition to the same high ethical standards in business by enhancing the reputation of a relations, which are a distinctive feature of transparent, honest and reliable our company. business partner. 42 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE All Corporate Employees must be internal documents and decisions (including security officers) had governed by the Code of Ethics and of governance bodies at the Corno special training on policies and strictly observe its principles and poration and S/As; procedures in the field of human requirements in their daily work rights. (G4-HR7) Sistema’s investand at implementation of projects • suggestions and recommendament agreements and contracts throughout the world. The respontions for governance bodies of the do not include any provisions on sibility for compliance with the Corporation and S/As concernhuman rights and they are not beCode of Ethics is set out in employing the presence or absence of ing assessed from the point of view ment contracts and job descripgrounds for bringing the employof human rights. (G4-HR1) However, tions of Sistema’s employees, with ees to disciplinary liability and/ the company admits the possibility individual rules of ethical business or applying other compensatory of conducting such training and the conduct being also regulated by the remedies provided for by the inclusion of the relevant provisions Internal Code of Conduct, HR Code legislation. in the agreements and contracts and Logistics and Informational concluded by the Corporation if Support Code. The Committee, which resumed necessary or expedient. its active work in 2013, became an The activities of the Ethics effective body for adoption of organAdhering to the principle of privacy, and Discipline Committee isational decisions in case of their Sistema ensures protection of the rejection or impossibility of their personal data in its possession. acceptance by the management of The Security Code, approved in In addition to the Ethics and Control subsidiaries. Two Committee meetJanuary 2014, regulates in detail Committee of the Sistema’s Board of ings were held in 2014. all aspects of personal data proDirectors, which aims at contributing tection. Employees with access to to the establishment of an effective No violations of the provisions of personal data are obliged to strictly system of economic security, interSistema’s Code of Ethics were refollow the provisions of the Code. nal control, combating fraud and corded in the reporting period. other abuse related to violation of When dealing with personal inforthe applicable law in the Corporation mation, in all cases not regulated (see more about the activities of the Human rights by any regulatory documents of the Committee in 2.2. Corporate GovernCorporation, the employees shall ance); the issues of compliance with In matters relating to the obserbe guided by the applicable legisbusiness ethics and responsible bevance of human rights, the Corpolation of the Russian Federation. haviour are considered by the Ethics ration relies on both Russian and There were no leaks of personand Discipline Committee under the international legislation. Sistema al data in 2014. CEO of the Corporation. and its subsidiaries do not allow any forms of discrimination or The Committee is a permanently harassment, and the provisions on 2015 Plans operating collective advisory and non-discrimination are contained in consultative body established in key internal regulatory documents 1. Updating Sistema’s Code of order to improve the labour and (Code of Ethics, HR Code). SisteEthics performance discipline and generma strictly follows the principle of ate recommendations to propose tolerant attitude to racial, religious, 2. Providing distance learning and the corresponding issues to the physical and other differences of in-person training for employees governance bodies of the Corporathe employees. The Corporation on compliance with the legislation and S/As. has never used and will not use any tion and internal procedures of child or involuntary labour. the Corporation related to the The main tasks of the Committee anti-corruption policy and insider are as follows: No cases of discrimination and information. human rights violations within the • consideration of issues of emreporting period were recorded 3. Modernization of the personal ployees’ compliance with the in the Corporation. (G4-HR3) In the data protection system due to requirements of labour legislation, reporting period, the employees changes in legislation. MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 43 3. MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 3.1 CSR Management System in the Corporation 45 3.2 CSR Management of Subsidiaries and Affiliates 49 3.3 HR Management 51 3.4 Contribution to the Development of Locations 64 of Operations 3.5 Investment in Human Resources and Development 68 of Innovative Capacity 3.6 Charitable Activities of the Corporation 73 3.7 Ecology and Environmental Protection 77 3.8 Stakeholder Engagement and the Corporation’s 79 Social Reporting 44 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE 3.1 CSR Management System in the Corporation As a large investment corporation, • recognition of the rule of law in • specifies the CSR priorities which owns key assets in several all spheres of social and ecoand activities; industries that are of significance nomic life, and respect for hufor the development and strengthman rights; • defines the responsibilities and ening of the economy of the Rusprocedures for coordinating the sian Federation, Sistema cam have • priority of the programmes reCSR activities between the Cora significant impact on the lives of lated to labour safety, personnel poration and its S/As; millions of Russians. Acting as a development and other aspects of responsible investor, the CorporaCSR concerning employees of the • improves the CSR managetion takes into account various enCorporation; ment system in the Corporation vironmental and social aspects of and its S/As; its activities and fully accepts its re• consideration for global experisponsibility before all stakeholders. ence and best practices in the • establishes and ensures the Because of this, an integral goal field of CSR; achievement of the target values of the the Corporation’s activities of the CSR key performance indiand strategy is finding a balance • dialogue with society, openness cators (KPI); between its economic interests and and publicity. the interests of society. • tracks the progress of the Goals and objectives in CSR Corporation and its S/As in By sustainable development the and sustainable developthe field of CSR. Corporation means a system of consistent economic, ecological ment Focus areas in the field of and social measures implementsustainable development ed on the basis of the continuous Sistema’s objectives in the field of interaction with stakeholders and CSR and sustainable development Corporation assumes whole reaimed at more efficient risk manare as follows: sponsibility for the work with the agement, long-term improvement basic focus areas in the field of of the image and business repu• improving the quality of life sustainable development. tation of the Corporation, as well of stakeholders (individuals, as growth of its capitalisation and organisations or communities Economic impact management competitive strength. Sistema’s that may affect the activities of Corporate social responsibility the Corporation or, on the conStrictly adhering to the principles is a philosophy of long-term and trary, be affected by the Corpoof responsible investment, the sustainable development which ration, its products or services) Corporation makes a significant makes it possible to harmoniously through innovative design and contribution to the economic integrate successful business with technology; development in the countries and fundamental universal values and locations of its operations. Stabilinational development priorities14. • improvement of corporate govty of development, positive transernance practices; formations, and implementation In its practical CSR activities of new investment projects of the Sistema is guided by the following • harmonious dialogue and cooperCorporation are inextricably linked principles: ation with the main stakeholders; to the prosperity of the Russian Federation and strengthening of • recognition of the Corporation’s • increasing confidence in the its economy. The Corporation is role in social development and Corporation and strengthening its one of the largest taxpayers to the responsibility for the fact that reputation. Federal and regional budgets; it its contribution to sustainable develops relations with suppliers development shall be long-term, To achieve these objectives, the and invests in the development of systematic, transparent and unCorporation consistently solves the key infrastructure projects in the derstandable to society; following tasks: locations of operations. (For more 14 A quote from the Policy “On Sistema’s Corporate Social Responsibility” MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 45 details, see. 3.4. Contribution to The employees are the foundation Environmental impact the Development of Locations of of growth and development of management Operations). the Corporation. Sistema bears responsibility before its employSistema and its subsidiaries are Social impact management ees in different areas, including actively involved in environmental ensuring decent working condiefforts in locations of their operaOne of the areas of activities of tions and safety in the workplace, tions, consistently reducing effects Sistema in the area of sustainstable labour payment, opportuon the environment, promoting able development is managing nities for professional and perimprovement of the environment and the impact on social services sonal advancement. The Corporaincreasing the level of environmental and personnel. tion actively develops educational awareness of the population. The programmes and advanced Corporation strictly observes the enCorporation’s charitable activity training for all categories of vironmental principles, statutory and develops according to the conemployees. Social programmes, regulatory requirements in the field cept of «social investment» which applied in the Corporation on an of labour and environment safety. is focused on long-term social ongoing basis, enable the empolicy that combines the strateployees to maintain good health, By investing in environmental gic interests of the Corporation, improve their quality of life and projects, Sistema contributes to shareholders and interests of social satisfaction from the profesthe environmental care and condevelopment. (For more details, sional activity. (For more details, servation of natural diversity. (For see 3.6. Charitable Activities of see. 3.3. Corporate Personnel more details, see 3.7. Ecology and the Corporation). Management). Environmental Protection). CSR Management Bodies CORPORATE COMMUNICATIONS BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESIDENT FUNCTIONAL DIVISION • determining strategic targets • development and implemen• tutorial and educational tation of policies, strategy workshops for S/As, and co• social investment efficiency and main priorities in CSR ordination of CSR corporate assessment and corporate charitable activities activity • monitoring efficiency of the • preparation and publishing implementation of Policies in of annual corporate-wide CSR and Charity social reports, organization of collection, generalization and analysis of relevant data 46 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE Corporate social CSR management bodies Stakeholder Engagement responsibility Matters of corporate social responEnsuring sustainable business management system sibility are considered annually by development and achievement the Sistema’s Board of Directors. of strategic objectives are only The corporate social responsibility possible when due consideration is management system focuses on The business unit responsible given to the interests of all stakethe global standards and internafor the implementation of polholders and responsible mantional best practices in this area, icies in the field of CSR, chariagement of stakeholder relations and consists of several elements: ty and coordination of activities is ensured. in this area is the Corporate • internal regulatory documents Communications Function. In this regard, the Corporation and external initiatives; believes that the development of a The instrument for the implemenconstructive dialogue and efficient • CSR management bodies; tation of the Corporation’s social cooperation with stakeholders investments, general Corporation’s shall be based on the principles • KPI system; charitable and volunteer proof balance, ethics and mutual grammes and projects in CSR manresponsibility. • stakeholder engagement; agement system of the Corporation is Sistema Charitable Foundation For more detailed information • monitoring and social reporting. (Sistema CF), which was estababout the interaction of the Corpolished in 2003. (For details, see 3.6. ration with its key stakeholders see Internal regulatory documents and Charitable Activities of the Corpo3.8. Stakeholder Engagement and external CSR initiatives ration and 3.3. Corporate Personnel Social Reporting of the Corporation. Management). The policy “On Sistema’s CorpoReporting in the rate Social Responsibility” is the KPI system in the field of CSR field of CSR main document defining activities in the field of CSR and sustainable Key performance indicators for the Important element of CSR mandevelopment. The policy is based CSR strategy are set annually for agement is corporate sustainaon the provisions of the Code of Sistema’s S/As. In the reporting bility reporting by means of which Ethics and is aimed at supporting period, they covered the following: Sistema reflects its activities on the Corporation’s business strategy matters related to sustainable It serves as a tool for the strate• synergy – expansion of cooperdevelopment and other significant gic management of social factors ation between Group companies topics of interest and concern to of the Corporation’s sustainable in implementation of joint sothe stakeholders. development, for optimisation of its cial projects; contribution to the tasks of national Sistema pays great attention to socio-economic development and • expansion of interaction between proper disclosure of information development of the locations of opGroup companies for implemenabout its activities, and it considerations, as well as strengthening tation of joint social projects; ers public non-financial reporting the reputation of Sistema. a key instrument of dialogue with • upscaling and expansion of CSR the stakeholders, implementing Sistema became one of the first projects based on the Shared and monitoring the implemenRussian companies that joined the Value principles; tation of the principles of the UN Global Compact in 2002, and sustainable development into it strictly adheres to its ten sus• expansion of corporate volunteering; the Corporation’s activities. tainable development principles. The Corporation fully shares the • development of social reporting; The Corporation contributes to concept of social responsibility the increase in the number of formulated by Russian Union of • promoting social responsibility subsidiary companies publishing Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and charity, participation in CSR independent non-financial reportin the «Social Charter of Russian rankings. ing, by implementing technical Business, as well as the provisions assistance to S/As with respect to of the international standard ISO The KPI in the field of CSR apimplementation of GRI Standard as 26000: 2010 “Guidance on Social proved by Sistema’s Board of Direca basis for the development of the Responsibility”. tors for 2014 were mostly achieved. reporting system. MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 47 Since 2008, MTS annually publishes 2015 Plans • introduction of measurable independent reports in the area of performance criteria for social CSR.15 First reports on sustainable 1. Improvement of the CSR projects. development are planned to be remanagement system in the Group: leased by Detsky Mir and Segezha 2. Higher level of transparency Group. RTI Group16 and BPGC17 • updating of the corporate policy of CSR activities, introduction of publish information on corporate in the field of CSR and charitable uniform principles and standards social responsibility in their annual activities; of non-financial reporting: reports. • focusing the CSR and charity • providing training on corporate For more detailed information strategy on priority and promising non-financial reporting for emabout the Corporate reporting, areas, restructuring the social ployees of Sistema and S/As who see Chapter 1. About the Report investment portfolio; are responsible for the developand Materiality of Disclosed Topment of CSR; ics. Previous social reports of the • improving the performance of Corporation are available on the Sistema CF due to more active • transition to preparation of social website in the section “Sustainable engagement of the Supervisory reports on an annual basis; development»18. Board and attracting independent expertise to develop and • preparation of reports accordimplement the social investment ing to the Global Reporting strategy and the programme of Initiative standards by Sistema charitable activities; and its key S/As. 15 http://www.company.mts.ru/comp/social_responsibility/soc_report/ 16 http://www.oaorti.ru/upload/iblock/e73/go-oao-rti-za-2014g..pdf p. 55-66 17 http://bashes.ru/upload/medialibrary/a26/a260b107286d25177b4dd35b8bd4e615.pdf p. 78-82 18 http://www.sistema.com/social-responsibility/social-reports/ 48 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE 3.2 CSR Management of Subsidiaries and Affiliates Sistema owns and manages nusocial impacts, thus contributing efforts of various businesses on merous assets in various economic to the development of the society the priority social projects. Sistesectors. Many companies of the and the country. ma’s general approach to corporate Corporation have significant impact social responsibility is based on the on the interests of a wide range In relation to the portfolio comprinciples of synergy and Shared of stakeholders. By managing S/ panies, many of whom have for a Value – inclusion of the maximum As in the field of corporate social long time successfully been active number of subsidiaries in the proresponsibility, Sistema introduces socially, Sistema first of all perjects that aim at solving important the best practices in management forms integrating function in the social problems and contribute to of economic, environmental and field of CSR by concentrating the business development. Functions of the Corporation and S/As in the field of corporate social responsibility Corporation S/As • Defines the priorities and areas of activities in the field of CSR. • Develop their own CSR policies and strategies • Develops its corporate strategy and policy in the field of CSR and implements it as required. in accordance with the recommendations of the Corporation. • Provides the necessary procedures for implementation of CSR principles in the Corporation’s development strategy and practical activities. • Independently put into practice all provisions of the policy and prepare their own non-financial reports • Conducts training seminars for S/As on the methodology of the CSR processes developat the end of a year. ment and non-financial reporting. • Appoint persons in charge of CSR, responsible for • Accumulates and analyses information on the progress of CSR policy implementation in the coordination of efforts in this area and interaction Corporation and S/As with a view to consolidate the data and disclose information about the with Sistema’s Corporate Communications Function CSR progress in its annual consolidated reports. on policy implementation. • Ensures interaction with the UN Global Compact Network and provides information on • Provide the requested information on CSR activities, compliance with the CSR principles and provisions of the UN Global Compact to the Global as well as data for drawing up consolidated corpoCompact Office. rate non-financial reports to the Corporation. Although individual CSR units, Priorities of the Corporation Evaluation of the CSR level in such as at MTS and RTI (where the and S/As in the field of social Sistema Group CSR department was established responsibility in November 2014 year within the Within the framework of the CSR Government Relations Division), Social responsibility priorities of the audit in April-May 2015, with the do not exist in all the subsidiCorporation and S/As are determined assistance of an external consultant, aries of Sistema Group, which by industry specifics and CSR best the poll among S/As and certificais determined by their size and practices, and based on the current tion of social projects were conductorganisational structure, usually management practices in Group ed to analyse and evaluate the level employees of other units (PR, HR, companies and their business strategy. and the efficiency of the social activetc. depending on S/As’ priorities These priorities reflect the compoity management system, to identify in sustainable development) are nents of the quality of life, to which «growth areas» and the potential responsible for implementation of Group companies contribute or are for the subsidiaries’ cooperation social projects. planning to contribute in the future. in the field of CSR. MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 49 In 2014 the Corporation’s subsidPriorities of the Corporation and S/As iaries implemented more than 50 projects in the field of corporate in the field of corporate social responsibility social responsibility, both independently and jointly with other Group companies, external social Human rights Infrastructure Social Employment Culture and partners, government institutions, Education Innovation non-profit organisations and charitable funds. In general, in comEcology Health Safety leisure development parison with the previous reporting period, the number of declared Sistema projects within the framework of the S/As poll, increased by more Telecom, IT than one and a half times. MTS remains the most socially active High technology Group company is still about 40% of all certified projects are directFinance, banking ly related to CSR and charitable Real estate activities of the company, besides most of the projects are impleConsumer’s sector mented in several regions. Mass-media 2015 Plans Hotel business 1. Formalization and unification of Medicine, pharmacy CSR function in S/As. Oil services 2. Strengthening of the integration in the field of CSR among Group Forest industry companies: Energy • expansion of the best CSR practices to S/As; Agriculture • clarification and distribution of Transport S/As’ «areas of responsibility» Corporation as a whole according to the priority areas of social projects and development of joint initiatives; S/As’ participation in social projects of Sistema CF • development of corporate-wide and other companies of Sistema Group volunteering system. 3. Efficiency improvement of the Yes, Lift to the Future and other social projects subject to reasonprojects of CF able size of social investments: 4 Yes, projects with S/As • increase in the number of joint CSR projects with S/As’ involve10 No ment and projects based on the Shared Value approach; Most S/As participate in the Lift to the 9 Future programme, corporate-wide • development of social and ecoEco CleanUp Day, annual sports day, nomic partnership with the as well as in the projects of the VolunGroup’s locations of operations. teer Centre of Sistema CF. 50 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE 3.3 HR Management Personnel structure and development and motivation to intended to create competitive adnumber of employees achieve results are necessary convantages and is an integral part of ditions for steady business growth the general corporate strategy. Attracting and retaining the best and high performance of Sistema. professionals, human resources The HR management system is Number of employees by gender, persons (G4-10) Total number in Group/number in Sistema (CC) Men (CC) Women (CC) 2012 161,003 / 339 167 172 2013 167,544 / 327 161 166 2014 155,779 / 308 156 152 Number of Sistema’s employees Number of Sistema’s employees by payby type of employment and gender, roll and non-payroll type of employment persons (G4-10) and gender, persons (G4-10) Men Women Men Women Full time Part time Full time Part time Payroll Non-payroll Payroll Non-payroll 2012 158 9 172 0 2012 167 0 172 0 2013 154 7 164 2 2013 161 0 166 0 2014 149 7 150 2 2014 156 0 152 0 Number of Sistema’s employees Age profile of the Group’s employees19, % by type of employment contract and gender, persons (G4-10) Men Women Age groups Indefinite Indefinite Year <25 25-34 35-44 45-54 >55 Fixed-term Fixed-term term term years old years old years old years old years old 2012 166 1 172 0 2012 18% 32% 20% 21% 9% 2013 160 1 166 0 2013 15% 33% 21% 21% 10% 2014 155 1 152 0 2014 17% 37% 21% 16% 9% 19 Only S/As where Sistema holds a controlling stake are taken into account. MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 51 Number of employees across Share of Sistema’s top executives hired the Group by regions, % (G4-LA1) from among the local population (Moscow and MR), %20, % (G4-EC6) 2013 2014 Number % of total number Year of employees of personnel Moscow 26 24 2012 13 3.9 Regions of Russia, including Moscow 69 70 region 2013 13 4 Foreign countries 6 5 2014 11 3.5 Key tasks in the field of human ment, strengthening of expert sector (where the level of personnel resources management in the competences of the employees; turnover is traditionally higher). Corporation in 2014 are as follows: The total personnel turnover of the • introduction of an assessment Corporation’s companies is be• introduction of HR standards in system for professional comlow the industry-wide level which companies with the Sistema’s petencies and leadership qualamounted to 27% in 2013-2014 in shares < 50% and in new subsidiities of the employees, with the Russia21. The personnel turnover aries and affiliates; assessment being conducted on a in the retail sector (Detsky Mir, regular basis; Concept Club, MTS Bank) is within • updating of the system for asacceptable limits. sessment of S/As’ key manage• ensuring correlation between the performance evaluation process, Motivation development and motivation of and compensation the personnel in the Corporation; Average personnel turnover in the Group, % • strengthening of the training Financial incentive system (G4-LA1) and development function according to the business tasks Compensation system in Siste27 and within the framework of the ma and in the majority of Group approved strategy. companies is based on a grading 20 23 system (levels of positions). An 18 Personnel structure and employee’s payroll is established number of employees depending on the grade of his/ her position. For each grade, the compensation range is defined by The total personnel turnover in analysing compensation surveys. 2012 2013 2014 subsidiaries of Sistema Group for Principles of the compensation sys2014 is 23%, excluding the retail tem in each company are recorded Standard salary of Sistema’s entry-level employees compared to the statutory minimum salary in Moscow and Moscow Region (G4-EC5) Minimum monthly wage for an entry-level Minimum monthly wage (MMW) Minimum Sistema wage to MMW position, RUB in the region, RUB in the region, % 2012 40,000 11,700 342% 2013 52,800 12,200 433% 2014 45,000 14,000 321% 20 According to a labour market survey by Ancor Professional. 21 Calculations took into account senior positions down to managing directors. 52 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE in the Corporation’s «Compensation At the same time, motivation to Vitchak E.L. and Benefit Policy» or «HR Code». succeed is created not only for the employees of investment portfolios, Vice President, head of the As a result of the transition to the but also for functional specialists HR Management Department of model of the Corporation’s investof the Corporate Centre their Sistema ment company, a new incentive bonus pool is also dependent on system was approved in 2013 for the results achieved under projects. the implementation of investment The procedure and methodology for projects based on direct conneccalculating the remuneration are tion between the formulation of the set out in the regulatory documents goals reached and the level of comapproved by the Board of Directors. pensation. The compensation for the investment projects replaced a For senior and middle managers, bonus plan for the achievement of there is a long-standing proconsolidated financial KPI for the gramme of remuneration, which personnel of Sistema. At the top of first started back in 2009 for a pethe new compensation system, the riod of 3 years. At the end of 2014, objective is set to achieve a return another revision of the programme The new motivation mechanism makes it possible to align the interests of Sisteon investment and monetization of for 2015-2017 was approved. The ma’s management with the interests of the created value both within each long-term incentive programme the company’s shareholders. Furtherindividual project and the Corpofor the managers is based on the more, the incentive system of Functions ration’s portfolio as a whole. The changes in Sistema’s shares’ value of the Corporation mirrors the incentive system of the Investment Portfolios, source of the compensation paid to and the total shareholder return which naturally motivates employees to employees is a bonus fund, calcu(TSR). The programme is intended work towards a common result –maximilated as 20% of the amount of the to commit the Sistema’s executives zation of value and monetization of assets monetary gain for the portfolio of and middle managers to increase managed by Sistema. the Corporation’s projects. shareholder value and market Evolution of the motivation system in Sistema 2011 2012-2013 2014-2015 We manage S/As and provide Our goal is to maximize the value The goal is the activation of a) execution of their budgets growth of assets in the portfolio, search for new assets and making while maintaining financial transactions. Maximum reference MOTIVATION b) necessary monetary profit for sustainability of Sistema to the result on creating value and PHILOSOPHY share-holders and the developmonetization ment of new projects BUILDING BLOCKS OF REMUNERATION • Competitive Salary • Competitive Salary • Competitive Salary • Quarterly and annual bonuses • Annual bonuses for: FINANCIAL CORPORATION for carrying out KPIs INVESTMENT COMPANY SHORT-TERM – investment KPIs REMUNERATION of the Criterial Base (CB)22 and functional КPI – functional KPIs for the priority targets for each function with a planning horizon оf 1 year • Remuneration for additions • Instead of a combination of monetary and shareholding remuneration to Sistema’s shares in the form on phantom shares of Sistema, the Stock Grant shares of Sistema is LONG-TERM of phantom shares introduced which is received only by achieving the goals in profitability REMUNERATION specified by the Board of Directors of Sistema (top and middle managers) • The aim is to motivate the employees to get return on investments and monetizing PROJECT of the created value, both within MOTIVATION each project and within the Corporation’s portfolio 22 A set of economic and finansial parameters. MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 53 capitalisation of the company Non-material incentive system are specified in the personnel and create additional conditions includes both formalised propolicy. Besides, collective emfor long-term employment and grammes, which include all the ployment agreements are in force corporate relations. The remunerunits of the Corporation, and addiin a number of the Corporaation under the programme may tional benefits of a multi-business tion’s subsidiaries. be paid in the form of Sistema’s company, including special offers of ordinary shares. subsidiaries’ products and services In accordance with the labour to their employees. legislation and Sistema’s internal The slight decrease of the minimum regulations, the minimum period wage compared to 2013 is due to the Traditional additional social beneof notice with regard to significant fact that some functions that had fits, included in the adopted local changes in the Organisation’s been previously outsourced not on regulatory documents in various activities is two months. the personnel were returned to Siscompanies of Sistema, usually (G4-LA4), (G4-11) tema’s staff from January 1, 2014. include payment for sick leave in excess of the minimum specified Matters of labour safety are reguNon-material incentive by the Russian legislation, material lated by laws, and health and safeof employees (G4-LA2) assistance, voluntary health insurty committees are not available. ance, payment for food, travel, and (G4-LA5) There were no industrial Sistema cares for the welfare and partial compensation for accommoinjuries and accidents in the worksocial security of its employees, dation of non-resident employees. place in Sistema in the reporting providing them with additional period. There is no general statissocial benefits in addition to the Collective employment agreement tical data on injuries in the Group mandatory package of social benbut it is planned to start collecting efits envisaged by the legislation. In Sistema, all significant matters this data in the future due to its The list of these benefits varies deon regulating relations with the value to the stakeholders. pending on the actual needs of the personnel (benefits, payments, employees of various subsidiaries. health insurance, pensions, etc.) Area Description Sistema provides its employees (including families of some classes of employees) with voluntary health insurance. Total inVoluntary health surance premium with regard to voluntary health insurance amounted to RUB 13 mln. in 2014. Allianz Insurance Company insurance JSC is the current insurer is. In the event of temporary incapacity due to illness, an employee’s salary is still paid (2 weeks for out-patient treatment, 3 weeks for in-patient treatment). Health care In addition, employee’s treatment can be arranged for with 20% discount of . All employees and their relatives can use the discount. All employees of Group companies have the right to participate in the pension insurance programme by selecting one of the following options: • mandatory pension insurance; • programme of the state co-financing of pension (known as «1000 to 1000»); • non-governmental pension programme (NGPP) Since 2013, the development of the Sistema’s pension programmes has been based on a non-governmental «Big Pension Fund» (BPF), the successor to Sistema’s NPF. Over 2014, about 20% employees of the Corporation transferred their pension savings to the “Big pension fund”. In addition to the mandatory pension insurance, the Fund develops corporate pension programmes as part of the personnel Retirement Plan23 policy. For example, in MTS the pension programme is part of the talent management project, and in MGTS it is aimed at the retention and loyalty of the employees. The Fund fulfills its obligations for payments to the Corporation’s retirees, of whom there are more than 4500 people. In 2014, NPF “Big Pension Fund» entered into a state system intended to safeguard the rights of the insured established under the Deposit Insurance Agency (DIA), which guarantees safety of pension savings of individuals with pension savings in BPF. NPF «Big Pension Fund» belongs to a small group of pension funds with the highest level of reliability A ++ (confirmed by the rating agency Expert RA). The overall size of the pension savings of BPF exceeded 26.8 billion roubles in 2014. Also, employees are provided with: • extra paid leave at child birth, wedding registration, or death of close relatives for 3 working days; Miscellaneous • financial assistance of 30,000 roubles due to death of close relatives; • three extra holiday days for irregular working hours. 23 For more details, see the website of «Big Pension Fund»: http://www.bigpension.ru 54 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE Examples of S/As’ special offers for the Corporation’s employees S/A Description Leader-Invest Sistema’s employees have the opportunity to purchase quality housing in Moscow from Leader-Invest on favourable terms. Off-premise services and consultations on services, products and special offers at Sistema’s head office as part of the Bank MTS Bank at your Office programme. Sistema's employees also receive preferential terms for consumer and mortgage loans. Detsky Mir Seasonal discounts for children’s goods are offered for the Corporation’s employees. Personnel training In 2014, Sistema continued the develLomonosov Moscow State University, and development system opment of the training system, which contributing to bringing together classiin the Company resulted in substantial increase in the cal education and the needs of business effectiveness of the training. and the innovative development of the The Corporation attaches paramount country. In June 2006, at the initiative of importance to investment in human Higher School of Management and the MSU Rector, V. Sadovnichy, and Siscapital, including personnel training Innovation of the Lomonosov tema’s Board Chairman, V. Evtushenand development. Strong qualificaMoscow State University. kov, a joint Faculty “Higher School of tions and expertise allow Sistema to Management and Innovation” of the efficiently compete on the market and The Corporation has a history of long Lomonosov Moscow State University successfully perform business tasks. and fruitful cooperation with the was established.24 Training of employees, Average number of hours of training person / courses at the Corporate Centre, by gender, person/hour (G4-LA9) Category 2013 2014 Average number of hours of training Top management 394 572 Men 24.4 Middle management 21,414 25,235 Women 30.1 Specialists 96,573 129.959 TOTAL 118.381 155.766 Spending on corporate training of the Average number of hours of training Group’s employees, thous. RUB at the Corporate Centre, by employee category, hours (G4-LA9) 163 672 168 054 46.7 94 165 103 850 16 10 127 8 893 3.4 2013 2014 Top Managers Specialists Middle Managers Top Managers Middle Managers Specialists MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 55 The faculty sees its mission in training of new highly skilled experts, ready to work in the global market of innovative products and services, and capable of holding leadership positions. The Corporation is fully engaged in the development of the leading Russian university. V. Evtushenkov, Sistema’s Board Chairman, is a member of the Supervisory Board of the Moscow State University. During its existence, the Faculty Sistema constantly invests in science, “Given of the increasing shortage of personnel became an important resource education, innovation infrastructure, and finance, an error in training of a profesand methodological base for and implementation of advanced sional may result in a waste of resources. The training highly skilled managers technologies. We view cooperation employer simply must participate in the eduwith the MSU, a leading Russian and cational process in a format that is acceptable not only for the Corporation, but international academic centre, and the for him and for the educational institution. It also for other Russian companies, establishment of the Higher School is combining of the school’s knowledge and solving the task of raising skills of Management and Innovation as the experience of the Corporation’s personnel and innovative capacity of Sistema most efficient model for integration of that will allow us to unlock synergy from education and business. cooperation of science and business”. and fulfilling an important social mission on the implementation Victoria Pechkovskaya and promotion of the best pracVladimir Evtushenkov Dean of the Higher School of Managetices of applied business educaSistema’s Board Chairman ment and Innovation, the MSU tion in Russia. The goal of the Faculty is to train highly qualified specialists on the basis of theoretical knowledge and Cost of training of Sistema’s employees at the practical skills, aimed at the solving Higher School of Management and Innovation of the of the matters of generation and MSU, mln. RUB implementation of strategic business development programmes. 2013 2014 The basis of the educational process at the Higher School of S/As’ Costs for training employees in Higher School of 11 12 Management and Innovation is Management and Innovation of MSU the combination of fundamental university education and corporate profile. The programmes are aimed company owning the technological tions”. The programme is designed at obtaining competences, allowing platform participates in teaching specifically for the «Golden hunto put into management practice as a full partner of a faculty, i.e. dred» of Sistema. First students of modern approaches to forecasting provides internship and a module of this programme will be the leaders the market conditions, managespecial disciplines). chosen for the Talent Pool. ment of programmes and projects, the organisation of innovative Today, the faculty has trained nearly A time-tested basic educational activities in various sectors of the 300 masters in strategic manageprogramme of the faculty «Strategic economy taking into account their ment and innovation who successmanagement and innovation” will structural, functional and technofully work in managerial positions be further developed. From Septemlogical specifics. in partner companies of the faculber 2015, the programme will be ty: Sistema, MTS, RTI, MTS Bank, launched in two formats — full-time Currently, training is provided for MGTS, Detsky Mir Group, etc. (evening) and part-time (modular) master’s programme «Strategic according to an updated curriculum management and innovation», 2015–16 Plans and with a number of new teachers. included in the general specialty “Management”, and training proIn October 2015, the School begins From 2016, the School will begin grammes, many of which are creatteaching according to the MBA training on a new programme of ed in the network format (when the programme “Leadership in innovathe integrated bachelor’s degree 24 For more details, see website of the Higher School of Management and Innovation at the Lomonosov Moscow State University: http://hsmi.msu.ru/en 56 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE “Innovation», internship for which additional topics and explore them Maria Chukanova will be provided by high-tech by choice. For example, a course businesses of Sistema.. It is an Director for Assessment and on anti-corruption must be taught engineering and economic training Development, Sistema. to every new employee within one programme that enables its gradmonth after the employment. uates to hold positions in a variety of advanced specialties. Children After obligatory training, tests are of the Corporation’s employees passed, and the results are graded. will have a priority right for admisIn addition, at the end of the training sion to the programme. the employees can give feedback about the quality of the course, System of In-House Coaches and which in turn contributes to the deSistema’s Academy (G4-LA10) velopment of the education system. Sistema pays considerable attention External assessment to the development and improveof the personnel training ment of its employees’ training and development system and education. External experts carried out an “The project brings together the In 2014, the System of In-House independent assessment of the best coaches of the Corporation and Coaches project was launched, the employees aspiring to developlevel of corporate education syswhose main objective was the ment. This creates a self-developing tems of 12 largest Russian compacapitalisation of internal resources: environment: employees show their nies, including Sistema. Following interest, they attend training sessions, use of the best internal experts to the results of the 2014 study, the improve their skills, move forward, develop basic business skills and suggest new formats, and we are personnel training and developcompetencies of middle managehappy to develop the project and imment system in the Corporation was ment; optimisation of expenses plement new useful opportunities for highly graded and was classified as business. I am very glad that we have on the personnel development; Experts by its maturity level. been able to implement such a simple establishment of unified corporate and convenient idea that is beneficial standards and values. for all participants”. The Experts level of is characterized by: In various S/As of Sistema (MTS Bank, Cosmos Group, Detsky Mir to all companies, making maximum • equal completeness of all Group, Medsi Group, Nvision Group), use of corporate opportunities and processes, with emphasis on there are corporate business upscaling the best practices. high-quality implementation of coaches. Nevertheless, many Group each process and particular atcompanies were unable to provide Results of the programme relate to tention to the key processes (percontinuous training of the employthe future period, and they will be formance management, career ees. Bearing in mind these circumdisclosed in the 2015 report . and succession management, stances and the current needs of talent pool management); the employees in training, it was Distance Learning (G4-LA10) decided to create a programme that • implementation of the key prowould combine the best coaches A Distance Learning Portal operates cesses for all management levels and educational software of the in the Corporation for the purpose to (primary, secondary and senior) Group companies. Thus, the proincrease the number of employees and the level of experts/specialists; ject Sistema’s Academy was born, undergoing training and effectivedue to which the employees of all ly familiarize the personnel with • automation of the key processes Group companies are able to take obligatory information. In particular, on the basis of ERP-systems; advantage of the services of the best the online format is convenient to in-house coaches in the Corporadistribute corporate S/As materials. • creation and development of intion. Training programmes take into house competence on , training account the specificity of Sistema’s At the moment, more than 10,000 and development (the company subsidiaries’ business. During the employees are registered in the has a System of In-House Couchtraining, actual cases from S/As Portal, and they have access to an es, mentoring system, and the practice are considered, which gives electronic library, remote courses leaders are actively involved in a competitive advantage compared and video courses. The portal hosts the process of training and develto the training offered by external several corporate courses developed opment of employees); providers. Sistema’s Academy is by the Corporation’s employees. a unique business model, which Some courses are obligatory. Also, • using web technologies and advanced allows making training accessible the employees can choose any system of distance learning. MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 57 Maturity curve of the personnel training and development system 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Novices Workers Experts Leaders Succession pool The projects for building two levels of a succession pool were developed and launched in the reporting year. In 2014, the Talent Pool project level 1 level 2 was launched, which is a project aimed at identifying, developing and rotating managers of subsidiaries with a high potential and high motivation to grow within the The heads of functional units Corporation. The key tasks of the Highly efficient executives of subsidiaries and affiliates project: retain efficient leaders of subsidiaries and affiliates of the Corporation are candidates in Sistema Group, increase their of the Corporation are potential for the leading positions directly interest in long-term cooperation mentors and candidates under the CEOs of the with the Corporation, create an for positions in the Corporation’s companies intra-group pool of effective leadCorporate Centre. (“Corporate Talent Pool”). ers with the requisite expertise. In 2014, more than 100 executives from different companies of the Corporation passed remote and The number of employees in the succession pool in-person assessment. Based on at the end of 2014, pers. the results, 53 managers were selected to embark on a development programme in 2015. Number of employees Next year, it is planned to start the Top managers 36 project on creation of a personnel reserve of highly effective S/ Middle managers 392 As chief executives. Of key importance will become establishment Junior managers 579 of an operating personnel reserve for key positions and, accordingly, Specialists 882 establishments of programmes for the identification, development and Total 1,889 internal rotation of the candidates for the position of senior officials. 58 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE Elena Vitchak on the best HR practices and is Level of employee designed to provide efficient and Vice President, Head of the HR reliable selection of managers and engagement in the Management Department of professionals capable to increase Corporate Centre, % Sistema the value of companies due to high-quality asset management. +14% The evaluation procedure is aimed 79 at determining the level of profes65 sional expertise of a candidate, his/ her personal competencies, relevance of the scale of business and management experience in a target position and reputation in the market, and it allows to get integrated, more objective assessment of the candidates, including independent one. A key aspect of the new pro“From the point of view of human cedure is collective consideration resources management and personnel and decision-making on candidates 2013 2014 stability, Sistema’s structure has an by the Sistema’s HR Committee. obvious competitive advantage due to As a result of the introduction of implementation of continuous HR programmes within the Group. For examthe procedure, the efficiency of the ple, in 2014, Sistema launched projects recruitment of senior officials was efficiency of the activities of the Corpofor building a succession pool in order significantly increased. ration as a whole, as well as assessto reduce the risks when appointing ment of the following factors: candidates to top management positions at the Corporation’s subsidiaries Corporate culture and affiliates, as well as to develop • awareness of the personnel, and engage successful managers in a Corporate culture is a unique mentorship programme. This approach combination of ideological views, • sufficiency and efficiency of the to the establishment of a common succession pool, which includes executives values, beliefs, norms and beuse of resources, of various subsidiaries and affiliates of haviours that make the Corpothe Corporation has already given us ration a single whole, and they • microclimate in the personnel, numerous opportunities for profesare shared by its employees. The sional and career development of the best managers, as well as significant corporate culture supports the • ability of employees and mansavings in expenditures”. Corporation’s business strategy agers to exercise their functions and penetrates all processes in effectively, the field of the human resources management. Starting from 2012 • satisfaction with the workSelection and assessment onwards, the strengthening of the ing conditions offered by the of personnel corporate culture is one of the key Corporation. HR tasks to be solved: integration Sistema relies on its internal of uncoordinated elements into The survey guarantees confiresources and involvement of a single concept and the estabdentiality of all respondents; the promising managers with suclishment of an efficient internal process of monitoring and evaluacessful experience in investment communication system. tion of the corporate culture gives activities and projects which they information about the efficiency, could successfully implement within Monitoring and evaluation strengths and weaknesses of the the Corporation. of corporate culture existing corporate culture, as well as priority growth areas. For the purpose of improving the The Corporation conducts regular quality of selection and recruitmonitoring and evaluation of the corIn 2014, the survey was conductment of senior officials in S/As, the porate culture within the framework of ed for the 7th time. At the same Corporation has implemented the the research to determine the level of time, the level of participation of procedure for selection, assessment Sistema’s employee engagement. the Corporation’s employees in and recruitment of candidates for the survey increases annually, senior positions in subsidiaries and The study is conducted in the format and in 2014 it amounted to 70 per affiliates. A system for search and of a survey among employees in cent. Involvement of the personnel evaluation of candidates is based order to study their opinions about the increased by +14% in comparison MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 59 with 2013 and reached the level of the “Best-Run Companies in the World”. Sistema has demonstrated a positive trend in almost all areas. Large annual events attended by the employees of all subsidiaries are focused on shaping a common corporate culture. Sistema’s 12th Summer Games The 12th Summer Games is Sistema’s largest corporate event that was held on June 29 at the Yantar stadium in Strogino, Moscow. The sports festival was attended by over 60 organisations of Sistema Group from various regions of Russia, CIS countries and India. The competitions were held bedemonstrate better results and a its S/As. During the event, more tween 16 teams in 15 sports events. high level of sports training. than 20 acres of lawns, forest and The winners were determined in parkland zones was cleaned of three divisions (team placing) and In 2014, the Games were attended debris, the territory of the Rosary individual trials for competition, by more than 3,000 participants, (2.5 hectares) was tidied up; volunwhich was an innovation in the spectators and a record number of teers planted shrubs and flowers Games and made it possible to dethe employee’s children. and installed 30 unique birdhouses termine the winners in the various made by pupils of “Centre of equal «weight» categories. Annual Corporate Cleanup opportunities Verkh”, which deals with the socialisation of people The distinctive feature of the Games In May, Sistema organised an with disabilities. Also, new lawn in 2014 was the participation of all, annual volunteer cleanup at the mowing equipment was donated to without any exception, S/As, which Botanical Garden of the Russian the Botanical Garden. brought the corporate spirit togethAcademy of Sciences in Moscow, er and allowed newcomers to feel which was attended by over 3,000 A children’s playground with edlike stars and veteran companies to employees of the Corporation and ucational activities was equipped for the young participants of the volunteer clean-up. Actors of the MTS volunteer theatre staged environmentally themed puppet shows for. Corporate parties Twice a year, Sistema organises festivities for its employees in which the top management and creative teams of subsidiaries take part. On July 18, the Corporation celebrated its 21st anniversary styled after a rock festival. Traditionally, the programme included shows performed by S/As’ employees, and Sistema’s managers took part in the final performance. 60 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE There was an award ceremony organised by Sistema Charitable Foundation to reward the Corporation’s employees and companies for their good deeds. Dozens of charitable projects and initiatives were promoted; they were implemented either by the Corporation’s companies or by the employees personally. The most bright and socially important projects were selected by a professional jury consisting of S/As’ representatives supervising social responsibility campaigns in their companies. The awards were presented in the nominations Gentle heart (for personal unselfish act) For Good Deeds (for long-term project that had the greatest social impact) We are together (for bright social project, which involved several companies of the Corporation). In total, 14 employees including 5 top managers of Sistema and several companies were awardCorporate volunteering ciety in general, in accordance with ed: MTS, MGTS, Detsky Mir Group, the priorities of Sistema’s CSR and Medsi Group, etc. Sistema follows the global trend to charitable activities. increase the business involvement Corporate magazine in the implementation of social Key tasks and functions of the Voluninitiatives through employees’ volunteer Centre: For the past 11 years, Sistema has teering. Experience in the developbeen publishing its own corporate ment and institutionalisation of the • promotion of volunteering among magazine, which regularly covcorporate volunteering of subsidiaremployees; ers the most vivid and interesting ies has proved its effectiveness and corporate events associated with high potential in practice. • involvement of employees in corthe development of business and porate-wide volunteer events and social responsibility; it published All these factors led to the escoordinating volunteers (through reviews on subsidiary companies, tablishment of a single corporate interaction with the coordinators interviews with top managers and Volunteer Centre on the basis of Sisof the volunteer movement in other information on the activities tema Charitable Foundation, which HR and PR services of Sistema’s of the Corporation. is a key instrument for the implecompanies); mentation of the social policy of the The Sistema magazine is one of the Corporation. • development and implementation key tools of communication with of integrated volunteer projects internal and external stakeholders Volunteering is considered one (both their own and those proand manifestations of a sustainable of the most important forms of posed by the partners) corporate culture. In 2014, 2 issues non-material incentive and opporof Sistema magazine were released, tunity for promotion in the Group by • involvement of external social and 3000 copies each. A printed version increasing engagement and building business partners in social proof the magazine is circulated to all up personal competencies (responjects of the Corporation; S/As, electronic version is hosted on sibility, initiative, etc.). the company’s website.25 • organisation of training seminars Corporate volunteering is integrated for volunteers of the Corporation; In General, Sistema has a developed in Sistema’s CSR and charity genersystem of corporate media newsal policies and strategies . The main • promoting comprehensive depapers and magazines released by goals of the Volunteer Centre are velopment and motivation of S/As, both for the employees and for to unite employees to solve social volunteers, shaping a proactive customers and partners. issues of local communities and soapproach to life; 25 http://www.sistema.com/press-centr/korporativnyi-zhurnal/ MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 61 pated in a corporate campaign New Year’s Tree of Wishes, which became a mass event in 2014. Employees of all companies of the Corporation were involved in the New Year volunteer movement to purchase gifts for children from children’s homes, to transport them and to conduct parties for them. 600 gifts for children were collected thanks to the efforts of the employees. The number of sponsored children’s homes visited by the volunteers also increased: 200 volunteers went on volunteer trips to orphanages in Vladimir, Torzhok, Emmaus, Tula, Ryazan, Noginsk, Udomlya, Tuchkovski orphanage and Kashin social rehabilitation centre. There were 9 • improving the efficiency and quality • promoting career guidance and volunteer trips and New Year parties of volunteer-driven projects. socialisation of children from organised for children by the volunorphanages. teers of the Corporation. The establishment of the Volunteer Centre was preceded by a survey In 2014, the most demanding areas Every December Sistema CF conconducted among the Corporation’s for volunteering were the projects ducts charity performances for chilemployees, which revealed a great aimed at helping orphans, the elderdren who are now in difficult circumfavour to volunteering. According to ly, veterans, the disabled, children stances. In 2014, small audiences of the survey, the main reasons for the from large and low-income families. 17 children’s homes and boarding employees to volunteer were: The following can be distinguished schools, large families and low-infrom among the most significant come families in Moscow, Moscow • desire to contribute to the life of social campaigns of the Volunand Tver Regions visited Gala charity society, change life for the better; teer Centre: performance Cinderella of the State Academic Maly theatre. The charita• personal interest, emotional in• implementation, in cooperation ble campaign Theatrical Subscripvolvement in the problem; with the Russian Paralympic Comtion, when Sistema’s employees mittee, a sports and rehabilitation provided free tickets for the musical • willingness to share skills for the programme for disabled children The Bremen Town Musicians for 230 benefit of the society. from orphanages Olympic Starts; pupils of orphanages, children from large families and with disabilities, The average share of the employees • charitable campaigns and perforalso was successful. The employees engaged in volunteering for Sistema mances for children from chilof all Sistema’s companies particGroup increased in 2014 by 2.5 times dren’s homes on Children’s day ipated in New Year campaigns – in comparison with 2013; it made up and New Year, charity performancmore than 2000 employees acted more than 4% of the total number of es Cinderella and The Bremen as volunteers. employees. Employees of the majoriTown Musicians. ty of Sistema’s subsidiaries took part In total, in 2014, the Volunteer Centre in company-wide volunteer projects. A large charitable New Year party of conducted 52 campaings, drew Sistema CF (which already became a 11 social partners, involved in its Starting in June 2014, the Volunteer traditional one) that invited children work 1,877 employees who, in turn, Centre has identified several main from orphanages, large and low-inassisted or performed works for the areas of activity: come families took place. More than amount of almost 8 million roubles 30 volunteers from Sistema Group for more than 4 thousand chari• support of vulnerable segments of cared for children. ty recipients. the society; On the New year’s Eve, the volunThe following corporate-wide volun• solving environmental issues; teers of Sistema and S/As particiteer events are planned for 2015: 62 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE • a series of voluntary initiatives to 2015 Plans • incentive measures for the Corpohelp the veterans for the 70th anration’s for the projects implemenniversary of the Victory in the Great 1. Implementing tools to improve tation; Patriotic War; efficiency of senior officials: • elaboration of principles of the • a series of volunteer excursions • improvement of the procedure for project motivation for S/As; to the museums of military hissearching and hiring managers; tory for pupils of orphanages for • creating an environment for continthe Victory Day; • development and implementation uous professional development and of the performance evaluation of training; • campaign First-Grader’s School managers of the Corporation; Backpack to collect school acces• Development of an HR community sories for children from children’s • introduction of flexible cooperation in S/As. homes for the beginning of the mechanisms with portfolio manschool year; agers using the best practices of 4. Improvement of corporate culture, the Private Equity sector, including development of loyalty programmes: • intellectual volunteer servicproject contracts; es within the framework of the • improving the quality of corporate scientific and educational schools • development of common criteria events; programme Lift to the future; defining a successful head of a S/A and approaches to the professional • shaping of the image of an attrac• fundraising for the purchase of development and training. tive employer; a garden tractor to service the territory of the Krasno-Dubravsky 2. Establishment of the Corporation’s • improving the quality of internal children’s home Zhuravushka in succession pool system: communications. Orekhovo-Zuevo district, Moscow Region; • establishment of a senior official 5. Development of the volunteer succession programme. movement: • organisation of a classroom in the Ilyin school for orphans; • development of the Talent Pool • establishment of a new data portal project; of the Volunteer Centre; • volunteer tour to the State Russian Museum; • creation of a pool of talented youth • further promotion of the volunteer for the purposes of Group compamovement full involvement of • New Year’s New Year Tree of Wishes; nies. all Sistema’s subsidiaries in the volunteer movement; • New Year charity performance 3. Creation of opportunities for for children; retaining and developing effi• upscaling of the projects due cient employees: to involvement of the largest • assistance to veterans for the social partners. New Year. MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 63 3.4 Contribution to the Development of Locations of Operations Consistent work of Sistema on tively participates in the development and its external environment, it is improving the economic efficiency of the economy and infrastructure important to understand how and makes it possible not only to achieve of the Russian Federation and the between which stakeholders the high financial indicators and busilocations of operations. Corporation distributes the value ness results, but also provides a wide created in the course of its activirange of economic benefits for all Financial Performance ties. By distributing the value, the stakeholders. Directly linking its fuCorporation has an impact on the ture with the development of Russia Taking into account the Corporadevelopment of the economic and and its achievements, Sistema action’s sustainable development social systems. Direct economic value created and distributed by Sistema (without S/As), mln. RUB (G4-EC1) Component 2014 enue in Russia exceeded the GDP growth rate: the revenue increased CREATED ECONOMIC VALUE by 42% in four years. Income26 85,439 Tax payments of Sistema DISTRIBUTED ECONOMIC VALUE Group Distributed economic value, 422,058 Sistema is one of the largest including: tax-payers in Russia. The total Operating costs 388,754 amount of taxes to the Federal and regional budgets (and also Wage or salary and other payments and benefits to the employees 6,467 in other mandatory payments) of Payments to capital providers27 25,709 Sistema Group for 2014 amountPayments to State28 1,058 ed to 100 billion roubles, including 3 billion rub directly from the Investing in communities 70 Corporate Centre. 29 From the total amount of the The data provided in the table are Economic impact payments, more than 14.5 billion relevant only for the parent comparoubles were given for the purposny of Sistema Group and does not Economic performance of the es of pension, health and social include contributions from subsidiarCorporation (presented in detail in insurance of the population, With ies whose part of retained earnings Sistema’s annual public financial the total deductions in 2014 from S/ is also aimed at the development of report) has significant impact on As amounted to 13.7 billion roubles. the locations of operations. In future, the development of the economic the Corporation plans to disclose this and social systems through distriCooperation with regional indicator according to IFRS. bution of generated value. Sisteauthorities ma’s total contribution to the GDP In 2014, Sistema received no fiof the Russian Federation makes Building up lasting and meaningful nancial assistance from any public up about 1%. In 2011-2014, the cooperation with regional authorities authorities. (G4-EC4) average growth of the Group’s revis one of the key priorities of Sistema. 26 Indicators of the Income Statement according to RAS, including revenue, interest receivable and other income, were used for the calculation. 27 The item “Payments to Capital Providers” includes dividends for all classes of shareholders and the interest paid to creditors. 28 The item “Payment to State” comprises taxes included in cost of production; insurance payments for mandatory pension insurance, mandatory medical insurance and mandatory social insurance; income tax; value added tax. 29 The item “Investments in Communities” includes charity expenses, except for donations to the Sistema Charitable Foundation whose activities are disclosed in Section 3.6 Charitable Activity of Corporation. 64 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE Fruitful interaction of the CorporaShare of Sistema’s revenue in Russia’s GDP tion and regions can bring multiple benefits to all stakeholders. Socioeconomic development 42% of regions 0,80% 0,81% 600 0,9 In 2014, at the 18th St. Petersburg 550 0,75% International Economic Forum, a 500 0,73% 0,8 general cooperation agreement 450 0,7 between the Government of the 400 0,6 Republic of Karelia and Sistema 350 0,5 was signed. 300 250 527 578 0,4 The main area of cooperation is the 200 463 0,3 development of the timber process150 408 0,2 ing complex in Karelia by attracting 100 investment, technologies and train50 0,1 ing systems, expanding the range 0 0,0 of the manufactured products and 2011 2012 2013 2014 their distribution. The agreement provides for the joint implementation of the federal special-purpose and state programmes Group’s revenue % Sistema’s share of revenue in the region. in Russia, bln. Roubles from the Russian GDP Agreement with Sistema became part of the package of documents The sum of Sistema’s payments to Russian of the federal special-purpose programme of socioand econon-budgetary funds in 2014, mln. RUB nomic development up to 2020 in Karelia, on which work is carried out in the framework of the State 790 Commission on the preparation for the celebration of the 100-anniversary of the Republic of Karelia, Russian State Pension Fund with the Board Chairman Vladimir 2016 Evtushenkov being a member. Federal Fund of Obligatory Medical The Corporation also makes a sigInsurance nificant contribution to the preser10867 vation of the cultural and historical Social Insurance Fund heritage on the territory of Karelia. Sistema CF is involved in the restoration of one of the oldest archiwith Rosatom, the Federal State Technopark Sarov has a well-develtectural monuments and centres of Unitary Enterprise «Russian Fedoped infrastructure, which includes spiritual development of Russia-Vaeral nuclear Centre-VNIIEF» and 23 thousand square meters of the laam monastery (Sortavala area, FIEP (Fund for Infrastructure and research-and-production premises, Valaam). In 2014, 15 million roubles Educational Programmes) RUSoffices, social areas, including the were allocated for the restoration of NANO implements a joint project, building of the business incubator, the monastery. Technopark Sarov. and provides 630 working places (including more than 95 new workInnovation infrastructure Technopark Sarov exercises the ing places created in 2014). Technopark management, and it To ensure successful implemenis intended to build infrastructure 25 new small companies began tation of innovation projects for and create conditions for residents, working in 2014 in Technopark the development of the economy attract projects and companies, Sarov. In total, 54 resident compaof the Nizhny Novgorod Region incubate businesses, finance vennies, including 22 startups within and the Russian Federation in ture capital financing, and provide the business incubator, conduct general, Sistema in cooperation consulting services. their activities in Technopark. MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 65 According to the results of 2014, A public-private financing proReliable infrastructure the total turnover of the resident gramme of innovative projects for the Olympics companies is more than 1.3 billion that has no parallels in Rusroubles. Taxes transferred to the sia – a Programme of Research The Corporation made a substantial budgets of all levels amounted to and Production Cluster (RPC) of contribution to the preparation of 157 million roubles. Rosatom Sistema is realized in the infrastructure of the host city of the Technopark. It allows the use the winter Olympic games «SoIn 2014, Technopark Sarov was of public funds for capital expendichi-2014». In 2011-2013, MTS inincluded in the register of industures, provided that a resident vested more than 10 billion roubles trial parks of the Nizhny Novgorod company co-finances the operinto the development of networks Region. Within the framework of ating costs. The programme has in Sochi and the Krasnodar Region the development of the partner netalready carried out 16 innovative . Significant amount of work was work, agreements were concluded projects, the financing amounted done on the development of comwith three technoparks (Skolkovo, to 1.6 billion roubles. munications networks in Big Sochi, MSU Science Park and Strogino). including in the areas of competiThe Technopark became a support In addition, the first venture project tions, and provided radio covering platform for the Fund «Centre of was launched in December 2014 in for all outdoor sporting facilities of strategic developments NorthTechnopark Sarov, and it is planned the coastal and mountain clusters West” by holding sessions of practito finance 8 new projects in 2015. was provided. Also, the coverage of cal consulting for the development the mobile communication of the of small high-tech companies. An Innovative Technology Centre Gornaya Karusel and Rosa Khutor Sistema-Sarov (ITC Sistema-Sarov) sporting and tourist centres was operates in the Technopark; it is a strengthened. MTS network covresearch centre of Sistema. During ered hotels Chernomorets SPA and Alexander Khudilaynen its existence, more than 10 projects Radisson Blue, where the InterHead of the Republic of Karelia for Russian Railways, RusHydro, national Olympic Committee was Federal Security Service of the situated. The capacity of the third Russian Federation and of other generation network in the Krasnaya customers were carried out. Polyana area of Sochi where many competitions were held increased In 2014, ITC Sistema-Sarov impleby more than three times in three mented the following projects: years. In addition, MTS implemented a project to provide full coverage • development of components of of 3G cellular networks of a new the smart systems designed to Sochi international airport, and ensure comprehensive safe funcover 100 antennas were installed in tioning of the city; the territory of the airport building. • establishment of the Centre for Safe city “Our plans include many projects in different spheres that can be implemented in Karelia. Mathematical Modeling of TechniOne of them is with Sistema, and envisages cal and Technological Processes In Russian regions and cities, Sisteretrofitting of the Segezha Pulp-and-Paper of Railway Transport; ma and its subsidiaries implement Mill and collaboration on a forest project comprehensive high-tech solutions that accounts for one fourth of the Republic’s total logging area. To develop a company like • development of high-tech prodintended to create “smart” and safe the Segezha Mill, we need new ideas and ucts for the Moscow underenvironment. new technologies. We will cooperate not only ground. in logging, but also in timber processing. We In 2014, SITRONICS of Sistema have developed joint plans for eight segments, including concern the development In 2015, development of infraGroup, had stable interaction with of air, rail, water and road passenger transstructure Technopark Sarov and the Government of the Republic of portation, innovations and high technologies, involvement of new residents will Dagestan and signed a cooperation use of the scientific potential of the Karelian be continued. A key challenge will agreement to introduce a comprebranch of the Russian Academy of Sciences and the Petrozavodsk State University. We be the inclusion of the territory of hensive security system in the rehave been working on this agreement for Technopark in Sarov City municgion, including IT solutions such as six months in order to get specific areas ipality and creation on its areas Safe city, emergency call managefor cooperation rather than a framework of the territories of advanced ment system operational services document”. development30. through a single telephone number 30 In accordance with the Federal law No. 473-FZ dated 29.12.2014 (as amended on 13.07.2015) “On the territories of priority socio-economic development in the Russian Federation”. 66 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE Vyacheslav Shport Investments into local communities Governor of Khabarovsk Territory In 2014 Sistema implemented a whole number of socially important and charitable projects in Bashkortostan and Tatarstan totaling 9.8 million roubles, including: • charitable assistance to Neftekamsk Tatarstan for drilling and construction of branch of the Bashkir State University and artesian wells in the village of Kyzyl-Yar; Department of rehabilitation of disabled children and adolescents in Neftekamsk; • assistance to the Administration of Utazinsky district of the Republic of • financial support for a festive event devoted Tatarstan to repair dams and build a bypass to the International Children’s Day in road along the floodplain of River Ik; Neftekamsk; • charitable assistance to the autonomous • financing of the activities to celebrate the non-profit organisation «Oktyabrsky Aviation Victory Day of the Great Patriotic War in Ufa; Technical Sports Club named after B.G. Zaripov». • assistance to the Administration of Bavlinsky district of the Republic of “Such initiatives deserve respect and attention, since contribution to education is an investment in the future.” chemistry, biology and mathematics under the guidance of experienced high-school teachers, studying according to a special training programme. Leading specialists of Sistema’s companies, including Stream, MTS, and NIIME and Mikron conducted master classes for students concerning current challenges in high-tech production and business. Under the guidance 112, smart transportation network, Assistance in emergencies of mentors, the students developed paid parking, and other elements of their own projects for the develthe Smart City concept. On December 2 15, 2013, Sisteopment of the Far East in the field ma Charitable Foundation held a of information, industry and space As a grant sponsorship, the compaspecial winter scientific and educatechnology, transportation, energy ny performed work for the installational school for high-school stuefficiency; they offered their vision tion of video surveillance systems dents in the children’s health camp of how to improve their region. for «Republican Centre for social Orlenok in Zvenigorod as part of the assistance to families and children» Russian campaign to assist victims 2015 Plans (Makhachkala). This system was of the flood in the Far East. 150 purecommended across the Republic. pils of 7-10 forms from Khabarovsk 1. Development of full cooperation Territory, Amur Region and Jewish with the Government of the ReA separate subdivision of SIautonomous regions took part in public of Karelia on the modernTRONICS was established for the it; they were the winners of various ization of the timber industry in efficient interaction with regional competitions and contests in the the region and the launch of new and municipal authorities on the technical field who achieved high joint projects. implementation of joint infrastrucresults in natural sciences and ture projects in Makhachkala. As technical disciplines. The Ministry 2. Conclusion of cooperation agreea result, new opportunities arose of Education of the Territory and ments with a number of regions for the introduction of high-tech regions took an active part in colthat are promising from the solutions for the interests of the lecting the children. standpoint of the development of population and organisation in the the forest and wood industries: territory of the Republic of DagestFor two weeks, the students were Arkhangelsk, Vologda, Kirov and an and the North Caucasus. intensely engaged in physics, Irkutsk Regions. MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 67 3.5 Investment in Human Resources and Development of Innovative Capacity Implementation of the To achieve these goals within the framework of the programme Lift all-Russian scientific and to the future, a set of measures educational programme and system of activities aimed at “Lift to the Future” achieving the following objectives are implemented: Since 2011, a large-scale social programme Lift to the future aimed 2012. The programme is specified by • create friendly infrastructure for at search, support and developthe Regulation «Plan of the Russian the development and achievement ment of talented youth has been programme to work with talented of intellectual and personal poimplemented. The idea to the largchildren and young people “Lift to tential, professional self-determiest Sistema’s shareholder Vladimir the future”, approved by the Board nation and development of chilEvtushenkov and was dictated by of Supervisory Board of NP “Lift to dren and young people who have the call of the time the need for the future” in 2014. The regulation increased motivation to explore the human capital investment to create specifies the growth areas and the natural sciences, hard and applied a «knowledge-driven economy» in programme strategy reflecting the sciences, regardless of their place Russia. As a result, the first youth priorities of Sistema. of residence, social status and social network with the advisory financial capabilities; system which became a uniform All-Russian Talent Pool was cre“I would like young people to be able to • create constantly operating open ated. An interactive portal on the build creative teams in order to achieve all-Russian advisory, educationgreater success. A team will always get Internet became the platform for better results than a lone scientist.” al and professional orientation hosting information on educationportal for the participants of the al and career opportunities for Vladimir Evtushenkov programme; Russian youth.31 Chairman of the Board of Directors of Sistema The programme is implemented Veniamin Kaganov with the support of the Ministry of Deputy Minister of Education Education and Science of the Rusand Science of the Russian sian Federation and approved by Main objectives of the programme Federation the Supervisory Board of the AgenLift to the future: cy for Strategic Initiatives under the chairmanship of the President • promote intellectual developof Russia Vladimir Putin, endorsed ment, scientific and technical by the regions where the activities creativity of adolescents and of the programme were impleyouth; mented: Republic of Sakha (Yakutia), Sverdlovsk Region, Bashkorto• develop a system of «social stan, Smolensk Region, Krasnodar lifts» and mentoring for youth’s Territory, Vladimir Region and professional development and others. In total, by the end of 2014, reproduction of the personnel students from 76 regions of Russia potential of high-tech Russian “Five or seven years from now, the current participants of the Lift to the participated in the programme Lift companies; Future Programme will determine the to the future. technological structure of the country • increase the availability of addiand, more simply, Russia’s strategic The operator of the Programme is tional education for schoolchilposition in the global economy. I am sure that the more companies join the the non-profit partnership “Lift to dren, students, graduate stuprocess of building a succession pool for the future», established by Sistema dents, young professionals and our high-tech industries now, the more Charitable Foundation and the Loeducators in the field of innovacompetitive Russia will be in the future.” monosov Moscow State University in tion activities. 31 www.lifttothefuture.ru 68 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE • motivate all stakeholders to take part in the programme, attract new «Sistema Charitable Foundation is immembers, mentors, experts and plementing a unique educational project. partners; It is aimed at educating future leaders in science and high technology, and it is an investment into the future of our country. I • assist the winners of the propersonally saw that many projects created gramme in the acquisition of pracby the students at the Smolensk summer tical professional experience and camp deserve very close attention, both on the regional and federal level.» employment in high-tech companies partners of the programme; Alexey Ostrovsky Governor of the Smolensk Region • promote and expand the programme to the regions of Russia through the conclusion of agreements on joint implementation of the programme with the au25 contests and grant programmes Saloons were conducted within thorities of subjects of the Fedwere organised and supported in the Programme. In total, within 4 eration, carry out joint activities 2014. Among the key activities are years, 64 winners of the Lift to the and projects. the following: future contests became interns of European hi-tech enterprises The main charity recipients of the • Contest of regional school proand the leading scientific centres programme are talented children jects System of Priorities (winof the world. and young people, who have shown ter-spring 2014, autumn 2014) themselves in natural and hard sciencInvestments into the Lift to the es and technologies, their teachers • Youth Innovative Projects Confuture programme in 2014 totalled and parents. The indirect beneficiary test within the framework of 120.3 mln. roubles. companies are companies of Sistema, the Youth Innovation Forum because they receive priority access to (Festival of Robotics in Sochi, The main mechanism of the exthe young talents as potential trainees December 2014) pansion of the Lift to the future and future employees. A training proprogramme is establishment of gramme Step to success in subsidiar• Schoolchildren’s Design and regional facilities. To this end, ies and enterprises of the Corporation Research Contest (Vernadsky agreements with 19 subjects is aimed at solving HR tasks. Contest) (spring 2014) of the Russian Federation were concluded: Moscow and Moscow Basic formats • Intellect2All Russian Youth ConRegion, Republic of Khakassia, of the Programme test (summer-winter 2014) Chukotka Autonomous Region, Amur Region, Belgorod Region, • IV Youth Innovative TelecommuKhabarovsk Territory, Vologda Consistently implemented formats nications Projects Contest TeleRegion, Novosibirsk Region, Priof the programme allow the youth com Idea (spring-summer 2014). morsky Territory, Tyumen Region, to embrace the whole cycle that Sverdlovsk Region, Republic of puts their innovative projects in the Also, in-Russian and foreign inBashkortostan, Vladimir Region, pre-investment stage. ternships and thematic Intellectual Smolensk Region. «We are happy to have a Lift to the Future summer camp here in Vladimir. I have carefully examined all projects developed by the students, and I am confident that all of them definitely hold promise. Moreover, some of the projects are certain to soon enter the next stage, that of a start-up. It is very important that Sistema Charitable Foundation initiates programmes that teach young people not only to absorb knowledge but also, more importantly, to communicate, work as a team, and unite around an idea.» Mikhail Kolkov Vice Governor of the Vladimir Region MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 69 2015 Plans 2. Implementation of advanced projects, organisation of practical training programmes for schooltraining periods and internships, 1. Organisation and support of the children, students and teachers on inclusion of the best authors into a regional stage of the System of Prithe basis of the Lift to the Future candidate pool. orities contest aimed at inclusion of regional scientific and educational schools and organization secondary schools and educational centre. 4. Participation in the development vocational education institutions in of further education programmes the programme of innovative devel3. Further maintenance and supfor schoolchildren, students and opment of the region, establishing port of the authors of school and teachers in the field of innovative new paths of socialisation through student projects aimed at the projects with the view to staff the the development of innovative dedevelopment of Russian regions Lift to the Future programme in velopment projects in regions. through the guidance of these Russian regions. Formats of work Target audience Objectives Results Contest winners receive grants from Sistema Charitable Foundation to participate in the sciFamiliarisation with the development strateentific and educational schools Lift to the future. gies in the regions and preparation of bids for Participants in the semi-finals of the six most relevant industry areas: “System of Priorities”, pers. • medicine and biotechnology; 5378 • information and telecommunication techAll-Russian contest High schoolers and nologies; of regional youth students of secondary • transport; projects System vocational education of Priorities institutions • industrial technologies and new materials; 2735 • environment of human life and society; • energy. Competitive projects posted by the students 1050 on the portal Lift to the future are estimated by experts. 2012 2013 2014 Students learn methods of project work, acquire operational experience in working in project teams in solving interdisciplinary, industry-specific and technical and technological tasks. In connection with active development and expansion of the programme Lift to the future, Making an actual innovative project out of a the number of participants of the scientific and project for the competition educational summer camps doubled in 2014. During their studying in the scientific and educational school, students carry out and Participants of the scientific and educational High schoolers and defend research projects, develop strategy summer camps, pers. Scientific and Educastudents of secondary of development of branches of the Russian tional summer camp Lift to the future vocational education economy and regions, all with the aid of 900 institutions mentors. Meetings with the leading representatives of the Russian business, master classes, business games and personal growth training, and various excursions are 450 organised for the participants. 2012-2013 2014 70 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE Formats of work Target audience Objectives Results Shaping of interest of the students to prospects of socio-economic development of their native states and regions. In 2014, Annual Lift to the Future InternaInternational Scientific Promotion of scientific research and project tional Student Scientific Conference was Winners of the contest held in form of globally known International Student Conference activities among schoolchildren, international System of Priorities Student Science Fair (ISSF). Besides the Fair Lift to the future exchange of experience in project work. Russian national team – the winners of the scientific and educational school Lift to the future – it was attended by 120 young scientists from 18 countries, 50 teachers and principals. The joint efforts of the programme’s Students who designed experts and participants in the course innovative projects to of the annual final events following a Youth Innovation be developed further year-long programme aimed at develQualitative change in industrial practices. Forum and highly praised by opment of breakthrough technologiemployers. cal capabilities and solutions for their commercialisation. The contest brings together more mature young participants who have made their professional choice, many of whom have The winners of the contest receive support Students, graduate already achieved some success in their for their projects from companies and an opIntellect2All Contest students, doctors of industry. Therefore, the requirements of portunity to work over a “road map” for their science the contest are of completely different level introduction to actual production. than those of the contest for schoolchildren System of Priorities. Creation of open educational environment. Functionality of an interactive centre for caAll-Russian Internet Schoolchildren and The All-Russian Internet-portal Lift to the reer planning and potential employment of the Portal Lift to the future students future is a year-round platform for interactive programme participants. project work under the guidance of mentors. In addition to student events (innovative competitions, scientific and educational schools), the programme also supports teachers who lead research projects of high school students selected on a competitive basis. In 2014, approximately 50 teachers mastered the technique of Lift to the future in an educational centre at the Higher School of Management and Innovation of the Lomonosov Moscow State University. Development of a system of mentorship Academic staff, stuDuring the existence of the programme, Regular events for and tutorship, shaping and support of the dent participants of the approximately 400 teachers who trained mentors and tutors programme’s candidate pool, ensuring programme. the winners of the Lift competitive events succession. have received grants for advanced training in the Moscow State University, 270 mentors have received grants for the organisation of project work with schoolchildren in regions of Russia. The experience gained by Lift to the future in 2015 enables us to rise to a new stage of its development, i.e. to extend the model established of a public-private partnership type in the field of further education in Russian regions. MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 71 Lift to the Future interregional scientific and educational camps in 2014 Regions Dates Spheres Smolensk Region 01.06 – 18.06 Transport, Space industry, Ecology and nature management Vladimir Region 23.06 – 10.07 Transport, Telecommunications, Energy, Ecology and nature management Republic of Bashkortostan, 18.07 – 04.08 Energy, Petroleum industry, Ecology and nature management Ufa Moscow Region, Dmitrovsky Transport, Telecommunications, Medicine and pharmacy, Energy, Space industry, Ecology 07.08 – 27.08 district and nature management Russian-Indian Youth tion to the development of modern sentatives of government organiInnovation Summit society and world progress was sations and several NGOs, heads held within the framework of the of the largest Indian research The First Russian-Indian Youth Summit , where the Minister of centres and universities, experts Innovation Summit dedicated to the Industry and Trade of the Russian in the field of telecommunicaofficial visit of the Russian President Federation D. Manturov, President tions development, developers Vladimir Putin to India was hosted of Sistema M. Shamolin, President of startups in information and in December 2014 in the Russian of MTS A. Dubovskov and other communication technologies, centre of science and culture in New experts from Russia and India leading venture capital investors, Delhi. The event was organised by delivered speeches . young developers of breakthrough Sistema, MTS, SSTL and representtechnologies from Russia and ative office of Rossotrudnichestvo The Summit was attended by over India, two countries’ businessmen with support from the Russian Em300 people: high-ranking repreand journalists. bassy in India. The Summit was dedicated to the latest technology and prospects of international cooperation in the field of innovation in telecommunications, and it was conducted with a view to enhance cooperation between Russia and India in promotion and monetisation of new projects on the world market. The agenda of the Summit included an exhibition and presentation of the best projects of the Telecom India Industry-Specific Youth Innovation Contest that took place in Russia and India in the summer of 2014. Young Russian and Indian developers and start-up entrepreneurs provided new products using “smart” IT solutions that contrib“I have no doubt that, by joining efforts, Russia and India will be able to present a serious competition for the current leaders in the global technology race. Our countries know how ute to the development of urban to drive fast, catch up and outrace.” environment comfortable, environmentally friendly and accessible Denis Manturov to all categories of citizens. The Minister of Industry and Trade of the Russian Federation conference Contribution of innova72 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE 3.6 Charitable Activities of the Corporation The Corporation’s charitable activipolicy that combines the strateSistema Charitable Foundation is ties are developed within the congic interests of the Corporation, the main instrument for charitacept of «social investment» which shareholders and interests of social ble activities of Sistema and its is focused on a long-term social development. subsidiaries. Milestones EstablishBeginning of 1st Festival 1st Festival Starting resStarting supCF became Extension of Establishment of CF support of of Science at Imperial toration of port of the a member of the agreement of the for implethe Virtual MSU Gardens of the Martha projects of the Donors’ ment with Volunteer mentation world of Russia in St. and Mary the Russian Forum the Russian Centre of Social the Russian Petersburg Convent GeographiMuseum for investment strategy of Museum project cal Society Starting nationwide 10 years 2015 Sistema Starting Support Lift to the Support of support of the Crystal of the Children’s Future project 2014 the Chess Agreement Children CinemaMay in Schools Rehabilprograms with the Russian programme Festival 2013 itation of (FIDE) paralympic Museum athletes in 2011 Altai Starting Opening of Agreement cooperation 2010 the Russian on the with MariinMuseum establishsky Theatre Multimedia ment of a 2009 Centre rehabilitaStarting support of tion centre in X Easter the football 2008 Festival the Martha and Mary team of the disabled Convent Russian Olimpro 2006 Rugby-7 Championship among 2005 the youth Starting 2003 cooperation with the Moscow Mounted Sports Club for disabled people The main objective of Sistema’s To ensure consistent and coordicharitable activities is to promote nated work on the implementation Sistema’s social intellectual capacity through the of the CSR policy objectives requirinvestments over support of education, science and ing cooperation of the Corporation 3 years amounted youth; to form a harmonious society and its S/As, Sistema Charitable to about through support of socially vulnerFoundation has aManagement 4,5 able segments of the population Board consisting of representaand local communities; to preserve tives of Sistema and S/As responand promote the cultural heritage sible for the development of CSR billion roubles of Russia. Social investments of the and charitable activities. Corporation are aimed at achieving actual results and designed to help the social development of Russia. MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 73 Management of charitable activities in Sistema Group SISTEMA TASKS OF THE CHARITABLE FOUNDATION Maximum efficiency of social SISTEMA CHARITABLE FOUNDATION and charitable investments of the Corporation Development of social investment strategy SUBSIDIARIES AND AFFILIATES OF THE COMPANY Planning for large-scale corporate-wide programs CHARITABLE FUNDS OF S/AS Portfolio building of the charitable projects and their implementation NIIME and Mikron the Mercy Fund Detsky Mir the Children’s World Charitable fund Some subsidiaries and affiliates of Investing in charitable and social programmes, Sistema Group have their own corporate charitable funds. For more mln. RUB information about the Children’s Sistema CF 340.7 World charitable fund, see 4.6. S/As 574.7 (excluding deductions in CF) Public organisations Total 925.2 and charitable activities management Source of finance of Sistema CF are contributions from Sistema and S/As. The decision of the Sistema’s Board of Directors dated September 18, 2010 recommended the size of the target financing of charitable activities at the rate up to 0.65% of net profit of S/As from the previous year, including financing of projects of Sistema CF. Support for Olympic athletes The Corporation has provided considerable gymnast, nine times Olympic champion Larisa By the end of 2014 the share of support to the Olympic movement. From 2006 Latynina, Soviet hockey player, one of the best expenditures on social and charto 2014 Sistema CF transferred more than forwards of CSKA and the Soviet national team, itable programmes amounted to 650 mln. roubles to the Russian Olympians Olympic champion Viktor Polupanov, and other Foundation – a non-profit organisation outstanding athletes. about 2% of the Sistema’s consoliestablished at the initiative of the Presidential dated net profit, which according to Administration and the Russian Government to SSTL helped an Indian athlete suspended by the International Olympic Committee the report of the Corporate Giving support athletes, coaches and experts – members of Russian national teams in to participate in the Games. Luger Shiva Standard (CGS) prepared by the Keshavan, two times gold medalist of the Olympic sports, strengthening the Olympic Committee Encouraging Corporate movement in Russia, encouraging better Asian Cup, participated in the Games under Philanthropy (CECP) corresponds results and achievements in Olympic sports. the Olympic flag thanks to a large-scale fundraising campaign in social networks, to the global level. In particular, the Foundation organised a trip to the 22nd Olympic Winter Games in Sochi IndiaForShiva, which involved popular for 150 former champions and prize winners, Indian actors and many fans and was including such famous athletes as the Soviet organised by MTS India. 74 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE Annually, the Foundation supports about 50 projects within the framework of 5 programme areas: Programmes implemented by Sistema Charitable Foundation in 201432 (G4-S01) Expenditures in this Programmes Key projects and partners area in 2014, mln., RUB • Lift to the Future (key area of the programme flagship project of Sistema’s social investment) • Support of the projects of the Russian Geographical Society Science • Support of the projects of the Eurasian Centre for the Study, Preservation and Rehabilitation of the Leopard Population 151.2 and Education • Support of the projects in the sphere of higher education and science, institutional support of educational organisationinstitutions • Fund for Development and Support of the Valdai International Discussion Club Support of the projects of the State Russian Museum (key area of the programme): • «Russian Museum: a Virtual Branch»; • Imperial Gardens Landscape Art Festival; • Programmes and projects of the Friends of Russian Museum International Society; • Organisation of exhibitions, publication of art albums and books on art. Support of museums as tangible historical and cultural heritage, including: Culture and Art 75.1 • Support of the Prohorovskoe Field Museum of Armored Vehicles (Belgorod Region) • Valaam Reserve Museum (Karelia) Support of dramatic and musical theatres and cultural establishments: • Valery Gergiev’s Fund; • International Easter Festival; • Support of Spivakov’s Fund projects. Preservation and • Support of projects of the Fund Support for Building Moscow Churches (key area of the programme); Promotion of the 74.2 • Reconstruction of the Epiphany Cathedral (at Yelokhovo). Cultural Heritage Health protection and social support of orphans, disabled children, children from large and low-income families, people with disabilities and the elderly (key area of the programme): • Project to establish a centre for disabled children at the Martha and Mary Convent of Mercy; • Contributions to protection of childhood: support of orphanages, kindergartens, children’s hospitals (including house-boarding school for children with mental handicap in Pavlovsk, orphanage in Health Promotion Zvenigorod, etc.). 26.9 and Social Support • Support of the disabled (Nezavisimost CF; Moscow equestrian sports club for disabled people, Vozrozhdenie Moscow football club for disabled people); • Organisation of New Year’s performances for orphans, disabled children, and children from large and low-income families; Social support of servicemen and their families (All-Russian public fund National Charitable Fund, etc.); Support of the veterans of the Great Patriotic War and the labour front. Support of the Olympic and Paralympic Movement (the key area of the programme): • Treatment and rehabilitation of the Paralympic team members; Physical Culture Support of children’s and youth sports: 13.3 and Sports • Russian Rugby League Federation; • Moscow Sambo Federation; Support of sports movement (Interregional fund to promote development of sports) 32 For more detailed information on the programs of the Sistema Charitable Foundation, see http://bf.sistema.ru/programs/ MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 75 Financing of social projects in Structure of Sistema Group’s expenditures on charity S/As and personal charitable and social programmes in 2014, % donations of the employees Virtually all social and charitable projects of Sistema’s subsidiaries Internal social programs are funded from their own means or voluntary donations from the 30% employees. One of the exceptions 48% Financing of corporate-wide projects is the programme We Can Do More of Sistema CF Together of Detsky Mir Group: part of the funds are raised by collect22% External CSR and charitable programs ing donations from customers, and others are provided as goods of partner suppliers of the company. Personal donation practices in Sistema Group The largest expenditure among CSR projects of the subsidiaries in 2014 was an MTScharitable programme Give Good! to help children who need urgent treatment, and RTI Yes, consolidated project to establish a pre-university 4 segment of the system for training of highly qualified specialists. Yes, at the personal level and closed 10 Not only the companies of Sistema 5 Group, but also the employees of No the Corporation take active part in charitable projects. In most subsidiaries, this practice is relatively well-organised and integrated into support of disadvantaged chil2015 Plans the corporate charitable projects dren in the areas of education and and HR processes: they are direct health. The system of voluntary 1. Implementation of key long-term deductions from salary to charity charitable deductions from salaries projects on main activities. and participation of the personnel is also used in Binnofarm. in gathering and purchase of gifts 2. Resource reallocation in favour for sponsored children’s homes (inThe size of the employees’ donaof the implementation of the cluding as part of a corporate-wide tions depends on both the size of most efficient and promising campaign New Year’s Tree of Wishthe company and the nature and projects with significant social es organised by Sistema CF). scope of its charitable activities. importance. For example, about 2 million rouOne of the examples is the Co-Fibles were collected by efforts of 3. Strengthening of the role of pubnancing programme, which has the employees of Medsi Group in lic-private partnership in implebeen implemented since 2013 by 2014. Funds were spent for treatmenting charitable projects. Detsky Mir Group; it involvesvolment of seriously ill children of untary donations of the employees the employees. About 1.2 million 4. Increased cooperation with deduced from their salaries for roubles of donations for various representatives of the business charities. The funds raised are charitable purposes were raised by community and civil society intended to help children in need the BPGC employees in Bashkiria. organisations, including othof expensive treatment, medicines Employees of RTI Group are iner NGOs involved in charitable and for other purposes. SSTL (MTS volved in voluntary co-financing of activities, with a view to joint India) created a number of chancampaigns organised by Sistema implementation of projects. nels for personal donations from CF (Theatre Season Ticket, New the employees. One of the regular Year’s Tree of Wishes campaign, 5. Establishment of a unified mechchannels is the Be an Angel protargeted assistance to refugees anism for receiving charitable gramme, in which the employees from the Ukraine, and children in donations on the basis of online can make donations to expand the need of treatment). payment services of MTS Bank. 76 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE 3.7 Ecology and Environmental Protection Sistema’s main efforts in environinto consideration the importance Environmental projects mental protection are aimed at of environmental aspects to the of the Corporation improving energy efficiency, safe stakeholders, the Corporation pays disposal of waste, protection of the special attention to environmental atmospheric air, water and land responsibility of the S/As that due Sistema’s general expenses on resources protection, as well as to the nature of their activities have environmental projects amounted environmental education of the significant impact on the envito 18 mln.roubles in 2014. (G4-EN31) young generation and preservation ronment (Segezha Group, Targin, These funds were raised for of biodiversity. SG-Trans, SG Trading, BPGC, and projects related to the conservaothers). In the future, it is planned to tion of biodiversity, environmenBy caring about the environment, introduce a uniform method of keeptal research and environmental Sistema consistently works to oping records in Sistema Group and education. timize the consumption of natural to organise centralized collection of resources by implementing key prindata on greenhouse gas emissions Support of the Russian ciples of conservation, and steadily and impact of the subsidiaries on the Geographical Society projects reducing water usage. The Corporate climate in accordance with the recCentre has a negligible impact on ommendations of the CDP’s interRussian geographical society (RGS) the environment which is reflected in national climate change programme is a leading Russian public and the data on consumption of the main and the national system of carbon scientific organisation, actively types of resources and energy. reporting and regulation of greenengaged in ecology, environment, house gas emissions established climate change; among the areas Currently, the data on greenhouse in the Russian Federation. It is also of its activity are the study of the gas emissions by the Group is planned to publish data on the forest effects of global changes on the not consolidated. However, taking resources (for Segezha Group). ecological condition of the planInformation about fuel and energy Information about water consumption, consumption cubic meters 7328,48 35186,91 3556 3491 5745,48 32255,33 16470 3114,36 2738,12 0,0 0,0 0,0 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Heat Power, Gcal Electrical Power, thousand kW/h Boiler and furnace fuels, ton of oil equivalent MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 77 et and its people, preservation of endangered ethnic groups of small peoples, and many other topical issues. In 2014, with the support of the Corporation, the Festival of the Russian Geographical Society, which presented all RGS regional offices from 85 Russian regions, was held for the first time in the Central Home of Artists in Moscow. During the week, the event was attended by about 60 thousand people, including many children and teenagers who also took part in an extensive educational programme. The projects Talking with White Whales and Russian Arctic. Wild World of Putorana Plateau and There is a high amount of waterIn 2014, biochemical activities, Taymyr peninsula were implementfalls on the Putorana plateau, and including the feeding of hoofed ed with the support of Sistema large population of reindeer from animals were performed in the CF in 2014. A number of other Taimyr winter there. Helicopter territory of the Land of Leopard programmes aimed at solving the flights to the waterfalls and places national park, which made it posissues in ecology, environmental of migration of the reindeer were sible to provide the Amur leopard protection, climate change were conducted to take photographs. with sufficient food base. Techalso implemented. nical equipping of the employees Support of the projects of the directly involved in security activiTalking with White Whales project Eurasian Centre for the Study, ties, research and expedition work Preservation and Rehabilitation was improved. Activities aimed at The field and experimental studies of the Leopard Population preventing forest fires were carried of some functional characteristics out: specialized essential equipof social behaviour, space-time A national park Land of Leopard, with ment was purchased, and the work structure and characteristics of the area of 18 thousand hectares, was on the establishment of a system the acoustic signaling of the local opened in the territory of Khasansky of mineralized strips in the Napopulation of white sea belugas, and Nadezhdinsky districts, Ussuri tional Park was started. In 2014, creation of a feature film Talkcity district and Frunzensky district great attention was paid to cultural ing with White Whales are carof Vladivostok in 2012. The territory and educational work among the ried out within the framework of the park covers the main remainlocal population. of the project. ing habitat of the leopard. The most favourable conditions were created 2015 Plans Russian Arctic. The Wild World for the leopard’s habitat, since any of Putorana Plateau and Taimyr human activities, including presence, 1. To use resources to finance the peninsula project are banned there. most successful and promising environmental projects. Expenses for environmental projects, mln. RUB 2. To extend cooperation with regional authorities and non-governmental Indicator 2012 2013 2014 organisations in the implementation of environmental projects. Support of the Russian Geographical Society projects 23 15 15 3. Implement a programme to conserve populations of the deer Support of the projects of the Eurasian Centre for the Study, 3 3 3 in the wild of Altai within the Preservation and Rehabilitation of the Leopard Population framework of the development of tourist andrecreational capacity TOTAL 26 18 18 of the region. 78 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE 3.8 Stakeholder Engagement and the Corporation’s Social Reporting In its investment and manageList of Stakeholders rial activities, Sistema interacts with numerous audiences, among The stakeholders of the Corporation are as follows:33 (G4-24) whom are the shareholders and investors, employees, government 1. Shareholders 10. Investment community agencies, partners, NGOs, consumers, etc. The Corporation is 2. Management 11. Business partners seeking to build up stable, mutually beneficial and transparent 3. Personnel 12. Customers/consumers relationship with the stakeholders, and it applies maximum efforts for 4. Subsidiaries and affiliates 13. Professional associations building up a meaningful dialogue taking into account the interests 5. Mass media 14. Scientific community of all target groups; it uses a wide range of mechanisms of inter6. Governmental authorities 15. Educational institutions action and multiple channels of communication. 7. Supervisory governmental 16. Public environmental organisaauthorities tions A snap poll of the Corporation’s management involved in the 8. Local government bodies 17. Public social and charitable preparation of the Report was conorganisations ducted during the preparation of 9. Population of the locations of the Report. Within the framework operations of the poll, it was necessary to estimate from 0 to 2 the influence of Rank chart of the Corporation’s stakeholders the stakeholders on the activities of the Corporation and the influ2,00 1 2 ence of the Corporation’s activities on them. The results of the poll 10 Impact of stakeholders on the Corporation’s activities 1,80 made it possible to improve the rank chart of the Company’s stake1,60 holders, which was formed and 6 4 published in the previous non-fi12 nancial reports. (G4-25) 1,40 3 7 5 11 1,20 13 1,00 8 0,80 9 14 0,60 16 17 0,40 15 0,20 Impact of the Corporation’s activities on the stakeholders 0,00 0,20 0,40 0,60 0,80 1,00 1,20 1,40 1,60 1,80 2,00 33 Sistema’s key stakeholders are shown in bold MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 79 Stakeholder Engagement (G4-26), (G4-27) Interests/ Stakeholders Means of Engagement Results for 2014 Plans for 2015 expectations Shareholders • Increased capi• Holding Roadshow. • There were a number of meetings held • Disclosure of Segezha Group’s and Investors talisation of the • Conference calls. between independent directors and operations as part of Sistema’s Corporation. • Participation of the Corporation’s shareholders aimed at furthering good performance description. • Growth and deexecutives in investment forums relations with investment profes• Preparation for independent finanvelopment of the and conferences. sionals and receiving shareholders’ cial disclosure under IFRS. Corporation. • Setting up personal and group feedback on the activities of the Board • Increasing the disclosure level • Transparency. meetings of investors and shareof Directors. and quality for the majority of key • Dividend payholders with the top management • Several transactions on purchase of assets. ment. and independent directors. new assets were supported: in forest • Maintaining high number of meet• Presentations for cornerstone industry and woodworking, e-comings with investors with participainvestors and rating agencies. merce and agriculture. tion of the Sistema’s management. • Issuing press releases. • Discussions with the investors on the • Investor Relations and Dividend Sistema’s strategy were held. Policy Committee operations. • After making inquiries among investment professionals, a number of recommendations were made on how to increase the Corporation’s transparency. • Moody’s Investors Service has revised upwards the credit rating of Sistema to Ba2 with «positive» outlook. • Standard&Poor’s has revised upwards the credit rating of Sistema to ВВ+ with «stable» outlook. Management • Achievement of • Holding annual strategic • Annual strategic session was held. • Holding strategic sessions and strategic objecmeetings with participation of work groups on the Corporation’s tives. Sistema’s key top managers current business development • Understanding of and S/As managers to discuss trends. the Corporation’s and update the Corporation’s growth prospects business strategy. • Holding meetings and conferences of the top managers including as part of the Corporation’s collective advisory consultative bodies operation • Business workshops. Personnel • Consistent • Meetings and conferences. • The Corporation personnel engage• Establishing new advanced perwages. • Speeches of the Corporation’s ment level averaged 60%. sonnel communication channels. • Decent working management. • Expert RA Rating Agency (RAEX) con• Personnel engagement level conditions. • Publications in the corporate firmed the employer appeal of Sistema assessment. • Opportunities magazine and on the Intranet at the level of А.hr (High level of the • Expansion of the corporate volunfor professionwebsite. employer’s attractiveness). teer movement. al growth and • Personnel engagement surveys. • Sistema’s Volunteer Centre encapability devel• Collecting feedback of the gaged about 2 thousand employees opment. personnel on working in the of the Corporation and organised 52 • Social safeCorporation. initiatives. guards. • Corporate parties. • Personal • Corporate training and fulfillment and team-building events for the development. personnel. • Organising professional competitions and contests. • Organising corporate-wide volunteer initiatives and motivational meetings for volunteers. 80 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE Interests/ Stakeholders Means of Engagement Results for 2014 Plans for 2015 expectations Subsidiaries • Improving • Strategic meetings with par• Signing General Agreement with the • Increasing the S/As’ transparency. and affiliates management ticipation of the Sistema’s top Republic of Karelia. • Introducing uniform anti-corrupefficiency. managers and S/As managers • 8 S/As of the Corporation took part in tion procedures into the operations • Achievement of • Holding group conferences joint (integrated) social programmes. of all S/As of the Corporation. strategic objec• Holding facilitated workshops • There were 7 CSR projects imple• Increasing the percentage of tives. • Entering into cooperation agreemented, based on the Shared Value volunteers among the Corporation • The Corporation ments with regions taking into approach. personnel. assists in market account the interests of S/As • 3 S/As published social reporting under • Implementing new social propromotion and • Participation in law drafting the GRI G4 Standard. The percentage of jects based on the Shared Value acquiring state taking into account the interests volunteers among the Corporation perapproach. support. of S/As sonnel amounted to 5% of the number • Increasing the number of S/As • Support of social • Organising corporate-wide CSR of employees. publishing social reporting under projects by the and charity projects the GRI G4 Standard. Corporation. Mass media • Milestones. • Publishing information on the • Regular coverage of key events related • Increasing mass media interaction • Transparency. Corporation’s website to Sistema’s and S/As’ activities in as part of CSR activities in order to • Assuring re• Publishing press releases mass media and social media raise social awareness on social al-time access to • Holding conference calls activities of Sistema. information on • Conducting interviews with top • Global update of the corporate webthe Corporation’s managers site (including expanding the section operations. • Speeches of the Corporation’s on social responsibility of the Corpoofficials at public events. ration) and Sistema CF website • Promotion of the Corporation in social media (Twitter). Governmental • Taxes. • Participation of the Corpora• Participation in the development of a • The policy on «Sistema’s interacauthorities • Employment. tion’s officials in advisory bodies regulatory framework related to the tion with governmental authorities • Social pro(committees, work groups, RuNet content circulation manageand government officials» has grammes impleboards) under the President and ment. These activities resulted in the been updated. mentation. the Government of the Russian concept of digital media copyright • Cooperation with legislative bodies Federation; proposed by the Civic Chamber of the for the benefit of the Corporation • Proposals for draft regulations Russian Federation Expert Group, and • Cooperation with federal executive of the Russian Federation Govthe concept is based on the idea of bodies. ernment on topics affecting the setting up a register of legal content as • Bailout plan evaluation for the interests of the Corporation’s S/ best serving the interests of web users. measures taken in those economy As; • Consistent cooperation established sectors where the Corporation’s S/ • GR projects support and monitorwith legislative bodies for the benefit of As operate. ing in special-purpose committhe Corporation • Build up and informing of the tees in the State Duma of the • Consistent cooperation established Russian Federation leaders on Russian Federation; with federal executive bodies. the Corporation’s proposals on • Participation of the Corporation’s key industry-based initiatives and officials in committees and comgovernment programmes. missions sessions, in parliament • Extension of contacts with foreign hearings of the Federal Assembly countries. Priority countries for of the Russian Federation; cooperation in 2015: India, China, • Participation of the CorporaSouth Africa, Indonesia, Myanmar, tion’s officials in activities of Bahrain, Saudi Arabia. expert boards and work groups • Participation in drafting of the in special-purpose committees addresses of the President and the in the State Duma of the Russian Government of the Russian FederFederation. ationto foreign partners on issues • Participation of the Corporation’s concerning the Corporation’s busiofficials in activities of such ness development prospects; social agencies as RUIE, CCI on • Ensuring participation of the Corpotopics affecting the interests of ration’s or S/As’ officials in meetings the Corporation’s S/As. of intergovernmental commissions or their special-purpose committees pegging the agenda in the final protocol that is of interest to the Corporation or its S/As; • Ensuring that federal state government authorities senior officials and government officials are aware of the agenda that is of interest to the Corporation or its S/As in order to include it into negotiations with foreign partners. MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 81 Interests/ Stakeholders Means of Engagement Results for 2014 Plans for 2015 expectations Supervisory • Russian law • Reporting documents delivery. • On September 24, 2014, there was a • Reporting documents delivery. governmental and regulatory • Informing the Federal Anti-Mocivil suit filed against Sistema seeking • The Federal Anti-monopoly Service authorities requirements nopoly Service on mergers and to return shares of Bashneft held by the approval on new mergers and acquicompliance. acquisitions. Corporation to the Russian Federation. On sitions. November 7, 2014, the Moscow Arbitrazh Court upheld the claim on the basis of defaults made in the course of original privatising of Bashneft. On November 12, 2014, after careful consideration, Sistema’s Board of Directors decided not to appeal the decision of the Court, but file a claim for damages from the asset seller – UralInvest. In December 2014, Sistema transferred all its shares in Bashneft to the Government. In February 2015, the Moscow Arbitrazh Court upheld the Sistema’s claim, deeming the Corporation a good-faith buyer and decided to recover losses from the defendant. In March 2015, Sistema and UralInvest signed a settlement agreement under which the Corporation recovered damages in the amount of RUB 46.5 billion less social investments into the Republic of Bashkortostan of 10% of the total amount. In the third quarter of 2015 Sistema received from Ural-Invest additional cash and financial instruments for a total amount of RUB 12.9 billion for the compensation of the damage incurred due to Bashneft shares return. • There were no significant fines for minor violations of regulatory requirements imposed on Sistema. There were no non-financial penalties. (G4-SO8) • No antitrust infringements were registered. (G4-SO7) • In 2014, Sistema had no political cash contributions or contributions in kind. (G4-SO6) Regional • Taxes. • Business meetings with regional • Signing a General Agreement with the • Signing General Cooperation Agreeauthorities • Employment. administrations; Republic of Karelia and an agreement with ments with Arkhangelsk, Vologda, and local • Regions infra• Signing General Cooperation the Republic of Dagestan on topics that Kirov, and Irkutsk Regions. governments structure developAgreements; are of interest to the S/As. • Establishing sustainable cooperation ment. • Participation of the Corporation’s • Establishing sustainable cooperation (exwith the administration of Krasnomanagement in representative ecution of actual contracts of the Corpoyarsk Region. economic forums held in Russian ration’s S/As) with the administrations of • Increase in the Corporation’s regional regions (Saint Petersburg, Sochi, the Republic of Dagestan, Rostov Region, coverage (in 10 regions). Nizhny Novgorod, Vladivostok). Stavropol Region, Moscow Region. • Participation of the Corporation’s officials in conferences with regional authorities and government officials held in regions. Population • Job availability • Cooperation through Sistema CF • Lift to the Future interregional summer • Corporate programmes’ extension of the locations • Contribution to and S/As. camps held in Bashkortostan, Smolensk, targeted at local communities, inof operation the locations of Vladimir, and Moscow Regions. cluding new locations of operation. operation devel• As part of a Russia-wide initiative of flood opment. relief aid to people of the Far East at the • Social support. end of 2013, a winter educational and scientific school for high school students of the stricken area was organised at the Eaglet Recreation Camp for Children in Zvenigorod. • There were a number of socially significant and charitable projects implemented in Bashkortostan and Tatarstan. (For more details, see 3.4. Contribution to Development of Locations of Operations) 82 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE Interests/ Stakeholders Means of Engagement Results for 2014 Plans for 2015 expectations Business • Support of fair • Business negotiations. • The Smart City Project was presented as • Expansion of inter-industry and interpartners, competition. • Ambitious and innovative projects part of the XVIII Saint Petersburg Internanational engagement customers • Timely and presentation. tional Economic Forum. and consumers accurate contract • Cooperation agreements. • At the World Economic Forum in Davos, performance. Medsi Group signed a Letter of Intent on • Respect for ethistrategic cooperation with Philips, the cal principles. global leader in health care solutions Professional • Understanding of • Participation in professional • Sistema’s officials took part in the activities of • Joint events with the Russian-Arab associations the Corporation associations activities. RUIE, the Russian Managers Association, the Business Council growth prospects • Conducting joint campaigns. Russian Institute of Directors, EU/Russia In• Joint projects with the Managers • Cooperation within dustrialists’ Round Table, Russian Association Associations the framework of Communication Directors and Corporate of industry and Publishing and other non-governmental orpublic initiatives ganisations. More specifically, at the Russian Managers Association’s Innovation Economy Committee Sistema presented a new smart cities vision using India as an example • Vice President of the Corporation, Sistema’s Head of HR Department Elena Leonidovna Vitchak was an honorary jury member of the annual HR Brand Award, participated in the XV Summit of HR Directors in Russia and CIS as an expert board member. Scientific • Russian science • The Corporation’s participation in • Technopark Sarov continues to develop. • Technopark Sarov’s further develcommunity promotion the Committee on Scientific and Total turnover of resident companies as opment. Technical Innovations and High of year-end 2014 amounted to over RUB • Further cooperation with Lomonosov Technology under the Chamber 1.3 billion. Moscow State University. of Commerce and Industry of the Russian Federation. • Implementation of joint projects with research institutions. Educational • Joint educational • Implementing joint projects on • Further cooperation with the Lomonosov • Development and strengthening of institutions programmes. the basis of Lift to the Future, the Moscow State University and developocooperation between the MSU HSMI • Work experience flagship CSR programme ment of the High School of Management and the Corporation’s S/As. for students. • Setting up specialized manageand Innovation (HSMI) • Developing a bachelor’s degree • Targeted training ment training courses for the • Further development of the Lift to the course for the Innovation studies at of specialists. Corporation’s and external market Future programme (5,378 people got into the MSU HSMI. employees. the System of Priorities contest semifinal, • Expanding cooperation with Russian 900 pupils studied at summer camps, 4 higher education institutions within regional educational and scientific schools the framework of the Lift to the and the Annual International Academic Future programme. Pupils’ Conference, etc.) were arranged. • Organising an International Innovation Youth Summit in association with the Higher School of Economics of National Research University (HSE NRU) and the Skolkovo School of Management in Moscow. Environmental • Environmental • Joint projects implementation • The first Russian Geographic Society • Further cooperation with the Russian NGOs programmes. • Information exchange. Festival was held. Geographic Society and support of • Environmental • Talking to White Whales project was the Eurasian Centre for the Study, protection. implemented. Preservation and Rehabilitation of • Implementation of the Russian Arctic: the Leopard Population Wildlife of Putorana Plateau and Taymyr • Implementing the programme to prePeninsula Project. serve the maral (Siberian red deer) • An package of measures to support population in the wild the Land of Leopard National Park was • Expanding cooperation with environimplemented. mental organisations (specifically in the area of forestry). Public social • Social, charity • Implementing joint social, charity • Establishing a centre for disabled children • Signing a cooperation agreement and charity and volunteer and volunteer projects. at the Martha and Mary Convent of Mercy with the Moscow Municipal Veterans organisations programmes. • Agreements for cooperation with is underway. Union and the Government of • Social partnerNGOs • The following institutions received support: Moscow. ship. • Holding joint public events. the Nikolay Petrov’s Fund, Gergiev’s Fund, • Enlarging partnership circle in imple• Financial support for social and Spivakov’s Fund, the Fund Support for menting social and charity projects of charity organisations. Building Moscow Churches, the Orthodox the Corporation. Traditions Foundation, the Benois Centre. • Implementation of the disabled support programme in association with Nezavisimost CF, Moscow equestrian club for the disabled, Moscow football club for the disabled Vozrozhdenie. (For more details, see 3.6. Corporation’s charitable activities) MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 83 4. SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 4.1 Shareholders, Investors and Management Efficiency 87 4.2 HR and Social Policy, Personnel Training 89 and Human Rights 4.3 Local Communities and Investments in Quality of Life 95 in Locations of Operation 4.4 Business Partners, Suppliers and Promotion 100 of Responsible Business Practices 4.5 Environmental NGOs and Managing 102 Environmental Impact 4.6 Public Organisations and Charitable Activity 107 Management 4.7 Consumers and Product Liability 109 4.8 Scientific Community and Innovation Management 112 4.9 Higher Education Institutions and Investments 115 in Human Capital 84 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE The Corporation owns various allows to achieve high economic are actively implementing projects assets in different sectors and results, contribute consistently and complying with the Shared Value always aims to shape and suppositively to business and society principles. Such projects achieve port best traditions and practices development without prejudice to not only commercial but also social in social responsibility and susthe well-being and stakeholders. results benefiting the Corporation tainable development areas. This The Corporation’s subsidiaries and stakeholders. Shared Value projects of Sistema Group Value for the CorporaInitiators Project Value for the society tion Promoting academic reSistema JSFC and Establishment of a sucsearch and engineering, Lift to the Future – support of Sistema Charitable cession pool for Sistema facilitating youth profesyoung talents Foundation and S/As sional development and career guidance Network for All Ages is a programme of Internet literIncrease in user numbers Social adjustment of seniors acy for senior people to help and awareness of the brand in a modern digital society; MTS, MTS Bank them acquire practical skills in the age group with the extending e-government to use modern financial onlowest Internet penetration user base line services Decreasing job turnover in retail network, increasing Social HR – employing senior loyalty of senior customers. Employment opportunities people at sales outlets and MTS Compliance with statutory reand social adjustment of creation of specialized jobs for quirements and recruitment seniors and disabled people the disabled of young qualified professionals from among the disabled. Introducing the Smart Grid Increasing grid efficiency, Higher quality and reliability, BPGC technology that will signifidecreasing energy losses and uninterrupted power supply cantly cut grid losses increasing income. for customers. Get Involved! campaign – colFacilitating charity and lection of goods at children's Increasing sales proceeds Detsky Mir volunteer work, supporting stores for the benefit of chiland customers' loyalty children's social institutions dren in difficult life situations Operation Toys – setting Increasing awareness of the Contributing to the developup children's playrooms in Detsky Mir brand among target groups ment of territories and local hospitals in the locations of and its value for consumers communities operation Corporate clients and partIncreasing population's Be Healthy with MEDSI! – Medsi Group ners recruitment and loyalty awareness of the ways of promoting healthy lifestyle promotion health protection MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 85 In April-May 2015, the Corporation support and adjustment of socially term CSR projects of MTS – Telewas audited on corporate social vulnerable groups. com Idea, Children in the Internet responsibility and leading CSR and JUST Give Good! which apexperts were interviewed, as well Projects in education and support peared in 2011. as public sector, business, media for socially vulnerable groups are and government representatives most popular among Group compaThe analysis of the CSR activities (including RUIE, All-Russian Public nies. Health care, sport and healthy undertaken by Sistema allows Organisation Business Russia, lifestyle also hold a prominent to identify most progressive and Non-Profit Organisation CAF (Charplace among S/As’ activities. Also, prospective traditions of the Corpoities Aid Foundation) Russia, State among others, there are projects on ration’s subsidiaries in the area of Duma Committee on Education, intellectual property, social servicsustainable development, relating etc.). The survey showed that main es and volunteer work. to each key stakeholders group. trends of Sistema Group’s CSR This Chapter describes projects projects in general reflect the exThe majority of projects reported and practices of the Corporation’s perts’ ideas on social investments by S/As were created in 2014, and subsidiaries in the corporate social trends most popular in Russia. The virtually all projects are under 3 responsibility and sustainable majority of the respondents agreed years old. Obvious exceptions are development areas that are worth that the most current trends of CSR the programme for a pre-university of extension and dominating not activities for S/As’ purposes were segment of training highly qualionly within the Corporation but (in order of frequency of mention) fied specialists implemented for also among other similar naeducation, science, innovations, RTI Group since 2003, and longtional projects. Social projects at the Corporation's S/As 14 Number of projects 7 7 6 6 5 4 4 Support for Sport Science and Education socially vulnerable and healthy Health care Ecology Culture Other areas innovations groups lifestyles Project Areas 86 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE 4.1 Shareholders, Investors and Management Efficiency MTS: CSR Management system Corporate social responsibility members of which work with the and sustainable development are company’s partners in the area Andrey Dubovskov traditionally important for MTS. At of corporate social responsibility President of MTS the same time, given the compaand also convey the corporate CSR ny’s scale and geographic footprint, policy to the external and internal management of activities in this environment. Amongst their goals area can sometimes be poorly cois to create a CSR environment ordinated or inconsistent. within and around MTS, to consolidate and use efficiently the comTo ensure consistency and efficienpany’s resources in integrated CSR cy the CSR activities the company projects, to independently review launched an integrated CSR manthe Sustainability Report, and to agement system. approve annual plans for the Corporate Centre and macroregions. The Board of Directors is the supreme governance body at MTS, Also, as part of the CSR Manageand its responsibility is to apment System, in 2014 more was prove CSR and social programmes done to integrate generally recogstrategy, to monitor progress and nized principles of business social to assess social projects effiresponsibility into the current ciency. Vice President for Human activities of MTS. The company Resources and Corporate Social started to implement an optional Responsibility Department of the International Standard ISO 26000: In 2014, MTS self-assessed Human Resources Unit are re2010 “Guidance on Social Responits activities according to sponsible for planning and direct sibility”: carried out evaluation of social responsibility princiimplementation of CSR projects; its business processes in terms ples based on the Internathe Public Relations Department is of compliance with the standard’s tional Standard ISO 26000: responsible for corporate charity recommendations, which allowed 2010., the company intends activities. Employees of HR, PR and to determine the extent to which to use the results to apply marketing divisions are responsible the Company’s existing business this standard fully and on a for the Company’s social initiatives processes, regulations and polregular basis, while self-asimplementation in the regions; icies comply with the standard, sessments will be held at they are appointed by macroreand to identify priority areas to least once in three years. gion directors. implement the recommendations and also to set further plans for MTS takes responsibility for The CSR Committee was set up in social responsibility management its actions, and this is the 2014 under the MTS CEO, consistin the Company. key to sustainable developing of company structural subdiviment of our company. We sions’ members (HR, PR, MarketThe self-evaluation results showed believe that the CSR maning, Sales and Services, Security, that CSR projects at MTS are imagement system and ISO Procurement Management, Complemented to a high standard. 26000: 2010 will help us to pliance), MTS macroregions CEOs, improve corporate sustainas well as external social partners In addition, this standard is being ability and social imporand renowned CSR experts. The promoted in MTS subsidiaries. For tance of MTS. Committee is an advisory body, the example, VivaCell-MTS was one of MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 87 Overall Results of the Standard Compliance Evaluation Compliance to the Standard Partial compliance to the Standard Participation in Administrative Human Working Fair business Consumer-relatEnvironment and development control rights practices practices ed problems of communities Marketing and Appropriate pruTo find employment Participation in information good dence relations communities Anti-Corruption practices Pollution prevention Situations related Enforcement Consumers health Education and to human rights and safety care Culture risks Social dialogue Responsible Sustainable conJob creation and Avoid implication involvement in sumption skills development Sustainable repolitics source usage Technologies Settlement of Consumer services Administrative Fair competition development and complaints Working condiand support control access tions and social protection Consumer data Discrimination and Welfare and inClimate change Respect protection and vulnerable groups come creation mitigation and for ownership confidentiality Civil and political adaptation rights Access to essential Work safety Health rights services Economic, social and cultural rights Human developEnvironmental Respect for propriEducation and Basic occupational ment and in-place protection and Social investment etary rights Awareness principles and training biodiversity rights the first companies to start CSR Targin: SG-trans: activities based on the ISO 26000 Standard. The company trained its EXAMPLE OF REDUCING THE ATTRACTING INVESTMENT FOR personnel and launched a number COST OF BORROWING DEVELOPMENT of CSR projects, such as: introducBorrowing is a business success factor, which In May 2014, SG-trans and Sberbank of tion of information technologies helps to quickly eliminate a financial deficit, Russia signed a long-term agreement testifies to creditors’ trust and improves profitaon the sidelines of the 18th St Peterstraining programmes in five univerbility of own funds. burg International Economic Forum, sities in Armenia, providing Interproviding for potential financing by net access to the Caucasus Nature Due to the economic crisis in Russia, one of Sberbank of the company’s projects Reserve employees, a project in Targin’s largest creditors significantly raised the related to rolling stock acquisition, cost of borrowing in 2014. In cooperation with industrial infrastructure development, the field of neonatal medicine (see Sistema, Targin held talks with the creditor’s mergers and acquisitions, as well as in more detail in this chapter), representatives and negotiated terms and support for financial markets transactraining sessions on workplace conditions beneficial for all parties, having sigtions. The agreement was signed for etiquette to help interact with disanificantly lowered the cost of new borrowings. five years with a possibility of extension. It does not restrict SG-trans’ cooperabled employees and ensure human So proactive cooperation with shareholders and tion with other banks. rights protection, etc. creditors enabled Targin to raise new funds at below-the-market levels (compared to peers). MTS plans to further implement the ISO 26000: 2010 requirements in 2015 and to apply this standard on a regular basis. 88 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE 4.2 HR and Social Policy, Personnel Training and Human Rights MTS: Corporate volunteer initiative Just Give Good! Corporate volunteer initiative Just The 2nd MTS Corporate Volunteers volunteering practice won the prize Give Good! by MTS is integrated Congress (Belarus) with particias the best one in the Corporation. into the corporate culture and HR pation of employees from Sistema strategy. The volunteer initiative and other Corporation’s compaBeginning from 2012, MTS runs includes over 3 thousand MTS nies (total of 50 people) was held the Mobile Story Theatre, a unique employees (20% is intellectual volin order to educate and motivate corporate volunteer puppet theunteering), and the Company also volunteer coordinators, while in atre, targeted at education and engages its clients and partners in December over 50 best volunsocialisation of children, including volunteer activities. teers of MTS were given honorary from sponsored orphanages and certificates and awards during children of employees. There were In 2014, MTS volunteers organised a ceremony which took place in annual federal projects implemore than 350 events, most of which Moscow on the occasion of the Inmented: Green Express (volunteer were aimed at social assistance to ternational Volunteer Day. Sistema visits of sponsored children’s children from poor and disadvanCharitable Foundation provided institutions), New Year Trees for taged families, children with disabilispecial awards for the best volunChildren (volunteer initiative for ties and orphans across the country. teer projects, and MTS corporate children for the New Year celeThe Company volunteer initiative also engages includes over its clients and partners in volunteer 3 000 employees activities. organised more than 350 events audience of over 920 children MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 89 brations). 16 performances were held for the total audience of Mikhail Arkhipov over 920 children in Moscow and Vice President positive experience as visiting central Russia. for HR Management at MTS children or veterans helps to unite co-workers. It’s a This experience was successfully kind of unique team building copied by Detsky Mir Group, where of its own. a volunteer theatre toupe was orThere is another aspect, ganised in 2014 that takes part in too. Any company’s success charity projects. is measured not only by its tangible assets, but also by In 2015, as part of the corporate its human capital. A potenvolunteer programme, MTS plans tial employee should want to develop existing projects and to come for a long time, and launch new initiatives, including this is only possible when the projects dedicated to the 70th company offers conditions anniversary of the Victory in the that are not offered by any Great Patriotic War. The compaother employer. Volunteering ny also plans to launch a joint IT increases loyalty among cerproject of MTS and Dobro Mail.Ru tain categories of employees to promote volunteer projects, and and enables them to unlock to automate project management, «Joint volunteer activities their creative potential, while and increase their transparency really help to improve the ofaddressing important social and efficiency. fice environment, too. Such a problems at the same time.» Stream: Intelligent volunteering Stream from Sistema Mass Media In 2014, specialists of the ComHolding Company, in cooperation pany introduced over 180 teenagwith MTS, Sistema CF, Detsky ers from Moscow Region and other specialists Mir and MTS Bank, initiated the regions to their jobs. of the Company Intelligent Volunteering project in introduced over 180 2014 in order to give young people During career guidance tours career advice. As a part of this young people learnt about digital project, the company’s employees broadcasting development and introduce young people to multifeatures, professional educateenagers media business, popular profestion needed to work in this area, sions and areas of expertise, and watched how to do video and audio explain intricacies of professions. editing, how Stream service works on various platforms, including Young people who have shown Smart TV, IOS and Android. interest and talent in digital content and telecommunications In 2014, MTS and Sistema Charparticipate in the project: paritable Foundation rewarded ticipants of the Lift to the Future Stream for the Intelligent summer schools and MTS Telecom Volunteering project. Idea Junior competition; teenagers without parental care or with In 2015, the company plans to disabilities, as well as children of open a new page in intelligent Sistema S/As’ employees. volunteering – Business Goes 90 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE to Children and Teenagers. The goal is to offer vocational guidMTS-Bank: Artyom Zasursky ance, to introduce high school Stream CEO students to the multimedia and FINANCIAL AWARENESS telecommunications industry. MTS-Bank supports the trend towards Project Objectives: to demonraising financial awareness among people of all ages through taking part strate the industry features and in a series of educational projects. The achievements and present profesBank has traditionally sponsored the sions in demand today and in the Russian National Academic Competition future; to enable direct dialogue on Financial Markets and Consumer Knowledge Basics. In 2014, at the 9th between high school students Competition, bank experts checked and Stream experts at meetings etnries of 90 secondary school students and presentations in schools, and awarded winners with diplomas vocational schools and boarding and gifts from the bank. As part of the Financial Awareness Day on September schools for children deprived of 8, bank experts also gave educational parental care, etc. workshops, lectures and quizzes in many schools across the country. The company also plans to particAs part of Sistema’s Lift to the Future ipate in the Sistema’s Lift to the project designed to support talented Future scientific and educational youth, MTS Bank’s experts gave several workshops and offered a tour of the schools and MTS Telecom Idea bank to the participants of the Intercontest, and to offer expert advice, national Student Scientific Conference, special categories and further the summer educational and research «We have found our CSR niche on-line or any other advice on the school in the Moscow Region and having created and launched the Moscow International Education projects designed by the young this project. For our employExhibition. Notably, students learned innovators. about treasury operations and real-time ees, volunteering means exchange transactions. creativity and demonstration of Particular attention in volunteer MTS Bank also partnered up MTS for their talents. It was with obvioutreach will be given to promotthe social educational project Network ous pleasure and passion that ing the exclusive use of licensed for All Ages. The bank’s experts helped they spoke to teenagers and content among the younger generto develop training materials on online banking for the programme that teachchildren telling and showing ation on the Internet (audio, video, ers older people to use computers and them what they do and what books). To this end, the company a variety of useful online services. Stream does in general. plans a For Legal Content contest In December, MTS Bank launched an for high schoolers and students . updated online service the key charAfter each tour and off-site In 2015, it is planned to increase acteristic of which was a user-friendly lecture our experts continued to the number of participants in customized interface, which was offer professional counseling on developed taking into account the projects online and via Skype. educational meetings with Stream requests of the Bank’s customers and employees to 250 students. the best practices in the field of remote Stream employees suggested banking services. what needed to change and how, In addition, the company plans to where to get the necessary infordevelop other employees’ volunmation on telecommunications, teer activities and skills by involvseeking to bring the young peoing employees in projects that ple’s projects to a higher level. combine support of cultural sites with learning about Russian culRight in front of us we could ture and history: eco-cleanup at see how employees themselves the Museum Estate «Yasnaya Polybecame more involved and reana» (cleaning forest area), with a sponsible. Charity and CSR are tour of the park and the memorial like a two-way street. We tried house of Leo Tolstoy. to meet the needs of children and teenagers but, we got more than just grateful feedback, we saw an increased work engagement, loyalty and a greater team spirit among our employees.» MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 91 MTS: Social HR MTS is actively involved in develto create inclusive environment, opment of barrier-free environMTS started cooperation with ment in Russia for the disabled. The company actively cooperates with the Regional Disabled People universities with special training programmes for disabled students. The Company took part in The Way 17 seminars Public Organisation «Perspektiva» to a Career competition helping and is part of a sponsored Busiyoung people with disabilities to in the form ness Advisory Board on Disability receive a job offer. The competiof Skype (BABD). The Board is a public tion included interesting practical conferences platform seeking to solve the training on self-presentation, pubproblems of the disabled from the lic speaking, presentation design business community perspective; and many other business skills. today it includes over 40 compaSome participants were offered nies working towards integrating internship at the MTS financial people with reduced capabilities and human resources units as into their activities. part of the summer internship programme. In 2014, MTS employees participated in various activities organised The company also took part in a and held by BABD member comsummer job fair for applicants with panies. As part of a social project disabilities. Throughout the year, Business loyalty index for employees Advisory Board over 55 years on Disability oldwas (BABD) it is a public platform 71% seeking to solve the problems number of employed of the disabled disabled personnel from the business increased by 26% community perspective. 92 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE MTS corporate coaches and volunstudents with special training teering employees gave lectures, programmes for disabled stuElena Seregina provided tours around the Compadents. Director of Corporate ny offices and held football games Social Responsibility for Bauman Moscow State Techni5. To develop internship proDepartment of MTS cal University and RSUH students. grammes for students with disabilities. According to the 2014 involvement survey, the loyalty index for em6. To arrange personnel training ployees over 55 years oldwas 71%, on best barrier-free environwhile the number of employed disment practices (disabled people, abled personnel increased by 26%. children and elderly people). In 2015-2016 MTS plans: 7. To bring the Company’s website and the on-line store website 1. To take part in the Business into compliance with certain Advisory Board on Disability standards to be used by people meetings in St. Petersburg and with disabilities. Novosibirsk. 8. To prepare recommendations 2. To take part in the Annual to ensure unhindered access to International Forum Business showrooms for the disabled. for Equal Opportunities and the International Disability Film 9. To prepare guidelines for the Festival Breaking Down Barriemployees working in show«When the company supers, both of which are organised rooms and call-centre on rules ports disabled or elderly by Perspektiva and BABD. and ethics of communication people – by employing them with disabled people. and providing comfortable 3. To take part in The Way to a working conditions – it allows Career competition for young 10. To implement programmes many of them to enjoy a full applicants with disabilities. intended to increase seniors’ life, to work and unlock their employment. talents, to use their skills and 4. To organise business lectures energy, and to share their inand workshops for university valuable experience with the younger generation.» SG-Trans: CORPORATE UNIVERSITY In 2014, SG-Trans started the Corporate leadership potential and business University project to provide internal planning skills, as well as improve their training for the company’s employees. financial analysis skills and software As part of this project, highly qualified use. Training is offered in a variety professionals working at the central of formats: interactive seminars and office share their professional experiworkshops, distribution of explanatory ence and skills with colleagues from documents, conference calls, and onbranches, namely, tell them about line conferences. changes in the legislation (industry, accounting, tax, labour), emphasize In 2014, training was done in the form better compliance with occupationof Skype conferences in all 9 branches al health and safety standards and of the company. There were 17 seminars requirements, speak about methods for held, all of them involving chief engipreventing corruption, help to develop neers and work safety officers. MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 93 Targin: TRAINING CENTRE In 2014, Targin opened a Training were given by staff members execCentre intended to help to develop utives ofTargin Group. and maintain corporate knowledge, professional culture and personal In 2015, Targin plans to actively develop performance development. the centre, enhancing cooperation with other companies involved in employee During the first three months of its training, developing new training classes operation, about 600 employees were and programmes, as well as improving trained there. At the same time, the the quality of current ones. financial costs were minimal as lectures VivaCell-MTS: Information on Ethics and Human Rights K-Telecom (VivaCell-MTS brand) is disabilities as employees and proa leading communications provider vides them with conditions excludRalph Yirikian in Armenia that is a part of MTS ing any workplace discrimination. VivaCell-MTS Group; it regularly cooperates with The Company also organised for its General Director numerous stakeholder groups, employees sessions on ethics and including customers, contractors, behaviour etiquette towards ememployees, etc. Respect for the ployees with disabilities conducted rights of all stakeholder groups by relevant non-profit organisa(including the most vulnerable tions in Armenia. groups – people with disabilities) is an absolute priority of In addition, the Company holds VivaCell-MTS. regular consultations and meetings on human rights protection Currently, there are 37 disabled practices with Armenia’s Ombudsemployees out of all 1,200 employman Karen Andreasyan to discuss ees in the Company. The Company human rights issues in the busiis actively recruiting people with ness community, social security, non-discrimination, etc. «Compliance with the law and ethical standards has always 3% employees been one of VivaCell-MTS’ fundamental values. We pay great attention to human rights protection provided for by the people with international standard ISO disabilities 26000. Any deviation from this path is unacceptable for us.» 94 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE 4.3 Local Communities and Investments in Quality of Life in Locations of Operation BPGC: Prevention of child injuries caused by electrical appliances As one of the largest companies quent than other injuries – almost ing awareness among children, in the Republic of Bashkorostan, one third of people who had an parents and teachers regarding BPGC’s future is wedded to the electric shock perish due to severe electrical safety. prosperity and development of the fatal visceral injuries. In 2010region, and it invests heavily in 2014, there were three accidents In 2014, BPGC signed a Cooperaits infrastructure and important involving children that happened at tion Agreement with the Republic social projects. grid facilities of a BPGC subsidiary of Bashkortostan Ministry of Edu(Bashkirenergo). cation to implement child electrical In the energy sector, the issue injuries prevention programmes. of child electrical injuries is one To prevent recurrence of such The purpose of the Agreement is to of the most topical: children and cases, BPGC launched a full-scale run joint initiatives to help prevent teenagers are most likely to receive programme to prevent child inchild electrical injuries as well as an electric injury due to ignorance juries caused by electrical applito educate children and the youth of basic electrical safety rules. The ances by implementing measures on basic electrical safety rules world statistics shows that electroto reduce child injuries at power as part of child electrical injuries cutions are 15-16 times more frefacilities (of all ages) and raisprevention measures. BPGC launched regular a full-scale extracurricular classes programme to prevent child injuries caused > 400 сlasses by electrical appliances animated film by implementing «The Adventures measures: of BPGC-man» 6 episodes new section theatrical in the official performances for website children on child electrical safety For Children in 4 cities MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 95 Dmitry Sharovatov BPGC: BPGC CEO SMART GRIDS In 2014, BPGC completed preparations nance and repair costs of renovated for overhaul of power grids in Ufa using facilities by 20%, reduce troubleshootSmart Grid technologies. It is the first ing and switching time by 70% by enproject of such scale in Russia aimed at suring grid observability and structure a quality change of infrastructure in the optimisation, and will also extend the energy sector. life of existing equipment by 10%. Implementation of new technologies In 2014, a pilot area for the project in the energy system, including a new was chosen in Ufa, which consists of generation of highly integrated smart four residential districts with a poppower grids, has a positive impact on ulation of about 25 thousand people. reliability and efficiency of power transThe project in this area has been mission systems. put into operation. Smart Grids will help to reduce electricAlso, the construction of a Grid Manity losses by 1.5or 2-fold. At present, agement Centre started in 2014. It has power losses in Ufa total 15.6%, and special equipment that allows carrying BPGC intends to reduce them to 8.7% out all Smart Grid-related work, monduring the first stage of the project with itoring the workload and regimes and further decrease in subsequent years. managing the grid equipment. In addition to loss reduction, the cost-efThe project will be expanded to cover fective project will reduce the maintethe entire city within five years. «Power transmission and distribution is a hazardous industry. Therefore, prevention of electric injuries among children and adults is an important task for energy industry workers.» Within the framework of this Agreement, BPGC officials hold regular extracurricular classes on child electrical injuries prevention in educational institutions of the Republic’s cities and regions. From November 2014 to May 2015, over 400 classes were conducted in schools across the Republic of Bashkortostan. campaigns in the cities and regions a professional troupe of students More episodes of The Adventures of Bashkortostan, on municipal and from the Zagir Ismagilov Ufa State of BPGC-man animated film were regional TV channels. A a real live Academy of Arts. Performances produced (first broadcast in 2013) BPGC-man played by professional were presented in four cities in addressing safety rules and elecactors or BPGC amateur performBashkortostan and were attended trical injuries prevention. As of toers accompany the show. by more than 500 children. In 2015, day, there are 6 episodes, with 3 of there will be more performances them having been released in 2014. In 2014, cities and towns of Bashgiven in the cities of the Republic. The animated film is shown at kortostan witnessed the first thepre-school institutions, orphanagatrical performances for children In addition, in May 2014 the offies, schools and various children’s on child electrical safety featuring cial BPGC website launched a new 96 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE For Children section. It includes In 2015, the Company plans to • to continue broadcasting the several subsections containing all further the existing Programme, 5th and 6th episodes of The necessary information on electrical in particular: Adventures of BPGC-man safety rules. Children get a very animation film; clear and simple explanation on • to sign another agreement on how to behave near power engicooperation with the Republic of • to increase the number of stuneering facilities and how to deal Bashkortostan Ministry of Edudents of secondary educationwith electric household appliances. cation for child electrical injuries al institutions learning about prevention for the 2015-2016 electrical safety rules to about academic year; 1,000 students. SSTL Sistema Shyam TeleServices Ltd. (SSTL): Fighting Poliomyelitis Sistema Shyam TeleServicwider access to polio informaes Limited is one of the largest tion for high-risk groups and the Sergey Savchenko telecommunications companies use of innovative tools such as SSTL CEO in India. By supporting local interactive kiosks, SMS, voice communities and a wide range messages, etc. of social programmes, developing infrastructure in the country SSTL actively participates in inthe Company is able to improve forming the public of the need to the population’s quality of life in vaccinate children against polio India, thus ensuring stability of in several Indian states, including its own development. Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal; before every RePoliomyelitis is a dangerous sponsenet initiative the Company disease that leads to permanent sends out 10 million informative paralysis and paresis, and, in some SMS messages. SSTL also procases, to death. Despite the fact vides support in developing prothat poliomyelitis has been defeatmotional materials on polio and ed in most countries, it still poses display stands. a significant threat in India. In April 2014, joint efforts of SSTL, To prevent the spread of polio in Responsenet and other stake«Given that the polio threat India, SSTL is in cooperation with holders resulted in removing the has been successfully elimiResponsenet, the organisation imdanger of poliomyelitis in India, nated in most countries, our plementing the India Unite to End but the efforts to control other goal is to completely rid India Polio Now programme (IUEPN) infections that can be prevented of the disease. For a long time, with the purpose to spread awarethrough vaccination are still taken. we have been working towards ness among the people of India increasing public awareness about the threat of polio. ResponIn 2015, SSTL will continue to on how important polio immusenet uses private sector resourcsupport Responsenet in raising nisation is. All these efforts es to distribute information on public awareness on pertussis, are aimed at increasing the polio and vaccination throughout measles, diphtheria, tetanus and quality of life of local comIndia, particularly among nomadtuberculosis immunisation to premunities in the regions of the ic and mobile population groups. vent outbreaks of these diseases Company’s operations.» The result is achieved through in the future. MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 97 United Nations International Children’s Emergency Fund (UNICEF) has recognized the efficiency of the partnership between SSTL and Responsenet and plans to introduce a similar project in Africa. informing of the need to vaccinate 10 000 000 SMS VivaCell-MTS: Newborn Care One of the most acute social probSince 2008, VivaCell-MTS has been Ralph Yirikian lems in Armenia is infant mortality, in cooperation with BirthLink, an VivaCell-MTS General Director and VivaCell-MTS actively particiNGO addressing maternal and pates in solving it. child health. BirthLink together with VivaCell-MTS implements nuOver 50% of neonatal deaths occur merous educational programmes in the first week of life (early neofor health care workers and pronatal mortality), which is due to the vides hospitals with modern equipfact that many maternity hospitals in ment for neonatal care. Armenia have outdated equipment. neonatal mortality in Armenia decreased from 15 to 8 deaths per 1,000 live births «The newborn need our care and devotion more than anyone else. We cannot remain indifferent and cannot leave parents, doctors and society helpless in the current situation of high newborn mortality rates, because each premature death diminishes our hope for a stable future. We strongly believe that every parent deserves to hear the words, ‘Mum, Dad, I love you.’» 98 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE This project focuses on the followprogrammes to all doctors and decreased from 15 to 8 deaths ing tasks: nurses, and providing necessary per 1,000 live births; equipment for neonatal wards. 1. Reduction of neonatal mortality • over 30 medical centres in Yein Armenia; Key project results (from 2008 revan and Armenia regions took through 2014): part in the project. 2. Improving the quality of neonatal intensive care in Armenia • during the project existence, through offering educational neonatal mortality in Armenia MTS: FEDERAL SOCIAL chology Department of the Lomonosov Its key idea is that teenagers who EDUCATIONAL PROJECTS FOR Moscow State University. The programme have Internet skills can share their takes into account the needs and psychoknowledge with adults who have not RAISING INTERNET LITERACY social characteristics of senior people. yet developed those skills. After preOF ALL GENERATIONS Teaching is done either by volunteers, or liminary training with MTS employees, seniors who have already done the train7th-10th graders ran classes for Since 2011, MTS has been implementing ing and are willing to teach their peers parents at their schools, demonstratthe Children on the Internet programme, everything they have learnt themselves. ing useful and practical functions of with support from the Russian Minmobile Internet. In 2014, Children istry of Communications and Mass In 2014, MTS ran these courses in many Teach Adults classes were held at Media, the Ministry of Education and regions of Russia: Moscow, St. Peters20 schools in Moscow. Overall, the Science, theSafe Internet League and burg, Tula, Kemerovo, Kirov, Obninsk, the project is implemented among 7thother partners,. Perm Territory, the Amur, Orenburg and 10th graders in more than 50 Russian Samara Regions, Tatarstan, Kamchatcities. In Moscow, the project is run in The programme is designed to protect ka, Sakhalin, and also in Belarus. Over cooperation with the New Technology the younger generation from negative 15,000 people have attended the proSchool project office established by web content, fraudulent websites and gramme since its launch three years ago. the Education Department and the IT websites destructive to child’s psyDepartment of Moscow. chology, as well as to promote rules of In 2014, Network for All Ages won two efficient and web surfing. awards: The Moscow Times Awards About 6,000 students from over as the CSR Project of the Year and the 50 Moscow schools are expected Within the framework of this proAccessible Internet contest organto participate in the project in the gramme, MTS provides customers with ised by the Russian Ministry of Labour 2015-2016 academic year; over 400 access to services that help to efficiently and Social Security together with the Moscow libraries will join its educaand safely organise the younger genRussian Pension Fund and the Russian tional activities. eration’s work on the Internet through Pensioners’ Union. introduction of content filtering, parental In 2014, the Children Teach Adults control and anti-virus protection, gives Since 2013, MTS has been running project won a Crystal Pyramid award lessons on Internet literacy for primary Children Teach Adults, an educationin the Social Responsibility and school students and organises seminars al competition aimed at developing a Charity category. for teachers throughout Russia, and also modern information society in Russia. holds interactive exhibitions at leading Russian museums and libraries. Over 300 thousand children, their parents and teachers from all over Russia took part in the Children on the Internet programme. In 2014, MTS organised interactive educational exhibitions in Murmansk, Vologda, Syktyvkar, Barnaul, Ryazan, Krasnodar, and Tomsk. In 2012, in cooperation with the Internet Development Fund, the National Health League, Svyaz Pokoleniy Charitable Foundation and other partners, MTS launched Network for All Ages a federal social educational project. . Its main purpose is to promote modern information technology among users over 40 and to teach them useful online services. Training is based on a programme developed by specialists from MTS, the Internet Development Fund and the PsyMANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 99 4.4 Business Partners, Suppliers and Promotion of Responsible Business Practices Targin: Counteracting Coordinated (Corrupt) Activities of Market Suppliers Building stable long-term relationtical texts, errors, information ships with suppliers and business representation formats. Nikolay Pozhidayev partners is one of Targin’s key Chief Financial Officer, priorities. However, in some cases, 6. Declares its position: «In case Deputy CEO for Economics unfair suppliers and contractors a collusion is identified the and Finance, Targin may act in a coordinated (corrupt) contractor will be disqualified way to inflate prices on certain and the results of the tender goods or services. Such corrupt reconsidered.» practices may lead to reduced efficiency of procurement proce7. Adopts an assertive position: dures, cost increase, and a boost in «Any statement on the increase Targin’s production costs. in resources cost after the submission of quotations and To counter suppliers and contracnegotiations will be subject to tors’ corrupt practices, the Compainspection.» ny takes the following measures: 8. Unifies technical requirements. 1. Trains procurement process participants (customers, buyers, 9. Frames forward requirements Central Procurement Commitfor key resources and ensures tee members, etc.) to identify control over them (for example, signs of collusion. POL, rolled stock, spare parts for vehicles, etc.). 2. Ensures a maximum number of potential bidders, holds 10. Restricts the contractors’ group «Business ethics and implepre-qualification, public placemeetings during commercial mentation of effective anment of «white» lists. evaluation. ti-corruption measures are not just a fashion statement 3. Gathers information on potenIn case any signs of corrupt pracfor us, but a matter of stratetial suppliers, their prices and tices are identified during the progic control and management costs to identify overpricing curement process, the Company efficiency.» relative to previous quotes or takes the following measures: the market price. 1. Cancels the tender, identifies the 4. Analyses previous tenders and «weak link» among the collusion tent and structure (split, make tenders held in other reparties (the company that came key resources supply a separate gions in order to identify «exout at a disadvantage as a result bid, etc.), pursues consolidated tras», bids rotation schemes, of the collusion) and signs a neprocurements, etc. market sharing. gotiated agreement with it. 3. Changes suppliers’ selection meth5. Assesses documents provided 2. Changes tender terms: revises od (e.g. competitive negotiations, by participants to identify identechnical specifications, bid conusing electronic trading facility). 100 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE 4. Refuses to purchase from discredited bidders. MGTS 5. Searches for alternative supply SUPPORT TO SMALL AND MEDIUM-SIZED BUSINESSES sources (e.g. internal resources of the Company). Small and medium-sized businesses interactions with small contractors play an important part in Moscow’s and made it possible to directly recruit ecosystem. small teams of 3-4 people. 6. Appeals to an Arbitrazh Court. In 2014, MGTS, a member of MTS Group, In 2014, a total of 159 small and Based on inspection results, launched a programme to support medium-sized businesses acted as 4 cases of suppliers’ corrupt the capital’s small and medium-sized contractors or suppliers of MGTS and businesses in cooperation with the state the company made purchases from practices were identified in 2014, organisation Small Business of Moscow. such businesses for the total amount and appropriate actions were A number of seminars and workshops of RUB 1 billion. taken. The total economic impact were given to entrepreneurs as part of of Targin procurement procedures the programme, . In 2015, MGTS plans to develop a programme SMB access to procureamounted to 7.33%. Also, MGTS introduced a special tariff for ment, which will increase purchassmall and medium-sized businesses for es from small and medium busiIn 2015, the Company plans to Internet access, TV and unlimited telephnesses 2.5-fold. change its procurement princiony, which allows businessmen to set up e-document flow, automate customer ples and move from the existing relations, establish prompt interdeprocurement methods to the partmental coordination and efficiently following ones: monitor business processes. In addition, MGTS actively recruits small • Operating (projected) procureand medium businesses as contractors ment with priority in mainfor construction of its fiber-optic network taining minimum stock level and customer service. To improve contractors’ efficiency and to monitor the for uninterrupted operation of quality of their services, MGTS introproduction sites; duced special IT systems. Management innovations have significantly simplified • project activities with priority in new products’ development and pilot production. The Company also plans to develop SG-TRANS a road map for 2016 services. HOTLINE To increase business transparency, Trans’ staff, 132 from customers or prevent corrupt practices and minimize partners, and 185 from other people. risks, SG-Trans launched a hotline serAfter investigations, appropriate vice in 2014. measures were taken against 8 SGtotal economic Trans employees whose actions were The hotline allows clients, partners, adverse to the company’s interests impact customers, contractors, employees and corporate regulations. and any other stakeholders to report 7,33% any failure of SG-Trans’ employees or employees of its subsidiaries to perform In 2015, SG-Trans will continue improving the hotline and will or properly perform their duties, or systematically inform employees of to comply with internal documents or the central office and the branches applicable legislation. about its availability. Every incoming message is checked by employees of the Corporate Security Department. Messages are received by e-mail or phone, and can also be left on an answering machine. In addition, each Company branch has a separate local phone number to receive such messages so that local residents won’t have to pay for the call. In 2014, the company reviewed 330 messages: 13 of them came from SGMANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 101 4.5 Environmental NGOs and Managing Environmental Impact NIIME and Mikron: Energy Saving and Energy Efficiency — Introduction of an Energy Management System at the Company Environmental impact control is international energy management The second focus area of the proamong the key aspects of the activity standard ISO 50001:2011. ject is connected with the launch of NIIME and Mikron (a part of the of new microelectronic products RTI industrial holding). A systematic The project was executed in two which should be improved in terms approach to various fields of energy focus areas. The first one was of energy saving in addition to saving and energy efficiency is connected with improvement of custom programming, size reducintroduced into the Company enterthe production, office, and waretion, and performance buildup. In prises; in particular, in 2014, NIIME house infrastructure. After the 2014, due to its transition to new and Mikron completed the impleEEMS introduction, the electricity, technologies, Mikron launched mentation of the Enterprise Energy thermal energy, and process water several products characterized Management System (EEMS) project costs were considerably minimized by low energy consumption (for based on the requirements of the due to recycling possibilities. instance, LED drivers) in compliAfter power consumption – by the introduction of the Energy Management System in 2014, 22,4% consumption electricity – by of the following energy types was reduced as compared 19,4% to 2011: thermal energy – by 10,3% 102 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE ance with current environmental standards and sustainable develG. Krasnikov number of opment principles. energy meters CEO of Mikron, member has increased of the Russian Academy After the introduction of the of Sciences Energy Management System in 2014, consumption of the following energy types was reduced as 2,5 compared to 2011: times • power consumption — by 22.4%, • electricity — by 19.4%, and • thermal energy — by 10.3%. Some other results of the EEMS introduction include the following: 1. All employees of the company became more conscious of energy saving (lights in empty rooms are now switched on less often). 2. Accuracy of energy meterBefore the EEMS introduction, a ing increased after the autosteady rise in energy consumption mated electricity metering was observed. After the introducsystem was put into operation. tion, the growth has stopped and The number of energy meters the reduction in energy consumpat the company has increased tion began, while the output at almost three times. the running production facilities «The efficiency and capacity remained unchanged and new proof our company are growing, 3. The system of planning and duction lines were launched. and, at the same time, we identifying energy objectives consume clean electricity, was improved in all divisions In 2015, the Energy Management so the energy managewhich influences the energy System will be developed in two ment system is of strategic consumption. main focus areas: importance both for us and for our demanding interna4. The requirements for applica1. The practical application of the tional partners. If only all tion of the most energy-effiEnergy Management System will Russian enterprises could cient solutions were included be extended to other enterprises switch to such energy manin the process of developing of NIIME and Mikron. agement system, efficiency design documentation (equipof the Russian economy ment, materials, and tech2. New products with improved energy saving characteristics will would increase.» nical solutions). be developed and produced for 5. The company started to consider the Russian, Korean, and Chinese the energy efficiency requiremarkets: LED drivers, controllers, ments in procurement. and convectors compliant with current energy saving objectives. 6. The production units improved The Energy Management System cooperation with the chief project of NIIME and Mikron won engineer service with regard In June 2014, the Company sucthe first Russian contest of energy to the consumption reduction. cessfully passed a compliance saving and energy efficiency proThe personnel was retrained in audit and received a positive jects ENES 2014 in the category the field of energy saving and conclusion from Bureau VeriEfficient Energy Management Sysenergy efficiency. tas Certification. tem at Large Industrial Enterprise. MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 103 Segezha Group: Environmental Certification of Forest Reserves Segezha Group is a major formeasures, as a responsible forest est user in the European part of user Segezha Group holds regular Sergey Pomelov Russia. The management of the consultations with forest villagers CEO, Chairman of the Board Group is fully aware of its responand representatives of environof Segezha Group sibility for conservation of natural mental communities and provides resources of the Russian Federreasonable help to the locals in ation and mitigation of negative their daily needs. impact on the biosphere in the locations of operation. In particuIn 2014, forest operators of the lar, uncontrolled deforestation may Group carried out a number of cause irreparable damage to many important and notable measures. fauna and flora species and the local population. In early summer, joint field discussions on forest use and conservation of biodiversity took place in the Vytegorsky District certified by (Vologda) with participation of FIC 5,2 Kipelovo (part of Segezha Group), Greenpeace Russia, and SPOK — Regional Public Interest Environmillion ha mental Organisation in Karelia. This meeting was held after neof the forest fund gotiations between timber industrialists, environmentalists, and «Conservation and restoragovernment officials for the claims tion of forests is definitely of SPOK to the FSC certifying a duty of our company. We authorities with regard to forest know how to do it and we do management practices applied by it on a regular and systematthe enterprises leasing forest plots ic basis. Our certificates conin the Vytegorsky District. Folfirm that we manage forests lowing the field discussions, FIC in a balanced and responsiKipelovo (within Segezha Group) ble way. Our consumers know made efforts on conservation of that the Group values its canopy with significant part of reputation of a responsible broad-leaved and coniferous trees. forest user and does whatIt is acknowledged that the lessee ever is necessary to make its seeks to form a proper structure of business eco-friendly.» In order to prevent environmental plantations after clearance. damage, Segezha Group has cooperated with the Forest Supervisory In July 2014, public hearings were Public hearings are also held in othBoard (FSC Russia) since 2002 and held in the territories leased by er pulp-and-paper enterprises within carried out voluntary certification Kirillovsky LB and Kovzhinsky business units in Onega, Karelia, and of the forest reserves controlled LB (within Segezha Group) that Kirov. In addition, harvesting enterby the Group. 5.2 million ha of covered the same topic: planned prises of the holding collaborate with the forest fund (94%) has been and current activities of the enscientific organisations and carry out certified by now. terprises, identification of places surveys within the leased plots to of special social value within the investigate conservation of biodiverThe voluntary certification process leased forest plots. Requests and sity, identify high conservation value (FSC®) implies concern for forrecommendations of the local popforests (HCVF), etc. est restoration, close cooperation ulation were taken into account by with environmental organisations, the enterprise representatives and Segezha Group performs large-scale and contact with the local comwill be executed within production forest restoration activities increasmunity. When performing forestry activity management. ing coverage on a year-by-year basis. 104 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE Thus, in 2012, forest restoration cov1. Hold consultations with the Ministhe protective zone of the Onezhered 11,932 ha, in 2013 — 12,816 ha. try of Natural Resources and Enviskoye Pomorye National Park. In 2014, sowing, planting, and comronment of the Republic of Karelia, bined restoration activities covered public and scientific organisations 3. Hold meetings with representa13,585 ha (6% more than in 2013) of on future development of specially tives of rural administrations of the 33,207 ha of deforested lands. protected natural reservations, the Kirov Region on identification identification and conservation of and conservation of the HCVFs Segezha Group plans to continue HCVFs in the territories leased by important for the local population. its active cooperation with regional the enterprises of the holding. authorities, local communities, and nature management experts in 2. Hold consultations with inter2015, including: ested parties on conservation of MTS: ECO-TELECOM Project In order to minimize the negative In 2014, the Batteries surrender! including activities on waste environmental impact of the Comeco-initiative was held in all admincollection, eco-friendly disposal of pany, MTS implements a largeistrative offices of MTS to collect waste, and efficient energy use. scale environmental project — used up batteries. Subsequently, ECO-TELECOM. The project is the batteries were transported to 3. Waste Paper Collection. executed in several key directions: the only factory in Russia which uses a unique recycling technology Over 4,810 kg of waste paper were 1. Recycling of Batteries to handle consumer batteries and collected in Moscow in 2014 within and Electronic Waste. accumulators. Furthermore, Throw the Paper Boom initiative, thus, Away in the Right Way eco-proover 80 trees were saved. grammes were launched in Omsk and Novosibirsk with the support 4. Education of Children were of regional and municipal governand Teachers. collected over ments. Collection points for used 4810 up batteries were opened in major MTS organised ecology lessons universities across Russia and in in over 1,500 schools throughout the outlets of MTS. In cooperation Russia and CIS countries within the kg of waste paper with the recycling company RETEGreen Schools project. To hold the KO (SibVtorResurs), MTS installed ecology lessons for pupils of 5th to special safe containers for collec9th grades, MTS prepared prestion, subsequent transportation, entations, methodological materistorage, and disposal of used up als, and video lessons for teachers. batteries and accumulators. Participating schools were given project certificates, and children — 2. Education of Company’s gifts and special pocket-size handEmployees. books on careful attitude to nature. The Mobile Technology for The Eco-Office educational project Ecology project is implemented has been implemented since 2012 within the Green Schools initiative to promote environmental knowlwith the support of the interreedge and raise the level of environgional public organisation Russian mental culture among the ComGreen Movement ECA. pany’s employees. The aim of the project is to involve the employees It is planned to perform the followof MTS in execution of the enviing activities in 2015-2016 within ronmental protection programme, the ECO-TELECOM project: MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 105 1. Launch the project on recycling of 3. Assess the volume of greenbatteries and e-waste in the Urals. house gas emissions caused by Mikhail Arkhipov the operation of the Company. Vice President 2. Introduce an eco-friendly packof the HR Management ing for SIM cards throughout the 4. Carry out Econeshka — eduDepartment, MTS area of operation of MTS. cational online eco-contest for students of schools. RZ AGRO GROUP RESPONSIBLE LAND USE RZ Agro Group adopts new technologies on water retention, carries out RZ Agro Group specializes in cultivation measures on prevention of soil erosion of farming lands and large-scale grain and restoration of forest belt, applies production. The Company implements organic fertilizers and modern enera set of measures to protect land from gy-packed machines characterized by pollution and exhaustion, namely: low POL consumption and a low soil diagnostics of soil condition, climate and air pollution index. monitoring, soil rehabilitation, and improving of soil fertility. The Company performs all these measures in active cooperation with In 2014, RZ Agro Group carried out scientific institutions (The Kalinenko field agrochemical surveys of soils and Russian Research and Development regular soil-and-plant diagnostics and Institute of Grain Crops, the Don subsequently adjusted the standards of Regional Research and Development fertilizer distribution. Agricultural Institute, the Don State «Disposal of high-tech Agricultural University, the Stavropol products requires signifiTo prevent land exhaustion, the ComResearch and Development Agricant resources. Our company introduced a sustainable rotation cultural Institute, the Lukyanenko pany considers it important system; to decrease the impact of pesKrasnodar Research and Development Institute of Grain Crops). to develop environmental ticides on soil, speed up decomposition of plant residues, and maintain fertility, projects and be involved in we apply subsurface energy-saving In 2014, the company’s total expendienvironment-related educatechnologies and fertilize soil with tures amounted to RUB 5.9 million, tional activities. This is our compensatory nitrogen and required including RUB 1.5 million spent on responsibility before socibiological preparations. soil diagnostics. ety and nature. Organisation of open eco lessons is a new activity for us. The authors of interactive training materials tried to combine the task of promoting environmental culture with our children’s interest in mobile devices that are used in the exciting learning process. During a lesson, children learn about new applications helping to save resources, about energy saving, disposal and recycling of electronic devices. We hope that the lessons within the Mobile Technology for Ecology project will attract the interest of the teachers’ community and will become an annual tradition.» 106 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE 4.6 Public Organisations and Charitable Activity Management Detsky Mir Group: Corporate Charitable Foundation The Detsky Mir Charitable Foundation • education and creative The activities of the Foundation was founded in 2014 for efficient manwork — search for emerging are financed by donations from agement of the Company’s charitable talents and development of Detsky Mir Group, employees, and projects. The Foundation supports the creative, technical, and invisitors of the retail chain. Addiactivity of Russian social institutions novation thinking among the tional sources of financing are working with children in need, includyoung generation; funds raised from sales of T-shirts ing large and low-income families. within the Get Involved! campaign • culture — development and and bags in stores of the Detsky The priority areas of activity of the promotion of national culture, Mir chain. In August 2014, the Get Foundation are as follows: including classical music, ballet, Involved! campaign was launched theatre, fine art, as well as techin stores of the chain in Kazakh• social development and health — nical support of museums and stan. The gifts for children in need supporting low-income and restoration of Russian architecwere collected in all stores of the vulnerable social groups, protural monuments; Detsky Mir chain in Astana, Almaty, grammes in the field of healthKaraganda, and Shymkent. Over care, children’s and youth sports; • corporate volunteering. 14 thousand customers of DetThe Foundation participated in charity supports the activity campaigns over of Russian social institutions working with children in need, 3 mln visitors including large and low-income amount of charitable families. donations 140 mln During the year, the employees within the theatre company staged 15 puppet shows 2 performances MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 107 sky Mir took part in the campaign and collected more than 15 thouElmira Morozova Medsi Group sand gifts. Executive Director of the Detsky FROM HEART TO HEART Mir Charitable Foundation In total, of over 3 million visiVOLUNTEER MOVEMENT tors participated in charity campaigns of the Foundation in 2014 In 2014, Medsi Group launched its From Heart to Heart volunteer and the amount of charitable movement donations amounted to nearly RUB 140 million. The movement united proactive employees who seek to help those in need. During the year the volunteers Detsky Mir Group founded its own carried out blood donation campaigns voluntary puppet theatre to perform and organised activities for children in children’s social institutions and in orphanages and rehabilitation take part in social adaptation of centres, including participation in theatrical and cultural charitable events. children in need. During the year, A permanent group of 20 volunteers the employees within the theatre was formed. The volunteers paid company staged 2 performances special attention to veterans of the and represented 15 puppet shows Great Patriotic War. in orphanages and hospitals. In 2014, a total of 239 people (3.7% of employees) participated in various In December 2014, Detsky Mir volunteer projects. Group launched a new project — a charitable fair in the largest children’s store of the country in «Establishment of Detsky Vozdvizhenka 10, Moscow. Orphans Mir’s own charitable founand disabled children from social dation was a huge milestone institutions which are cared for for the company’s social by the Company can present and work. Since then, it has been sell their works at the fair: wood organised on a professional and fabric handicrafts, drawings, and public basis in cooperChristmas decorations, etc. All ation with all stakeholders. revenues are passed to authors of Over 3 million people parthe works after the fair. ticipate in the Foundation’s every year.» The Charitable Foundation plans to focus on the following programmes and projects in 2015: • Get Involved! campaign is a major gifts to children from orphanagamong the rising generation: project of the Foundation aimed es, care facilities, and hospitals. support of art festivals, workat collection of gifts and first-prishops, exhibitions, and concerts ority goods for children in need. • The Together We Can do More and shows. The campaign has been carried programme aimed at rendering out since 2006 thrice a year — targeted aid to children under• The Co-Financing project within timed to International Children’s going treatment or rehabilitation which the employees of Detsky Day, Knowledge Day, and Newand providing equipment for Mir Group can transfer part of Year holidays. When the camplayrooms in medical and social salary to goodwill projects. paign is held, goods bought in institutions. the stores can be left in special • Voluntary Puppet Theatre. In 2015, containers located near checkout • The Art Without Boundaries proa new performance will be staged. areas. After the campaign the gramme aimed at development It is also planned to expand the collected goods are passed as of creativity and aesthetic sense geography of the theatre shows. 108 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE 4.7 Consumers and Product Liability Detsky Mir Group: Safety of Goods for the Sake of Consumers Health Good’s safety and quality assurspecifications in the field of safety • carries out regular monitoring ance is the key commitment of for life and health of consumers. of changes in legislation, new Detsky Mir Group to customers standards and voluntary initiawhich at the same time forms a Within the systematic work on tives in this field in the countries precondition for increasing configoods’ safety and quality assurof suppliers; dence of the clients to the Compaance Detsky Mir Group: ny’s stores. • updates the system of corpo• performs tests of specimen rate regulatory documentation To admit only high-quality prodproducts in independent laborain case of changes in legislation ucts on the shelves, the Company tories; and regulatory requirements; strictly controls safety and quality of goods at all life cycle stages. All • carries out regular training of • controls the quality of goods goods represented in the outlets retail personnel in Russian law in accordance with the type of and web store of the Detsky Mir requirements and corporate contractor by specialists of the chain are certified and comply policy of the Company in the Certification, Quality, and Reclawith applicable regulatory requirefield of certification and product mation Department. ments, standards, and technical safety assurance; Procedure of Goods Safety and Quality Assurance TESTING PRODUCT REFUSAL OF PROCUREMENT SPECIMEN If test results are negative IN LABORATORY Based on provided product specimen and documents EXECUTION OF CERTIFICATE OF CONFORMITY If test results are positive CTM SELECTION CONCLUDING ACCEPTANCE OF THE ACCEPTANCE OF THE STORAGE OF THE OF SUPPLIER CONTRACT GOODS IN WAREHOUSE GOODS IN STORE GOODS IN STORE OF DELIVERY Assessment Checking integrity Checking integrity Control of condition of supplier Provided compliance and quality, availability and quality, availability and integrity of the and product with quality requirements of Russian labeling, of Russian labeling, goods in retail spaces specimen and availability of proper instruction, warranty instruction, shelf life certificates of conformity certificates (if applicable), expiry date, etc. BRANDS etc. ADDITIONAL QUALITY CHECK OF THE GOODS Sending the goods for check to a testing laboratory MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 109 As part of cooperation with the Vladimir Chirakhov MGTS: leading global manufacturers of children’s goods, Detsky Mir Group CEO of Detsky Mir Group CUSTOMER-ORIENTED checks availability of documents APPROACH confirming the compliance of the MGTS is a household operator for 96% product with existing regulatory of Moscow residents servicing about 3.4 requirements (certificates of commillion households. In 2011-2014, the company carried out a comprehensive upgrade pliance, declaration of conformity, of its network, which included a technical state registration certificates, etc.). overhaul and drastic improvement of management of all processes related to If defects are revealed while a provision of services to subscribers. As a result, the quality of MGTS’ service rose product is in service, a customer to a new level. may submit a quality claim. In this case the product is sent for expert Areas of upgrade: examination to a testing labora1. Technical upgrade: development of own tory which will issue a certificate GPON fiber-optical network. of production fault in accordance 2. Updating customer service standards: with the results of the examinaintroduction of an intelligent service management system and a two-level call protion. On the basis of the certificate cessing system at the call centre, update of the customer will either receive a the company’s website. replacement product or refunding. 3. Upgrading customer service centres: In rare cases, if serious quality or introduction of CRM (customer relationship safety faults are revealed in the management) sensors in sales offices. goods, the whole batch is returned 4. Faster connection of subscribers: a new to supplier with subsequent termidispatching centre on the basis of SAP nation of contract. No such cases Workforce Management. were registered in 2014. All these measures had a positive effect on customer satisfaction with MGTS services. In Certificates and other permissions «Customer confidence and particular, satisfaction with GPON connection loyalty are the major comquality reached 4.26 points on a five-grade for import products are 100% origscale by the end of the first half of 2015. inal, since Detsky Mir Group itself ponents of our success in acts as an applicant in certification the market. We do our best Besides, the long-term project of transforming the customer service quality manprocedures. Certificates and other to meet the highest expectaagement system won the Consumer Rights permissions for domestic products tions of our customers and and Service Quality Award 2015 established are subject to regular authentication offer them a wide range of by the Social Projects and Programmes once available in the Certification products, the perfect service, Foundation jointly with the Russian Federal Service for Consumer Rights Protection Department. In addition, the infora high quality and safety of and Human Welfare (Rospotrebnadzor), the mation on product labels is comgoods. After all, they trust Moscow city administration, the Association pared with the information stated in us with their most precious of Retail Companies, and the State Duma’s corresponding certificates. possession — the happiness Economic Policy, Innovative Development, and Entrepreneurship Committee. of their children.» Due to the measures taken, no significant violations of law in the field of consumer goods’ safety assurance were identified in the of goods to implement additional Detsky Mir stores in 2014. quality control procedures for the obtained products, including early In 2015, the Company is going to sampling of textile materials for continue its focused cooperation school uniform (for the order of with foreign and Russian suppliers Detsky Mir Group) to be tested. 110 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE Medsi Group: Introduction of Uniform Customer Service Standards Thousands of people are daily serviced points, and the loyalty of Moscow hospiin clinics of Medsi Group. Since every tals’ patients increased by 6 points. patient deserves special attention, the Company is focused on introducing 2015 plans of the Company on develNatalya Komarova the best global practices in the field of oping client service and introducing a Vice President for Marketing healthcare services and creating comfort client-oriented approach include: and Sales, Medsi Group conditions for enhancement customer loyalty and commitment to future visits. 1. Building a corporate service culture in the company, including Thus, in 2014, Medsi Group launched training of the employees in custhe introduction of a uniform customer tomer-oriented servicing. service standard helping every employee to act politely and confidently in a 2. Normalizing all stages of service dialogue with a patient. To assess the operations. effect of these measures, a 2-stage survey of customer loyalty and satisfac3. Introducing and upscaling service tion was carried out in July-September motivation of the employees. and October-December 2014. As early as in several months after the standard 4. Training the employees in has been implemented positive changclient-oriented service. es became visible. For example, the satisfaction level of visitors of diagnostic 5. Introducing new online technoloand treatment centres increased by 10 gies to track rendering of services. Medsi Group: • 2 workshops held as part of the MEDSI Health Lessons partnership proBE HEALTHY WITH MEDSI! PROJECT gramme implemented jointly with the Detsky Mir chain; Be Healthy with MEDSI! aims at promoting the healthy lifestyle and raise people’s • 3 events within Health Days at MTS; awareness about how to stay healthy. • 14 lessons for schools covering severThe project is a free-of-charge programme al areas; and for customers and partners, which includes a cycle of lectures, webinars, consultations, • 17 courses for mothers at the chil«We seek to be not just and newsletters on topical medical issues. dren’s clinic. the largest chain of private The project and its results were highly healthcare clinics, but also Main results: appreciated by partners involved in the a long-term partner for our • 6 lectures for corporate clients of the Be project (MTS, Detsky Mir, and Bashneft) patients and their families. Healthy with MEDSI programme; and patients of Medsi Group. To do this, we look at our business with the eyes of our clients to understand what they like and what they don’t. The Customer Service Standard is one of the tools that help us to build a proper dialogue with customers and develop efficient and mutually beneficial relations.» MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 111 4.8 Scientific Community and Innovation Management RTI Group: Establishment of an Innovative Ecosystem Industry-specific group RTI has The key areas of the R&D division are been developing the R&D division currently terahertz and radio photon Sergey Boev in cooperation with field-oriented technologies. Application of terahertz CEO of RTI Group scientific centres for many years technologies will facilitate the develforming an innovative ecosystem opment of new products in various around the Company. civil and military systems: compact precision radars, high-speed commuTasks of the R&D division: nication lines, blind landing systems, systems of remote identification of • assure synergy of R&D activity chemical substances, and non-inthrough a uniform management vasive treatment and diagnostics system, standardisation, and unisystems. Application of radio photon fication of research and developtechnologies will help to improve ment management; characteristics of radio engineering facilities, substantially decrease • elaborate mechanisms of comtheir mass-dimensional parameters mercialisation of projects and and energy consumption, reduce develop new business directions; production and operation costs, and increase data communication speed • consolidate R&D budget, and volume (up to 25 Gb/s). In 2014, switch over to a long-term the Company launched a new prom«R&D plays an important role model of programme and ising direction to develop aerospace in the cycle of product develproject budgeting; systems and hired a team of highly opment, from the emergence qualified industry specialists. of a concept generation and its • create conditions for scientific formalisation to manufacturing professional rehabilitation and In 2012, RTI started to form an and testing of pre-production cooperation, including globally; R&D structure abroad. Entrance prototypes. At RTI, we know points were established in the USA how to shape an innovative • create conditions for pro(Silicon Valley), Germany (Saxobusiness environment that tection and efficient use of ny), and Switzerland. A subsidiis motivated towards the end intellectual rights. ary company of RTI (R&D centre) result. We develop new R&D was founded in Switzerland as a areas in cooperation with the The R&D division of RTI organmeans of entering R&D projects leading Russian and internaises development and introducperformed jointly with Eurotional institutions and laboration of innovative technologies pean companies. tories and actively participate while creating ground, water, air, in state R&D projects. This sysand space monitoring systems. In 2013, RTI established an R&D tematic work performed using The division develops new sysSupport Foundation. The R&D cutting-edge technology helped tems and solutions in the field Support Foundation of RTI was one us to create such complicated of microelectronics, complex of the first foundations in Russia systems as Arctic Surveillance protection, and safety through created within the Federal Law On System, environmental and bio convergence and localisation of Science and National Research and monitoring, etc.» best technologies. Development Policy . The Foun112 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE dation was mainly established to level on the basis of competences form new business directions and of the Russian Federal Nuclear strengthen market positions in Centre, RTI, RUSNANO, and other traditional markets of RTI through high-tech companies in form of development of technological compublic-private partnership. One petencies of the Group. The R&D of the subdivisions of the R&D Foundation forms a core of the innodivision is located in Technopark vative ecosystem which consolidates Sarov — Sistema-Sarov Innovative financial flows (allocations from RTI Technology Centre (see details on and its S/As for R&D activity), develTechnopark Sarov in chapter 3.4. opment process (pipeline) projects Contribution to Development of of the Group, uniform scientific and Locations of Operations). Developfinancial expert assessment, as well ments of Sistema-Sarov Centre are as best practices of innovative and designed to assure safety in large high-tech project management. cities, at industrial enterprises, housing and community facilities, An important component of the and render analytical support to innovative ecosystem within the operations’ employees and spethe Aerospace Systems direction R&D division is Technopark Sarov cialists in decision making. and proceed with competency which aims to develop and combuilding in the field of development mercialize breakthrough techIn 2015, it is planned to demonof air drone systems and airand nologies of global and national strate the first results of work in space-based instrumentation. MTS: Corporate Accelerator In 2014, MTS launched an acceleration programme for emerging inventors within the Telecom Idea project Mikhail Arkhipov «Acceleration is an essential to support startups in the field of Vice President of the HRHR component for projects at information and communication Department, MTS the initial development stage. technologies. Over 100 projects from The programme is based on Russia and CIS countries particithe mechanisms that help pated in the programme. Accelerato strengthen the projects tor was supported by Sistema and through skills and experits subsidiaries. The programme tise of telecommunication participants were given a chance to specialists, mentors, and complete their projects jointly with experts from various fields. the Company’s employees and presCollaboration on innovative ent their work to the top managers projects is rewarding for of MTS for future implementation. both startup founders and MTS employees. No doubt Accelerator is a unique platform that this is very useful not bringing together external invenonly for the projects, but tors (authors of projects selected also for the MTS employees at the Telecom Idea contest for who joined the teams and emerging developers), internal inwill develop their project ventors of MTS (who were selected management skills.» within Idea Factory and Leadership Academy), and invited experts. MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 113 The participants make a real startthe finalists can really improve the up within a week only: they adapt life of people — a service for planThe Accelerator will the project to complicated market ning an ideal urban environment, a select and support conditions, visit lectures, particwrapper application which simpli18 projects ipate in workshops with the MTS fies the use of modern tablets by employees, etc. In addition to very elderly people, and several other and startups important knowledge, they acquire very useful inventions. an understanding of future development options for their projects. In 2015, the Accelerator will select and support 18 projects and startBased on the results of the accelups in Russia and CIS countries. eration programme, six projects It is also planned to integrate the were selected. The authors had the Telecom Idea programme with the opportunity to elaborate their confederal acceleration programme cepts with professional mentors, Generation S of RVC and to expand students of leading technical and collaboration of Sistema’s S/As in economic higher education instithe corporate acceleration project tutions, and MTS experts. Ideas of of MTS in 2015-2016. MTS: TELECOM IDEA CONTEST dren aged 13 to 17. The contest brought • to establish a Telecom Idea platform MTS has been organising its annual together children of MTS Group’s employin the Republic of Belarus; Telecom Idea contest since 2011 with ees from Lipetsk, Chita, Nizhny Novgorod, Barnaul, Krasnodar, and Moscow. The • to develop the Telecom Idea JUNsupport from Sistema, the Lift to the IOR project, which discovers and Future programme, the Russian Ministry participants investigated modern information and communication technologies, supports emerging talents, and to of Communications and Mass Media, the support the innovative community of Ministry of Economic Development, etc. shared innovative ideas, and imagined the future of information society. The schoolchildren (aged 13 to 17). Telecom Idea is an event that aims at contestants were awarded with trips to • to develop educational camps for discovering and supporting emerging the Lift to the Future summer scientific students jointly with the Lift to the talents working on IT and telecom techand educational camp. Future project; nologies and services that can be useful MTS will continue developing the Telecom • to apply new tools to look for ideas (hackfor business, the government or for the Idea programme in 2015. Notably, it plans: athons, mentoring, and crowd funding). social sphere. Innovative projects submitted to the contest can be at any development stage , from a concept to implementation and operation, including technical solutions and software for communication systems, new services, mobile, content, and web-based services, marketing and managerial solutions. Practical application of technologies and services is the most important criterion for assessment of the projects. Over 600 projects have been submitted to the contest over four years. Many of them were successfully implemented. The winning projects of 2014 are: MasterGis — a service for planning an ideal urban environment, SIM for improved safety of online payments, iHealth, an at-home health diagnosing system, and RealSpeaker, a voice recognition project. In 2014, the first Telecom Idea JUNIOR contest was held by MTS for school chil114 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE 4.9 Higher Education Institutions and Investments in Human Capital RTI: Highly Qualified Scientific and Engineering Personnel Training System RTI Group is a dynamically developeration with subject-oriented through ideas and technologies oping hi-tech holding company that metropolitan and regional higher from the Russian scientific and operates successfully at the large education institutions. As part of educational environment. and complex information and telethis cooperation higher education communication systems market. institutions have an opportunity The Intellectual Information Radio to participate in real projects of Physical Systems department of The Company is interested in the Company, while the Company MIPT (NRU) is the basic departrecruiting trained personnel itself has an opportunity to train ment of Radio Engineering and knowledgeable in the main (batop-qualification personnel for Cybernetics faculty at RTI. The sic) technologies developed in the future projects. Besides, through department is headed by Sergey Company and who are familiar cooperation with the leading Fedorovich Boev, RTI CEO, Doctor with its working conditions, and higher education institutions and of Economics, Professor, General makes big efforts in this area. RAS institutes, RTI can access best Designer of missile warning sysOne of the main aspects is coscientific achievements and breaktem (MWS), State Award laureate took professional RTI sends development classes its employees and improved skills to do MBA and master programme 4493 training. employees At RTI named after A.L. Mints and RPC NIIDAR presented master there are and baccalaureate postgraduate training programmes. 11 students MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 115 of the Russian Federation. The ment. Various events are held for department became the flagship this purpose: tours, lectures on Sergey Boev of research, educational, personprofessions presentation, workRTI CEO nel maintenance for RTI activities shops given by experts. Support is and all its subsidiaries. It is the given to gifted students and young core of R&D-chain of basic despecialists. RTI actively cooperates partments and joint laboratories with The Lift to the Future project of partner higher education instiand plans to identify talented stututions created at RTI, the initiator dents for further employment at of next-generation scientific and RTI businesses after they graduate educational projects. Such cooperfrom higher education institutions. ation will inevitably lead to bright solutions of important tasks. The sponsored Moscow high school No. 227 (these days it hosts In 2014, 11 students of the baan Engineering Centre of P. Popsic department successfulovich) boasts the RU3AWH radio ly presented their master and club with collective radio station. baccalaureate theses. Pre-University Career-Guidance and Training Centre (in cooperRTI sends its employees to do MBA ation with MIPT) housed by the and master programme training. school is the next step in the hard «Development of a modern hi-tech In 2014, 4,493 company employees work of setting up a continuous business is impossible without took professional development chain of highly qualified scientific deep integration into the scientific classes and improved their skills. and engineering personnel training and educational environment. This At RTI named after A.L. Mints and system. The XXI Century Educaintegration is reflected mostly in RPC NIIDAR there are postgraduate tional Environment is another joint setting up an extensive network of training programmes. The Compaproject with RTI that was initiatpartner universities and academic ny employs: 309 Candidates and 73 ed by Secondary General School institutions around the company. Doctors of Science, 52 Professors, No. 227 in the academic year of Such cooperation opens access 26 Lenin and State Prize Winners. 2014/2015. To support IT educato academic staff and advanced tion within lesson system and as a knowledge not only for RTI, but The company also actively cooperpart of extracurricular activities, a also for all participants of the ates with the pre-university sector. fully equipped Robotic Technology partner network. This way our Career-guidance programmes Class was opened as a module company creates a favourable offered by RTI and its businesses of the announced project. Curenvironment for the development focus on recruiting to subject-orirently the Centre of P. Popovich is of consumers for the innovaented education institutions pupils graded as engineering and techtion system of the country and from Moscow and other cities with nical with the right to run several individual regions.» RTI businesses for future employengineering classes. NIIME and Mikron: Departments at Moscow Institutes NIIME and Mikron, which is a part operation with higher and secondary NIIME and Mikron established basic of RTI Group, has for many years specialized educational institutions, departments for functional nanobeen working in cooperation with the NIIME and NIIME and Mikronproelectronics as part of Physical and Russian largest technical higher edmotes scientific knowledge, personQuantum Electronics faculty on the ucation institutions and participating nel training and recruitment, and basis of NRU MIPT (Moscow Instiin the innovative economy specialists also professional development for tute of Physics and Technology). The training programme. Facilitating cothe Company’s personnel. department trains highly qualified 116 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE specialists who are able to explore, Group’s CEO gave a lecture on the develop and introduce advanced position and development prosZhores Alferov technologies in the field of nanopects for domestic microelectronPresident of the Russian and microelectronics. The Company ics and new technologies in the Academy of Sciences, also set up and coordinates the nanoelectronics field. Nobel Prize Laureate basic department of VLSI Submicron in physics Technology in NRU MIET (Moscow In 2015, NIIME and Mikron plans to Institute of Electronic Technology). continue cooperation with stuTo study foreign experience in midents of both technical and natural croelectronics students participate science faculties as well as young in international conferences and do scientists from leading higher internships at foreign centres, such education institutions of Russia in as Grenoble in France, Stanford Uniorder to promote microelectronics, versity in California, Fraunhofer Soboosting the profile of a microeciety for the Advancement of Applied lectronics engineer as a profession Research in Germany. The higher and recruit new employees. education institutions departments’ Chairman is NIIME and Mikron CEO, RAS Fellow G.Ya. Krasnikov. VivaCell-MTS: NIIME and Mikron organises tours SUPPORT OF EDUCATION and academic lectures for stuIn 2014, VivaCell-MTS in cooperation dents of various higher education with the Armenian Ministry of Educainstitutions on a constant basis tion and Science started introducing specialized training courses into the in partnership with leading excurriculum of 5 Armenian schools. perts, HR officials and the Company management. The Company Teaching such classes as Basics of Telecommunications and Informaspecialists show the students the «In the past fifty years, we have tion Technologies will encourage the microelectronic components prodevelopment of information and combeen active participants of the duction process and answer their munication technologies as a priority ‘semiconductor revolution’. It technical questions. in the country’s economic, scientific was this revolution that gave the and technical evolution. most powerful impulse to the At the end of July, 2014, NIIME Also, the company has been helpdevelopment of the human civand Mikron organised a Summer ing students from disadvantaged ilization. I am positive that the School. More than 40 students families since 2011. The Educational electronic industry will become Fund programme implemented by and young scientists from Kazan, VivaCell-MTS works with special the locomotive of the scientific Tomsk, St. Petersburg, Novosineeds students or those from socially and technical progress of our birsk, Belgorod and other cities of vulnerable families. Thanks to the country. NIIME and Mikron will Russia participated in it. Among programme, more than 700 stuplay a key part in this process dents were able to fully devote their them there were physicists, time to studies, and 53 received a because this institution has chemists, materials scientists, Bachelor’s degree. preserved its unique professionbiologists, and also journalists and al,scientific and educational pocommunications specialists who tential. Today, a real technologiare interested in nanotechnologies. cal breakthrough is taking place at NIIME and Mikron. Young One day, during the Summer scientists are being trained, School the students visited a businew educational programmes ness in Zelenograd. The students created, and world-class rehad a special tour arranged for searches are underway, includthem which included a visit to the ing the Academy’s Scientific and Company’s R&D centre, crystals Educational Nanotechnologies production site in clean rooms, Centre. This guarantees deassembly shops where end prodvelopment of science, national uct is made: transport cards, chip science-driven industries and modules for biopassports, etc. the national economy.» After the tour of the enterprise the MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 117 5. APPENDICES 5.1 Sustainable Development Results in 2014 119 5.2 CSR Regulation at Sistema 120 5.3 GRI Content Index 121 5.4 Implementation of Principles of the UN Global Compact 126 5.5 Conclusion on the Review of Sistema’s 2014 127 Sustainability Report by the RUIE Council for NonFinancial Reporting for the Purpose of Public Assurance 5.6 Glossary and Abbreviations 128 118 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE 5.1 Sustainable Development Results in 2014 Item Plan Status Comments number Managing subsidiaries and affiliates in the field of sustainable development Increasing the number of social projects based on the 8 S/As took part in cooperative programmes and projects. In 1. Shared Value approach, and increasing the number of Completed 2014, 7 Shared Value projects were implemented in S/As. S/As participating in joint social programmes/projects. In April-May 2015, CSR audit of Sistema took place, as well as the study of best CSR practice among large Russian and 2. Audit of CSR at Sistema and S/As. Completed foreign companies, and jury of opinion regarding social responsibility. Anti-Corruption Efforts In 2014, anti-corruption procedures were integrated into business processes of BPGC, MTS-Bank, SSTL, according to Introduction of individual anti-corruption procedures in Sistema standards. 3. Completed portfolio companies of Sistema. Audit of the effective anti-corruption procedures was conducted, which was followed by the development of the plant to improve the regulatory base of the Corporation. Corporate Governance Adaptation of new provisions of Russian Corporate Relevant regulatory documents have been amended. Governance Code (approved in 2014), including with 4. Completed regard to Board candidates selection rules, and the role of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee. Human Resources Developing and introducing the project management Sistema’s Board of Directors approved the Regulation on 5. Completed incentive programme. Bonuses for project implementation and cash profit. Introduction of a typical short term motivation 6. Completed system within S/As. Expert RA Rating Agency (RAEX) confirmed the employer 7. Strengthening an attractive employer brand. Completed appeal of Sistema at the level of А.hr High level of the employer's attractiveness. Contribution to Development of Locations of Operations Development of social and economic partnership with In 2014, Sistema Group signed 5 agreements on cooperation 8. Completed the regions of operation. with the regions of operation. Stakeholder Engagement and Social Reporting of the Corporation For the first time the corporation prepared a non-financial Preparation of Sistema's corporate social 9. Completed report according to GRI G4 Standard and had it publicly report for 2014. assured at RUIE. MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 119 5.2 CSR Regulation at Sistema Aspects of sustainable Legal framework Responsible development Social responsibility and Internal documents: • Corporate Communications Function contribution to progress • Strategy of the Corporate social responsibility and charitable • Sistema Charitable Foundation of the locations of activity • Managers of Investment Portfolios operations • Policy of the corporate social responsibility • Policy concerning charitable activity • Policy concerning interaction with public authorities External documents: • Global Compact (United Nations) • Social Charter of Russian Business (RUIE) • International ISO standard 26000:2010 “Guidance on social responsibility” Human resources • HR Code • HR Department • Code of Ethics • Compensation and Benefit Policy Economic responsibility • Accounting policy • Finance and Investment Function • Code of Tender Procedures and Procurement Risk management • Code of Risks • Finance and Investment Function Corporate governance Internal documents: • Corporate Governance Function • Corporate Governance Code • Corporate Secretary External documents: • Corporate governance Code (letter of the Bank of Russia № 0652/2463 dated 10.04.2014) • The UK Corporate Governance Code Corruption Management Internal documents: • Legal Function • Anti-Corruption Policy • Security and IT Department • Code of Ethics • Internal Audit Department External documents: • UN Convention against Corruption (adopted at New York on 10/31/2003 Resolution 58/4 at 51 plenary meeting 1-58 session of the UN General Assembly, ratified by the Russian Federation FL No. 40-FZ dated 08.03.2006 ) • Criminal Law Convention on Corruption (enclosed in Strasbourg 27.01.1999 ETS No. 173, ratified by the Russian Federation FL No. 125-FZ dated 25.07.2006 ) • Criminal Code of the Russian Federation No. 63-FZ dated 13.06.1996 • Code of Administrative Offences of the Russian Federation No. 195-FZ dated 30.12.2001, Federal law No. 273-FZ dated 25.12.2008 «On Combating Corruption» Business ethics • Code of Ethics • Legal Function • Anti-corruption policy • Internal Audit Department • HR Department Responsible investment External documents: • Finance and Investment Function • The principles of responsible investment developed by an • Strategy Function international group of investors under the auspices of the • Sistema Charitable Foundation United Nations • Managers of Investment Portfolios Ecological Responsibility External documents: • Administrative Department • The applicable legislation of the Russian Federation in the • Sistema Charitable Foundation sphere of environmental protection 120 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE 5.3 GRI Content Index (G4-32) Index Index Name Disclosure Page Strategy and analysis A statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation about the 1. G4-1 relevance of sustainability to the organisation and the organisation’s strategy for Full 12-13 addressing sustainability. 2. G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks and possibilities Full 38 Organisational Profile 3. G4-3 The name of the organisation Full 13 4. G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services Full 26-27 5. G4-5 The location of the organisation's headquarters Full 13 The number of countries where the organisation operates, and names of countries 6. G4-6 where either the organisation has significant operations or that are specifically Full 26-27 relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. 7. G4-7 The nature of ownership and legal form. Full 13 The markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of 8. G4-8 Full 26-27 customers and beneficiaries). The scale of the organisation, including • Total number of employees; • Net sales (for private sector organisations) or net revenues (for public sector 9. G4-9 organisations); Full 26-27 • Total capitalisation broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organisations); • Quantity of products or services provided • Total number of employees by employment contract and by gender; • total number of permanent employees by type of employment type and by gender; • total number of employees by corporate and non-corporate employees, as well as by gender; 10. G4-10 • total number of employees by regions and by gender; Full 51 • portion of the organisation’s work performed by workers who are legally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors; • seasonal variations in the number of employees. 11. G4-11 The percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Full 54 12. G4-12 Supply chain description Full 28 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organisation’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain, including: • Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions; 13. G4-13 Full 26-27 • Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organisations); • Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 121 Index Index Name Disclosure Page 14. G4-14 Precautionary approach Full 38 Externally developed economic, ecological and social charters, principles or other 15. G4-15 Full 13 initiatives used or supported by the company Membership in interest associations, trade and/or national and international organisations, within which the company: • takes a position in governing bodies; 16. G4-16 Full 13 • participates in projects or committees; • provides significant financing apart from membership fee; • identifies its membership as strategic Identified material aspects and boundaries List of legal entities whose statements were included into the consolidated financial 17. G4-17 Full 15 statements • to determine the contents of the report and boundaries of the Aspects; 18. G4-18 Full 16 • explanation 19. G4-19 List of all material Aspects identified in the course of defining the report content Full 18-20 Description of each essential Aspect, Aspect boundaries within the company (including 20. G4-20 the list of legal entities or groups of legal entities which are specified in Item 3.2 and Full 18 for which this Aspect is relevant) Description of each material Aspect, Aspect boundaries outside the company 21. G4-21 (including the list of legal entities, groups of legal entities, facilities and geographical Full 18 regions for which this Aspect is relevant) Results of all restatements of information provided in previous statements, and 22. G4-22 Full 15 reasons for such wording Material change in the Scope and Boundaries of the Aspects compared to previous 23. G4-23 Full 15 reporting periods Stakeholder Engagement 24. G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation Full 79 25. G4-25 The basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage Full 79 The organisation’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether 26. G4-26 Full 80-83 any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how 27. G4-27 the organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its Full 80-83 reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. Report Profile 28. G4-28 Reporting period Full 15 29. G4-29 Publishing date of the previous sustainable development report Full 15 30. G4-30 Reporting cycle Full 15 122 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE Index Index Name Disclosure Page 31. G4-31 The contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Full 16 The 'in accordance' option the organisation has chosen. The GRI Content Index for 32. G4-32 the chosen option. The reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has Full 15 been externally assured The organisation’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report; • the scope and basis of any external assurance provided; 33. G4-33 Full 16 • the relationship between the organisation and the assurance providers; • involvement of the highest governance body or senior executives in seeking assurance for the organisation’s sustainability report Governance The governance structure of the organisation, including committees of the highest 34. G4-34 governance body. responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and Full 32 social impacts. Ethics and integrity The organisation’s values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour such as 35. G4-56 Full 42 codes of conduct and codes of ethics Category: Economic Aspect: Economic Performance 18, 30, 64-65, 36. G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Full 120 Direct economic value generated and distributed (subject to the financial information 37. G4-ЕС1 Partial 64 standard in the organisation’s annual report) 38. G4-ЕС4 Financial assistance received by the organisation from governments Full 64 Aspect: Market Presence 39. G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Full 19 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant 40. G4-EC5 Full 52 locations of operation. Category: Environmental Aspect: Emissions 41. G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Full 20 Aspect: Effluents and Waste 42. G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Full 20 Aspect: Compliance 43. G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Full 19, 102-106, 120 MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 123 Index Index Name Disclosure Page Aspect: Overall 44. G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Full 18, 77-78, 120 45. G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Full 77 Category: Social, Subcategory: Labour Practices and Decent Work Aspect: Employment 18, 51-52, 54-55, 46. G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Full 120 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, 47. G4-LA1 Partial 52 gender and region. Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part48. G4-LA2 Full 54 time employees, by significant locations of operation. Aspect: Labour/Management relations 49. G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Full 19, 54, 120 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are 50. G4-LA4 Full 54 specified in collective agreements. Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety 51. G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Full 18, 54 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker 52. G4-LA5 health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health Full 54 and safety programmes. Aspect: Training and Education 53. G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Full 18, 55-58, 120 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee 54. G4-LA9 Full 55 category. Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued 55. G4-LA10 Full 57 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. Category: Social, Subcategory: Human Rights Aspect: Investment 56. G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Full 20, 42-43, 120 57. G4-HR1 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Full 43 Aspect: Non-Discrimination 58. G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Full 19, 42-43, 120 59. G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Full 43 124 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE Index Index Name Disclosure Page Safety Practices aspect 60. G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Full 20, 42-43 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organisation’s human rights policies or 61. G4-HR7 Full 43 procedures that are relevant to operations Category: Social, Subcategory: Society Aspect: Local Communities 62. G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Full 20, 73-76, 120 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact 63. G4-SO1 Full 75 assessments, and development programmes. Aspect: Anti-corruption 64. G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Full 18, 39-41, 120 65. G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures. Full 39 66. G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken. Full 40 Aspect: Public Policy 67. G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Full 20, 82 68. G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary. Full 82 Aspect: Anti-Competitive Behaviour 69. G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Full 19, 82, 120 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and 70. G4-SO7 Full 82 monopoly practices and their outcomes Aspect: Compliance 71. G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Full 18, 82 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for 72. G4-SO8 Full 82 non-compliance with laws and regulations. Subcategory: Product Responsibility Aspect: Customer Health and Safety 73. G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Full 18, 109-111 Aspect: Compliance 74. G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Full 19, 109-111 MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 125 5.4 Implementation of Principles of the UN Global Compact Classification Principles GRI G4 Index Location in the Report 1. The business community should support and respect G4-HR1 2.6. Business Ethics the protection of internationally recognized and asserted G4-HR3 4.2. Personnel and Social Policy, Personnel human rights G4-HR7 Training and Human Rights Human rights G4-HR1 2.6. Business Ethics 2. The business community should not be involved in G4-HR3 4.2. Personnel and Social Policy, Personnel human rights violation. G4-HR7 Training and Human Rights 3. The business community should support the freedom of association and actual recognition of the right to G4-11 3.3. HR Management organise and bargain collectively. G4-HR1 4. The business community should speak in favour of G4-HR3 2.6. Business Ethics abolition of forced or compulsory labour in all forms. G4-HR7 Employment G4-HR1 5. The business community should stand for abolition of G4-HR3 2.6. Business Ethics child labour. G4-HR7 G4-HR1 2.6. Business Ethics 6. The business community should advocate elimination G4-HR3 4.2. Personnel and Social Policy, Personnel of occupational discrimination. G4-HR7 Training and Human Rights 7. The business community should favour the 2.4. Risk Management environmental approach based on the precautionary G4-14 4.5. Environmental NGOs and managing principle. environmental impact 3.7. Ecology and Environment Protection 8. The business community should launch initiatives Environment G4-EN31 4.5. Environmental NGOs and managing targeted at higher environmental responsibility. environmental impact 9. The business community should facilitate the 3.7. Ecology and Environment Protection development and spread of environmentally safe G4-EN31 4.5. Environmental NGOs and managing technologies. environmental impact 2.5. Anti-Corruption Efforts 10. The business community should counter all kinds of G4-SO4 Anti-Corruption 4.4. Business Partners, Suppliers and corruption, including extortion and bribery. G4-SO5 Responsible Business Practices Standards 126 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE 5.5 Conclusion on the Review of Sistema’s 2014 Sustainability Report by the RUIE Council for Non-Financial Reporting for the Purpose of Public Assurance MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 127 5.6 Glossary and Abbreviations Glossary is a survey done for the purpose of developing rational fertilizers usage Agrochemical soil survey recommendations. is a resource-efficient and cost-effective technology of tillage without overturning Nonmouldboard technology the soil layer. is a process targeted at clarification of stakeholders' interests to take into Stakeholder Engagement account in the Corporation's activities. is a system of network relations organised on the basis of the Global Impact UN Global Compact Board and six UN institutions. are individuals or legal entities with an interest in the operations of the Stakeholders Corporation able to influence its operations. is an environment enabling full involvement and inclusion of disabled people into Inclusive environment society and community. Key performance indicator is an integrated indicator of a structural unit or certain official activities reflecting (KPI) target goals (of a structural unit or an official) for a given period. is website filtering based on their content; does not allow access to certain Content filtering websites or Internet services. is a set of Corporation-specific and regularly updated commitments which were voluntarily and consistently framed through involvement of key stakeholders, Corporate Social designed to implement internal and external social programmes, resulting in Responsibility (CSR) corporate growth, gain goodwill, corporate identity and expanding meaningful and functional connections with stakeholders. is transfer of some production functions to an indefinite group of people Crowdsourcing (volunteers). is an area in the forest allocated for cutting mature and overripe forest, for Cutting Area renewal felling, forest tending cutting and forest sanitation. is taking readings of generating facilities, transformers, switches, circuit Grid Observability breakers, high voltage power lines. land, water surface and air space above them, where natural complexes and Specially Protected Natural objects are located which have special environmental, scientific, cultural, Areas (SPNA) aesthetic, recreational and health significance, withdrawn completely or partially from economic use, having special protection. Shared Value projects are projects which make positive impact on the Corporation and its stakeholders. Recycling is reuse of production waste or garbage or returning it into the turnover. Russian Union of Industrialists and Russia-wide non-governmental organisation promoting business interests. Entrepreneurs (RUIE) is a description of how an organisation identifies and analyses its actual and Management Practices Data potential economic, environmental and social impacts, as well as how it responds (MPD) to such impacts. is scientifically proved crop alternation on the fields and over time; it helps to Crop rotation restore and improve soil fertility. 128 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE is a set of basic principles for responsible business practices defining Social Charter of Russian relationships between employer and employee, civic institutions, authorities, local Business community; gives principles of environmental safety. is a part of a constituent territory of the Russian Federation with special legal Territory of Priority Sociostatus for business and any other activities in order to create positive environment Economic Development and generate investment, to ensure fast economy growth and comfortable living (TPD) of the population. Chamber of Commerce and Industry of the Russian is Russian voluntary non-governmental association of entrepreneurs. Federation (CCI) is development that enables to meet the demands of a modern generation Sustainable development without depriving future generations of their chance to meet their own demands and needs. is a forum for computer programmers where various software specialists work Hackathon together on a problem. Knowledge economy is the topmost stage of post-industrial and innovation economy development. represent hardware and software solution to obtain and study comprehensive CRM sensors information on clients' interaction with a company. is company's cash funds generated through its operating activities less all taxes Free Cash Flow and capital investment. LED driver is a device that stabilizes electrical current flowing through LEDs. is a type of assets understood as a share in the capital, equity unit or non-floating Private Equity shares of a company. is a way of practical preparation of an emitter company when issuing Roadshow securities. SAP Workforce Management is a system of employees' time management that helps plan work shifts. are upgraded electrical supply networks that use information and communication Smart Grid networks and technologies to gather data on energy production and energy consumption. Abbreviations AKMR Russian Association of Communication Directors and Corporate Publishing Media ASI Agency for Strategic Initiatives JSFC Joint-Stock Financial Corporation BPF Big Pension Fund CF Charitable Foundation VIAM All-Russian Scientific Research Institute of Aviation Materials VC Volunteer Centre GDP Gross Domestic Product HSMI Higher School of Management and Innovation GC group of companies MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 129 POL petroleum, oil, lubricants S/As subsidiaries and affiliates WWP woodworking plant PP pecuniary profit IHL Integrated Hot Line IP investment portfolio IPOS Institute of Practical Oriental Studies IAP Institute of Applied Physics ITC Innovative Technology Centre CB criterial base CC Corporate Centre SG&A selling, general and administrative expenses KPI key performance indicators CSR Corporate Social Responsibility high conservation value forests, whose environmental and / or social value for HCVF preserving biodiversity, ecological balance, and / or meeting the needs of local population exceeds the value stored in the raw wood of these forests. FIC Forest Industry Complex LB logging business MSLU Moscow State Linguistic University MSU Moscow State University MIET Moscow Institute of Electronic Technology IGC Intergovernmental Commission MMW minimum monthly wage IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards MIPT Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology RI Research Institute ARI Agricultural Research Institute NIS satellite navigation system NRU National Research University NK oil company NGO non-governmental organisation NCP non-commercial partnership RPC Research and Production Cluster 130 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE NGPP Non-Governmental Pension Programme OSOPO mandatory insurance of hazardous industrial facilities PFC Production Pharmaceutical Company PFR Pension Fund of the Russian Federation RAS Russian Academy of Sciences RVC Russian Venture Company RGS Russian Geographic Society RAS Russian Accounting Standards VLSI very large-scale integration circuit DLS distance learning system SPOK Northern Environmental Coalition LPG liquefied petroleum gas EEMS Enterprise Energy Management System TVC Television Company TV transportation vehicle Federal State Unitary Enterprise Russian Federal Nuclear Centre All-Russian FSUE RFNC–VNIIEF Scientific Research Institute of Experimental Physics SIF Social Insurance Fund of the Russian Federation FFOMS Federal Fund for Compulsory Medical Insurance PPM pulp and paper mill ETP Electronic Trading Platform the Fourth Generation, the generation of mobile communications with higher 4G requirements CDMA communication technology where communication media have a common band, (Code Division Multiple but different code modulation. Access) CRM customer relationship management Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortisation, an accounting EBITDA measure ERM Enterprise Risk Management ESG risks Environmental, Social and Corporate governance risks FSC Forest Stewardship Council, an international non-commercial organisation. GPON Gigabit-capable Passive Optical Network GR Government Relation Global Reporting Initiative, an organisation that aims to develop and promote GRI non-financial reporting standards. MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 131 HR Human Resources IRR Rate of Return ISO 26000:2010 International Standard “Guidance on Social Responsibility” ISSF International Students Science Fair IT Information Technology LED Light-emitting diode M&A Mergers and Acquisitions MBA Master of business administration OIBDA Operating Income Before Depreciation And Amortisation, an accounting measure P&L Profit and Loss PR Public Relations R&D Research and Development Radio Frequency IDentification, a way of automatic identification where by means RFID of radio signals data stored in transponders, or RFID tags, is read and recorded. TSR Total Shareholder Return UNICEF United Nations International Children’s Emergency Fund VAS Value Added Services WACC Weighted Average Cost of Capital WWF World Wildlife Fund 132 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KEY EVENTS AWARDS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THE REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE Contacts Investor Relations: +7 495 730-66-00 +7 495 692-22-88 ir@sistema.ru Press Office: +7 495 730-71-88 +7 495 228 15 32 kopytov@sistema.ru Enquiry Service: +7 495 737-01-01 Corporate Social Responsibility and Reporting: +7 495 692-10-88 kolchugin@sistema.ru Sistema CF’s Contacts +7 495 737-44-19 info@bf.sistema.ru press@bf.sistema.ru bf.sistema.ru Volunteer Centre +7 495 737-44-02 iberezhnova@bf.sistema.ru Sistema is a participant of the UN Global Compact in Russia MANAGING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDIARIES’ TRADITIONS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPENDICES 133 DISCLAIMER Certain statements in this report mentioned date or to reflect may contain assumptions or the occurrence of unanticipated forecasts in respect to forthcoming events. Many factors could cause events within Sistema. The words Sistema’s actual results to differ “expect”, “estimate”, “intend”, materially from those contained in “will”, “could” and similar our projections or forward-looking expressions identify forwardstatements, including, among looking statements. We wish to others, deteriorating economic and caution you that these statements credit conditions, our competitive are only predictions and that environment, risks associated actual events or results may with operating in Russia, rapid differ materially. We do not intend technological and market change to update these statements to in our industries, as well as many reflect events and circumstances other risks specifically related to occurring after the aboveSistema and its operations. www.sistema.ru JSFC Sistema 13, Mokhovaya Str., Moscow 125009 Tel. +7 (495) 692 2288 © JSFC Sistema 2015. All rights reserved
