Sustainability Report 2015 www.danfoss.com FIND US HERE: DANFOSS.COM WWW.FACEBOOK.COM/DANFOSS WWW.TWITTER.COM/DANFOSS HTTP://PLUS.GOOGLE.COM/+DANFOSS WWW.YOUTUBE.COM/DANFOSSGROUP WWW.LINKEDIN.COM/COMPANY/DANFOSS CONTENTS 4 CEO Comment 6 Danfoss at a glance 8 Sustainability at Danfoss 14 Danfoss and the Sustainable Development Goals 18 Targets, efforts and achievements 22 Ethical Conduct 26 Product compliance and transparency 28 Energy & climate 34 People and performance 42 Community and stakeholder engagement 46 Notes Sustainability Report 2015 · The Danfoss Group 3 CEO Comment In 2015, Danfoss launched a new and ambitious climate Also in 2015, the United Nations launched 17 Sustainable strategy. By 2030 Danfoss will be using half as much energy Development Goals as an inspiring platform for companies to keep the wheels of business running as in 2007. And this to work with. Danfoss supports the Sustainable Development energy will emit half as much CO2 per kWh. Goals and aim at integrating them into the company’s sustainability work from 2016. Energy efficiency is a key element of the Danfoss Core & Clear strategy and the technologies and solutions we offer our Danfoss became a signatory to the UN Global Compact In customers. Demonstrating leadership and improving Danfoss’ 2002. We continue to support the Global Compact and its own energy efficiency is an ongoing task and with the new principles as governing in our sustainability efforts. This report climate strategy, we intensify our own efforts building on what serves as our Communication on Progress report to the UN. we have already done and achieved. Qualilty, reliability and innovation for the long term are the focal points of all our activities, when we develop energyefficient solutions for our customers. We encourage them to use less energy, so setting ambitious targets for ourselves is Niels B. Christiansen only a natural part of taking climate leadership. President & CEO In 2015, we continued implementing the Danfoss Group sustainability program. During its implementation period, this program guides our work within a strengthened group-wide framework, while at the same time setting out clear goals for the work in our organization within the defined focus areas: health and safety; ethical conduct; product compliance & transparency; and finally energy-efficiency in Danfoss. In 2015, we have made progress within all above-mentioned focus areas and have initiated solid programs to improve the Niels B. Christiansen health and safety of our employees further and to ensure a President & CEO strong focus on product regulatory issues by building a new Group Regulatory function in Corporate Legal. Looking back at 2015, the COP21 summit marked an important milestone on the path towards a low carbon world in which Danfoss and our products play an important role. 4 Sustainability Report 2015 · The Danfoss Group FOCUS AREAS ENVIRONMENT, PRODUCT ENERGY ETHICAL HEALTH & COMPLIANCE & EFFICIENCY CONDUCT SAFETY TRANSPARENCY SUSTAINABILITY HIGHLIGHTS 2011 2012 2013* 2014* 2015** RESOURCE CONSUMPTION AND CLIMATE Energy consumption (MWh) 379,582 363,300 604,611 583,635 586,799 CO2 emissions (tons) 127,524 126,873 219,299 229,245 234,440 Water consumption (m3) 770.494 637.082 841,433 806,784 840,926 HEALTH & SAFETY LTI Lost Time Injuries 146 136 172 165 127 LTIF Lost Time Injury Frequency 6.1 5.8 4.7 4.4 3.4 LDR Lost Day Rate 84 121 82 66 59 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Dismissals due to unethical behavior 26 47 31 30 31 Number of inquiries in AskUs 69 75 85 Number of cases in Ethics Hotline 112 123 93 PEOPLE & PERFORMANCE Number of employees 23,430 23,092 23,463 24,117 23,420 Percentage of female managers 18 18 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS Net sales 33,904 34,007 33,628 34,375 38,031 (*) Includes Power Solutions acquired in 2013 (**) Includes Vacon acquired in 2014 Danfoss at a glance Danfoss engineers technologies that enable the world of tomorrow to do more with less. We meet the growing need for infrastructure, food supply, energy efficiency and climate-friendly solutions. Danfoss Power Solutions Danfoss Heating Danfoss Power Solutions is one of the world’s leading players Danfoss Heating is a key player within the heating industry. in the mobile hydraulics market. The segment covers three The business segment is the leader in a number of advanced divisions: Hydrostatics, Work Function, Controls, as well as heating components and systems that deliver comfort, energy some stand-alone businesses. Within each division, the efficiency, and enhanced heating performance in residential segment plays a leading role in R&D, design, manufacture and and commercial buildings as well as in district energy systems. sale of innovative and performance-enhancing hydraulic and Danfoss Heating supplies heating components and systems electronic systems and components. The business segment is within residential heating, commercial heating and district highly specialized in mobile hydraulics and provides worldenergy for cities for the entire supply of heating and cooling class solutions for the construction, agriculture, and other for optimal comfort while reducing energy consumption. off-highway vehicle markets. We are Engineering Tomorrow Danfoss Cooling At Danfoss, we see opportunities everywhere: feeding a Danfoss Cooling is the player in the air-conditioning and growing population, saving energy, enabling everyone to refrigeration industry with the most complete offering. The enjoy a more comfortable, better quality of life. We aim to rise business segment is an industry frontrunner in energyto increasingly complex challenges and, through knowledge efficient engineering, and strong application expertise and hard work, engineer solutions that achieve more with less. within commercial refrigeration, industrial refrigeration, airconditioning, and supermarket refrigeration. Quality, reliability and innovation are rooted in our DNA. Our technologies and products can be trusted to push With more than 10,000 components, including compressors, the boundaries for what is possible, deliver exceptional valves, sensors and switches, Danfoss Cooling provides its performance and answer the real needs of our customers. customers with innovative, energy-saving and precise control solutions. With leading expertise in refrigeration and air conditioning, controls for electric motors, heating systems for buildings Danfoss Drives and cities, and hydraulic solutions to power agricultural and Danfoss Drives is a leading player in the market for low voltage construction machinery, our impact can be felt everywhere. AC drives. The key competitive advantage for Danfoss Drives This is what drives us: To realize more of the potential of this is unique expertise and application knowledge, and Danfoss amazing world, and engineer the dreams of tomorrow, today. Drives is driven by passion to develop, manufacture and sell the best AC drives in the world and provide customers We engineer technologies that enable the world of tomorrow with efficient product lifecycle services. to do more with less. Our ambition is to realize the vast potential for better infrastructure, improved food supply, AC drives are used, for example, in pumps, fans, elevators, higher energy productivity and more climate-friendly escalators, conveyors and compressors. Danfoss Drives solutions. For our customers, we aim to deliver quality, solutions also play a key role when energy is produced from reliability and innovation in everything we do. renewable sources. Danfoss Silicon Power is also part of the Danfoss Drives segment. This business develops and manufactures power modules and stacks for a number of industries, like the automotive and wind industries. 6 Sustainability Report 2016 · The Danfoss Group 2015 highlights Total net sales Sales growth in DKK R&D spend Free cash flow (before M&A) / m DKK / m DKK / m DKK 38,031 11% 1,607 3,397 EBIT / m DKK Equity Equity / m DKK ratio 4,097 15,424 41.4% Financials in brief For the Group, net sales were at DKK 38,031m against DKK 34,375m in the same period last year. The improvement In 2015, the Danfoss Group maintained good performance and corresponds to 11% growth. In local currency, growth was 5%. delivered financial results in line with expectations. The year was EBIT was improved to DKK 4,097m against DKK 3,925m last characterized by continuing low, global growth conditions and year, which is equal to an increase of 4%. Net profit was at DKK the business environment remained mixed across markets and 2,597m record-high and 13% above last year. The free cash flow regions. before M&A was DKK 3,397m against DKK 3,389m in the yearearlier period. The demand for energy efficiency and increased focus on climate-friendly solutions were strong drivers for Danfoss In conclusion, the Group’s performance in 2015 was satisfactory. technologies supporting an improved performance in the two business segments Danfoss Cooling and Danfoss Drives. On the other hand, for the Danfoss Power Solutions business segment, results were impacted by a downturn in the global mobile hydraulics market due to low activity levels in the global agricultural sector as well as lower construction activity in China. Also, Danfoss Heating had a challenging year due to the economic downturn in Russia and slowdown in China. Sustainability Report 2016 · The Danfoss Group 7 Sustainability at Danfoss Danfoss’ sustainability program Material issues Danfoss has defined its sustainability program based on global Using a systematic selection process, Danfoss has identified megatrends, the Group’s expectations in relation to future those key focus areas to be addressed in the Group’s growth areas within food, infrastructure, energy and climate, sustainability program. and through interviews with managers and key employees in the Danfoss segments and corporate functions. The materiality assessment and the priorities have been addressed with various stakeholders: NGOs, Danfoss' managers The program supports Danfoss’ strategy with regards to and Danfoss' EHS (Environment, Health & Safety) community. profitable growth and will ensure achievements in prioritized It’s our intention to broaden this part of the company's areas through a clear structure, goals and follow-up. stakeholder engagement activities. Each of the material issues are described in the following sections of this report. 8 Sustainability Report 2015 · The Danfoss Group The main focus areas in Danfoss' Sustainability Program ENERGY & CLIMATE PRODUCT COMPLIANCE & TRANSPARENCY Compliance Product & Climate Buildings with product material Strategy legislation declaration Product Production Conflict Transport regulatory Processes minerals governance Energy Energy Circular Eco-design Audits Procurement Economy ENVIROMENT, HEALTH ETHICAL CONDUCT & SAFETY Global Incident Safety on the Ethics Human Rights Management shop floor Handbook Due Diligence System “One EHS“ Governance, Compliance Merger & Reduce LTIF policies and Programs Acquisitions targets Sustainability Report 2015 · The Danfoss Group 9 Policies and strategies Governance Danfoss has established rules and guidelines to supplement Danfoss’ Executive Committee has the overall responsibility legislation, which governs how Danfoss intends to act in matfor sustainability in Danfoss and defines the framework for the ters related to sustainability. These policies and strategies are Company’s sustainability efforts. Danfoss’ Risk & Compliance described in details in the notes at the back of this report. Committee has the overall responsibility for ensuring an effective enterprise risk management program and effective Information about Danfoss’ overall business strategies and compliance programs for selected areas. financial performance can be found in Danfoss’ Annual Report 2015 or at the company’s webpage: www.danfoss.com. Danfoss’ Public Affairs & Sustainability function is responsible for defining, implementing and reporting on Danfoss’ global New setup for sustainability program, Group targets, and activities for sustainability and Over the last two years, Danfoss has implemented its corporate citizenship. The function is also responsible for sustainability program within defined focus areas. The coordination of cross-segment initiatives. program will now be taken to a new level: to strengthen the alignment between public affairs, branding and sustainability More details about the sustainability governance can be found activities across all regions and segments, and strengthen our in the notes at the back of this report and at the company’s position with regard to Danfoss’ external stakeholders. webpage. As of September 2015, Danfoss established a new Sustainability function and a new Regulatory unit. The Danfoss Sustainability function is placed within Corporate Communications and Reputation. Joining forces across Public Affairs and Sustainability will generate further possibilities when positioning Danfoss as a world leader within sustainable solutions for energy, climate, food and infrastructure. The Regulatory unit has combined existing resources within product compliance and product approvals, and has strengthened the support to Danfoss’ business segments. The Group Regulatory unit is placed within Danfoss’ Legal department and is responsible for Danfoss standards, and business ethics, including the Danfoss Ethics Handbook. 10 Sustainability Report 2015 · The Danfoss Group Public Affairs at Danfoss Following Danfoss’ overall ambition to engineer cities and communities that achieve more by using less energy, we advocate the deployment of more energy-efficient It’s Danfoss’ overall ambition to engineer technologies in our four main areas of expertise: food, infrastructure, energy and climate. In Danfoss' key markets: the United States of America, Germany, China, India, and broadly Europe, the Public Affairs function focuses on six priorities: cities and communities 1. Awareness-raising about district energy as a state-of-theart and future-proof system that provides the most costthat achieve more by using less energy. efficient and low-carbon solution for heating and cooling of buildings in urban areas. With regard to ensuring energy independence, energy security, and the integration of renewable energy sources, the Danfoss Public Affairs team works together with associations like Euroheat and Power in Brussels to make policy-makers aware of the multiple benefits of district energy. On a global level, Danfoss supports capacity-building in cities through organizations like UNEP’s ‘District Energy in Cities Initiative’, in cooperation with C40 cities, ICLEI – Local Governments for Sustainability and SE4ALL Sustainable Energy for All. 2. Together with leading industry players in support of the Montreal Protocol, Danfoss is working on sustainable solutions for refrigeration and a phasing down of HFC gases. HFCs are potent greenhouse gases used in refrigerators, air conditioners, and industrial applications. To that end, we work together with GRMI The Global Refrigerant bigger energy system; hence taking into account the Management Initiative. Its aim is to educate the HVACR supply and demand side of energy. industry’s global supply chain to improve the management of refrigerants to reduce leak and service emissions, and to 4. Danfoss promotes efficient motor systems through a promote the recycling, recovery, reclaiming, and end-ofsystem-based approach together with organizations like life destruction of refrigerants and foam blowing agents. IEA and ZVEI. Electric motors account for 60-70% of the Danfoss also participates in the GFCCC –Global Food Cold industrial electricity demand, which creates a strong case Chain Council, where we facilitate the establishment of for optimizing electric motor systems with variable speed sustainable cold chains with low-GWP refrigerants. As drives. Yet, 70-80% of new industrial motors worldwide are industry leader, we see it as the company's responsibility to not fitted with these drives which, the IEA suggests, should build the capacity and awareness about sustainable cold be made mandatory. Danfoss advocate for mandatory chains and to push for progress within the use of natural transparency and disclosure of efficiency data on motor refrigerants. systems. 3. The energy efficiency of existing and new buildings holds 5. On green trade, Danfoss advocates the inclusion of energylarge opportunities for the sustainable development of our efficient technologies in the World Trade Organization’s urban centers. Danfoss, therefore, advocates for building Environmental Goods Agreement, to facilitate the codes in emerging markets and the implementation of competitiveness of related products and a higher uptake existing and more ambitious building codes in established and implementation of renewable energy sources, markets. Consequently, optimizing energy efficiency in new following the principle of energy efficiency first. buildings, right from the start, is extremely important so that we do not lock ourselves into inefficient technologies for 6. In Danfoss' home market, Denmark, the decoupling of decades. An even bigger potential stems from renovating growth and energy consumption in the Gross Domestic the existing building stock, which currently accounts for Product (GDP) figures has since the 1970s allowed cost about a third of global energy use and energy-related and energy savings as well as significant CO2 emission GHG emissions. For this reason, Danfoss support the reductions. The high penetration rate of district energy International Energy Agency’s recommendation for a (60%) in particular, has enabled the integration of a high global renovation rate of 1-2% of existing buildings per proportion of renewable energy sources, such as wind, year. In the EU, Danfoss want to make buildings ready solar, biomass or industry surplus heat. The next step for for demand-response in order to provide the needed Denmark’s green transition will be to ensure an even greater flexibility for the integration and uptake of renewable uptake of renewable energy through closer cooperation energy. We advocate looking at buildings as part of the between sectors and smart energy technology. Sustainability Report 2015 · The Danfoss Group 11 With a focus on these priorities, Danfoss is working with Compliance programs stakeholders, such as the International Energy Agency (IEA), Danfoss wishes to maintain and continually improve its the World Economic Forum (WEF), Sustainable Energy for All reputation as a company that conducts itself properly and (SE4ALL), the United Nations Environment Program (UNEP), responsibly. This means that Danfoss will do its utmost to live and the Alliance to Save Energy in the US and EU, and many up to its legal and ethical responsibilities. more leading associations. As a global enterprise, Danfoss supports the growing As a global leader for energy-efficient solutions, Danfoss international focus on regulation and legislation in areas such participated in the COP21 climate conference in Paris. We as anti-corruption, competition law, export control and good stand ready to transform the ambitious agreement that was business ethics. Better regulation across the globe would help reached on December 12, 2015, into action on the ground by ensure a level playing field, which would be a huge advantage accelerating the uptake of the best available technology that for a company like Danfoss. For this reason, Danfoss is strongly can be implemented today. focused on compliance with current rules and legislation, and the Group has established internal programs and control Danfoss supports global climate initiatives mechanisms to minimize the risk of rule violations. Danfoss supports a number of global initiatives and programs, which are aimed at reducing global CO2 emissions, reducing Training and compliance follow-up global warming or emphasizing the need for action to Compliance efforts are based on an extensive program of mitigate the climate challenge. More details can be found in prevention based on employee training and clear rules and the notes at the back of this report. guidelines. Follow-up procedures to verify the effectiveness of such rules form an integral part of internal controls and audits • UN Caring for Climate Initiative at Danfoss, as do spot checks conducted by the company’s • Statement on Putting a Price on Carbon internal audit function. • Business Leadership Criteria on Carbon Pricing • WEF Climate Leaders’ Open Letter The Group has compliance programs in a number of areas • We Commit Business for Energy Efficiency at COP21 (e.g. anti-corruption and ethical behaviors). As part of the • Paris Pledge for Action (through ICC) competition compliance program, a dawn-raid manual has • Global Alliance for Energy Productivity also been released and implemented. Furthermore, as part • American Business Act on Climate Pledge of the Export Control program, processes regarding product • We Mean Business screening, which deals with identification of possible dual-use products within the Danfoss portfolio, have been established. Risk and compliance Maintaining efficient risk management is a cornerstone at Compliance hotlines Danfoss as well as a prerequisite for running a business and In addition to the compliance programs, Danfoss also has responding rapidly and flexibly when conditions change. a query function AskUs, where the Group’s employees can Risks are reported on an ongoing basis between the find answers to any questions and doubts they may have various managerial levels; for example at quarterly business regarding ethics and compliance. The purpose of AskUs is review meetings. In addition, the Group Risk Management to minimize uncertainty among the Group’s employees and function annually prepares a report on the most significant prevent unintended non-compliance. AskUs receives enquiries risks, which they submit to the Board of Directors, the from employees seeking guidance on how best to follow Audit Committee and the Executive Committee. The Risk & ethical guidelines or compliance requirements in a specific Compliance Committee provides overall supervision of the risk situation. management process and monitors selected corporate risks as well as potential new risks. Danfoss also has a whistle-blower function, the Ethics Hotline, which employees can use to anonymously report suspected Like its industry peers, Danfoss is exposed to a number of breaches of internal guidelines and legislation without general and basic risks. These are risks relating to customers involving a manager. and markets, factories and suppliers in the supply chain, law and regulatory regimes, and internal processes and systems. Danfoss’ exposure to such risks is similar to the general risk exposure of its peers. The Executive Committee has defined two specific risk areas of the risk management process that, due to their special nature, are of particular importance to Danfoss’ sustainability work. The areas are described on page 13. 12 Sustainability Report 2015 · The Danfoss Group Risks related to sustainability Ethical Conduct Risk Mitigation Measures Danfoss has implemented ethical guidelines and compliance The ethical behavior of companies and their employees is programs. Compliance is verified through follow-up an area of growing focus from several stakeholders, with procedures that include internal inspections and other increased level of regulation and sanctions being introduced measures. In addition, Danfoss has an AskUs enquiry function, worldwide in areas such as anti-corruption, export control and from which employees can seek advice and guidance on competition law. ethical conduct. Unethical or outright illegal conduct by Danfoss employees or Danfoss also operates an Ethics Hotline which employees can agents acting on behalf, could cause considerable damage to use to anonymously report suspected breaches of internal Danfoss’ reputation and result in substantial financial sanctions. guidelines and legislation without involving a manager. Product Compliance Risk Mitigation Measures Danfoss is in the process of implementing a Group-wide Failure to comply with an increasing number of product product compliance & transparency program to ensure a “One regulations could have severe consequences for Danfoss: Company – One Way” approach to the handling of product damage to relationships with customers, loss of business or legislation like REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization reputation and possible lawsuits. Ensuring compliance with and Restriction of Chemicals), RoHS (Restriction of (the use of product-related legislation is important to uphold Danfoss’ certain) Hazardous Substances) and WEEE (Waste of Electrical “license to sell”. and Electronic Equipment). Danfoss Group Regulatory is responsible for monitoring existing and upcoming legislation and coordinates the Group’s efforts to ensure alignment and efficient implementation of the legislation. Sustainability Report 2015 · The Danfoss Group 13 Danfoss and the Sustainable Development Goals When the UN member states agreed on a new plan to The plan consists of 17 Sustainable Development Goals, SDGs. manage the world in a more sustainable way at the UN The purpose of the SGDs is to eliminate extreme poverty, summit in New York in 2015, it was not only good news for the reduce inequality, safeguard equal rights, improve water global community but also for Danfoss. quality and energy supply – and take immediate action to fight climate change. As part of the plan, the UN aims to double the rate of improvement in energy efficiency globally by 2030. This is Danfoss has started the process of assessing the Sustainable the first time that the UN has prioritized energy on an equal Development Goals and their impact on the company as footing with other development targets, stressing that energywell as the impact that Danfoss can have on the SDGs. The access-for-all is a key driver in reducing poverty and leading preliminary results of the assessment show that Danfoss the planet onto a sustainable path. has moderate or very direct impact on 12 of the 17 SDGs as illustrated in below figure. The plan is a roadmap for all UN bodies and there will be massive investment going into the different targets, so an agreement like this has great benefit for a company like Danfoss that innovates to make more from less. Sustainable Development goals Enhancement Indirect Moderately direct Very direct Mitigation 14 Sustainability Report 2015 · The Danfoss Group 12/17 Danfoss has moderate or very direct impact on 12 of the 17 SDGs The tables below illustrate where Danfoss has an impact on the Sustainable Development Goals SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOAL DANFOSS DANFOSS' RESPONSE (NOT EXHAUSTIVE) STRATEGIC OR GROWTH THEMES 1 . E nd poverty in all its forms everywhere 2 . End hunger, achieve food security Improving agricultural productivity and keeping and improved nutrition and promote food cold and fresh all the way to sustainable agriculture the customers with minimum waste 3 . Ensure healthy lives and promote  educing air pollution through utilization of R well-being for all at all ages excess heat from factories 4. Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all 5.  Achieve gender equality and Engaging in empowerment projects in e.g. India. empower all women and girls Ensure gender equality through ethics rules 6.  Ensure availability and sustainable Providing solutions for water and waste water management of water and sanitation handling for all 7.  Ensure access to affordable, reliable, P  roviding solutions for increased energy efficiency sustainable and modern energy. and minimization of waste = get more from less. 8.  Promote sustained, inclusive and P  utting safety first and driving passion and sustainable economic growth, full and performance through leadership, diversity and productive employment and decent winning teams work for all 9.  Build resilient infrastructure, P  roviding energy-saving solutions and promote inclusive and sustainable technologies to build infrastructure roads, industrialization and foster innovation buildings and energy systems 1 0. R  educe inequality within and among countries 11. M  ake cities and human settlements Providing technologies to build infrastructure inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable for the world’s growing cities in a sustainable and efficient way 16 Sustainability Report 2015 · The Danfoss Group SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOAL DANFOSS DANFOSS' RESPONSE (NOT EXHAUSTIVE) STRATEGIC OR GROWTH THEMES 12. E nsure sustainable consumption  aving a flexible and competitive Supply Chain H and production patterns with focus on constantly having a “One Company – One Way” approach to drive improvements and transparency 1 3. Take urgent action to combat climate  roviding products that meet the global climate P change and its impacts challenge. Innovative technologies lower emissions and increase human well-being outside as well as inside by optimizing heating, ventilation and air-conditioning systems 1 4. C onserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development 1 5. P rotect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss 16. P  romote peaceful and inclusive Ensuring effective handling of human and societies for sustainable development, labor rights issues, diversity and protection of provide access to justice for all and intellectual properties build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels 1 7. S trengthen the means of E ngaging in national and global partnerships and implementation and revitalize the sponsorships to drive sustainable development global partnership for sustainable development DANFOSS GROWTH THEMES DANFOSS STRATEGIC THEMES Infrastructure Food Energy Climate Core & Free & Costumer & Passion & Clear Agile Innovation performance Sustainability Report 2015 · The Danfoss Group 17 Targets, efforts and achievements This part of the report describes Danfoss’ efforts and achievements within the defined focus areas of the sustainability program as well as other areas of importance. Summary of targets and achievements Danfoss has during 2015 worked to implement the Sustainability Program. The table below highlights the major targets and achievements in 2015. Targets and achievements 2015: PRIORITIZED TARGET 2015 ACHIEVEMENTS 2015 ISSUE ENERGY & Emissions reductions and energy savings G lobal Energy-Saving Project extended to CLIMATE in buildings largest 21 sites. Implementation progressing according to plan E missions reductions and energy savings Initiated in 2015. in processes Plans to be developed in 2016 E missions reductions and energy savings Baseline  established. Development of in transportation model for greener transport prioritized for 2016 E nergy audits in EU sites according to C ompleted according to plan. Findings EU directive assessed for saving potentials New climate strategy and plan for energy ew climate strategy launched in November N efficient business 2015 including objectives and targets for buildings, processes and transport PRODUCT Establish global structure for compliance with P roduct Compliance Committee established COMPLIANCE & product legislation under Danfoss Supply Chain Board. TRANSPARENCY Ownership of product compliance issues assigned to new Group Regulatory function 18 Sustainability Report 2016 · The Danfoss Group Including implementation of conflict S olid process for handling of supplier minerals scheme inquiries and requests from customers in place Develop and implement Eco-design guideline D raft guideline developed. Prioritized for 2016 ENVIRONMENT, Implement “Safety on the shop floor” in all Implementation completed in all factories. HEALTH & Danfoss factories Shop floor audits carried out by Danfoss SAFETY Business System Implement Global Incident Management S pecification started. Approved for System implementation in 2016  evelop and implement “One EHS” Global EHS D C oncept developed and decision made to approach including governance policies and start implementation from 2016. targets R  educed number of work-related lost time L TIF has decreased to 3.4 from 4.4 in 2014 injuries and Lost Time Injury Frequency ETHICAL Human Rights due diligence N ew due diligence process initiated in 2015 CONDUCT & and prioritized for scoping in 2016 HUMAN RIGHTS Ethical Behavior Compliance program E thics Handbook rolled out to all employees in Vacon. More than 3,600 managers trained in dealing with ethical dilemmasthrough revised training module (Ethics@work). Other Group Compliance programs A n updated Export Control manual released together with revised product-screening process. All products have been rescreened with regard to dual-use status. Binding corporate rules setup developed and application for approval by the EU data protections authorities submitted. Online compliance training modules transferred to and consolidated in Danfoss' learning management system Ethics in the M&A process R equest lists for use during the M&A due diligence process developed PROGRESS: Achieved In progress Delayed Sustainability Report 2016 · The Danfoss Group 19 Targets 2016 Danfoss is continuing the company’s efforts to successfully implement the Sustainability Program in 2016 and is striving to achieve the targets below. Targets 2016: PRIORITIZED ISSUE TARGET 2016 ENERGY & CLIMATE Develop program for process energy savings Maintain strong focus on building renovation and refurbishment Strengthen support to local initiatives driving green transformation Develop CO2 calculation model for transport Develop processes for validation of products’ climate performance claims PRODUCT COMPLIANCE & TRANSPARENCY Develop and implement Group Regulatory Governance Strengthen processes for product compliance ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH & SAFETY Develop and launch “One EHS” approach to environment, health and safety Establish a Global Incident Management System for work-related injuries and incidents Reduce the Lost Time Injury Frequency by 10% compared to 2015 ETHICAL CONDUCT AND HUMAN RIGHTS Develop and run pilot for Human Rights due diligence process Develop revised process for screening of business partners regarding anti-corruption and export control Re-train employees in the compliance programs Anti-corruption@ work and Fair-competition@work Develop and implement new Data Privacy compliance manual 20 Sustainability Report 2016 · The Danfoss Group Ethical Conduct In 2015, Danfoss rolled out the Ethics Handbook to 1,600 new colleagues joining Danfoss following the acquisition of Vacon Plc. At the same time, the Ethics Hotline and the AskUs function was made available to Vacon. Several of the new employees in Vacon have already used the AskUs function, where it is possible to ask questions about ethics in Danfoss. Compliance hotlines In 2015, AskUs received 85 enquiries from employees Training in ethical decision-making seeking guidance on how best to follow ethical guidelines or compliance requirements in a specific situation. is an important part of a having high standard in the company. Therefore, Danfoss also has a whistle-blower function, the Ethics Hotline Danfoss’ e-learning on ethics, Ethics@ where employees can report suspected breaches of internal guidelines and legislation anonymously and without involving work, has been updated based on a manager. A total of 93 cases were reported to the Ethics former cases or questions about Hotline in 2015 versus 123 cases in 2014. Disciplinary action ethics in Danfoss, which ensures that has been taken in all substantiated cases: none of these cases have had significant consequences for Danfoss. the content of the training is highly business-relevant. Ethics cases A total of 31 employees left Danfoss in 2015 due to unethical behavior. The figures include both dismissals and voluntary The target group is mainly people resignations connected with ethical issues. The number of managers, as these are the role dismissals due to unethical behavior was 30 in 2014 and 31 models for employees. More in 2013. than 3,300 people managers and The number of dismissals for unethical behavior is based employees have been trained in on information from Danfoss’ Ethics Hotline and a People Ethics@work during 2015. Manager survey sent to all 3,045 people managers. A total of 93% of the managers responded to the survey, stating the number of dismissals due to unethical behavior. The data has been revised internally, so that double-reporting has been avoided. 22 Sustainability Report 2015 · The Danfoss Group 81% Code of Conduct percentage improved from 61 to 81. Human rights risk assessment In the recruitment process, Danfoss in India does not The UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights ask questions regarding people’s caste when hiring new require that companies conduct a human rights due diligence employees, as the aim is hiring the best candidate for the job. to prevent and mitigate any potential or actual negative A census carried out by the local authorities in 2014 revealed impact on human rights in their value chains. that 40% of blue collar workers in Danfoss are SC/ST’s. This is positive and supports the Danfoss behavior of Embracing Danfoss has monitored and mitigated its human right impact Diversity. Also, CSR flagship of Danfoss India engagement for many years. Having followed the development within the with a rural community college near Pondicherry is situated area of human rights and business closely, it has been clear in an area where almost 100% of the pupils belong to that Danfoss needs to do more in terms of carrying out the backward communities. Here, Danfoss facilitates Refrigeration due diligence process and especially to integrate human & Air-conditioning classes; Danfoss managers go and educate rights considerations in the business. Currently, the company the students in the rural community college from time to time is in process of scoping the human rights due diligence and apart from setting up a well-equipped lab and training room. integration in its own operations. As the language around human rights poses a challenge to businesses by being very During the site visit, the following was agreed together academic, the due diligence and integration process must be with the Danfoss India management team: To continue the designed in a way that translates human rights into a business current practice of not asking about or registering caste in the context. It is necessary to carry out this process in Danfoss’ recruitment process; To include the issue of “caste” in Danfoss’ own operations before extending it out to the supply chain. Ethics Handbook and To have a focus on the employability off all employees. In 2015 a site visit was conducted at Danfoss in India. One of the topics discussed during the visit was “caste discrimination”. The aim is to develop the skills and full potential of all The issue of caste has cultural, social, economic and religious employees. Danfoss India uses existing HR processes to implications and is highly sensitive as it deals with hierarchical enhance knowledge & skill of employees and this in turn also structures in the society. The most exposed group is the benefits employees from SC/ST and OBC (Other Backward SC/ST (Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribes). This group Communities). is exposed to discrimination in terms of lack of access to employment, discrimination at the workplace and general It has also been agreed to consider supporting more local lack of equal rights. It is also the case, that often, people from Indian colleges with soft-skills training where many SC/ these communities have difficulties in terms of social skills, as ST students may also be studying. This may help the SC/ST their low status can result in low self-esteem and lack of selfstudents’ employability by infusing them with confidence and confidence. at the same time improving the recruitment base locally for Danfoss and other businesses. At the site visit, the aim was to understand the complex issue of caste, deal with it in a culturally sensitive way and make an agreement that fits with the way Danfoss does business locally. 24 Sustainability Report 2015 · The Danfoss Group Responsible supplier handling Danfoss’ Code of Conduct Competence Center conducts the Danfoss works systematically with risk assessment and supplier training of all Danfoss employees, who have contact with management. Since 2004, Danfoss has had a Code of Conduct suppliers on an ongoing basis. This is to ensure that they for Suppliers that defines the Group’s environmental and social are familiar with Danfoss’ Code of Conduct and the roles requirements. All suppliers are required to sign the Code, and and responsibilities within the area. The training consists of Danfoss performs regular supplier audits to verify compliance multiple modules, primarily as online training. In 2015, 55 and to ensure that any non-compliance is addressed. employees completed the training. Danfoss supplier base is very global and a large number of the In 2015, 517 additional suppliers signed Danfoss’ Code of company’s suppliers are situated in China and India. In 2015, Conduct, and 168 audits were conducted to verify supplier Danfoss decided to move the Code of Conduct Competence compliance with the rules. 128 of the audits were firstCenter from Denmark to India, to be closer to the suppliers in time audits and 40 follow-up audits. Follow-up audits are the high-risk countries: China and India. The new organization conducted to follow up on matters such as inadequate safety and a new Code of Conduct manager, who was hired from measures, missing or blocked emergency exits, missing or outside Danfoss, will ensure that Danfoss maintains the malfunctioning fire extinguishers, lack of personal protective previous high level of engagement with suppliers to ensure equipment, incorrect handling or storage of hazardous compliance not only with Danfoss’ Code of Conduct but chemicals and discharge of waste water. also local legislation within environment, safety, working conditions and human rights. In 2014, a new measuring method of Code of Conduct compliance was introduced, measuring the percentage of Danfoss has implemented a supplier risk assessment model spend in compliance and enabling the development of one that forms the basis for measures taken at the individual overall compliance percentage for each supplier, regardless supplier where the company has the most influence. The risk of how many locations the supplier may have and how each assessment model includes where the supplier is located, location performs. ensuring that suppliers in areas posing the greatest risk of In 2015, Danfoss focused on improving the Code of Conduct non-compliance are given the highest priority. The model also compliance percentage for TOP80 suppliers. The compliance emphasizes preferred suppliers rather than, as previously, the percentage indicates the share of suppliers that have signed value of purchases made from each supplier, which ensures the Code of Conduct and was improved from 61 to 81. that focus is on the suppliers that Danfoss wants to continue to do business with. Sustainability Report 2015 · The Danfoss Group 25 Product compliance and transparency Regulatory governance Conflict minerals The Danfoss Group Regulatory function is responsible In 2010, the US Congress passed the Dodd-Frank Act, which for defining and implementing the company’s product from 2014 has required listed US companies, to notify the compliance programs; e.g. within environment and product authorities if they are using so-called 3TG materials: tin, safety. This includes programs within chemicals (REACH), tantalum, tungsten and gold originating from the Democratic restricted substances in electronics (RoHS), conflict minerals, Republic of Congo or neighboring countries. The materials explosion (ATEX) and low voltage (LVD). The Regulatory are primarily used in electronic and electromechanical function prepares guidelines and instructions, and coordinates components, but also in some alloys that are sourced from activities across the Group. Key priorities are aligned with the Danfoss’ suppliers. Danfoss Product Compliance Committee with representatives from all business segments and relevant Group functions. Danfoss is not directly subject to the rules of the Dodd-Frank Act, but some of the company’s customers require information Eco-design and materials about the origins of these so-called “conflict minerals”. For this Since Danfoss participated in a Danish research project reason, Danfoss ensures that its customers receive the required called “EDIP Environmental Design of Industrial Products” information – to the extent Danfoss is able to obtain it – with in the mid-1990s, the company has taken environmental regard to the origins of materials it receives from suppliers. considerations into account when designing new products. The methods are adapted to the individual needs of each Danfoss continued its efforts to ensure the transparent business unit because the type of product and the associated declaration of conflict minerals used in the company’s technologies are very different. products, throughout 2015, and has implemented a robust process to ensure this. Over the years, each segment or business unit has implemented its own guidelines and tools based on corporate In 2015, some 234 of Danfoss’ suppliers were asked to guidance. specify the origin of conflict minerals in their products. Such information may determine whether the materials originate Danfoss has developed common Eco-design guidelines from so-called “conflict-free” smelters; a prerequisite for a suitable for all business segments. Guidelines have been product or a business being deemed “DRC conflict-free.” developed together with an external consultant and are Often, it is a long way from the mines to the businesses that based on the latest developments within Eco-design, taking use components containing, for example, gold or tin, and into account relevant legislation as well as known upcoming the process of obtaining the required information from all requirements for Environmental Product Declarations. suppliers can take several months. 26 Sustainability Report 2015 · The Danfoss Group At the end of 2015, about 51% of the 234 suppliers a better use of resources could represent an overall savings had responded to Danfoss’ enquiry. This has led to the potential of EUR 630bn per year for European industry. identification of several hundred smelting plants that The circular economy concept is high on the political agenda process raw ore from the mines into metals to be used in the at EU level. As competition for scarce resources continue manufacture of components. to increase, and as pressure on resources is causing greater environmental degradation, it makes both economic and Circular economy environmental sense to use those resources efficiently. In In contrast to today’s largely linear, ‘take-make-use-dispose’ December last year, the European Commission presented economy, a circular economy represents a development the Circular Economy Package, including a Communication strategy that enables economic growth while aiming to containing an action plan targeting production, consumption, optimize the chain of consumption of biological and technical markets for secondary raw materials, and innovation. It aims materials. at stimulating new business opportunities and helps unlock growth and jobs in Europe. Circular economy systems keep the added value in products for as long as possible and eliminate waste. They keep Danfoss has designed the majority of its products using resources within the economy when a product has reached linear thinking, but increasing raw material prices and the end of its life, so that they can be productively used again increased scarcity of rare earth metals and materials used for and again, and hence create further value. special electronic components have in recent years led to an increased focus on designing products with less material As the demand and competition for finite and scarce resources consumption and higher recyclability. continue to increase, and pressure on resources causes greater environmental degradation and fragility, we can benefit More than 10 years ago, Danfoss implemented a corporate economically and environmentally from making better use of standard for environmentally conscious product design, but those resources. this document did not provide guidance on circular economy. Circular economy has now been embedded in the new ecoBusiness-driven studies based demonstrate significant material design standard developed in 2015. cost saving opportunities for industry from circular economy approaches and a potential to boost e.g. the EU GDP by up Danfoss is participating in a Ph.D. project on circular economy to 3.9% by creating new markets and new products and and resource efficiency at the University of Aalborg, Denmark, creating value for business. Furthermore, it is estimated that to explore the business potential of circular economy going resource efficiency improvements all along the value chain forward. could reduce material input needs by up to 24% by 2030, and Sustainability Report 2015 · The Danfoss Group 27 Energy & climate Global warming must be brought to a halt and, according to the International Energy Agency, energy efficiency can deliver 38% of the greenhouse gas reduction required. Danfoss provides some of the most innovative energysaving solutions, and the company is now accelerating its own efforts by introducing new ambitious climate targets. New climate strategy Danfoss' new climate strategy aims at reducing the company's Most of the world’s energy energy intensity by 50% and reducing the CO2 intensity of the energy used by 50% before 2030. consumption comes from industry and buildings, and the potential for Danfoss is already making good progress in living up to these reduction is equally huge. Danfoss targets. Between 2007 and 2014, the company’s net sales increased by 55%, whereas energy consumption, compared wants to be a role model, and set to sales, dropped by 29%. new ambitious targets for itself. By 2030, the company plans to use half The new climate strategy replaces the 2007 strategy, which went under the name “3x25”. Here, the goal was to reduce CO2 as much energy to run its business, emissions and increase the number of green energy sources and emit half as much CO2 from the by 25% by the year 2025. energy it uses. At the time, it was an ambitious plan, but since then the global focus on energy efficiency has grown and objectives set by international bodies such as the EU and UN have been made more stringent. 28 Sustainability Report 2015 · The Danfoss Group Danfoss energy intensity and CO2 intensity 180 160 140 Index (baseline=2007) 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 CO₂ intensity Net sales Energy intensity Facts about the new climate targets: Our objectives to reach 50% lower energy intensity • The ambition is to reduce energy intensity by 50%, from 24 • Establish Process Energy Program in 2016 MWh per 1m DKK sold in 2007 to 12 MWh per 1m DKK by • Establish “Danfoss Green Fund” in 2017 2030. • General payback <3 years for energy projects • At the same time, the amount of energy used by the • 3-5 years payback for selected investments company must produce half the amount of CO2. In 2007, • Strengthen focus on building renovation and refurbishment Danfoss emitted 320kg CO2 per 1 MWh of energy. By 2030, • Regular energy audits in largest factories this is set to be a maximum of 160 kg CO2 per MWh. • Showcase own solutions in campuses • The aim is for energy intensity at Danfoss to drop by an • All new sites LEED certified annual 3% from 2017, and the emissions of CO2 per 1MWh energy by 5%. Our objectives to reach 50% lower CO2 intensity • Invest in own or third party CO2 neutral sources Danfoss will achieve these goals by putting in place a series (starting with Nordborg) of measures. Danfoss’ Global Real Estate function will intensify • Strengthen support to local initiatives driving the work already underway to make the company’s factory green transformation and office buildings around the globe more energy efficient. • Purchase low carbon or CO2 neutral energy from Production line processes will be thoroughly scrutinized and existing sources measures taken to reduce energy use. • Implement CO2 calculation and simulation model to drive transformation • Change logistics strategy towards greener transport Sustainability Report 2015 · The Danfoss Group 29 Energy consumption and CO2 emissions In 2015, Danfoss consumed electricity amounting to 395 Danfoss has been running energy-saving projects, among million kWh which is the same as in 2014. The energy other things, at the largest factories worldwide. Typically, consumption for heating was 192 million kWh in 2015 this reduces the energy consumption required to run the compared to 189 million kWh in 2014. buildings by 25-30%. Gas consumption has been reduced by 20% at the factory in Nordborg, and there is potential for Danfoss’ total energy consumption increased by 0.5% to 587 further energy savings of up to 40%. The savings are primarily million kWh. obtained through optimization of the systems controlling the ventilation, heating and cooling using Danfoss’ own products. The consumption of electricity represented 67% of Danfoss’ total energy consumption in 2015 but accounted for 84% Based on these positive experiences, Danfoss is intensifying of CO2 emissions. Of the total electricity consumption, 13% its efforts to energy-optimize the company’s buildings all came from renewable sources such as solar, water, wind and over the world. In addition, production line processes will be biomass. Electricity from nuclear power plants accounted for systematically examined for further energy saving potentials. 19% of the Group’s consumption, and the rest derived from fossil sources such as coal, oil and gas. Danfoss is also set to continue the introduction of green energy sources. In 2013, for example, Danfoss set up a solar Consumption of energy for heating increased by 1.4% relative cell park – the biggest of its kind in Scandinavia – next to its to 2014 due to an increase in the heated space in the Group headquarters in Nordborg, Denmark. It produces electricity caused by the acquisition of Vacon. Only 1.6% of the energy corresponding to the annual consumption of 400 singleused for heating in 2015 came from renewable sources while family houses, and has a total capacity of 2 MW. A 1MW 84% came from natural gas. solar-cell system was also opened at Danfoss’ new campus in India last year. This campus has received the international Energy-saving projects in buildings LEED Platinum rating, whereby it is certified as a green and In 2015, Danfoss continued its efforts to reduce energy sustainable building complex. A range of Danfoss products consumption and CO2 emissions, and extended the global have been installed to save energy. energy-saving project to include the 21 largest factories. The project focuses primarily on energy consumption in buildings, In 2015, Danfoss emitted 234,000 tons of CO2 as a result of its whereas the energy used in the production processes will electricity and heat consumption compared to 229,000 tons be added as a focal point from 2016. The 21 largest factories in 2014. The sources were both scope 1 emissions (its own account for 70% of Danfoss’ total energy consumption. Half plants for the generation of power and heat) and scope 2 of the energy consumed is used for buildings, and the rest is emissions (purchase of power and heat from external sources). used in the production processes. This is 4,000 tons more than in 2014 which primarily is caused by increased electricity consumption in those countries The savings potential of the global project is estimated to where the CO2 intensity of the electricity is high (China, India reduce of the energy consumption in buildings by 34%. The and Poland). Implemented energy savings in other countries largest saving potentials are identified as ventilation (39%); does not fully compensated for the increases. The overall CO2 process cooling (35%); air conditioning (30%) and heating intensity in all energy used in 2015 increased slightly from 393 (22%). kg CO2/MWh in 2014 to 398 kg CO2/MWh. Danfoss has identified more than 160 projects at the sites The energy intensity fell to 15.4 MWh/m DKK in 2015 versus currently in the program. By the end of 2015, 56% of the 17 MWh/m DKK in 2014. The net sale increased by 11% while project has been implemented and 36% of the savings Danfoss managed to keep the energy consumption at the harvested. The remaining parts of the project will be same level as in 2014. implemented over the coming years. Danfoss’ electricity consumption accounted for 84% of the EU energy audits Group’s total CO2 emissions in 2015, corresponding to 198,000 The European Energy Efficiency Directive or “EED” came into tons. Heating contributed 36,000 tons of CO2 emissions. force in 2012 and contains a number of measures intended to increase energy efficiency across the European Union. 30 Sustainability Report 2015 · The Danfoss Group The energy intensity fell from 17 kg CO₂/MWh in 2014 to 15.4 kg CO₂/ MWh in 2015. 2014 2015 Energy consumption [MWh] 583,535 584,513 Energy intensity [MWh/m DKK] 17.0 15.4 CO₂ emission [tons] 229,245 232,918 CO2 intensity [kg/MWh] 393 398 50% Reduction of transport emissions required before 2030. EU’s Europe 2020 Strategy, Energy Strategy and Roadmap aims equipment; elevators and conveying equipment; pumps; at improving the competitiveness and sustainability of Europe, motors and drives; control systems and user behavior. lowering emissions and energy dependency as well as taking The audited sites represent 40% of the global energy advantage of the employment opportunities and other social consumption in Danfoss buildings. 60% of the energy used is impacts. One of the key target groups to improve energy electricity and the rest is heating. efficiency and drive change are enterprises. A pre-condition for making the necessary improvements is the availability and The preliminary result of the analysis performed at the audits uptake of high-quality energy audits (EA). shows that roughly half of the electricity consumption is for production processes while a major part of the rest is used for Danfoss considered the energy audits required by the Energy ventilation and compressed air. Efficiency Directive not only as a legal requirement but also an opportunity to reveal the untapped potential for energy The energy audits showed potential for energy savings savings in the factories where the Global Energy Saving mainly in the areas of ventilation, compressed air, lighting Program has not yet been implemented as well as get an and electrical motors. The effect of the audit will not fully be external view of the saving potentials in areas already covered assessed until all reports have been finished and the findings by Danfoss’ own projects. analyzed. This will happen during 2016 and the results will be used to prioritize the next steps in Danfoss’ pursuit of energy Danfoss is active in 27 EU countries with 65 legal entities efficiency in own buildings and installations. operating a total of 155 sites. Based on national legislation and the company's current energy management systems, Transport of products our obligation to conduct energy audits has been reduced to Danfoss’ products are moved from the factories to the 10 countries with 14 legal entities and a total of 20 sites. The customers by air, sea or land. All of these modes of transport aim of the audits was to identify energy saving measures with are sources of CO2 emissions that contribute to global short amortization time and high reduction of CO2 emissions. warming. Reducing CO2 emissions from the transport of finished products forms part of Danfoss’ climate strategy, and Danfoss signed up with an external consultant mid-2015 to the Group also aims to reduce emissions in this area by 50% by ensure compliance with all national legislation on energy the year 2030. audits. After a thorough screening of national legislation, the energy audits were carried out in September 2015 to January Danfoss has implemented a calculation tool, which enables 2016. the company to monitor and calculate its CO2 emissions from freight transport. The tool gives Danfoss not only the ability The energy audits included: to calculate the “as-is” impact of transport by air, sea and land, • Overview of energy consumption and load profiles and key but also to simulate the “what-if” impact of changes in the performance indicators transport pattern. • A list of measures for improvement of the energy efficiency reducing the energy consumption and the CO2 emission Danfoss Global Logistics will lead on establishing a program • Recommendations of the measures for efficiency for the transformation to low carbon transport by moving improvement to be realized goods by sea or land instead of by air. A part of this project is to carry our thorough analysis of the Following equipment and installations were within the scope emissions from transport of products including analysis of the of the energy audit: lighting equipment; HVAC equipment; transport pattern and necessary behavioral changes to meet chillers and cooling towers; heating equipment; hot water Danfoss emission targets. production units; production processes; compressed air 32 Sustainability Report 2015 · The Danfoss Group Sustainability Report 2015 · The Danfoss Group 33 People and performance Danfoss’ more than 23,000 dedicated employees are As a global company, we are focused on maintaining an engineering solutions that make a difference to people and inclusive work environment encouraging and harnessing our businesses worldwide. In order to deliver on our promises to employee’s opinions, knowledge, collaboration and diverse customers every day – to engineer tomorrow – our employees perspectives. are empowered to make an impact, to exceed expectations, and to achieve sustainable results. Each employee has the Danfoss is specifically looking at hiring and developing more right to a safe and healthy working environment where female leaders, engaging the different generations and discrimination is prohibited and personal well-being is ensuring strong local leaders facing our customers. promoted. Danfoss is a global organization that values differences and promotes diversity. The Group’s overall goal was to increase the percentage of female managers to 20% by 2015 from 18% in 2014, in order Making Danfoss a great place to work to ensure that the Group’s managers increasingly reflect the One of Danfoss’ strategic targets is to make the company diversity of the Danfoss workforce, of which 30% were women a great place to work. Danfoss aspires to be world class in 2015. The percentage of female managers remained 18% in Human Resource management, enabling accelerated in 2015. Although Danfoss hasn’t reached its goal of 20%, we profitable growth by means of a high-performing and continue to focus on developing the female leaders currently engaged Danfoss organization. in our talent pipeline as well as attracting female leaders to join at all levels. We have made great progress in China and We strive to foster a collaborative, agile and flexible Eastern Europe with over 25% female leadership. We will organization where employees make a difference and leaders continue our aspiration to reach 20% overall by 2017. inspire people to deliver the best results. Real impact, strong teamwork, global career opportunities and continuous focus Danfoss aims for the composition of its top governing body on development make Danfoss a great place to work. to reflect the diversity of the rest of the Group. Women are underrepresented in the Group, and the Board of Directors has Attracting and hiring new employees is part of Danfoss’ as yet no female members, other than an employee-elected Human Resource strategy, which supports Danfoss’ growth member. ambition. Other key focus areas include developing more and better leaders, building a strong internal and external At its annual meeting in 2017, Danfoss will attempt to raise pipeline of leaders and highly skilled experts and developing the number of women serving on the Board to at least one a workforce with the competencies needed today and in the of the six members. In order to achieve this goal, the Board future. will, before recommending candidates for the Board, work to identify at least one candidate who represents women. Should Danfoss’ goal is to retain and develop current employees to two candidates be equally qualified, the Board of Directors be ready for the right roles at the right time. Around 74% of will recommend the candidate who represents women for Danfoss’ open positions for managers are filled internally. election by the shareholders. Danfoss embrace diversity and inclusion During the reporting year, employees of more than 90 Danfoss believes the diversity of its employee base builds a different nationalities worked at Danfoss. competitive advantage towards customers through creativity, innovation and local customer understanding. 34 Sustainability Report 2015 · The Danfoss Group One team – committed, open and passionate principle at Danfoss and is one of the rewards that create a At the heart of Danfoss as a workplace, we aim to empower clear link between the individual’s contribution and rewards all colleagues to make an impact. This also includes how we received. interact and collaborate with employees and customers, the decisions made and the behaviors exhibited every day. Individual development plans In addition to setting performance objectives, individual OUR BEHAVIOR describes the company’s intention with development plans are also key factors in performance regard to doing business at a company level. These are overall management. The purpose is to ensure that all employees behavior statements that help us fulfil our Aspiration and have the knowledge, skills and abilities needed to fulfil the Promise to the market. current position and to define development actions for future career opportunities. In the plans, the focus is on competency, OUR BEHAVIORS IN ACTION serve to guide the employees in career planning and on the Danfoss Behaviors in Action. how to interact and collaborate with each other and with the Regular frequent performance and development feedback customers to create a best-in-class company and profitable has been encouraged and included as part of the annual growth. development plan. Key themes in 2015 Survey on Performance Management In 2015, the main focus of Danfoss Human Resource A survey on performance management is conducted management has been on merging Danfoss Power Solutions regularly to receive feedback on how managers are managing and the AC drives company Vacon into the Danfoss Group and performance. The twice-yearly survey is part of Danfoss’ efforts forming one strong global HR function. to continuously improve leadership, direction-setting and performance management. In 2015, Danfoss implemented a new cloud-based Performance Management Process to support high-quality The results have remained high during 2015, which shows dialogues between people managers and their employees. that Danfoss leaders continue to have a strong focus on The goal was to create a model, which is effective in all performance, communicating clarity of direction and ensuring countries of operation and across the Group supporting the quality in the dialogues; thus setting objectives that drive ongoing dialogue with regular and structured feedback, as profitable growth and providing regular feedback. well as to build cross-segment alignment within regional sales objectives. Focus on talent management During 2015, Danfoss focused on aligning development During 2015, Danfoss leaders have been equipped with processes across the company and building our employer the skills for performance coaching with the support of the brand and leadership development portfolio. Danfoss Behaviors in Action. The cross-segment collaboration has been a key theme at all leadership levels and new targets A number of talent management initiatives have been kicked as well as IT systems have been set to support it. A number off to support the business and develop the succession in of leadership programs to support leaders’ competency those areas. Danfoss will be focusing on establishing talent development have been executed. Moreover, Danfoss has put pools, perfecting our recruitment processes and employer programs in place to develop the matrix working competence brand, defining and developing strategic competencies, in all of the business segment teams. working on organizational effectiveness and continuing the leadership development programs with increased focus on People drive performance diversity and inclusion. Danfoss values high performance across the organization. We believe in linking company objectives, and pay for Engagement survey performance as well as personal development throughout a During 2015, Danfoss launched a new engagement survey person’s career at Danfoss. Danfoss regularly ask for feedback for the entire Group. Voice replaces three engagement through employee engagement surveys, regular team surveys at Danfoss. The survey covers areas such as employee meetings and strong leader-employee dialogues. Danfoss engagement, performance enablement, strategy, behaviors believe that having fun as a team, enjoying coming to work and leadership. and forming strong bonds with colleagues encourages high performance. The results of the first engagement survey for the whole Danfoss Group, Voice, show a high engagement score of 76 on Clear individual objective-setting is a key to performance a 100-point scale. 93% of the employees filled out the survey management at Danfoss. Performance objectives can consist and gave their feedback about what we do well at Danfoss of a mix of organizational, team and individual objectives. and what needs to be improved. The objectives are being quarterly discussed between the manager and the employee and updates will be made As the questions are new, one cannot compare the results as needed. The output from the annual performance directly with those of previous surveys, but the engagement management process impacts our total rewards program. The score remains at a similar level to previous survey results. Short-Term Incentives (STI) is part of the pay-for-performance 36 Sustainability Report 2015 · The Danfoss Group Our aspiration: We are engineering tomorrow. We passionately push boundaries on results and reputation. Our way of working As an organization we place our customers and employees at the center of everything we do. Our behaviors in action guide us in bringing our Core & Clear strategy to life. Earn customer loyalty Embrace diversity Go beyond the ordinary • Establish trust and respect • Value differences • Push boundaries to innovate and • Think customer in everything we do • Be inclusive continuously improve • Learn from successes as well as mistakes We earn customer loyalty when we act We embrace diversity when we to serve the customer in everything we value and encourage the viewpoint, We go beyond the ordinary with a mindset do no matter what our role is. We can be experience and knowledge of those where we strive to learn, grow and improve counted on to work with the customer who are different from ourselves and on a continued basis. We remain curious always in the forefront of our minds and when we work with purpose to learn to explore how to improve and find ways we strive to earn respect and trust from all and grow as one Danfoss. to push ourselves to successfully fulfil our our customers. Danfoss goals and our own potential. Honor commitments Lead by example Think Danfoss • Be entrusted to take ownership • Show and encourage engagement • Take initiatives to leverage synergies • Deliver as promised • Role model the way • Support others in succeeding We honor commitments when we live We lead by example when we act as role We think Danfoss when we think up to our promises and keep our word. models every day and encourage others beyond our own team and seek the We honor commitments in the way we to do the same to build engagement. We advantages of working across. Thinking service customers, the way we keep our lead by example when we foster a positive Danfoss is an expression of our passion promises to each other as colleagues and atmosphere at work. to succeed as one. in how we deliver our results. Sustainability Report 2015 · The Danfoss Group 37 Other results show that 27% are considered fiery advocates development, behavior and performance are matched highly loyal and committed to Danfoss. More than half of the against personal targets and discussed. Danfoss also asks for employees, 52%, believe that their managers show strong feedback about how these discussions are being conducted leadership, with a balanced focus on performance and people in the Survey on Performance Management. While the skills. The investment in developing the leaders in the past rewards standards are consistent across Danfoss, the practices few years has started to show an impact in a positive way. are flexible enough to meet local needs. Danfoss also has a The results also indicate that the integration process within long-term incentive program for senior management that Danfoss Drives is progressing well. links the company results with individual compensation. Rewarding The compensation and other benefits of the Board of Directors The Danfoss behaviors play an integral role in how employees and the Executive Committee are disclosed in the Danfoss are rewarded and compensated. The Danfoss rewards Annual Report 2015. framework is intended to inspire, motivate and engage employees with easy-to-understand standards, guidelines and European Works Council practices that align with the Core & Clear business strategy A new European Works Council in Danfoss was formed in and development programs. 2015. The works council is a forum with elected delegates from Europe and Turkey that was set up to discuss relevant Danfoss makes a significant investment in the range of topics through open and constructive dialogue between monetary and non-monetary rewards offered to the management and employees. employees, and call this total reward. This framework focuses on paying for performance and aims to be transparent and According to EU Directive 2009/38/EC, companies are clearly communicated. The employees are able to drive obligated to set up a council, if employees in larger performance and have a positive impact on their total rewards international companies want this kind of forum. With this through increased short-term incentive payouts and annual European Works Council, Danfoss has a solid approach salary review adjustments. Non-financial rewards include in terms of how to cooperate and conduct the meetings training and development, opportunities for job rotation and between the company and its employees in Europe. The career advancement. Financial rewards include locally-tailored meetings are to be inclusive and involve a two-way discussion benefits and compensation packages. on topics relevant to employees in more than one country. The total rewards program is a part of the performance management process where quarterly reviews on 38 Sustainability Report 2015 · The Danfoss Group Employee well-being is handled in our global teams by means of wellness programs, campaigns addressing stress management and similar activities at country level. 22% Reduction of Lost Time Injury Frequency since 2014. Health and safety A lost time injury is defined as an incident that results in an Ensuring low impact on the environment from Danfoss' absence from work of one or more calendar days in addition activities and improving the health and safety of the to the day of the incident. The lost time injury frequency (LTIF) employees is a top priority for Danfoss. is defined as the number of LTIs per one million hours worked. In 2015, Danfoss established a project team to develop and The key performance indicator in measuring employee safety, align the company’s activities and efforts within environment, the Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF), dropped from 4.4 in 2014 and health and safety across the global organization. The to 3.4 in 2015. This significant improvement was obtained aim is to ensure that the approach established through the via our new global Safety on the shop floor program which Core & Clear strategy also applies to environment, and health during 2015 was implemented in all Danfoss factories around and safety at Danfoss. The project will build on the strong the world. foundation created by the “Safety on the Shop Floor” concept implemented at all factories and ware-houses. The lost day rate (LDR) in 2015 was 59 (the number of days of absence due to LTIs per one million hours worked). This is a Danfoss will in 2016 align policies, internal standards as well as reduction from 66 in 2014. organization and targets to build a resilient and ambitious EHS model; driving significant improvement in all areas while at The injured employees were absent for a total of 2,205 days, the same time reducing costs and supporting Danfoss’ overall corresponding to an average absence of 17 days per LTI. This is growth themes. Danfoss strives to create a work-life balance an increase from 15 days per LTI in 2014. that is both satisfying and fulfilling in a flexible working environment. Danfoss implemented three new safety KPIs in 2015: medical treatment incident rate (MTIR), minor incident rate (MIR) and Employee well-being is handled by means of wellness near-miss incident rate (NMIR) as a consequence of “Safety programs, campaigns addressing stress management and on the Shop Floor”. These indicators are reported for the first similar activities at country level. Regular audits are being contime and, therefore, cannot be compared to previous years. All ducted to monitor employee well-being. indicators are calculated per one million hours worked. Work-related accidents Safety on the Shop Floor Danfoss recorded 127 Lost Time Injuries (LTI) resulting in at All Danfoss sites finished the implementation of “Safety on least one day’s absence in 2015. The number of LTI's in 2014 the Shop Floor” initiative in 2015. This introduces new safety was 165. routines in production areas across Danfoss. The initiative was Sustainability Report 2015 · The Danfoss Group 39 launched to focus on the safe behavior of employees and The employees are extremely serious about safety and they visitors and thereby reduce the number of lost time injuries never hesitate to come up with suggestions for improvements. and other safety incidents. And they can be sure that the production supervisor and the safety representative always listen and act on the ideas. “Safety on the Shop Floor” means that visitors to production areas, and employees on site, are required, amongst other More than one and a half million hours without accidents things, to wear safety glasses to protect their eyes and safety Over 1.5 million man hour equivalent to 365 days without shoes to protect their feet. Aisles must also be color-coded, so accidents in the production is an important milestone for the it is clear where it is safe to walk. And safety is now a regular more than 800 employees at Danfoss’ facility in Mexico. This item on the agenda at shop floor meetings as well as forming was achieved in December 2015 and it is intended to be kept part of the brief that visitors receive before entering a site. for as long as possible. This goes for every Danfoss site across the world. All locations It is the first time since the Mexican facility started operations need to have the same high safety standards, no matter where since 1995 that production areas register a record of a full year we work, to ensure a high standard across the organization. with no lost time injury. By making these efforts, we will help look after our colleagues and visitors, and ensure that Danfoss continues to be a safe Two programs at the factory are considered key to achieve place to work. these results. The first one began in 2014, with the initiative to train supervisors and other leaders close to the operations The implementation of “Safety on the Shop Floor” is audited by in order to identify safety risks in the production areas. Since Danfoss Business System and all deviations to the agreed plans then, risk audits take place every week. When a risk is detected are dealt with, and the necessary corrections made, to ensure a tag is placed in the area and in this rather visual way it is that the safety measures are fully functional at all times. easier to notice the risk and to follow it up. Selected achievements in the factories The other program was launched in 2015 with the objective Ten years without accidents of promoting the use of the Personal Protective Equipment More than ten years ago, in March 2005, an employee at (PPE). One of the activities within this program was a Power Solutions’ Electronic Components assembly line in communication campaign named “Get Safe” to increase Nordborg, Denmark hurt his back while lifting a product and, awareness and engagement in Safety. therefore, had to stay home for a few days to get well. No work accident has happened in the area since then. In connection to the UN celebration of the World Day for Safety and Health at Work, a Safety Exhibition was set on the The employees in Electronic Components – as in all other canteen with information and displays about personal safety Danfoss production areas worldwide – hold daily meetings equipment, visitor safety rules, and preventive healthcare. where safety is on the agenda. And one of the main reasons The main activity consisted in granting points that could be for the ten years without an accident is the employees’ very exchanged for gifts to those who spotted someone in the high motivation level at precisely these meetings. shop floor not wearing all the PPE required in the specific area and ask him/her either to wear the complete PPE or to leave. 40 Sustainability Report 2015 · The Danfoss Group HEALTH & SAFETY 2014 2015 Lost time injuries (LTI) 165 127 Lost time injury frequency (LTIF) 4.4 3.4 Days of absence 2,458 2,205 Lost day rate (LDR) 66 59 Medical treatment incident rate (MTIR) 3.2 Minor incident rate (MIR) 20.2 Near-miss incident rate (NMIR) 78.7 LTIF PER SEGMENT 2014 2015 Danfoss Cooling 4.4 1.9 Danfoss Heating 3.6 4.4 Danfoss Drives 3.5 5.3 Danfoss Power Solutions 4.3 2.8 Community and stakeholder engagement Danfoss seeks to engage actively with its employees, managers and external stakeholders. This enables Danfoss to Danfoss has always been an integral adapt its processes and tools to match both the requirements of the global community and any developments in countries part of society globally by delivering and areas where Danfoss operates. solutions that raises the standard of living while making more out of Engagement with stakeholders such as NGOs, authorities and customers helps Danfoss to be aware of the framework the energy we use, and locally by conditions for business operations in countries where Danfoss helping to generate benefits for the operates. Danfoss considers information on new legislation, communities in which we operate. new initiatives from organizations, and the Group being challenged on attitudes and policies to be a natural and necessary part of meeting its global challenges. Danfoss recognizes that different communities have different needs In the context of its new Sustainability program, Danfoss intends to engage even more effectively with the community and challenges when we choose and our stakeholders, including customers and decisionwhere to engage. It is common to makers. More information about the company’s stakeholder identify areas that have a close link engagement is available at www.danfoss.com. to Danfoss' business and where the Supporting the technologies of tomorrow company can have a great impact. Endorsing the know-how and technologies that enables the world of tomorrow to do more with less and meeting the growing need for infrastructure, food supply, energy efficiency Danfoss works with local stakeholders and climate-friendly solutions, is one of the main focus areas and partner organizations to increase when developing initiatives with our stakeholders. Danfoss our understanding and insight and does this by supporting research and training projects which can help drive technological research and development, as hereby effectively contribute to local well as promote the development of manpower relevant for development. Danfoss. Collaborating with universities about educational programs and projects and supporting projects in renewable energy and energy efficiency benefits Danfoss’ vision to promote sustainable behavior and solutions. 42 Sustainability Report 2015 · The Danfoss Group Local partnerships real-life conflict situations. In case any female employees work Danfoss is also an active partner in the local community in second shift ending late in the evening, a female security through sponsorships, involvement in trade organizations guard will be present in the shop floor and will accompany and groups, and through participation in social work. It is them in the shuttle bus transporting them to their home. The important for Danfoss to support the improvement of the busses have GPS tracking which allows monitoring of the local communities, neighborhoods and regional development location of busses to make female employees feel safe during in the communities where the company operates, and transport. create an attractive dynamic local environment for Danfoss employees and their families, and to strengthen Danfoss’ A “Health is wealth” initiative aimed at improving the wellness reputation, so that Danfoss can attract and retain qualifies of employees focuses on developing the five koshas physical employees. This is organized by local Danfoss projects around body, energy body, mind body, intuitive body and state of bliss the globe and through several specialized foundations. through a combination of low intensity and high intensity workouts that elements from both Yoga, Tai chi, Zumba and Employee welfare and safety in India Aerobics. Living in a modern world, where dual income families are slowly becoming the necessary norm of comfortable urban A fully equipped Medical Center at the campus takes care of life; being part of a corporate world where waves of women’s any health challenges on-site, especially for female staff. Due empowerment and female leadership increase are key to instability of the local emergency services, an ambulance priorities for most organizations across the world; Danfoss’ service is provided by Danfoss to ensure timely response campus in Chennai, India, adopts a caring and sustainable in case of emergencies. Special attention is given to female approach to overall welfare of the female staff associated with workers’ dietary needs and need for medicine and general them. consultation to prevent common and well-known female health problems. In India, 20% of the white collar employees in India, 32% of the production staff in Danfoss’ Chennai campus and 40% The company has furthermore set up a daycare-center to of the sites service staff (housekeeping, canteen & security) encourage female employees and especially the breastfeeding are women. To make the female employees feel appreciated mothers to come to work with their toddlers so that they can being a part of Danfoss, several programs have been set up: visit them during work as needed. This enables the women to get back to work after giving birth and thereby providing Self-defense training is conducted for all female employees improved living conditions for their family. empowering them to prevent, avoid and escape from possible Sustainability Report 2015 · The Danfoss Group 43 Running in Poland to help poor children region. Moreover, it cooperates with its equivalent in Southern Polish employees recently put on their running shoes and Schleswig, Germany. The Southern Jutland Song Center ran a total of 1,056 kilometers to help needy children as part received grants for the development of classical singing of the factory’s annual Danfoss Run. The company donated talents. The center was set up in 2012 and aims to improve 16.5 Euros for each kilometer run. So the employees raised interest in singing among children and youngsters in the about 17,500 Euros – an all-time record. Danfoss will spend local community. This is achieved through close cooperation the money on health, education and sports activities for poor with schools and singing teachers, among other things. The children. 385 employees participated in this year’s run. Danfoss Orchestra was also a recipient. The Danfoss Orchestra celebrated its 60th anniversary in 2015, and is a brassband Danfoss Foundations support local communities consisting of both Danfoss employees and external amateur The Fabrikant Mads Clausen Foundation musicians. The Fabrikant Mads Clausen Foundation was established by the founder of Danfoss in 1960. The purpose of the Foundation The Danfoss Employee Foundation is to provide support to charitable projects in Denmark and The Danfoss Employee Foundation is a social foundation abroad. Initially, support was primarily provided in the local which works to provide consultation and financial support community near the factory in Nordborg. However, in line to employees in Danfoss A/S, the Bitten and Mads Clausen with the expansion and globalization of Danfoss, the support Foundation, associated companies in Denmark and their area has increased, and today it also includes some of Danfoss’ Danish subsidiaries. other locations in Denmark and abroad. The Foundation provides financial support for training, research, sports, the In 2015, the foundation considered about 350 applications. arts, culture and various charitable organizations. Many of these applications concerned poor financial situations caused by divorce or dissolved relationships. Also in 2015, In 2015, the Fabrikant Mads Clausen Foundation distributed many employees applied for help in connection with church DKK 18.6m to close to 300 recipients, among them a large confirmation of their children, stays at boarding schools and number of organizations and institutions in Danfoss’ local dental expenses. The foundation also provided financial community, including schools and universities, hospitals, support for vacations and Christmas to the benefit of many sports clubs, scout groups, pensioners’ associations, institutions families with children. The foundation granted total financial for the disabled, and museums, choirs and orchestras. support of approximately DKK 3m in 2015. Several large donations of DKK 100,000 or more were made in The Employee Foundation’s legal aid system, which ensures 2015. The money went to education projects, equipment for that legal assistance is available to all employees, handled sports clubs and various cultural projects. One of the largest approximately 100 requests. donations, DKK 1.4m went to maintenance of Havnbjerg Mølle in Nordborg, Denmark. Some of the major grants were given to local singing and musical talents in Southern Jutland, Denmark. The Southern Jutland Symphony Orchestra received extensive grants for the hire of soloists and guest conductors for the upcoming 2016-2017 season. The orchestra is one of Denmark’s five regional orchestras. As such, it plays concerts all over the 44 Sustainability Report 2015 · The Danfoss Group The Fabrikant Mads Clausen Foundation provides financial support for training, research, sports, the arts, culture and various charitable organizations. Notes Organization and management Policies and strategies Danfoss supports climate initiatives Supporting tables Organization and management Danfoss has a two-tier management system consisting of its health & safety tasks, and to participate in knowledge and Board of Directors and the Executive Committee. The Board experience sharing across the Group. of Directors lays the general course for the company by approving strategies and targets. The Executive Management • All employees are responsible for ensuring that they are develops the strategy and handles the day-to-day aware of and comply with Danfoss’ rules and guidelines. management of the company and execution of the strategy. Furthermore, all employees have a duty to report any breaches of Danfoss’ rules and guidelines that they may The distribution of roles and responsibilities in Danfoss’ become aware of or have reason to suspect. sustainability program is consistent with Danfoss’ general governance and risk management principles. • In specific areas, it is the responsibility of Danfoss’ Group Compliance function to follow up on compliance with • Danfoss’ Board of Directors and Executive Committee have guidelines and relevant programs. The function is also overall responsibility and define the framework for the responsible for the internal AskUs function and the Danfoss Company’s sustainability efforts. Ethics Hotline, with an external company accepting and keeping records of reports on any breaches of Danfoss’ rules. • Danfoss Risk & Compliance Committee has the overall responsibility for ensuring an effective enterprise risk • Danfoss has set up an Ethics Committee to deal with management program and effective compliance programs violations of Danfoss’ ethical guidelines and, if necessary, to for selected areas. submit them to the Danfoss Board of Directors. • Danfoss’ Sustainability & Public Affairs function is responsible • Danfoss’ Internal Audit function also performs for defining and implementing Danfoss’ global program, unannounced inspections to ensure compliance with the Group targets, and activities for sustainability and corporate ethical guidelines and legislation in special areas, such as citizenship. The function is also responsible for reporting on anti-corruption. these issues. More information about Danfoss’ management structures and • All people managers are responsible for ensuring that their governance mechanisms can be found in Danfoss Annual areas are aware of and comply with Danfoss’ rules and Report 2015. guidelines. In addition, all factory managers are responsible for environmental and health and safety activities at individual sites, which also include appointing people with responsibility for day-to-day environmental and 46 Sustainability Report 2015 · The Danfoss Group Policies and strategies Danfoss has implemented and maintains a number of • Danfoss Anti-Corruption Manual internal policies and company standards that govern business Defines and outlines correct ethical behavior within antiprocesses and behavior. The below list includes the relevant corruption. The manual describes a number of concepts documents within sustainability. Where relevant, the content and guidelines which outline how to avoid contributing to of the documents is highlighted. The documents apply to the corruption. entire Danfoss Group unless otherwise started. • Danfoss Competition Compliance Manual Further information about the content of the below-listed Defines and outlines correct ethical behavior within fair documents can be obtained from Danfoss Sustainability & competition and compliance. The manual describes a Public Affairs. number of concepts and guidelines which outline how to avoid unfair trade. Shared documents • Danfoss’ Business Conduct (overall company policy) • Danfoss Export Control Compliance Manual This policy sets the overall direction and expectations for Defines and outlines correct ethical behavior within export Danfoss’ business conduct and applies to all companies and control. The manual describes a number of concepts and business units in the Danfoss Group. guidelines which outline how to avoid breaking export control legislation. • Danfoss Sustainability Program The Danfoss Sustainability program supports Danfoss • Danfoss standard Social Responsibility Issues growth strategy via a strong group framework for The standard establish the Group’s overall handling of sustainability, ambitious goals and a clear direction on social responsibility issues including human rights, labor which areas to focus activities on. In line with Danfoss’ rights, anti-discrimination, anti-corruption and the right to Core & Clear strategy, the sustainability program promotes collective bargaining. The content is widely implemented an aligned “One Company – One Way” approach to through the Ethics Handbook. sustainability across the Group. • Danfoss standard Reporting unethical behavior Ethical conduct Defines guidelines of how to report unethical behavior, • Danfoss Ethics Handbook i.e. behavior which is in conflict with the Ethics Handbook, The Ethics Handbook outlines Danfoss’ ethical guidelines legislation, or other applicable rules. and is aimed at all employees and companies in the Danfoss Group, including subsidiaries and joint ventures • Danfoss standard Global Recruitment where Danfoss has a controlling interest.  Defines Danfoss Global Recruitment, stipulating the Sustainability Report 2015 · The Danfoss Group 47 fundamental principles for the global recruitment as well as Other prioritized areas the principles that surround the Global Recruitment Process • Danfoss Code of Conduct for suppliers ensuring “the right candidate to the right job and the right The Code describes Danfoss’ corporate social responsibility job to the right candidate at the right time”. The standard requirements for suppliers covering child labor, also considers ethical conduct during the recruitment discrimination, forced labor, working environment, process and diversity. working hours and salary, the right to organize and collective bargaining, the right to privacy, environment and Product compliance and transparency corruption. • Environmental Design Guide The document stipulates guidelines for life cycle • Danfoss Supplier Quality Manual considerations during the development of products to The Supplier Quality Manual sets the rules, standards, and ensure that all phases in the life of the product from the requirements for Danfoss’ suppliers regarding product extraction of raw materials to final disposal of the product quality. The same rules, standards and requirements apply are considered and assessed. when Danfoss evaluates a potential supplier’s fitness for becoming a Danfoss Supplier. • Danfoss standard compliance with RoHS Interpret the RoHS directive related to Danfoss’ product • Danfoss standard Risk Management portfolio and align processes, tools and templates needed The standard defines the roles and responsibilities regarding to collect and evaluate the needed documentation. Risk Management, and gives directions on how Risk Management shall be approached. • Danfoss’ Negative List of chemicals and substances Bans or restricts the use of substances and materials in Danfoss’ products and production processes and by Danfoss’ suppliers, contractors and tenants. • Danfoss’ conflict minerals policy Defines Danfoss’ approach to handling of conflict minerals inquiries from customers and how to collect and validate the information Danfoss’ require from its suppliers to support the reporting of conflict minerals. Energy and resource efficiency • Danfoss Climate Strategy 2030 The focus of Danfoss Climate Strategy 2030 is the company’s own business processes, production and buildings, and the aim is two-fold: to halve the energy intensity, and to halve the CO2 emissions from the energy actually used. Environment, health and safety • Danfoss standard Environmental issues Defines the overall work with environmental issues in the Danfoss Group and how Danfoss will continuously improve the company’s environmental performance. • Danfoss standard Health & Safety issues  Defines how Danfoss will plan and perform all activities with regard to a safe and healthy working environment and ensure that the working environment efforts primarily are of preventive nature and in accordance with the legislation at all times. • Danfoss standard Safety at the shop floor  Establishes the minimum requirements for safety on the shop floor including requirements for Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), Pedestrian Safety, Visitor Safety, Health & Safety KPI’s and handling of deviations and exemptions. 48 Sustainability Report 2015 · The Danfoss Group Danfoss-supported climate initiatives UN Caring for Climate Initiative Under the umbrella of this initiative, Danfoss has joined forces Launched in 2007, “Caring for Climate” (C4C) is the UN Global with other businesses to work on energy efficiency related Compact, the UN Environment Program and the secretariat topics like the UNEP led ‘District Energy in Cities Initiative’ of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change‘s and the World Resources Institute’s (WRI) Buildings Efficiency initiative aimed at advancing the role of business in addressing Accelerator. Since businesses will deliver a huge part on the climate change. Caring for Climate is endorsed by nearly 430 pathway to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees C, the SE4ALL companies from 65 countries. Danfoss became a signatory to energy efficiency ‘we commit’ campaign aims to encourage C4C in 2007. companies to take the lead on reducing energy-related emissions by 1.5GT by 2020. Statement on Putting a Price on Carbon The World Bank Group and the United Nations Global Paris Pledge for Action (through ICC) Compact, together with other partners launched Statement The Paris Pledge for Action is an initiative endorsed by the on Putting a Price on Carbon by which supporting companies French presidency of COP21 who is inviting all organizations, will join a growing coalition of governments worldwide taking businesses, regions, cities, and investors to add their name to the lead on putting a price on carbon. Danfoss expressed the Paris Pledge for Action. Organizations pledge their support support to the initiative in 2014. to implement the results of the agreement immediately, but also to achieve and exceed the ambition of the agreement Business Leadership Criteria on Carbon Pricing that results from COP21. Business Leadership Criteria on Carbon Pricing have been developed as a complement to the Statement to give Global Alliance for Energy Productivity recognition to a selected group of top business leaders The mission of the Global Alliance is to drive continued global who are at the forefront of advocating for a price on carbon. improvements in energy productivity. The Global Alliance Danfoss expressed support to the initiative in 2014. for Energy Productivity builds on the Accelerate Energy Productivity 2030 goal of doubling energy productivity Consistent with the 2°C global target, Danfoss committed to: by 2030 by taking it global, securing commitments from • Set an internal carbon price high enough to materially government and business decision-makers around the world affect investment decisions to drive down greenhouse to be leaders in energy productivity. gas emissions; • Publicly advocate the importance of carbon pricing through American Business Act on Climate Pledge policy mechanisms that take into account country specific 81 companies from across the American economy joined the economies and policy contexts; and American Business Act on Climate Pledge prior to COP21. The • Communicate on progress over time on the two criteria companies have signed the American Business Act on Climate above in public corporate reports Pledge to demonstrate their support for action on climate change and the conclusion of a climate change agreement WEF Climate Leaders Open Letter in Paris that takes a strong step forward toward a low-carbon, CEOs from 78 companies with operations in over 150 sustainable future. These 81 companies have operations in all countries and territories, and facilitated by the World Economic 50 states, employ over 9 million people, represent more than Forum, believes the private sector has a responsibility to $3 trillion in annual revenue, and have a combined market actively engage in global efforts to reduce greenhouse gas capitalization of over $5 trillion. (GHG) emis-sions, and to help lead the global transition to a low-carbon, climate-resilient economy. The CEO climate We Mean Business leaders urge the world’s leaders to reach an ambitious climate We Mean Business is a coalition of organizations working deal at COP21, aligned with the UN Post-2015 Sustainable with thousands of the world’s most influential businesses and Development Goals (SDGs). investors. These businesses recognize that the transition to a low carbon economy is the only way to secure sustainable We Commit Business for Energy Efficiency at COP21 economic growth and prosperity for all. To accelerate this The SE4All Energy Efficiency Accelerator Platform is a publictransition, they have formed a common platform to amplify private partnership program to scale up energy efficiency the business voice, catalyze bold climate action by all, and policy, action and investment, with the aim of doubling the promote smart policy frameworks. rate of improvement in energy efficiency worldwide by 2030. Sustainability Report 2015 · The Danfoss Group 49 Supporting tables GENDER PER REGION APA Female 28% Male 72% CNR Female 32% Male 68% EMA-CER Female 20% Male 80% EMA-EER Female 38% Male 62% EMA-NOR Female 31% Male 69% EMA-SER Female 23% Male 77% EMA-TMA Female 17% Male 83% IN Female 12% Male 88% LAM Female 35% Male 65% NAM Female 25% Male 75% RU Female 34% Male 66% SENIORITY <1 Year 4% 1 < 3 Years 14% 3 < 5 Years 14% 5 < 10 Years 29% 10 < 20 Years 25% 20+ Years 15% HOURLY AND SALARIED PAID Hourly 40% Salaried 60% PEOPLE MANAGERS Not People Manager 87% People Manager 13% GENDER MANAGERS Female 18% Male 82% GENDER ALL EMPLOYEES Female 30% Male 70% GENDER SALARIED EMPLOYEES Female 28% Male 72% GENDER HOURLY PAID EMPLOYEES Female 32% Male 68% 50 Sustainability Report 2016 · The Danfoss Group Supporting tables AGE DISTRIBUTION 15 24 Years 4% 25 34 Years 29% 35 44 Years 29% 45 54 Years 24% 55+ Years 14% LOCATION OF EMPLOYEES PER REGION APAC (excl. IN & CN) 2% CN 17% EMA-CER 8% EMA-EER 13% EMA-NOR 29% EMA-SER 5% EMA-TMA 1% IN 3% LAM (incl MX) 5% NAM 12% RU 5% JOB CATEGORY After Sales Service 1% Corporate Administration 3% Finance and Accounting 3% General Management 0% Human Ressources 2% Information Technology 3% Internal Service 1% Production 51% Purchasing and Logistics 6% Research and Development 10% Sales and Marketing 20% Sustainability Report 2016 · The Danfoss Group 51 Supporting tables 2011 2012 2014* 2015** RESOURCE CONSUMPTION AND CLIMATE Energy consumption (MWh) 379,582 363,300 604,611 583,535 586,799 Hereof electricity (share) 58% 58% 63% 67% 67% Hereof heating (share) 42% 42% 37% 33% 33% Total CO2 emissions (tons) 127,524 126,873 223,906 229,265 234,440 From electricity (share) 77% 78% 81% 83% 84% From heating (share) 23% 22% 19% 17% 16% Water consumption (m3) 770.494 637.082 841,434 806,789 840,926 HEALTH & SAFETY LTI Lost Time Injuries 146 136 172 165 127 LTIF Lost Time Injury Frequency 6.1 5.8 4.7 4.4 3.4 Total number of lost days 1,990 2,883 3,039 2,458 2,205 LDR Lost Day Rate 84 121 82 66 59 MTI Medical Treatment Incidents 120 MTIR Medical Treatment Incident Rate 3.2 MI Minor Incidents 751 MIR Minor Incident Rate 20.2 NMI – Near Miss Incidents 2,925 NMIR – Near Miss Incident Rate 78.7 RESPONSIBLE SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 2011 2012 2013* 2014* 2015** Suppliers in high-risk countries 905 702 799 936 840 Signed the Code of Conduct 53% 83% 65% 73% 67% Suppliers in medium-risk countries 358 284 322 360 391 Signed the Code of Conduct 56% 68% 61% 68% 68% Suppliers in low-risk countries 2,251 1,791 2,575 2,468 2104 Signed the Code of Conduc 65% 81% 47% 57% 53% SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Dismissals due to unethical behavior 26 47 31 30 31 Number of inquiries in AskUs 75 85 Number of cases in Ethics Hotline 123 93 (*) Includes Power Solutions acquired in 2013 (**) Includes Vacon acquired in 2014 52 Sustainability Report 2016 · The Danfoss Group © Copyright Danfoss | Produced by the Danfoss Group | Published March, 2016 | Layout by ESSENSEN
