UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 PERMASTEELISA GROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 CONTENTS STATEMENT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 GROUP PROFILE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 PRINCIPLE 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27 LABOUR PRINCIPLE 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29 PRINCIPLE 4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29 PRINCIPLE 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 PRINCIPLE 6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33 PRINCIPLE 8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36 PRINCIPLE 9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41 PERMASTEELISA GROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 Vittorio Veneto, 27.06.2016 STATEMENT Being a good corporate citizen is an ambition enthusiastically embraced at all levels within our company. As a member of the Global Compact, we believe that our business policies incorporate the ten principles. Our board fully supports our actions in working towards sustainability goals in particular those contained in the UN Global Compact and endorses the future priorities and specific targets we set out in our report. Through our support of the United Nations Global Compact, we also aim to move the agenda forward on performance related to human rights, labour rights, the environment and the fight against bribery and corruption. In our annual report, we have summarised the progress we have made against each of these principles and we will continue to follow them up in future reports. In this our seventh annual Communication on Progress we provide an index to our performance with cross-references to the related GC principles in 2015. Riccardo Mollo CEO Permasteelisa S.p.A. Contact: Luca Gavardi Email: l.gavardi@permasteelisagroup.com PERMASTEELISA GROUP PERMASTEELISA GROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 GROUP PROFILE COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 GROUP PROFILE THE PERMASTEELISA GROUP OUR BRANDS Permasteelisa Group is a worldwide leading Contractor in engineering, project management, manufacturing and installation of architectural envelopes and interior systems. The Group brings its Know-How and expertise to all projects, in particular when dealing with Special Features Buildings, beginning with the design development phases all the way to the successful completion, achieving the customer's expectations. BUSINESS UNITS EXTERIORS Permasteelisa's history goes back to 1973 in Italy, Vittorio Veneto. During ‘80s and ‘90s the Group started an international expansion in the Australian, European, Asian and US markets. Manufactures architectural Since 2015 Permasteelisa Group has been at the core of the Business Unit envelopes for signature landmark Building Technology of LIXIL Corporation. buildings throughout the world, Today, Permasteelisa is a global integrated Group present in four continents applying constant innovation with a network of over 50 companies in more than 30 countries, generating through advanced technologies. a total turnover of around 1.5 billion euro a year. The Group employs around 6,000 people worldwide in its Engineering & Design centres and in the 11 manufacturing plants equipped with the most modern and advanced technologies. CONTRACT Performs EPC projects in different The mission of the Permasteelisa Group is to design and build innovative construction sectors from Civil and avant-garde architectural works alongside the world’s greatest in to Residential, maintaining high contemporary architecture, by using advanced technologies and ecoquality standards while meeting sustainable solutions. The quality of our architectural envelopes and clients’ demanding schedules. interiors is guaranteed by our rigorous quality control system. Besides, it's constantly improved through R&D in new design and construction technologies and through the use of innovative materials. The use of environmentally friendly materials and eco-sustainable processes, and INTERIORS our commitment in energy saving, protect the environment and make the buildings themselves more comfortable and efficient. Benefits from the global size of the Permasteelisa Group in the interaction with international Among Permasteelisa Group's projects are some world-renowned clients on a wide variety of projects, contemporary architectural works, such as the Sydney Opera House (the from unique custom showpieces first building to make extensive use of the curtain walls), the Eight Spruce to comprehensive commercial Street (a.k.a. Beekman Tower) in NYC, The Shard and 20 Fenchurch undertakings. Street in London, the revolutionary Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao, the extraordinary Walt Disney Concert Hall in Los Angeles and the Museum of Modern Art in New York. 6 7 PERMASTEELISA GROUP PERMASTEELISA GROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 GROUP PROFILE COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 GROUP PROFILE OUR VALUES Work with Respect As a global company, we strive for open and honest communication with everyone, internally and externally. We value diversity and respect people from different backgrounds and treat everyone equally with meritocracy. We always act with unquestioned integrity. Deliver on Commitment For more information: www.permasteelisagroup.com We “act like owners” to create value for everyone that touches our business. We set ambitious targets which we are committed to achieving. We are accountable for decisions, actions and results. Embrace Quality Ph.: ©Michael Goodman Photograpy We are committed to having our customer enjoy a positive experience in every aspect when interacting with us. We are committed to the highest quality products and solutions. We take a Kaizen approach to continuously improving our knowledge, products and processes. Inspire Passion We dare to dream big and seek to transform ourselves, our industry and customers experience. We push ourselves to stretch beyond our commitments to exceed expectations. We pursue excellence in everything we do and reward a “Can-do” attitude. Sydney / AUSTRALIA Los Angeles, CA / USA Ph.: ©Gardin & Mazzoli Pursue Growth We are striving for growth and innovation. We consistently invest in the growth of our leaders and their teams. We are willing to embrace change and risk with speed in a thoughtful, informed and appropriate way. Toronto, ON / CANADA Barcelona / SPAIN Hong Kong / P.R. of China Ph.: ©Lester Ali Photography Ph.: ©Bjorn Moerman Photography 8 9 Abu Dhabi / UAE New York, NY / USA HUMAN PERMASTEELISA GROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 PRINCIPLE 1 | UN Global Compact 1 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS RIGHTS COMMITMENT Permasteelisa Group recognizes the role of business community in supporting and respecting human rights, that is not to infringe human rights in the context of their own activities and their business relationships. At this purpose Permasteelisa S.p.A. Board of Directors approved on April 2015 the new Code of Conduct for the Group, which fully replaces the previous Group Code of Ethics given out from 2007. The purpose of the new Code, drafted in joint participation with all LIXIL Group companies, is to trace a common line in order to operate according to shared principles of integrity, ethics in business activities, respect in the workplace, proper use of corporate assets and contribution to society (social responsibility). The Code of Conduct guides anyone involved with the Group in the appropriate way to do business worldwide. The Group Code is a common set of rules for the LIXIL Group members’ business activities, to be strictly followed by all of the group members, with the goal of achieving strict compliance and internalization of ethically sound attitudes and behaviors. The Code is intended to be used by anyone involved with the Group by virtue of any form of employment or collaboration relationship; therefore, it is the responsibility of all employees, managers and collaborators of the Group to comply with the principles and policies of the above-mentioned document in running the business and managing relationships, by promoting its disclosure and actual implementation. Permasteelisa Group business partners, including suppliers, service providers and distributors are also required to share the rules described in the Code. The core principles of the Code, inspiring the management of its business, are cited in the following: “Diversity and inclusion” Code of Conduct par. 3.1 The Group values diversity and equal opportunity in the workforce. The Group provides equal employment opportunity for all applicants and employees. In the Group employment processes, the decisions are made without considering race, colour, religion, national or ethnic origin, ancestry, age, disability, gender, pregnancy, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, political or personal belief, union membership or any other characteristics protected by local laws and regulations. These principles extend to all employment decisions including recruiting, training, evaluation, promotion and rewards. The Group also makes reasonable accommodations for employees and applicants with disabilities, and complies with all local laws protecting disabled employees. The Group respects the diverse religions and traditions of the employees around the world and strives to make reasonable accommodations, to the extent permitted by local laws, for religious practices. “Human rights” Code of Conduct par. 3.2 The Group supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and will ensure that are not complicit in human rights abuses. The Group recognizes the importance of maintaining and promoting fundamental human rights everywhere it works and does business, including in its supply chain. The Group is committed to upholding the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. All employees have the right to freely form and join groups for the promotion and protection of their employment interests to the extent permitted by law. The Group also complies with laws and regulations concerning privacy, immigration, working time, wages and hours, as well as, laws prohibiting Ph.: ©Ben Veasey forced, compulsory and child labor, trafficking in persons and employment discrimination. 1. 2. “Anti-harassment” Code of Conduct par. 3.3 The Group seeks to provide a work environment that is free from discrimination, harassment and bullying of any kind and any other offensive or disrespectful conduct. Harassment could be in the form of unwelcome verbal, visual, physical or other conduct that creates an intimidating, offensive or hostile work environment. 10 11 PERMASTEELISA GROUP PERMASTEELISA GROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 PRINCIPLE 1 | UN Global Compact COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 PRINCIPLE 1 | UN Global Compact The Group does not tolerate sexual harassment of any kind against any employee, such as unwanted touching, Consistency We will establish and maintain transparent and effective safety management systems and minimum sexual or lewd language and sexual coercion. operational standards for the good management of health, safety throughout the Group and engage all our employees. Everywhere the Group operates, is expected to treat one another with respect and dignity and to speak up if the Accountability, responsibility and competence We will define and communicate everyone`s health and safety employees have been a victim of or have witnessed discrimination, harassment or bullying. The Group does not responsibilities and required competencies clearly. allow retaliation against anyone for raising a complaint in good-faith of discrimination, harassment or bullying. Monitoring We will monitor our health, safety performance and review our system for managing performance regularly. “Health and safety at workplace” – Code of conduct par. 3.4 Risk assessing and controlling We will ensure that risks to the health, safety of our employees and others who may be affected are properly assessed and controlled, including our contractors and suppliers. The Group is committed to providing a healthy and safe workplace for employees, customers, visitors, Education and training We will consult our employees and ensure that competent advice and suitable training and contractors, vendors and others on our property. resources are made available to assist them in performing their duties to promote health and safety.” The Group complies with the health and safety laws and regulations, standards, guidelines and related requirements that apply to our business. In order to comply with this statement a document called “Group Health and Safety management standard” The Group does not tolerate violence of any kind, whether explicit or implicit, physical or mental, including was issued. The document sets the rules that the subsidiaries have to follow. threatening behaviour, physical intimidation, coercion and acts of physical violence. The Group does not work under the influence of alcohol or any substances that may impair the own ability to work safely and does not process, sell, use, transfer or distribute illegal drugs or controlled substances. ACTIONS & OUTCOMES “Suppliers” Code of Conduct par. 1.3 In the following the details of some actions taken by Permasteelisa Group in the subsequent matter: 1. Health & Safety at work (…omissis….) As part of the supply chain, the suppliers the Group chooses must, among other things, comply 2. Privacy with anti-corruption and antitrust laws, obey laws that require them to treat workers fairly, provide a safe 3. Code of Conduct and healthy work environment and protect environmental quality. The quality of the Group products and 4. Conventions & Benefits commitments to the environment and human rights are at stake. 5. Training projects The Group Entities have procedures to review suppliers’ qualifications and to use objective selection criteria. Please note that this list is a sample of activities improved in 2015 and it is not exhaustive. “Privacy” Code of Conduct par. 4.4 The Group protects the personal information of its stakeholders. 1. Health & Safety at work The Group holds and processes a variety of personal data of customers, business partners, employees and other individuals. Each LIXIL Group Entity fully complies with privacy laws that are in effect in the countries For Health & Safety at work here below are described the actions set in place at Group level. where operate, as well as the LIXIL Group’s data privacy policy and all other relevant guidelines and procedures. Permasteelisa S.p.A.’s corporate management considers that occupational health and safety is an aspect of The Group ensures that personal data held and processed are: strategic importance within the correct operating and planning of the resources employed and respect of a Fairly and lawfully obtained; human being in all its meaning. Processed only for limited or stated purposes; Adequate, relevant and not excessive; For that purpose the management has activated an occupational health and safety management system Accurate and, where necessary, up to date; as an integral part of its business, promoting strong awareness of safety at every level of the corporate Not kept for longer than is necessary; hierarchy in a continuous perspective of prevention and improvement. Permasteelisa S.p.A. is committed to Processed in accordance with applicable laws; improving the health and safety of the workers in compliance with the sector regulations. The company has Held securely pursuant to organizational, personal, physical, and technical requirements. decided to establish an office dedicated to occupational health and safety. Moreover, Permasteelisa Group Companies are committed to improve the health and safety of the workers In 2014 Permasteelisa S.p.A. started to implement a health and safety management system according to in compliance with the sector regulations of each Countries. At this scope a Group Quality Assurance and the international standard BS OHSAS 18001:2007. The process ended in April 2015, with the issue of the Sustainability Director has been nominated. certificate. In the Permasteelisa Group web site www.permasteelisagroup.com/sustainability/health-and-safety is clearly defined the Health & Safety Policy, signed by the Permasteelisa Group CEO on February 2013, and the For example, other subsidiaries of Permasteelisa Group are BS OSHA 18001:2007 certified: Scheldebouw statement is here below reported: BV, Permasteelisa North America Corp., Permasteelisa Pacific Holdings Ltd., Josef Gartner Curtain “As per Zero Tolerance Safety Policy Statement Wall (Shanghai) Co. Ltd., Dongguan Permasteelisa Curtain Wall Co. Ltd., Global Architectural Co. LTD, We are committed to preventing accidents and injuries. No injury is acceptable to us. Injuries are not an inevitable Permasteelisa Projects Thailand. part of doing business. We firmly believe that incidents and injuries are unnecessary and can be avoided. From estimating, design and engineering, project management, manufacturing, to site/field installation, safety During 2015 a Group wide initiative, nominated World Class Safety Project , started, in order to assess cannot be an afterthought. the entirety of the operations and benchmark the maturity of the organizations safety culture with We aim to set and maintain standards of health, safety and environmental performance across the Group which will individual surveys. The project has the desire to rapidly improve the safety performance, with an ambition ensure the health and safety of our employees at work and the health and safety of others who may be affected by to create World Class Safety within Permasteelisa Group. Safety is a core value for Permasteelisa Group our operational activities. and it is committed to preventing accidents and injuries from estimating, design and engineering, project To enable us to do this we have set the following objectives: management, manufacturing, to site/field installation. Committed and active Leadership We will provide visible leadership, leading by example and considering the health, safety and environmental implications of all our strategic decisions. The objective is to set and maintain standards of health, safety and environmental performance across the Compliance We will, as a minimum, comply with all relevant health, safety and environmental legislation and Group which will ensure the health and safety of the employees at work and the health and safety of others industry standards wherever the Group has a presence. who may be affected by the operational activities. The project has three fundamental reasons: Improvement We will ensure continual improvement. 1) The People come first. The employees safety and that of the subcontractors is our greatest responsibility. 12 13 PERMASTEELISA GROUP PERMASTEELISA GROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 PRINCIPLE 1 | UN Global Compact COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 PRINCIPLE 1 | UN Global Compact 2) It’s the law. Permasteelisa Group has a duty to diligently comply in good faith with the local laws and Here below, it’s illustrated a report for the Loss Time Injury Frequency Rates at Group level. regulations governing safety. These are the minimum which must be adhered to. The aim is to comply by The data used for reporting includes the combination of Permasteelisa and Subcontractor hours and injuries. setting a high standard of employees and projects. At this time, subcontractor injury and hours worked data is not separated from Permasteelisa. 3) It makes good business sense. Losses directly affect the ability to be competitive. Permasteelisa Group The formula for the Injury Rate Calculation is the following: must always have a plan for success in safety. 5,873 individual surveys have been collected touching all levels of the company and across the entire Group. Many of the employees also participated in one-on-one and small group interviews. The infographic below explains at a high level the primary findings of the safety perception survey as well as some insight into the mind of the people. The findings are based on external Expert’s 12 foundational A Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) of 0,93 means that 0,93 of the population suffered a work injury elements of Operational Excellence. These are organized into three dimensions; Leadership, Organization, with doctor prescribed time off work. and Processes, for which the external expert has given a score. Permasteelisa Group has progressed to a level of safety culture maturity that can be described by the Group Level Perspective External Expert model as “Dependent,” with a “Relative Culture Strength” score of 48. Lost Time Injury Frequency Rates (LTIFR) CY 2015 1,67 LTIFR per 100 full time workers 1,8 1,6 Factory/Facility 1 Felt Leadership 1,4 1,2 0,93 Office 2 Vision, Strategy and Management Review 1 0,87 Leadership 0,8 3 Managing for Results Site 0,6 Procedures & Performance Standards 0,4 Safety 4 0,2 0 LTIFR Perception 0 5 Integrated Organization Survey 6 Accountability, Roles & Resources Organization 7 Talent Management 8 Motivation & Awareness 9 Learning & Development Group Level Group Level Body Part Injured Incident Circumstances 10 Effective Communication CY 2015 CY 2015 Processes Audits & Observations 11 28% Manual handling Incident Investigation & Reporting 36% Hand 12 19% Fall of materials 5% 12% Leg 33 6% 4 % % 19% Slip, trip, stepping on / striking against % 7% 12% Foot / Ankle 28% 11% 36% 13% Other Circumstances 11% 11% Arm External Expert’s 12 foundational elements of Organization Culture Maturity and Operational Excellence 11% Back 13% 11% Contact with machinery 11% 7% Eye 4% Failure of work equipment 19% 12% 12% 6% Other Injury 19% 3% Fall of person 5% Head Relative Culture Strength Leadership Organization Processes Number of 3% Collapse of temporary or permanent Respondents structure Benchmark Best 107 111 108 102 Permasteelisa overall 48 43 50 49 5,873 2. Privacy SEMEA 40 35 42 45 1,085 For Privacy here below are described the actions set in place at Group level. NERUS 37 30 40 41 827 Also during 2015 the subsidiaries of Permasteelisa Group operated in compliance with the privacy local laws Greater China 50 47 52 51 1,459 and with the rules of the Group Code of Conduct. Relative AsiaCulture Pacific Strength 40 36 42 42 977 America 61 57 66 60 1,430 14 15 PERMASTEELISA GROUP PERMASTEELISA GROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 PRINCIPLE 1 | UN Global Compact COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 PRINCIPLE 1 | UN Global Compact As example: 3. Code of Conduct PERMASTEELISA S.P.A. For Code of Conduct here below are described the actions set in place at Group level. Permasteelisa S.p.A. protects the personal data of its employees. The processing of the employees’ personal During 2015 the subsidiaries of Permasteelisa Group has started to spread the Code of Conduct to the data takes place in observance of the Italian legislation on Privacy. Access is reserved only to the staff involved employees, the clients and suppliers. Moreover training sessions have been organized in order to improve in the function concerned. Paper documents with the sensitive data are conserved in protected areas, locked the knowledge of the contents. cupboards or offices. As example: Data conserved on electronic supports are protected by an authentication password. Data saved in server files is subjected to a planned backup, thus avoiding the risk of its loss. PERMASTEELISA S.P.A. The employees were also trained in connection with the Privacy regulations and in this context were acquainted with the methods with which to conduct the processing. The Company has distributed the Code of Conduct to all employees and signed. It has been also distributed to the clients at tender stage and attached to all contracts for suppliers and subcontractors. PERMASTEELISA FRANCE S.A.S. PERMASTEELISA ESPAÑA S.A.U. Personal data of the employees, clients and suppliers are protected according to the French law and managed in the network by the IT department. The Code of Conduct was spread for all employees. The distribution of the Code of Conduct to suppliers and clients is in progress. PERMASTEELISA GARTNER MIDDLE EAST LLC PERMASTEELISA U.K. LTD. The company records the data in the IT system. Nobody can enter in the system except the IT manager, the Top Managers and the authorized people for specific sectors (HR, Procurement Manager, etc.). The Company has distributed the Code of Conduct to all employees, moreover encouraged the spreading of the Code to clients and suppliers. JOSEF GARTNER GMBH AND GARTNER SWITZERLAND AG PERMASTEELISA NORTH AMERICA CORP. All applicable data protection guidelines and rules are obeyed. Data requests from Permasteelisa Group are regularly screened for legal compliance. The Company has distributed the Code of Conduct to all employees. 98% of the personnel have also completed the training to date. BLEU TECH MONTRÉAL INC. PERMASTEELISA PACIFIC HOLDINGS LTD. Physical files are kept under lock and electronic files are kept in restricted access folders accessible only to concerned personal. All staff attended Code of Conduct training, either online or through instructor-led training. To emphasize the importance of corporate governance and core values as a guiding principle, all new staff attend the GLOBAL ARCHITECTURAL CO. LTD. training as part of the orientation program. Every cost proposal submitted to the clients has the Code of Conduct included as an attachment. For personal data: normally HR department will setup personal data and authorize only some related level/ position to access their file such as the payroll officer will be allowed to know employee's salary only. GLOBAL ARCHITECTURAL CO. LTD. For suppliers: the company never shares their details to the third parties. Their personnel data will be kept in SAP and only two departments (Account & Purchasing) are allowed to get the information. Some related The Company has spread the Code of Conduct to employees via online mail link and also by training to all information such as how much the company owes to suppliers will be kept in the N drive and allows only workers A total 90% of all employees was trained. selected key positions to access this drive. The Company will not share this information to any third parties if not permit from the Company. 4. Conventions & Benefits For client: contract of each project with client and other information will be kept in the N drive and allow only selected key positions to access this drive. The Company will keep the confidential of their information by not For Conventions & Benefits, please note that this list is a sample of activities improved in 2015 detailed per sharing to the third parties without permission from the Company. subsidiary and it is not exhaustive. PERMASTEELISA PROJECTS THAILAND PERMASTEELISA S.P.A. Personal data on employees are maintained and controlled by Human Resources department. For the purpose of supporting and respecting the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and Personal date on clients and suppliers are restricted only to authorized staff and managers. The data are to guarantee the economic livelihood of its employees, Permasteelisa S.p.A. set in place the following actions stored in specific locations in the main office accessible only by key operatives. and agreed some conventions in their interests, for example: JOSEF GARTNER CURTAIN WALL (SHANGHAI) CO. LTD. Crèche service: The Company has contributed financially and from a design viewpoint to the completion of an interAll employees signed to acknowledge receipt of ‘Confidentiality Agreement’ and ‘Code of Conduct’, and accept company crèche situated in proximity of the companies’ headquarters. The building was created in the principles contained and respect them in the business. The company gave briefing and/or orientation to eco-compatible materials, with wooden fittings having enjoyable and coloured forms to ensure a employees on contents of ‘Confidentiality Agreement’ and ‘Code of Conduct’. healthy and relaxing atmosphere, and provides defined food programmes by arrangement with a 16 17 PERMASTEELISA GROUP PERMASTEELISA GROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 PRINCIPLE 1 | UN Global Compact COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 PRINCIPLE 1 | UN Global Compact dietician, other than a timetable capable of totally covering the work requirements of the parents. The RI ISA D.O.O. corporate management has also decided to approve a further contribution of 50% of the monthly cost of the crèche fees on behalf of its employees using the structure. The Company provided: Health insurance: as legally binding according to Croatian laws, 15% on the gross salary. Bank: Pension fund: the company is paying additional individual voluntary pension fund for each employee. A framework agreement has been entered into with a bank that provides for various services on behalf of the Italian employees. Amongst these services, we mention a “virtual branch” in the company JOSEF GARTNER GMBH AND GARTNER SWITZERLAND AG and a cash point service available 24 hours a day. The convention provides special conditions for all employees in the case where the latter open current accounts or apply for mortgages with this bank. The Company provided: Canteen: subsidized by Company. Vehicle third party liability insurance: Mandatory social contributions including health coverage. A convention has been established with an insurance Company for the employees with special tariffs, whit the possibility to split the insurance rate in the monthly payslip. SCHELDEBOUW B.V. Other conventions: The Company provided: • Canteen: Permasteelisa pays full cost of the noon meal for all its employees who carry at least 6 Canteen: the prices for items in the canteen are heavily discounted by the Company. working hours per days. The canteen is located in the industrial area of Vittorio Veneto, where the Health insurance. company is settled. • Gym: special discounts for Permasteelisa S.p.A. personnel. PERMASTEELISA NORTH AMERICA CORP. • Car rental: special discounts for Permasteelisa S.p.A. personnel with three leader car rental companies. The Company provided: • Medical centre: special discounts for Permasteelisa S.p.A. personnel. Medical plan. Dental and vision healthcare. “Prevenire è vita”: Permasteelisa S.p.A. initiated a prevention project “Prevenire è Vita” in November 2008 providing a BLEU TECH MONTRÉAL INC. totally free anti-tumour Check-up for the employees. A specialist visit was arranged with a staff of doctors who prescribed personalised individual diagnostics based on the age and sex of the employee. The Company provided: This prevention program finished at the end of 2012 with the participation of about 80% of the Health insurance: medical, paramedical, dental, long term disability, etc. employees. Other conventions: the Company negotiated preferred rates with local ski centre. In 2013, started a new prevention project named “Prevenire è vita vale doppio” (Prevention is life, double) in favour of the employees that includes, besides anti-tumour Check-up, the cardiovascular PERMASTEELISA PACIFIC HOLDINGS LTD. screening. The completion of the check-up program is scheduled at the end of 2016. At the end of 2015 the total number of attendees reached 463 out of 563 acceptances (82%). The Company provided: Insurances to the employees such as Life Insurance, LivingCare, Hospitalization and Surgical, Anti-influence vaccination: Outpatient Specialist, Personal Accident Coverage, Business Travel Coverage. Permasteelisa S.p.A. also in the 2015 offered the possibility of having a free anti-influence vaccination Other conventions for the promotion and supporting of healthy lifestyle. to all its employees. GLOBAL ARCHITECTURAL CO. LTD. PERMASTEELISA ESPAÑA S.A.U. The Company provided: The Company provided: Canteen and food allowance. Canteen: meals for the employees and the relevant costs were covered by the Company. Dental care service. The Company has two dental clinics nearby in contact to allow employees to get Health insurance: covered by the National Health Service (paid mainly by the company) for common teeth treatment payed by the Company. illness and for professional illness/professional accidents. Health insurance for all employees. PERMASTEELISA FRANCE S.A.S. PERMASTEELISA PROJECTS THAILAND The Company provided: The Company provided Health insurance for all employees. Canteen: a canteen is arranged at the main office with costs partially covered by the Company. For employees on sites and/or outside the office, costs are also covered by the Company, according to the PERMASTEELISA (INDIA) PVT French labour law. Health insurance: all employees have health insurance (by French law), plus an additional coverage The Company provided: partially paid by the Company. Canteen: the cost is covered by the Company. Health insurance: it has been arranged a special agreement which allow the employees to cover with PERMASTEELISA GARTNER MIDDLE EAST LLC an additional amount (paid by their self) their family too. The Company provided: PERMASTEELISA JAPAN K.K. Health insurance: the insurance covers the most important illnesses, hospitalizations and pregnancy. Medical Services. The Company provided mandatory health insurance to all employees. 18 19 PERMASTEELISA GROUP PERMASTEELISA GROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 PRINCIPLE 1 | UN Global Compact COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 PRINCIPLE 1 | UN Global Compact PERMASTEELISA HONG KONG LIMITED Summarizing, about 11360 hours of training were achieved in 2015, for a total amount of 604 employees involved in one or more training sesions. Here below the details: The Company provided: Health Insurance: three levels of medical plan depending on seniority have always been provided to Fig. no. 1/2 2015 Training hours all staff. Pension Scheme for all staff. TYPE OF TRAINING HOURS Social occasions, lunches and dinners, parties, BBQ Community services for Charity. H&S 2.331,5 IT 2.374 DONGGUAN PERMASTEELISA CURTAIN WALL Linguistic 2.319 Managerial 359,5 The Company provided: Specific 2.175 Canteen and the cost is covered by the Company. Technical 1.799,5 Health insurance: the Company bought medical insurance for every employees and also bought TOTAL TRAINING HOURS 11.358,5 social insurance to employees and high business insurance for foreign employees. Bank convention: the Company negotiated with bank to allow employees to apply credit card with higher lines. The Company negotiated with Taixin and Kangyi Hospitals a convention for the employees. 2331,5 2374 2319 2500 JOSEF GARTNER CURTAIN WALL (SHANGHAI) CO. LTD. 2175 The Company provided Life and Medical Insurance to all employees. 2000 1799,5 PERMASTEELISA PHILIPPINES INC. 1500 The Company provided: Insurances to the employees such as Life insurance, Accident insurance, Health insurance; 1000 Dental package for employee; The Company is also trying to negotiate improvement on the health insurance package of the employees and 359,5 to include vaccination at a lower price in the package. 500 5. Training projects 0 For Training projects here below are described some actions set in place at Group level developed in 2015. H&S IT Linguistic Managerial Specific Technical Permasteelisa Training Academy (PTAc) During 2015 the training actions followed different paths: Permasteelisa Training Academy (PTAc) is dedicated to the development of technical training programmes Technical for human resources of the Permasteelisa Group. H&S Training Permasteelisa S.p.A. 16% periodically organizesH&Straining courses in relation to the matters of 21% Permasteelisa Group is a “Learning Organization” and its Companies aim to support employee performance prevention, protection and safety at work. Specific courses were proposed to the employees, for example: and continuous improvement by facilitating the acquisition of technical information and the development of first aid personal skills and knowledge. Permasteelisa Group believes in giving to every employee the opportunity fire prevention to acquire the knowledge and skills necessary for personal growth and the future progress of the Group. utilisation of machinery (gantry cranes, fork lifts, etc.) The Academy aims to centralize the corporate knowledge asset, formulating an agreed training standard waste managementSpecific methodology, in order to support knowledge sharing and the exchange of information within the Group. site safety 19% As example, a technical training offered at Group level during 2015 is referred to “PMF”. Here below is etc… IT summarized the total of attended employees divided per geographic area: In 2015, 2.331 hours of Healt&Safety training courses have been21% issued, representing the 21% of the total training hours and involving Managerial 447 employees. Europe & 3% Asia America Middle East TOTAL 124 16 32 IT Training Extremely important and crucialLinguistic for business operations is both the generic use of the computer and the several programs used on a daily basis20% in addition to the more specific and technical development. For these reasons Permasteelisa S.p.A focuses on the IT training related to specific programs, such as In 2015 the different subsidiaries developed the following training projects, please note that this list is a “SAP”, “INVENTOR”, “EXCEL”, “BIM”, “PMF” and many others. sample of improved activities and it is not exhaustive. In 2015, 2.374 hours of IT Training course have been issued, representing the 21% of the total training hours and involving 109 employees. PERMASTEELISA S.P.A. Linguistic Training A worldwide Company focused on the global market as Permasteelisa, needs to invest Permasteelisa S.p.A. invests on a continuous training for its employees supporting their professional growth in the language skills of its employees, especially by offering courses in English and French. through a lifelong learning path. In 2015, 2.319 hours of linguistic training course have been issued, representing the 20% of the total training The activities of Learning & Education” provided during 2015, continue to be so decisive within the Company. hours and involving 180 employees. 20 21 PERMASTEELISA GROUP PERMASTEELISA GROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 PRINCIPLE 1 | UN Global Compact COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 PRINCIPLE 1 | UN Global Compact Managerial Training Managerial training has played a key role within the company. The increase in soft skills PERMASTEELISA ESPAÑA S.A.U. and the management of change are the main needs for role models and responsibilities. In fact, the courses addressed by Permasteelisa S.p.A. to the managers focused on topics such as Change Management , The During 2015 the Company provided the following training actions: Meeting Management , The performance appraisal and Coaching. Linguistic training for a total amount of 640 hours. 2331,5 2374 2319 2500 Specialist environment training for a total amount of 580 hours. In 2015, 359,5 hours of managerial training course have been issued, 3% of the 2175 total training hours and Specialist quality training for a total amount of 360 hours. involving 63 managers. Health & Safety training for a total amount of 366 hours. 2000 Specific Training Being specific means knowing; knowing means being able to be one step ahead 1799,5 of those PERMASTEELISA FRANCE S.A.S. who are not updated and specialized. This is why the investment on specialist training courses has been substantial 1500 and oriented to the improvement of the already excellent areas and standards. During 2015 the Company provided the following training actions: Linguistic and management training The Company has organized approximately 200 hours of training, In 2015, 2.175 hours of specific training course have been issued, representing the 19% of the total training mainly for languages (Italian and English) and management/leadership. The number of employees 1000 overall 325 employees. hours, involving having done a training course is around 25%. Technical Training During 2015 it has strengthened considerably 359,5 the project of development of the technical Health & Safety A monthly meeting was organized with all site managers and project managers. 500 to operate effectively and to ensure the achievement of business objectives. The excellence of skills required The agenda was mainly to give a feedback of the safety referent person about all site visits and events the quality product should be the basis of Permasteelisa's S.p.A. efforts and this can be reached only through occurred, but included also a special point, in order to train and build awareness on highlighted topic a continuous and proactive technical update. (scaffolding, relationship with general contractor...). 0 In 2015, 1.799,5 hours of technical training course have been issued, representing the 16% of the total training H&S IT Linguistic Managerial Specific Technical hours, involving overall 208 employees. PERMASTEELISA GARTNER MIDDLE EAST LLC Fig. no. 3 2015 % of Training hours for type During 2015 the Company provided the following training actions: Specialist training on Design, 3D, operational budget for projects. Technical Health & Safety training for 100% of the employees working in the factory. 16% H&S 21% RI ISA D.O.O. During 2015 the Company provided the following training actions: Course on welding for a total amount of 8 hours. Specific Course on PMF for a total amount of 48 hours. 19% Presentation by silicone supplier for a total amount of 4 hours. Presentation by equipment for building supplier for a total amount of 4 hours. IT Course on stainless steel for a total amount of 8 hours. 21% Health & Safety course for new employees. Managerial 3% PERMASTEELISA U.K. LTD. Linguistic During 2015 the Company provided the following training actions: 20% Relevant vocational training on applications, relevant Law and regulations, contracts, etc… Safety inductions for all new staff. The company had regular weekly toolbox talks on site for all the Moreover, during 2015 Permasteelisa S.p.A. organized, in collaboration with some major Italian Universities, installation labour. including Biomedical University of Rome, Polytechnic University of Milan and University of Udine, the Campus Site management safety training for all Construction and Installation Managers. project, with the aim to respond to the Company needs, through the placement of brilliant young graduates Safety training for specific equipment and machinery. in Engineering and Architecture. JOSEF GARTNER GMBH AND GARTNER SWITZERLAND AG Two different educational paths have been carried out for the recruitment of the so-called “entry-level” resource: During 2015 the Company provided the following training actions: Multiple training sessions to both comply with legal requirements as well as staff qualification. Master in PROJECT MANAGEMENT: Managing complexity 18 students, who followed about 500 hours of Safety training. classroom training and 250 hours of internship inside the Company; SCHELDEBOUW B.V. Non-University Master in DESIGN: designing complexity 15 students, who followed about 500 hours of classroom training and 250 hours of internship, which in 2015 involved. During 2015 the Company provided the following training actions: First aid training. Through these paths, participants had the opportunity to follow a broad theoretical and practical learning Linguistic training. plan, intended to obtain technical skills and management competences for developing complex projects in Contractual awareness training. a national and international field. Team building training. The total classroom training hours were approximately 16.400, while 8.000 were the hours spent “on the job” Health & Safety training to different level of personnel some in external courses and some in task supporting Permasteelisa employees. risk assessment with a participation of circa 25% of fixed personnel. 22 23 PERMASTEELISA GROUP PERMASTEELISA GROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 PRINCIPLE 1 | UN Global Compact COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 PRINCIPLE 1 | UN Global Compact PERMASTEELISA NORTH AMERICA CORP. GLOBAL ARCHITECTURAL CO. LTD. During 2015 the Company provided the following training actions: The Company has organized 37 courses of training to employees such as the training on job enhancement, Linguistic training (english as a second language) for a total amount of 15 hours. employee development, management skills, quality, ISO9000 and ISO14000. The total training hours in 2015 were 5.543 hours. Health & Safety training: The Company has provided safety trainings for the personnel such as Basic Fire Fighting Training, Evacuation • OSHA 10 (Safety) for a total amount of 10 hours. Drills, Training for Safety Officers at Supervisor Level and Safety Committee, Forklift Driving Training, First• First Aid/CPR (Safety) for a total amount of 8 hours. Aid and CPR Training. The total safety training hours in 2015 were 2,356 hours. • Construction Safety course & test was offered to 100% of white collar employees. • Manufacturing Safety eLearning course was offered to 100% of white collar employees. PERMASTEELISA PROJECTS THAILAND • OSHA 10 must be completed by anyone visiting a construction site. • First Aid/CPR offered at all locations. During 2015 the Company provided the following training actions: • Evacuation Safety training provided to employees. SAP training for key staff members involved in Purchasing, Warehousing Control and Good Received. Approximately 30 hours for the specific employees concerned with these activities. Production: Safety trainings for Site Staff. Internal and External Training Programmes. • Silicone Applicator Certification training for a total amount of 8 hours. • SAP training for a total amount of 2 hours. PERMASTEELISA (INDIA) PVT • Crating Safety (Safety and Production) for a total amount of 1 hour. During 2015 the Company provided the following training actions for a total almost 7.800 hours: Human resources: PMF training. • Workplace Harassment training for Managers for a total amount of 2 hours. Inventor training. • Train-the-Trainer for a total amount of 20 hours. Basic Curtain wall training. • Values & Leadership Model training for a total amount of 1 hour. Advance curtain wall training. • PMP training for Managers for a total amount of 1 hour. Train the trainers. 4T (Training for PMF Trainers). Technical: Fire-fighting course. • Autocad Standards training (Design) for a total amount of 8 hours. Sexual harassment course. • Building Physics (Design) training for a total amount of 16 hours. Safety training: 100% of personnel trained. • Design & Materials (Design) training for a total amount of 24 hours. • Structural (Design) training for a total amount of 24 hours. PERMASTEELISA JAPAN K.K. Other trainings: During 2015 the Company provided the following training actions: • Administrative Assistant training for a total amount of 16 hours. ISO auditor training: 8 hours. • Silicone School for Project Managers for a total amount of 2 hours. SAP account: 48 hours. • Various Vendor trainings for a total amount of 1-2 hours. SAP Procurement & Production: 40 hours. • Factory Training Program for a total amount of 24 hours. PMF Inventor: 6 hours. PMF IM&BIE: 112 hours. BLEU TECH MONTRÉAL INC. PMF Tender: 120 hours. Safety: on site daily safety gathering was carried out involving all site personnel. The company had During 2015 the Company provided the following training actions: monthly and annual safety meetings involving subcontractors to promote safety. Linguistic trainings (French and English). Technical training (Design and material): 3 days 10 people, (building physics) 4 days 8 people, PERMASTEELISA HONG KONG LIMITED (structural) 2 days 8 people. Factory specialties training: structural silicone application. During 2015 the Company provided the following training actions: Health & Safety: fork lift operator 1 day 2 people, Fork lift operator refresh 1 day 10 people, Scissor Technical training. lift and stacker 1 day 10 people, first aid 16 hours 4 people, Safety training specific to SAP training. managers – 1 day 1 person, Safety fire extinguisher 2 hours 36 people. Fast Closing (accounting) training. Planning training. PERMASTEELISA PACIFIC HOLDINGS LTD. Leadership training. Safety training: all 430 staff in Hong Kong received Safety training. The Company invested in manpower development with an equal utilization of in-house capabilities and external sources. DONGGUAN PERMASTEELISA CURTAIN WALL A total of 1.750 training man-hours were invested across the value chain. Accounting for more than 55% of the total training hours, there was an emphasis on building the safety culture through awareness among During 2015 the Company provided the following training actions: office-based staff and recertification for the site crew. This was second by corporate functions at 28% and New hires orientation/safety training: for a total of 896 hours. the remaining equally distributed across the design, procurement, site and project management spectrum. General course: for a total of 165,5 hours. The Company provided safety training, with 65% having attended an in-house safety orientation programme Skill/Technical training: for a total of 910 hours. while the remaining 35% attended BCA accredited safety training. Management skill training: for a total of 32 hours. Language training: Chinese & English. 24 25 PERMASTEELISA GROUP PERMASTEELISA GROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 PRINCIPLE 1 | UN Global Compact COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 PRINCIPLE 2 | UN Global Compact 2BUSINESS SHOULD MAKE SURE THAT THEY ARE NOT Safety training: all the personnel during 2015 have received safety training. The Safety training included Orientation training for new employees, Safety induction video for all contractors and visitors, Safety skill training. e.g. How to use of fire extinguisher, first aider, Emergency response training, chemical leakage prevention training, Firefighting exercise. COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES JOSEF GARTNER CURTAIN WALL (SHANGHAI) CO. LTD. COMMITMENT During 2015 the Company provided the following training actions: Permasteelisa Group rejects any behaviour that could lead to complicity in the commission of crimes of human Material training for a total of 14 hours. rights abuses. The principles by which Permasteelisa is inspired are set out in the aforementioned Code of Functional training for a total of 134 hours. Conduct. Technical training for a total of 128 hours. Safety training: safety induction and 3-level safety training for each new worker, safety training for special operations, regular safety topic training to cover various risks, daily safety toolbox talks, before ACTIONS & OUTCOMES and after holiday safety training, etc. The general attendance rate is over 90%. PERMASTEELISA PHILIPPINES INC. Code of Conduct During 2015 the Company provided the following training actions: Everyone who collaborates with Permasteelisa has to respect the ethical principles in which the Group believes. Technical training: for a total of 1.642 hours. Permasteelisa Group has promoted the dissemination of the Code of Conduct to all the employees, as well IT training: for a total of 24 hours. as customers and suppliers, asking them to sign it, and thereby approve. The Code of Conduct has been SAP Training for Finance: for a total of 48 hours. distributed to all Group companies in order for it to be noted and accepted by everyone who collaborates with Safety Training: The Company actively carry out the following activities to support and ensure safe and Permasteelisa. healthy work environment, among many others: Monthly Safety Inspection, Daily Tool Box meeting, The Code of Conduct has been made available to everyone via publication on its website, www.permasteelisagroup. Work Activity Risk Assessment and Safe Work Procedure and Work Method Statement. com, which can be easily downloaded. The pdf file of Code of Conduct is downloadable front the Group intranet, The Company has also arranged for earthquake and disaster preparedness seminar attended by more than available to all Permasteelisa Group employees. 30 employees. A translation into multiple languages of the Code of Conduct was also provided, so that its message could become even more widespread. Training courses were organized in Italy and in Group companies in order to share with and raise awareness amongst employees of the importance of the Code as a basis of conduct on which the Group intends to build its business. Reporting There are several channels through which each employee can ask a question, seek advice or report a concern regarding a suspected breach of the Group Code, relevant policies or the laws and regulations: • Permasteelisa S.p.A. e-mail address (organismodivigilanza@permasteelisagroup.com) for the reporting of any violations of the Code of Conduct, and therefore also for reporting hypothetical and potential human rights abuses. Reports are received by Permasteelisa S.p.A.’s Organismo di Vigilanza, which has the responsibility to inform the Board of Directors and the Board of Auditors in case Code of Conduct violations. All reports are handled in compliance with privacy regulations, safeguarding the rights of anonymity of the person reporting; • LIXIL Group Compliance Hotline available to all employees globally (compliancehotline@lixil.com). During 2015, as well as for the 2008-2014 periods, the Organismo di Vigilanza of Permasteelisa S.p.A. did not receive any information indicating that abuse occurred in relation to human rights. 26 27 LABOUR PERMASTEELISA GROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 PRINCIPLE 3 4 | UN Global Compact 3 BUSINESSES SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING COMMITMENT Permasteelisa Group recognizes the right to collective bargaining, which supports the freedom of association of workers. “Human rights” Code of Conduct par. 3.2 (…omissis….) LIXIL Group is committed to upholding the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. All employees have the right to freely form and join groups for the promotion and protection of their employment interests to the extent permitted by law (..omissis…) ACTIONS & OUTCOMES Where admitted by the local law, the Permasteelisa Group Companies recognizes the right to collective bargaining and allows the periodical meetings and all employment contracts are covered by the local collective bargaining. 4 BUSINESSES SHOULD UPHOLD THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR COMMITMENT Permasteelisa Group, as stated in the Code of Conduct under the principle of human rights , complies with laws and regulations concerning privacy, immigration, working time, wages and hours, as well as laws prohibiting forced, compulsory and child labor, trafficking in persons and employment discrimination. ACTIONS & OUTCOMES Permasteelisa Group disapproves of the use of any form of coercion against staff, as well as the use of concealed labour. At this scope Permasteelisa set in place policies and internal rules to impede it . Each Group company is obliged not to use forced labour, and to respect the working hours required by national legislation in the countries in which its individual subsidiaries operate. Ph.: ©Stuart Woods Permasteelisa recognizes the right to overtime pay where required by law. The Companies also are required to 3. 4. 5. 6. ask to subcontractors (ex. Installation companies), before starting any kind of activities or business, evidences of tax, salaries, insurance and social security positions for their employees. 28 29 PERMASTEELISA GROUP PERMASTEELISA GROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 PRINCIPLE 5 | UN Global Compact COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 PRINCIPLE 6 | UN Global Compact 5 6 BUSINESSES SHOULD UPHOLD THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION BUSINESS SHOULD UPHOLD THE ELIMINATION OF OF CHILD LABOUR DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION COMMITMENT In compliance with the laws of the country in which it operates and with international law, Permasteelisa Group COMMITMENT respects and promotes the abolition of child labour. Permasteelisa Group is also working to ensure equal opportunity hiring, and to act with impartiality towards its employees. This principle finds its inception in its Code of Conduct paragraph 3.1. In the principle 3.2 of its Code of Conduct, Permasteelisa Group is the guarantor for the protection of basic workers' rights with respect to child labour. “Diversity and inclusion” Code of Conduct par. 3.1 The Group treats everyone equally and fairly and makes employment decision based on merit and the group’s ACTIONS & OUTCOMES Value. The Group values diversity and equal opportunity in the workforce, provides equal employment opportunity In adopting the Code of Conduct, Permasteelisa Group companies undertake to respect the principle of for all applicants and employees. In the employment processes, the decisions are made without considering abolition of child labour for children of non-working age. race, colour, religion, national or ethnic origin, ancestry, age, disability, gender, pregnancy, marital status, Permasteelisa Group does not hire children of non-working age. sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, political or personal belief, union membership or any other characteristics protected by local laws and regulations. These principles extend to all employment decisions including recruiting, training, evaluation, promotion and rewards. Moreover also makes reasonable accommodations for employees and applicants with disabilities, and complies with all local laws protecting disabled employees. The Group respects the diverse religions and traditions of the employees around the world. The Group strives to make reasonable accommodations, to the extent permitted by local laws, for religious practices. ACTIONS & OUTCOMES Permasteelisa Group Companies formalized internal hiring and personnel management procedures/policies to mitigate the risk of discrimination based on age, race and ethnic origin, nationality, the political opinions, religious beliefs, gender or health status of its employment candidates. Group companies select candidates focusing on the skills of the individual in relation to the job sought. 30 31 ENVIRONMENT 7 PERMASTEELISA GROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 PRINCIPLE 7 | UN Global Compact BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES COMMITMENT The Group recognizes the environment as a primary asset that must be safeguarded, and undertakes to comply with current regulations regarding environmental protection and conservation, promoting a running of its business cantered on the proper use of resources, as set by paragraph 5.1 in the Code of Conduct. “Environment” Code of Conduct par. 5.1 The Group acknowledges the value of preserving the global environment – the Earth is an irreplaceable asset that we must leave in good condition for future generations. The Group is committed to local and international environmental protection laws, regulations and principles. When evaluating LIXIL Group’s business operations, including the supply chain, the Group considers environmental impact and the duty of environmental stewardship as an important criterion. The Group installs, maintains and monitors environmental controls to ensure the emissions meet legal limits. The Group will also assess the environmental risks of any new activity, including product design, entering a new market, building a factory and purchasing another business as well as divestment. In acquiring and disposing of real estate, the Group will conduct all required environmental surveys. The Group strives to preserve the global environment. Accordingly, the Group works to reduce the environmental strain caused by the business activities, promotes greener processes (e.g., using environmentally friendly materials, saving water & raw materials, energy conservation, reducing GHG emissions), develops environmentally friendly products and takes other actions to contribute to the preservation of the global environment. The Group takes a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, undertakes initiatives to promote greater responsibility and encourages the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. The Group will seek to have its suppliers similarly comply with these principles and requirements. ACTIONS & OUTCOMES Permasteelisa Group is committed to reducing consumption of energy and material, especially as regards sources of energy. In the following the details of some initiatives taken by Permasteelisa Group: PERMASTEELISA S.P.A. In order to promote protection of the environment at the forefront, Permasteelisa S.p.A. has installed a photovoltaic/solar energy system at its Italian production site. The purpose of this is to use and transform energy from the sun (a source of non-polluting and inexhaustible energy) as clean energy to use for different purposes at its production site. The Company has environment management system certified according to UNI EN ISO 14001 international standard. The company also adopted Organization and Management Control Manual with specific rules in matter of environmental management. At the purpose of energy saving, the company adopted an energy management including washrooms presence sensors and ambient light sensors in the offices in order to regulate the output of electric lighting according to the level of sunlight detectable within offices, with the dual purpose of limiting energy consumption and simultaneously improve the working conditions of employees by ensuring that the workplace is always properly illuminated. Ph.: ©Enrico Cano The photovoltaic system, tested in December 2009, went operational in 2010 and it is working also during 2015. Construction of the plant was carried out according to certain standard power generation prerogatives making 7. 8. 9. use of renewable energy sources, specifically: • electricity production without the emission of pollutants, carbon dioxide and monoxide, etc. • conservation of fossil fuels • no noise pollution • compensation for energy through incentives included in the national Energy Bill • protection of the territory in terms of environmental impact. 32 33 PERMASTEELISA GROUP PERMASTEELISA GROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 PRINCIPLE 7 | UN Global Compact COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 PRINCIPLE 7 | UN Global Compact PERMASTEELISA ESPAÑA SAU GLOBAL ARCHITECTURAL CO. LTD. The Company is certified UNI EN ISO 14001. It has a system for environmental risk assessment and also an The Company is certified UNI EN ISO 14001. It has a system for environmental risk assessment and also the Hygiene, Safety and environment policies. Each position/role in the Company were evaluated, identifying and Hygiene, Safety and Environment policies. communicating all the possible risks, indicating in a procedure how to avoid the risks and reduce possible For Hygiene and Environment policy, the company has activities to evaluate environmental aspects (water/soil/ damages. air/creatures) to estimate the risk and damage may happen to Company and employees. This is to comply to Thailand Industrial Law too. PERMASTEELISA FRANCE S.A.S. PERMASTEELISA PROJECTS THAILAND The Company prepares for every job a dedicated H&S Plan and an Environment Plan, to be submitted to the client and accepted by its consultants. The Company is certified UNI EN ISO 14001. It has a system for environmental risk assessment and also the ISO Hygiene, Safety and Environment procedures and processes. PERMASTEELISA GARTNER MIDDLE EAST LLC PERMASTEELISA HONG KONG LTD. The Company published a manual for the correct use of the offices containing also principles about hygiene, safety and use of printers, lights, etc. The Company has a system for environmental risk assessment and also the Hygiene, Safety and Environment policies in compliance with ISO and Code of Conduct. PERMASTEELISA U.K. LTD. DONGGUAN PERMASTEELISA CURTAIN WALL CO. LTD. The Company complied with all United Kingdom legislation and regulations regarding Health Safety and the Environment. The Company is certified UNI EN ISO 14001. It has a system for environmental risk assessment and also the Hygiene, Safety and Environment policies. JOSEF GARTNER GMBH AND JOSEF GARTNER SWITZERLAND AG The Company updates the Policy of Occupational Health, Safety and Environment protection at the beginning of each year. The current one is building a Zero Accident Culture and building a Zero Environment Pollution The Company is certified UNI EN ISO 14001. It has a system for environmental risk assessment and also the Culture. Hygiene, Safety and environment policies. It is operating in compliance with law and the Group policies. JOSEF GARTNER CURTAIN WALL (SHANGHAI) CO. LTD. SCHELDEBOUW B.V. The Company is certified UNI EN ISO 14001. It has a system for environmental risk assessment and also the The Company is certified UNI EN ISO 14001. It has a system for environmental risk assessment and also Hygiene, Safety and Environment policies. Hygiene, Safety and Environment policies, with control measures. PERMASTEELISA PHILIPPINES INC. PERMASTEELISA NORTH AMERICA CORP The Company has Project Environmental, Health and Safety plans in place on all projects. The Company is certified UNI EN ISO 14001. The Company’s commitment to health & safety and environment programs extends to clients, employees, the community, as well as the state and regions it does business in. The company is committed to: • Comply with all applicable State and Federal Environmental Regulations; • Prevent pollution and harm to the environment; • Train all employees to the environmental, health and safety programs and encourage them to contribute and participate; • Communicate its environmental commitment and efforts; • Continuous improvement over time in its efforts to reduce the carbon footprint, minimize the waste streams, recycle materials, and improve the energy efficiency, all while ensuring the health, safety, and wellbeing of the employees, clients and community. BLEU TECH MONTRÉAL INC. The Company has a system for environmental risk assessment and also the Hygiene, Safety and Environment policies in compliance with local laws and by-laws. PERMASTEELISA PACIFIC HOLDINGS LTD. The Company is certified UNI EN ISO 14001. It has a system for environmental risk assessment. The Company has established and communicated policies and operating procedures compliant to UNI EN ISO 14001 and BS OHSAS 18001 standards. 34 35 PERMASTEELISA GROUP PERMASTEELISA GROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 PRINCIPLE 8 | UN Global Compact COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 PRINCIPLE 8 | UN Global Compact 8BUSINESS SHOULD UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE SCHELDEBOUW B.V. GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY The Company did take precaution to save the environment recycling & waste reduction, reduction of energy usage. It increased thermal insulation in factory roofs. PERMASTEELISA NORTH AMERICA CORP. COMMITMENT The Company did take precaution to save the environment: Established a baseline to reduce aluminium waster, Permasteelisa Group supports initiatives for the promotion of greater energy savings. Investigated glass recycling options, Recycled cardboard, Recycled aluminium, Recycled white paper and Recycled plastic bottles and cans. ACTIONS & OUTCOMES BLEU TECH MONTRÉAL INC. The Permasteelisa Group subsidiaries take in place activities to promote a greater environmental responsibility, The Company did take precaution to save the environment recycling metals, wood, paper, etc... Disposal of like for example the improving environmental and recycle rules. chemicals is in compliance with local laws and by-laws. In the following the details of some initiatives taken by Permasteelisa Group: PERMASTEELISA PACIFIC HOLDINGS LTD. PERMASTEELISA S.P.A. The Company encourages sustainable development through the following initiatives: Recycling, Control waste Permasteelisa is committed to reducing the waste and refuse generated during the production process chain. disposal in accordance to regulation, Control water pollution in accordance to regulation, Reduce wastage of Coordination within the chain’s production phases allows for rational management of waste. All scraps are recycled. materials and monthly communication to employees promoting environmental responsibility. Permasteelisa S.p.A. also use software that optimizes the use of production materials and therefore reduces waste within production lines. Moreover, the Company developed a quality system that aims to reduce non-compliances GLOBAL ARCHITECTURAL CO. LTD. which, in fact, would produce more waste. Permasteelisa S.p.A. is equipped with a cogeneration plant for simultaneous and joint production of electricity and The Company has the risk assessment register card as the data record for each department’s risk/resources heat. using/contamination to environment. So, the Company can improve employee’s hygiene, at the same time can This combined use may increase the efficiency of the use of fossil fuels by more than 80%, which corresponds to reduce the risk, as well as keep the environment clean. Beside from that the Company has waste separation, lower costs and lower emissions of pollutants and greenhouse gas emissions, compared to separate production of turn light off during the lunch, and install new parts to machine to save more energy. electricity and heat. A cogeneration system with thermal and electrical processes of production requires 35% less PERMASTEELISA PROJECTS THAILAND fuel than the configuration of separate production of electricity and heat. Permasteelisa S.p.A. adopted a digital system to manage all requests for authorization permits, vacations, travel, The Company did take precaution to save the environment using recycled paper, separation of scrap and waste company cars etc., with a relevant paper and toner saving. materials for disposal, monitoring of power consumption and control of power usage. Referring the packaging, the innovative packaging of cells (the basic unit of a continuous façade) produced using metal pallets, contributes significantly to the waste reduction policy practiced by Permasteelisa. The metal pallets, PERMASTEELISA JAPAN K.K. in fact, can be reused for much longer than wooden ones, and do not produce waste materials. The Company has separate waste collection system which is in accordance with the city waste collection PERMASTEELISA ESPAÑA S.A.U. system and uses LED lighting. The Company complies with laws of special waste treatments. In particular Permasteelisa España did take DONGGUAN PERMASTEELISA CURTAIN WALL CO. LTD. precaution to save the environment separating waste, recycling materials and waste and controlling suppliers and third parties regarding environment practice. The Company did take precaution to save the environment. In particular, the solid wastes are distinguished by recyclable and unrecyclable with two kinds of trash bin which have different colours and illustrations on the PERMASTEELISA FRANCE S.A.S. cover, reducing the quantity of forklift to a minimum to reduce diesel oil consumption and reviewing electricity and water saving efficiency at Monthly Environment Health Safety meeting. On every site the Company is taking precaution according to dedicated mandatory Environment Plan (separate waste...). This is managed according to this plan, taking into account general rules of the site defined by the JOSEF GARTNER CURTAIN WALL (SHANGHAI) CO. LTD. pilot and /or General Contractor. The Company did take precaution to save the environment collecting and recycling the silicon bottles on project PERMASTEELISA GARTNER MIDDLE EAST LLC sites. In factory, the Company separates and collects the waste. Hazardous waste are disposed and treated by qualified contractors. The Company measures and monitors the resources used on a monthly basis. The Company issued the recommendation about the correct use of electronic and electric devices. PERMASTEELISA PHILIPPINES INC. RI ISA D.O.O. The Company ensured solid waste segregation was carried out on all its projects. In addition, Company also The Company collects waste paper and hands it to an external company for the recycling. The organic waste is control waste disposal in accordance to regulation and reduce wastage of materials. separated from the rest and safely deposed. JOSEF GARTNER GMBH AND JOSEF GARTNER SWITZERLAND AG The Company is operating in line with the regulations. Energy supplies are in compliance with German regulations. 36 37 PERMASTEELISA GROUP PERMASTEELISA GROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 PRINCIPLE 9 | UN Global Compact COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 PRINCIPLE 9 | UN Global Compact 9 BUSINESS SHOULD ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND capable of assessing building energy usage, the development of climatically responsive advanced façade systems, façade integration of renewable energy systems as well as studies into the improvement of DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES internal thermal and acoustic comfort conditions. Efficient Design & Materials Design & Materials Research has focused on the development of proprietary surface rationalisation and optimisation software in conjunction with research into the possibilities and limits of cold forming of COMMITMENT glazing, metals and composites. Cold bending refers to the bending of a flat surface to form the required curved free form surface. By understanding the extent to which a material can be formed the surface may Permasteelisa recognizes the importance of research and development regarding the environment. For this be optimised in order to minimise the number of unique panel types as well as reduce the number of prereason Permasteelisa Group has funded projects to encourage energy saving. curved panels. Efficient design goals are focused on developing new systems using advanced composites and polymer materials with both low embodied energy and a high degree of thermal efficiency and recycle ability. ACTIONS & OUTCOMES These systems are lightweight, have high thermal efficiency and provide a new architectural aesthetic. Research into the application of innovative materials is carried out in accordance with the highest quality As reported in Permasteelisa Group web site: and occupant comfort standards. Sustainability of buildings extends beyond environmental challenges but also structural and safety issues. For a building to be sustainable it must not only be energy efficient and have minimal environmental impact but PERMASTEELISA S.P.A. is active in the development of new, eco-friendly technologies. provide both safety and security for building occupants. In this respect, research is being carried out in the fields of: 1. Organic photovoltaic cells blast enhancement impact protection Permasteelisa initiated a project in 2008 for production of semi-transparent solar panels that, thanks to the seismic performance combined action of an organic dye and nano particles of titanium dioxide, convert light – diffused or direct – intrusion & forced entry into electricity. In 2009 a consortium was formed to develop the project and the testing phase began. Project fire resistance partners are the Tor Vergata University of Rome, the Ferrara University and the Turin University, which will ballistic projectile resistance. focus on research. After the design phase and a pilot line was completed at the beginning of 2012. The research is focuses on the optimization of the semi-transparent solar panels and their application on a project. Research has focused on providing technology that can be extended and applied to various project standards and specifications, not simply one-off ad-hoc products. This technology includes patented system design not only 2. Sustainable design tested & certified through actual field trials but also enabling benchmarking and validation of unique proprietary developed advanced software tools. Furthermore, the Permasteelisa Group continued to promote the development of sustainable design of Research is also carried out to develop structural systems that optimize the use of façade materials and systems. buildings, intelligent façades for the largest projects in the world that, in addition to meeting the demands of Material life cycle research enables ease of replacement of individual components as they near the end of the increasingly futuristic architects, are able to filter light, reduce sound pollution, and recuperate solar heat to design life without the need to replace the overall façade. Structural optimization techniques and software reduce provide air conditioning in summer and heating in winter, etc. unnecessary material wastage. The areas of interest in the sustainable design of buildings primarily involve: Permasteelisa has led the industry in the development of free and fluid form structures with the successful • protection and safety within the buildings, including against explosives, fires and earthquakes; completion of numerous prestigious projects. The unique form and complexity of such structures has led to the • energy savings and comfort; development of proprietary surface rationalization and optimization software as well as research into the unique • design and new materials, composites or polymers with low embodied energy, high thermal efficiency properties and limitations of cold formed materials such as glazing, metals and composites. and the ability to be recycled. Further research is being carried out investigating the use and application of alternative industry technologies through the use of polymers and composites and the use of adhesives and bonding technologies. Permasteelisa Group at Safeguarding Australia 2016 The Group has focused on environmental sustainability themes and in its architectural projects implements new energy saving strategies. Intelligent façades, custom made for the largest world projects: façades filtering light, May 2016 Permasteelisa Group participated at Safeguarding Australia 2016, the 13th national security annual abating acoustic pollution and saving heat from the sun for winter heating or summer ventilation. Buildings summit held on 11st and 12sd May 2016 in Camberra. capable of generating power through photovoltaic cells and resisting the strongest seismic events or explosions. Research and development within the Permasteelisa Group has primarily focused on sustainable design of Safeguarding Australia 2016 brings leading industry experts from state and federal governments, the buildings and the development of façade components and systems to achieve this. corporate sector and Australian and international universities to explore evolving national security threats and opportunities for improving Australia’s resilience to violent extremism. Permasteelisa Group was a main Main focus areas of sustainable building design include: sponsor of the Blast and other extreme events Design and Modelling Forum, a special occasion to provide Protection participants with a valuable overview of case studies, modelling tools and research projects in this area One of the main goals of any sustainable building is to provide not only protection against the elements covering terrorist attacks, accidental explosions, mining explosions, floods, earthquakes, bushfires, risk and but also safety and security to its occupants. With this in mind, structural and safety research is being safety management etc. In today’s world, knowledge of modern protective structures is vital for both building undertaken in the areas of blast enhancement against the threat of explosive attack, fire protection and engineers and protective security specialists. Permasteelisa contribute to the forum was a presentation about seismic design. Despite the severe structural demands that such loadings have on façades, the outcomes of “Protective façade design to mitigate the effect of blast”, focused on Permasteelisa's design philosophy and this research have led to the development of systems and technologies that allow architects the possibility approach to blast enhancement of façade systems. As opposed to consequential strengthening of façade to maintain design flexibility and aesthetics, maximise transparency whilst maintaining enhanced levels of components, Permasteelisa seeks to merge the concepts of maintaining the integrity of the building envelope, protection for occupants. controlling hazard and minimizing the load transfer to the main structure, preserving at the same time the Energy Saving & Comfort major façade requirements in terms of architectural freedom, comfort and energy performance. The increasing architectural trend of maximising glazed surfaces area presents a technological challenge The blast enhancement research and development projects within Permasteelisa delivered the design with regards to energy consumption and building sustainability. To address this challenge, building physics concepts for several types of façades, whereby every component of the façade systems contributes towards research and development has focused on areas such as the development of accurate software tools the dissipation of blast wave energy, culminating in the development of the dissipative bracket. 38 39 ANTI10 PERMASTEELISA GROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 PRINCIPLE 10 | UN Global Compact BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY CORRUPTION COMMITMENT The Group establishes, in the Code of Conduct, the principles of proper and transparent relationships with government officials and the stakeholders, of conflicts of interest, prohibition of involvement with criminal organizations and individuals, the anti-money laundering and fair competition. The core principles of the Code of Conduct are described as follow: “Anti-corruption” Code of Conduct par. 2.1 Group prohibits giving of money or improper benefits, including excessive services, gifts and entertainment, to government officials and ensures transparent relationships with them. The Group also does not give or receives money or other benefits, including excessive gifts and entertainment, to or from private business partners in order to secure an improper benefit. The Group is committed to working in a corruption-free business environment, does not give or promises money of any value, nor excessive services, gifts and entertainment, to governments or government officials (a term which includes employees of state-owned enterprises, political candidates and their employees, and all other public officials). The Group does not provide such benefits to the employees of customers or business partners that could be construed as intending to improperly influence their decisions. These prohibitions include what are known as “facilitation payments.” Problematic benefits include, among others: hiring someone who is a current or former government official or his/her family member to obtain even an indirect benefit from the government official without the prior approval in accordance with company’s procedure; paying unofficial “fees” or “tips” to licensing authorities or customs officials; or using a third party, such as a travel agency, to arrange a personal trip for an customer’s executive at the company’s expense in exchange for arranging for his company to purchase the products. The Group may offer and accept unsolicited gifts and entertainment that are business courtesies, designed to build relationships and goodwill, if they are not intended to secure a particular business or personal benefit, are appropriate to the circumstances and are moderate in terms of value, frequency and quantity. The Group does not solicit gifts or entertainment of any value, nor may provide gifts or entertainment in response to solicitations. The Group must document and keep records of gifts and entertainment in accordance with the Code, policy and procedures. The Group may not use a third party as an intermediary to confer any benefits that would be prohibited if it were to offer them directly. The Group will seek to ensure our third parties are aware of and compliant with Group anti-corruption standards, including conducting risk-based anti-corruption diligence before engaging third parties. “Conflicts of Interest” Code of Conduct par. 2.2 The Group avoids conflicts of interest and the appearance of conflicts, and disclose any potential conflicts to the company. Ph.: ©Wade Zimmerman 10. We act in LIXIL Group’s best interests and avoid any action or appearance that puts our personal needs ahead of LIXIL Group’s interests. We should not put ourselves in situations where our business decisions can be influenced or appear to be influenced by personal or family interests or friendships. It is obligation to voluntarily and proactively disclose any actual or potential conflict promptly to the company. In most cases, conflicts can be resolved by an open and honest discussion. Certain material conflicts may require the acknowledgement of confidentiality obligations, reassignment or recusal from certain business decisions. 40 41 PERMASTEELISA GROUP PERMASTEELISA GROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 PRINCIPLE 10 | UN Global Compact COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 PRINCIPLE 10 | UN Global Compact “Prohibition of involvement with criminal organizations and individuals” Code of Conduct par. 2.3 Any payments on LIXIL Group Entity’s behalf to political candidates or parties are strictly regulated and must be pre-approved in accordance with the company’s procedures. The Group will not be voluntarily involved with criminal organizations or individuals, such as corporate The Group does not support or associate with political or religious activity that incites extremism or challenges extortionists and members of organized crime, including as customers, business partners, or otherwise. The our commitment to cultural diversity and equal opportunity. Group will not give in to threats by such parties and will promptly report any such threats to the company. (…omissis…) “Anti-money laundering” Code of Conduct par. 2.4 ACTIONS & OUTCOMES The Group ensures to hold procedures to prevent money laundering and comply with anti-money laundering reporting requirements. The principles above listed and enshrined in the Code of Conduct constitute a commitment by the Company to The Group is committed to the international fight against money laundering. Money laundering is the criminal refrain from illegal conduct. The Companies of the Group follow the Code of Conduct principles. They adopted practice of filtering the proceeds of crime, or‘ dirty money,’ through a series of transactions so that the funds internal policies and procedures against bribery and extortion. are ‘cleaned’ in order to disguise their illegal origin. LIXIL Group Entities conducts business in accordance with The Code of Conduct has to be spread to the clients and suppliers. In fact, all employees and those who all local legal requirements, including compliance with any currency reporting requirements. collaborate with the Group, without distinction or exception, are required to obverse and to apply the Code within their activities and responsibilities in full respect of the Group's policies. “Fair competition” Code of Conduct par. 2.5 Moreover, Permasteelisa S.p.A. approved the Organizational Management and Control Models pursuant to The Group supports free and fair competition and does not use illegal or questionable measures to gain an Legislative Decree 231/01 in order to promote business activity in accordance with national laws and legislation. advantage over a competitor. The application of those Model is overseen by the “Organismo di Vigilanza” through audit tests. The Group operates in accordance with all applicable antitrust and competition laws and regulations wherever In the framework of Law 231/01 (which established administrative liability of the bodies), Permasteelisa does business. managers and staff are trained to be the main guarantors of corruption forms absence, and in their ability to The Group does not collaborate or create the appearance of collaboration by discussing with, or disclosing prevent these forms. to, competitors sensitive information such as prices or price components, discounts, costs, profits, margins, Permasteelisa has established the principle of segregation of duties. Payments are all recorded in its computer trading terms, marketing, distribution plans, market or customer allocations or new product launches. The system and must be authorized by someone other than the people who managed the billing process, and Group ensures that its intermediaries do not communicate such information to or receive it from competitors. provided with specific proxies. The Group uses only legitimate means of gathering competitive information, whether directly or through third parties, does not use illegal means or misrepresentation, or induce customers, business partners or (current or former) employees of competitors to provide confidential information. The Group does not mandate or agree on a customer’s resale prices or incentivize customers to follow recommendations through any form of coercion or punishment. The Group does not impose conditions of sale that can exclude competitive products or limit a customer’s scope of resale. Consult the business’s legal department/Compliance before to discuss exclusive sales or services agreements, termination of sales, refusals to sell, tying the sale of one product to the purchase of another or territorial or customer restrictions on the resale of products. The Group does not abuse dominant market positions. “International trade controls” Code of Conduct par. 2.6 The Group complies with trade regulations including local and international export control and economic sanctions laws when it imports/exports goods, services or technologies or conducts business in countries subject to international economic and trade sanctions. The Group is evolving as a global company and may transfer goods, services and technologies across national borders. In doing so, the Group complies with all applicable laws and regulations governing the import and export of the products, including those related to customs, embargoes (in particular Japan, US, UN and EU sanctions regulations) and anti-boycott requirements. The Group closely follows procedures for import and export, especially to countries subject to international economic and trade sanctions, and complies with laws and regulations that prohibit or restrict doing business with certain entities or individuals. “Political and Religious activities” Code of Conduct par. 2.7 The Group does not use its funds or resources for personal, political or religious activities. The Group encourages its employees to participate in its communities, which may include political and/or religious activities. It cannot be use, however, the name of LIXIL Group or LIXIL Group Entity or the own position at the company to promote particular political or religious causes. 42 43 PERMASTEELISA GROUP Headquarters Viale E. Mattei, 21/23 31029 Vittorio Veneto, Treviso Italy ph.: +39 0438 505000 fax: +39 0438 694509 info@permasteelisagroup.com www.permasteelisagroup.com 2016 Permasteelisa S.p.A. All rights reserved
