WOOLWORTHS HOLDINGS LIMITED 2016 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT WHAT CONSTITUTES ‘GOOD BUSINESS’ IS A MOVING TARGET, AND WE MUST PUSH OURSELVES TO ACHIEVE MORE AMBITIOUS TARGETS AND GOALS 04 Good Business Journey 71 Sustainable Farming 04 / Scope and Boundary 05 / Our Commitments 83 Waste 06 / The WHL Group 07 / About Us 08 / Our Sustainability Vision and Focus Areas 93 Water CONTENTS 10 / 2016 Highlights 12 / Our Achievements over the Last Year 14 / Sustainability Committee Chairman and Group Chief Executive Officer’s Report 103 Energy and Climate Change 18 / Managing Sustainability 22 / Stakeholder Engagement 114 Appendices 116 / Key Sustainability Indicators 27 Our People and Transformation 118 / Awards and Recognition 120 / Material Impacts to our Business 122 / Key Stakeholder Groupings 43 Social Development 124 / WHL Carbon Footprint 126 / Independent Assurance Report 53 Health and Wellness 61 Ethical Sourcing SCOPE OUR AND BOUNDARY COMMITMENTS This Annual Sustainability Report covering the 52 weeks to The recommendations of King III and the Global Reporting THE ROAD AHEAD 26 June 2016, is the successor to the 2015 Good Business Journey Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines form the basis for this report Since launching our Good Business Journey in 2007, we have scorecard system. We have reviewed and updated these targets Report, and focuses on Woolworths SA, Country Road Group and any restatement of information is noted in the section set medium-to long-term targets to challenge our business to every few years to reflect changes in both the global sustainability and David Jones. It must be noted that David Jones is a majority concerned. This report is prepared in accordance with the GRI G4 continually improve, be more efficient and to make an even more sphere and to our business. We feel that the goals we have set for brands/concession model driven business, so the level of influence SustainabilityReporting Guidelines (Core). You can find the detailed positive impact. These targets have also driven a heightened focus 2020 and beyond are the most aspirational yet, and are excited into the supply chain is quite different from Woolworths and GRI index at www.woolworthsholdings.co.za. on measurement and allowed better integration into our balanced that they cover the whole of the Woolworths Holdings Group. Country Road Group. WHL is a signatory to the UN Global Compact, and our Annual Our carbon footprint information covers the period from Sustainability Report also serves as our Communication on Progress 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015, based on the timelines (COP). We have referenced the UN Sustainable Development Goals R3.5BN 500BN for our submission to the Carbon Disclosure Project. in our strategy determination process. Contribute Save Our Black Economic Empowerment information covers the All data is based on the best possible systems that are currently 2015 financial year, in line with the verification timelines for available to us and where applicable aligned with recognised this information. standards. The 2016 Good Business Journey Report is intended to be read WHL regards its sustainability reporting process as a valuable in conjunction with the 2016 Integrated Report and the 2016 opportunity to engage with its stakeholder groups and to to our communities over 5 years litres of water over 5 years Annual Financial Statements, as a compendium of our strategy respond to issues that have been raised during the course of and performance. the year. Through our Sustainability Report we aim to provide In compiling this report we have considered and utilised various insight to our stakeholders in how we have progressed against reporting protocols. As with our 2016 Woolworths Holdings Limited our Good Business Journey targets and objectives, as well as provide an overview of the highlights, feedback and challenges HAVE AT LEAST 1 SUSTAINABILITY ATTRIBUTE (WHL and Group) Integrated Report, we have considered the application of the six capitals (as recommended by the International we have experienced. FOR ALL DIRECTLY SOURCED PRODUCTS BY 2020. Integrated Reporting Council) in our thinking about sustainability. We welcome any feedback on our programme and reporting, Where this report predominantly covers the aspects related and contact details for this purpose can be found on the inside to human, social and relationship and natural capital, the back cover of the report. Integrated Report offers detail about financial, manufacturing and intellectual capital. HALVE OUR ENERGY IMPACT BY 2020 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING AND SOURCE ALL OF ALL KEY COMMODITIES The following icons are applied throughout the report to improve usability and show the integration between the relevant elements of the report. OUR ENERGY FROM BY 2020. RENEWABLES BY 2030. Transformation Social Health Ethical Sustainable Waste Water Energy Development & Wellness Sourcing Farming THIS HEART SYMBOLISES ALL THE Go To Go To THINGS WE ARE DOING TO MAKE Page Website A DIFFERENCE IN THE WORLD. For our 2016 Integrated Report and 2016 Annual Financial Statements Report, go to www.woolworthsholdings.co.za THE WHL GROUP The WHL Group is a South African-based retailer with operations across the southern hemisphere. It is one of the top 40 companies listed on the JSE Limited Securities Exchange (JSE). ABOUT US OFFERING 55.0 A selected range of quality clothing and general % Woolworths Holdings Limited (WHL) is a southern hemisphere retail Group that has been listed on the Johannesburg Stock Country Road Group Proprietary Limited (Country Road Group and CRG) and David Jones Pty Limited (David Jones and DJ), acquired merchandise and food Exchange Limited (JSE) since 1997. It is one of the top 40 JSE-listed as of 1 August 2014 and formerly listed on the Australian Securities PROFILE products. Financial Group turnover companies and had a market capitalisation of R100.5 billion Exchange (ASX). Woolworths Financial Services Proprietary Limited Leading South African retailer offering a services provided through contribution* at 26 June 2016. Approximately 45% of revenue is derived (WFS) is a joint venture with Barclays Africa Group, which holds the range of primarily private label products Woolworths Financial from Australasian operations. WHL now employs more than controlling interest. 31631 Services (WFS) 43 000 employees across 14 countries and trades in almost Our footprint extends beyond our stores into our supply chain, the 1 400 store locations. communities in which we operate and the communities that buy our 695 Store locations Employees The Group trades through three operating subsidiaries, which includes Woolworths Proprietary Limited (Woolworths and WSA), products and use our services. We manage our broader business impact through comprehensive social, ethical and environmental policies and practices. WHY SUSTAINABILITY IS IMPORTANT TO US The retail sector continues to be in the spotlight in terms of both and we increasingly need to provide such product choices OFFERING its direct and especially supply chain impacts. Issues around to them, without a significant premium. 30.2% Premium and luxury international traceability, ethical sourcing and responsible sourcing of In Australia, the most significant interaction with customers has and private label brands of clothing commodities are material risks for the sector. Mitigating these been around ethical sourcing issues, especially focused around and general merchandise and risks requires the types of long-term partnerships with suppliers PROFILE Group turnover the annual Baptist World Aid Australian Fashion Report, and a food products that Woolworths has been built on. Increasingly important One of Australasia's leading contribution* number of high-profile reports into clothing supply chains. is the expertise and guidance we gain from our partnership premium department stores Other topical issues include mental health and wellbeing, cultural with WWF-SA. 5964 diversity and indigenous reconciliation, drought resistance, extreme In South Africa, key issues include the need to alleviate poverty weather events and the transition to a low-carbon economy. and create jobs, to improve education and grow the number 40 As a largely private label retail Group across food, clothing, Employees of skilled people ready to join the job market, while labour unrest homeware and beauty, we have a business model based on and concerns about corruption continue. long-term supplier relationships and a responsibility to influence Store locations Environmental challenges include energy supply stability and costs, change along our supply chain. Through our Good Business as well as the need to grow renewable energy opportunities, Journey, we're embedding sustainability into every aspect of water scarcity (exacerbated by drought conditions in many parts our business and every product we have direct sourcing control of the country) and quality issues, and a host of agricultural over, with eight key focus areas: sustainable farming, water, waste, OFFERING concerns including security of land tenure and a declining number energy, ethical sourcing, transformation, social development, and 14.8% Stylish high-quality apparel, of farmers – all of which affect food security and prices, putting health and wellness. accessories, footwear and homeware pressure on South African consumers. Unpredictable climate-related Sustainability is one of the four strategic focus areas of the WHL events are putting even more strain on this food production system. PROFILE Group turnover Group and is integrated into the strategic planning cycle and The National Development Plan creates a strong vision for Leading Australasian speciality retailer contribution* balanced scorecard process. To ensure consistency across our resolving many of these challenges, and Woolworths needs operations, each business unit and each operating company to understand our influence as a diversified retailer, and apply has a set of Good Business Journey objectives against which 5545 our value chain approach to finding solutions in partnership they are measured twice per annum. 660 with our stakeholders. Our consumers continue to show a strong interest in environmentally responsible and ethical sourcing, Employees Store locations For more information on our partnership with WWF-SA, * Including concession sales. go to www.woolworthsholdings.co.za WHL 6 / 2016 GBJ REPORT 2016 GBJ REPORT / WHL 7 8/ The growth of the WHL Group has created an opportunity for more consistent and increased influence across our global supply chain and broader customer base around sustainability issues. A lot of focus has been placed over the year on delivering to our vision of being the most sustainable retailer in the southern hemisphere by aligning our Group strategies under the Good Business Journey banner. OUR SUSTAINABILITY The Group’s Good Business Journey programme consists of eight focus areas – the main drivers of value creation and the material aspects to address sustainability in the Group. To ensure alignment across the Group, and in consideration of the uniqueness of the operating companies, the emphasis on the focus areas may be slightly different for each company. VISION AND FOCUS AREAS The table below depicts the strategy for each focus area and in which company they are addressed. The focuses under these strategies are the outcome of a robust materiality and stakeholder engagement process and each has ambitious targets delivering to the overall strategic intent. THE GLOBAL AND LOCAL PERSPECTIVE • Legislative frameworks such as the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), COP21 global climate agreement, • Human rights and safe working conditions across supply chains South Africa's National Development Plan • Resource depletion, especially water and biodiversity fragmentation and loss • Increasing business transparency driving consumer expectations • Skills development and education • Growing need for innovation and collective solutions • Talent retention to maintain future-fit workforce • Food security, access and meeting nutritional needs • Climate change adaptation and carbon emissions reduction • Reducing food waste • Contributing to transformative ways of business • Animal welfare • Health and wellbeing VISION: TO BE THE MOST SUSTAINABLE RETAILER IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE FOCUS AREAS TRANSFORMATION SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT HEALTH & WELLNESS ETHICAL SOURCING SUSTAINABLE FARMING WASTE WATER ENERGY STRATEGY • Establish and drive • Align social development • Inspire a healthy lifestyle • Better manage our • Work with suppliers to • Reduce the amount of • Reduce water • Increase energy an employment value strategy to our core by making healthy eating ethical supply chain reduce the environmental waste sent to landfills consumption and manage efficiency in our own proposition that will business strategy and satisfying, delicious and risk across the Group impact associated with from our own operations, wastewater across our operations and reduce continue to attract, to national development convenient across our and to take more the produce we sell using recycled content own operations as well our carbon emissions. engage and retain priorities of South Africa, food product ranges. responsibility for through Farming for the in our products and as in our supply chain • Work with stakeholders the best, diverse talent and each country that we • Develop specific lifestyle improving the lives Future and Fishing for packaging, and making through partnerships, in our supply chain to required to deliver operate in. solutions for a variety of workers in our the Future initiatives. it easier for our collective action, meet the targets that our strategy. of dietary needs. South African and • Ensure the welfare and customers to recycle. research and education. we have set in order to • Strive to make a • Focus on transforming meaningful difference global supply chains. dignity of the animals • Increase our focus on • Create awareness achieve this. • Assist customers to both our own through the activities make informed choices • Grow responsible inside our supply chain. reducing food waste in among employees, • Shift to renewable organisation and of the Woolworths Trust, through various customer commodity sourcing • Procure commodities our supply chain, suppliers, customers energy sources. our supply chain. the MySchool MyVillage communication channels, programmes. such as palm oil, cocoa, operations and and schools. MyPlanet programme such as providing • Work with branded coffee and cotton that customers’ homes. • Develop a reconciliation action plan that aims to and other community nutritional information suppliers to increase have been farmed in • Support reusable bridge the gap between and NGO partnerships. on products and on our awareness about ethical a more sustainable way. bag programmes. indigenous Australians • Community partners website. sourcing issues along • Working in partnership in terms of health and and cause-related • Create a safe and their supply chains. with WWF-SA to drive wellbeing, education and collaborations. healthy environment further progress in dairy, access to opportunity. with necessary support beef, seafood and textiles structures to enable production as well as employees to thrive in addressing food waste. the workplace. • Mental health support. FOCUS Woolworths SA Woolworths SA Woolworths SA Woolworths SA Woolworths SA Woolworths SA Woolworths SA Woolworths SA IN GROUP David Jones David Jones David Jones David Jones David Jones David Jones David Jones David Jones COMPANIES Country Road Group Country Road Group Country Road Group Country Road Group Country Road Group Country Road Group Country Road Group WHL 8 / 2016 GBJ REPORT 2016 GBJ REPORT / WHL 9 WHL GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY HIGHLIGHTS 2016 86 % Good Business Journey score SUSTAINABLE FARMING & ETHICAL SOURCING WATER ENERGY SOURCING OF RAW MATERIALS 97% B+ 100 % 41.9 % 15.4M 388 94 % 97% 23 % 40 % 36 % 96* David Jones Country Road UTZ certified Relative water Litres of Water pulse Primary suppliers Wild-caught Woolworths Relative reduction David Jones Woolworths supplier code Group rating in cocoa sourced reduction to date municipal water meters in stores Farming for the seafood species cotton from of energy in SA relative reduction stores meet acceptance the 2016 Australian for Woolworths in Woolworths saved through Future certified met our 2015 sustainable stores since 2004 of energy use our green store Fashion Report private label stores Woolworths commitments sources status chocolates head office water treatment plant WASTE HEALTH & WELLNESS SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT TRANSFORMATION R350M 1.89M 95 % 363 000 1ST 56 % R621M 1.16M A$6.9M 381 44 R44.5M Hangers recycled Reusable bags Waste from Customers linking SA retailer to Reduction by Woolworths Active MySchool David Jones Jobs created Small businesses Value of clothing since inception sold in the last Woolworths Woolworths to remove sweets David Jones in total social contribution MyVillage MyPlanet and Country through supplier forming part donated to The of Hangerman year distribution centres Discovery Vitality from food recorded injury supporters Road Group and enterprise of our supplier Clothing Bank partnership recycled HealthyFoodsTM checkout isles frequency rate social contribution development and enterprise development programme 59% Woolworths food products with a sustainability attribute 65 with a sustainability attribute % Woolworths clothing products R743M Good Business Journey savings to date in South Africa 43140 Total number of Group employees * This includes 82 new SA stores, as assured by EY, as well as other African stores and refurbishments. 12/ OUR ACHIEVEMENTS OVER THE LAST YEAR PROGRESS MEASUREMENT 2016 The Good Business Journey index has been reviewed during The total Group sustainability measurement score for the year the current year to ensure the ongoing applicability of the 2016 was 86% (2015: Woolworths SA 87%). sophisticated weighted system that prioritises all 200-plus We had set 80% as a benchmark for good performance and indicators and provides a score across each focus area of are pleased to complete the current phase of our targets with the Good Business Journey, as well as for each business unit a score well above that benchmark. Sometimes we have failed in achieving their specific targets. to meet the robust targets we had set – either because they We have defined a revised set of targets through to 2020 were potentially unrealistic or due to change in business focus, but for the WHL Group during the course of the last financial year. each of these instances has been a valuable learning opportunity. The index score is a key tool in driving changes in behaviour in Steady progress has been made over the lifetime of the Good the business units as well as providing comparable scorecard Business Journey programme, and the targets have been well data and monitoring progress towards oneand five-year targets. integrated into our strategy and balanced scorecards. The scores per factor are shown in the graph below. 120 100 97 96 89 88 89 84 84 80 79 71 60 58 40 20 0 Economic Governance Social Transformation Environment KEY: 2016 2020 WHL 12 / 2016 GBJ REPORT 14/ SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN AND GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REPORT ANNOUNCING OUR GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY 2020 COMMITMENTS In South Africa, significant investment in energy efficiency, initial renewable energy pilots and an advanced real-time metering system throughout our property portfolio has resulted THROUGH Doing business responsibly sits at the heart of the Woolworths Group business. in a relative energy reduction of 40% since 2004 and has been particularly valuable in the context of occasional energy supply challenges and tariff increases faced by our FARMING FOR The WHL Good Business Journey (GBJ) was ground-breaking in South Africa when launched operations. David Jones has made similar strides reducing energy consumption by 36% THE FUTURE WE in 2007, with its aims to reduce the business’ environmental impact and increase its positive social and economic impact across the entire value chain. Over the past nine years, we since 2007, while Country Road Group has begun to implement energy monitoring and set reduction targets using the learnings from across the WHL Group. HAVE CREATED have celebrated the milestones achieved as well as reflected upon the challenges that we have encountered and drawn lessons from these. The GBJ continues to focus on improving There has also been 41.9% relative water reduction in Woolworths stores to date. This is particularly significant given the drought experienced over the last year, and the water A STRONG eight key areas of the business: energy, water, waste, sustainable farming, ethical sourcing, quality and scarcity risks faced by South Africa. Our operational work around water has FOUNDATION transformation, social development and health and wellness – with over 200 targets supporting this. Our Good Business Journey encompasses all the issues that matter most also been key in engaging with our suppliers around water use in agriculture. In particular through our Farming for the Future programme which, through independent auditing, FOR OUR Lord Rose, Chairman of the to us as a business, to our colleagues, customers, shareholders and wider stakeholders. Globally, 2015 saw a number of key sustainability agreements come to fruition, including assists our produce suppliers to incrementally improve environmental performance. Now in its seventh year, we have almost 230 of our Woolworths fruit, vegetable, wine and ENGAGEMENT Sustainability Committee the launch of a new set of 17 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, designed horticulture producers working as part of this scheme. Even with the improvements in WITH SUPPLIERS to provide a framework for global development from 2016 to 2030, and, at COP21 a much-needed universal agreement on a plan of action to combat climate change. Both farm-level environmental management, we are driving the programme further with the inclusion of water footprint index to measure supplier water efficiency and wastewater ON IMPORTANT of these historic achievements included a significant level of business involvement and have been key inputs into our GBJ 2020 strategy. management in even more detail. CHALLENGES SUCH AS WATER Through Farming for the Future, we have created a strong foundation for our engagement More than ever, business is no longer only about profit, but about creating shared value and with suppliers on important challenges such as water stewardship and climate resilience. meeting responsibilities to contribute to economic development and give back to our people and our planet. To Woolworths, this means addressing the sustainability of our value chain Collective response to water risk is crucial, and our Ceres water stewardship initiative is addressing on-farm practices, alien clearing, sanitation and environmental awareness in STEWARDSHIP from field to shelf and post-consumer use. From a social perspective, we strive to contribute meaningfully towards developmental priorities of food security and education as well as collaboration with suppliers, other businesses, the Government Catchment Management Agency and World-Wide Fund for Nature (WWF-SA), creating a model for us to work AND CLIMATE social transformation through being advocates for ethical supply chains, building long-term at replicating. RESILIENCE. partnerships with our suppliers and by supporting the growth of smallto medium-sized Our partnership with WWF-SA has continued to deliver innovative solutions around business enterprises. water, agriculture, fishing, food waste and other critical issues, and we have renewed the partnership for a further five years. R693M As a foods and clothing retailer, we form part of a complex and globalised supply chain. Ian Moir, Group Chief Executive Officer The potential to influence both upstream and downstream value chain players in order to A significant amount of our efforts in improving traceability of products has involved drilling drive positive and sustainable change through the application of codes of conduct, sourcing down our supply chain to drive sustainable sourcing practices for key commodities such as policies and creation of lasting supplier relationships, presents both an opportunity and a cotton, timber, viscose, leather, soy, cocoa and palm oil. In line with this drive, our clothing was donated to various projects challenge. We have also recognised that the vision of what constitutes a ‘Good Business’ and charities across the Group brands continue to make significant strides in ethical sourcing and the use of sustainable is a continually moving target, and we must therefore push ourselves to achieve more fibres. Earlier this year, Woolworths SA was ranked in the top 10 globally in year-on-year The GBJ continues ambitious targets and goals. Through this journey, we have been able to deliver on growth of organic cotton procurement in the 2015 Cotton Market Report, with 23% of cotton to focus on improving our strategic objectives in an integrated manner and have created shared value for used from sustainable sources. The Country Road Group received a B+ rating in the 2016 eight key areas of the our stakeholders. Australian Fashion Report and David Jones received a Band was acknowledged as one business: energy, water, IN REFLECTION of 2016’s most improved. waste, sustainable Looking back, we are pleased with the progress we have made against our targets In addition to managing our environmental footprint, the Group’s contribution to sustainable economies, transformation, social development and education is something that we farming, ethical sourcing, to date, having obtained an annual score of 86% for FY2016. Working towards these remain deeply committed to. Through our procurement and supply chain teams, we have targets has assisted us in improving operational efficiencies and driving innovation across transformation, social our operations. Combined, the various initiatives have not only served to reduce our implemented a preferential procurement strategy to intensify support for small businesses development and health environmental and social impact, but have also resulted in Group-wide cost savings of from previously disadvantaged backgrounds in South Africa where we are currently and wellness. R743 million since 2007. providing support to 44 small businesses that are receiving business development support, WHL 14 / 2016 GBJ REPORT 2016 GBJ REPORT / WHL 15 and also financial assistance to the tune of R25.5 million in loans, creating over 380 jobs. The changes to the BBBEE codes have resulted in our BEE level status dropping to Level 8, but we are working closely with our suppliers and other partners to respond to the challenges and opportunities posed by the new codes. In FY2016, we donated in excess of R693 million to various projects and charities across the countries we operate in, contributing directly to upliftment projects through the work of the Woolworths Trust and through donation of our surplus food and clothing supplies across the Group. Through the MySchool initiative we have donated over R70 million in total over the last year on our customers’ behalf, to 8 056 schools and charities, thanks to our 1.2 million active MySchool supporters. In Australia, David Jones’ contribution to the community increased to A$2.1 million in FY2016 by adding a range of new charity partners in the fields of education and mental health to existing breast cancer support. Country Road Group contributed over A$4.8 million towards social development priorities through their brand community partnerships (including flagship partnerships such as the Witchery White Shirt campaign supporting ovarian cancer research and Mimco’s collaboration with Our Watch), as well as clothing donations and employee volunteering. Our aim, through delivery of these funds, is to leave a lasting legacy for the causes which are closest to our hearts, and those of our customers and colleagues. LOOKING FORWARD For the first time, the Group’s GBJ 2020 targets incorporate the WHL international businesses, including the rest of our African operations, David Jones and Country Road Group. In Australia, David Jones and Country Road Group have introduced formal sustainability scorecards, thereby aligning the GBJ programme across all its southern hemisphere operations. The WHL Group GBJ 2020 commitments are an ambitious progression of our earlier journey and include: • contributing over R3.5 billion across the Group to communities over the next five years; • saving 500 billion litres of water over five years; • ensuring the company halves its energy impact by 2020 and achieves 100% clean energy by 2030; • driving responsible sourcing of all key commodities by 2020; and • affirming that every private-label product sold has at least one sustainability attribute OUR FOCUS IS by 2020. TO DO BUSINESS Our focus is to continue to do business in the most transparent and ethical way possible and make an ongoing impact to alleviate critical environmental and social issues in our IN THE MOST supply chain through focused efforts on improving working conditions, food security and nutrition, animal welfare, sustainable employment creation and support for local TRANSPARENT and ethical businesses. AND ETHICAL We believe that the targets we have set and the supporting strategy through to 2020 will ensure we can deliver on our vision to be the most sustainable retailer in the WAY POSSIBLE. southern hemisphere. WHL 16 / 2016 GBJ REPORT 18/ MANAGING SUSTAINABILITY OUR VALUE CHAIN GOVERNANCE The Social and Ethics Committee, a sub-committee of the KEY SUSTAINABILITY RISKS Woolworths Holdings Board, oversees the work of the Sustainability Managing risk is an integral part of our strategy in protecting Committee and the outputs of The Woolworths Trust, providing a the Group’s assets, including reputation, and in enhancing single point of view and direction for all Woolworths sustainability shareholder value in a sustainable way. We follow a robust risk focus areas. assessment approach to determine our risks. Risk registers are The Sustainability Committee is chaired by an Independent developed for key business areas to ensure that all identified Non-executive Director and meets at least twice per year to risks are documented, weighted according to the agreed risk Components oversee progress in achieving all aspects of the Good Business assessment method, and action plans are identified to mitigate Journey programme. The Group Chief Executive Officer and the risk. the Woolworths SA Chief Executive Officer are members of The material risks associated with the achievement of the 2020 the committee, together with three Independent Directors. Good Business Journey targets and related mitigating actions These Independent Directors each have significant expertise were reviewed during the current year, and are identified at and experience in a range of corporate sustainability issues. the beginning of each section of the report. • Raw material • Processing • Buying • Purchasing The main purpose of the committee is to ensure that the Function A diverse group of internal stakeholders considered the most production • Production • Logistics/distribution • Market influence sustainability strategy and objectives are effectively integrated pressing issues identified by the Board, key risks identified through • Packaging • Retailing • Use and disposal into the business. our risk management process and concerns raised by key • Auditing • Core business functions of goods Progress towards meeting 2020 targets and the related external stakeholders. one-year goals, is monitored at an operational level by the Executive Committee and championed by the Group Director: Marketing and Sustainability. A Sustainability Executive Steering Committee has been established KEY: Suppliers Communities in Country Road Group. The committee meets quarterly to guide Agriculture and processors WHL operations Customers Environment Economy the development and implementation of the strategy, to ensure the effective integration into the business, develop targets and review performance. The David Jones Executive Committee reviews Good Business Journey progress on a regular basis. Both the David Jones and Country Road boards also receive Good Business Journey In this report, we show how the issues that matter extend far beyond our direct operations, and encompass all components of context of our operations. The materiality of these issues is based on our own risk management protocols as well as feedback we progress updates at each Board meeting. During the year, there has been a continued focus in South Africa NO ENVIRONMENTAL our supply chain described in the diagram above. In each chapter, we include a materiality assessment, mapping where (in our supply receive from stakeholders. The impacts identified as material to our business, and so included on environmental legislation potentially affecting the Group, specifically around carbon and waste-related issues, as well as OR HEALTH AND SAFETYchain) the critical issues we have identified are occurring across our eight Good Business Journey focus areas, and to what extent these in this report and the Integrated Report, are as follow: governance, a focus on responding to the changes to the Broad-Based Black RELATED FINDINGS AGAINST impacts present a risk. transformation, social development, health and wellness, ethical trade, sustainable farming, waste, water and energy management. Economic Empowerment (BBBEE) codes. No environmental or health and safety-related findings against WOOLWORTHS OCCURRED IN Our Good Business Journey has been, and will continue to be, driven by the issues that matter most to our business, customers The identified risks and material aspects with reference to the GRI G4 index are included in the appendices to this report. Woolworths occurred in the last financial year. THE LAST FINANCIAL YEAR. and other stakeholders as well as the legal, cultural and economic WHL 18 / 2016 GBJ REPORT 2016 GBJ REPORT / WHL 19 MATERIAL IMPACTS AND ASSURANCE OUR VALUE CREATION KEY IMPACTS AND MATERIALITY CONTRIBUTION TO THE SOUTH AFRICAN ECONOMY CONTRIBUTION TO THE AUSTRALASIAN ECONOMY Our Good Business Journey aims to reduce our potential negative We aim to tackle impacts wherever they occur in our value chain, Woolworths continues to create shared value across a broad David Jones and Country Road Group jointly employ over impact as a business and improve positive outcomes for the and this is reflected in our reporting wherever possible. spectrum of the South African economy, at the most fundamental 11 000 people, and indirectly support many other employment environment, people and economy across our entire value chain. Ernst & Young Inc. (EY) has been engaged, for the sixth consecutive level, by generating direct employment and career opportunities opportunities through our manufacturing and processing network. We believe that working together in partnership is the best way year, to provide limited assurance over certain quantitative and for over 31 000 people, and indirectly more than double that Community partnerships across a range of areas also contribute we can make a positive difference. qualitative aspects of the 2016 Good Business Journey Report: through our manufacturing and processing network, as well as positively. A wide range of social, environmental and ethical issues have an assisting to bring small-scale suppliers into the value chain. During 1. The statistical data of the following KPIs: impact on our business, either directly or through our global supply the current year, our staff complement has grown by 3 287. We a) Green stores – ratings of stores according to the green chains. Consequently, we have to manage a continually evolving have also created over 11 000 new jobs directly in the last six years. store model; and set of issues. We have developed and updated our Good Business Journey sustainability programme with the help of stakeholders in b) Water usage – head office, stores and distribution centres. The vast majority of goods sold in our stores, by volume, are produced in Southern Africa and we continue to encourage WE HAVE CREATED OVER order to address these key social and environmental challenges. They were identified through analysis of external standards such 2. The GRI G4 principles of materiality, completeness and sustainability context. local manufacturing wherever possible. We will only consider sourcing abroad where local or regional supplier partners are 11 000 NEW JOBS DIRECTLY as the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), legislation, investor and Ernst & Young Inc. also conducted a ‘dry run’ limited assurance unable to provide the ideal quality, value and innovation that IN THE LAST SIX YEARS. NGO questionnaires, peer reviews, business intelligence, lifecycle engagement in order to assess the readiness of certain other our customers expect. Woolworths is also well placed to drive assessment results, stakeholder dialogue, market surveys and key performance indicators for externally limited assurance in supplier and enterprise development projects and has set up stakeholder reports as well as media coverage. future years: teams devoted to working more closely with emerging suppliers, As a global multi-product retailer in clothing, foods and general further supporting South African businesses first as part of our • percentage of foods with one sustainability attribute; merchandise, we recognise the significant challenges associated indirect economic contribution. • percentage of clothing with one sustainability attribute; and with the complexity of working within a multi-tiered and One of our key contributions is to provide safe, healthy, goodgeographically dispersed supply chain. Our material impacts • Good Business Journey savings to date. quality products to consumers at a reasonable price. Our are spread across our entire value chain, which spans from raw Their assurance statement can be found on page 126 to 127. food, clothing, home and beauty technologists ensure product material production to customers and the end-uses of our products. We have also undertaken an independent limited level development and innovation take into account our safety policies. By mapping these key impacts across our entire value chain, we are verification of our carbon footprint data in conformance with We are also assisting to create our customer of the future by better able to address those impacts that are most material with the ISO 14064-3 International Standard for GHG verifications investing in education through a number of our corporate social the proviso that the diversified nature of our business, geographical performed by the Global Carbon Exchange and their assurance investment interventions. Our Good Business Journey programme spread of our supply chain and expectations of stakeholders mean statement can be found on the Good Business Journey Report drives investment into efficient and green technology in our real that we need to incorporate an incredibly broad range of issues in website www.woolworthsholdings.co.za. Our Farming for estate, logistics and supplier networks, as a part of our contribution our sustainability landscape. the Future programme is audited by an independent body – to South Africa’s green economy growth. This is also supported Enviroscientific – and our BEE level by an independent third party. by our initiatives in waste management and recycling, especially APPROVAL AND ASSURANCE EY provides limited assurance over all David Jones greenhouse incorporating more and more recycled content into our products The Social and Ethics Committee and the Sustainability Committee gas emissions data used in reporting to government (National and packaging. have reviewed and recommended the Good Business Journey Report to the Board for approval. Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Act) and the CDP, formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) (Assessment for FY2016 still in progress). External assurance has been performed for selected indicators. WHL has always looked at obtaining independent opinion on We feel that the combination of the assurance processes noted our progress as being a crucial part of gaining and maintaining above provides coverage all our material focus areas by a range credibility with our stakeholders. Additional stakeholder reviews of audit, technical and scientific experts. have been performed and commentary statements are included in this report. For the EY Assurance Statement, go to page 126. WHL 20 / 2016 GBJ REPORT 2016 GBJ REPORT / WHL 21 22/ STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT case study: Woolworths has always focused on understanding the needs WHL Group’s stakeholder universe includes customers, suppliers, AND SUSTAINABILITY MANY HANDS MAKE MIMCO and views of a range of stakeholders. Over the last few years, we communities, business partners, employees, unions, NGOs, We believe that building strong stakeholder partnerships is key to have been working to refine our approach to these engagements, academia, industry bodies, government, regulators, and the media building a more sustainable business and future. While we aim to Customers are asking for more information on where and to ensure greater consistency and improved feedback loops among others. To focus our reporting on these stakeholders, we engage with all our stakeholders around key sustainability issues products come from and what their ethical and across all stakeholder groups. The importance of developing these have mapped them according to materiality – in this case, their and our Good Business Journey, those we engage with most environmental attributes are. It is becoming increasingly systems has become even more pertinent as the Group footprint ability to impact strategic planning and decision-making. Although prominently include our employees, customers and partners in order important to be transparent with customers as to how has expanded. we consider the entire universe of stakeholders in our engagement and where our products are made. to grow awareness around sustainability issues, as well as taking WHL has created a stakeholder forum to ensure alignment between planning, we focus our reporting on material stakeholders in our cues from them in terms of issues which affect or interest their daily With this in mind, Mimco has launched the first of our positioning and message to stakeholders, and co-ordinate our Integrated Report, while we go into more depth regarding a lives. This in itself is a huge source of innovation for our business and a series of films entitled ‘Many hands make Mimco’ engagement. The forum established a platform for feedback to broader range of stakeholders in this report. assists us in staying relevant to our customers and ensuring we are to take their customers behind the scenes and share be consolidated and channelled appropriately and enables us to In the appendices to this report, a full table is included where we doing business in the best possible way. the intricate process involved in bringing the brand’s engage more efficiently. We can now resolve complex, Group-wide have listed these key stakeholder groupings, considering why, how creative ideas to life. From concept to the sketching, issues centrally and in this way improve our reputational and what we engage in. GROWING OUR CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT making, sourcing of raw materials, quantifying, and finally, production, the films highlight the time, risk management. AROUND SUSTAINABILITY love, attention, skill and care that goes into the From a sustainability point of view, the matters that were identified Our broader marketing and communications strategy continues to nine-month process behind each piece, before it sets as most prominent by our stakeholders were identified as ethical be buoyed by an increasingly interested and aware customer base. sail for Mimco boutiques. Shareholders sourcing, animal welfare, water, packaging and recycling, and local and Investors The use of social media and our customer service channels is critical Customers Mimco intends to celebrate the many skilled artisans sourcing. We have also identified issues around energy, security, for us in order to receive the feedback and communicate with our water, carbon tax and land reform as important to our business Debt Funders in Asia, Spain and Argentina, who Mimco has worked Government customers at a more personal level. More and more customers are and stakeholder interests. alongside and learned from, for more than a decade, and Regulators demanding deeper information about where products come from Suppliers and demonstrates that collaboration is the magic word Through all of the stakeholder engagement we participate in, and what their ethical and environmental attributes are. Media for bringing Mimco collections to life. Level of influence we retain vision of our key principles, which are to ensure: These questions necessitate that we adopt a lifecycle approach to Employees • constructive and co-operative engagements; Business Partners developing our products, and considering all aspects of the journey • openness and transparency; that takes a product from field to fork, or hanger. This lifecycle approach ensures that we work closely both with our suppliers • mutual respect; Competitors NGOs and Activists and our customers to make a real difference in sustainability. In Unions • supportive and responsive interaction; order to achieve this sustainability, we have had to maintain the • working towards regular and structured engagements; Industry Bodies strong focus that the Good Business Journey has to embed our values throughout our supply chains, and into our products. • engagements that are based on business critical aspects, national priorities and material issues for the business; and Communities Over the year, we have again continued to grow our customer engagement around sustainability issues, within traditional media • recognition that all stakeholders are also existing or channels as well as through in-store awareness campaigns, potential customers. increased use of social media platforms and relationships on Level of interest in WHL activities TV with 50/50, Top Billing and Expresso as well as through our collaboration with Pharrell Williams. The results have shown substantial increases in customer awareness and support around the Good Business Journey, as measured in the customer tracking study, our own customer panel and our other customer research. WHL 22 / 2016 GBJ REPORT 2016 GBJ REPORT / WHL 23 GROWING OUR EMPLOYEE GROWING OUR PARTNERSHIPS case study: Extensive engagement with a range of stakeholders continues to inform development of David Jones’ Good Business Journey strategy. More than 60 hours of interviews and UNDERSTANDING AROUND SUSTAINABILITY FOR SUSTAINABILITY STAKEHOLDERS AT roundtable discussions have been conducted, in addition to an online survey We engage with employees regularly on strategy, business Experience has shown us that most sustainability challenges THE CENTRE OF DAVID of customers, to ensure that David Jones’ commitments in relation to sustainability performance and to increase awareness and level of cannot be solved by one company acting alone, and we are JONES GBJ STRATEGY and social responsibility meet stakeholder expectations. understanding of our sustainability issues and values. We use excited about the support and input we have received from Some of the activities conducted to date have included: focus groups with employees channels such as leadership conversations and the ‘Let’s Ask’ survey a range of stakeholders in implementing programmes like Farming from across the business; interviews with suppliers and service providers; peer-toto generate discussion and prompt feedback. While subscribing for the Future, Fishing for the Future, EduPlant, sustainable transport peer engagement with key strategic partners like Westfield, QANTAS and Australia to freedom of association, we do believe in fostering strong direct and recycling. These sustainability initiatives have often been Post; consultation with non-governmental organisations including Red Cross, and work group relationships with our employees. a natural extension of the long-standing partnerships we share World Vision and WWF; interviews with international retail peers as part of a We embed sustainability throughout our business with the help with our suppliers and corporate partners such as Imperial Group broader analysis of best practice; and an academic review conducted by Sydney’s of our employees. At Woolworths stores, we use our GBJ Champ and Engen, and specialist non-profit organisations including UTS Business School. programme as a way to provide training, raise awareness and WWF-SA and Food & Trees for Africa, among others. Our broad range of partnerships has helped us formulate unique responses to This research has been supported by additional engagement with stakeholders connect with all employees in stores, as well as our customers. relevant to each of the key programmes that comprise David Jones’ Good Business We are continuously sharing knowledge and communicating material issues and in turn we have been able to support the good work already being done by our partner organisations. Journey, including: sustainability issues in order to provide staff with a deeper understanding and drive support of our Good Business Journey. We have renewed our partnership with WWF-SA for a further • Engagement with the not-for-profit sector, supported by an online survey of more Through this we hope that it can positively influence thinking both five years, with continued focus on water, sustainable farming than 2 000 employees, to identify, evaluate and appoint new charity partners. at work and home. Employee understanding and backing of our and sourcing of raw materials and food waste reduction. A full • Consultation with key internal stakeholders and external strategic partners, to help Good Business Journey is measured through our annual ‘Let’s Ask‘ partnership review of the previous three years can be found at compile David Jones’ first Health Insights Report, which has been used to define key people survey which has shown high levels of support. This year, www.woolworthsholdings.co.za. focus areas for Wellbeing programmes. 74.5% of the scores in our overall ‘Let’s Ask’ employee opinion survey were positive compared to 74.4% last year. GROWING OUR SUPPLIER ENGAGEMENT • Roundtable discussions with non-governmental organisations (NGOs) representing the breadth of ethical sourcing issues, along with visits to factories in China, India, Over 90% of responses were positive regarding Woolworths FOR SUSTAINABILITY Bangladesh and South Africa to ensure that the perspective of suppliers and factory involvement in environmental protection and 87% positive regarding Our approach to the life cycle management of our products means operators has been accurately reflected in David Jones’ Ethical Sourcing Strategy. Woolworths’ involvement in the community. The percentage of that we work closely with our suppliers to deliver consistent quality David Jones employees who think that David Jones is a socially The cumulative effect of this consultation and research is that David Jones has and innovative products. We are also committed to supporting the responsible organisation grew 7% year-on-year to 88%. Good developed a strategy that reflects the expectations of key stakeholders (such as development of small, black-owned businesses in South Africa, and Business Journey awareness and support levels among Country employees, customers and the community) while helping to realise collaborative artisans globally. Road Group employees also grew by 8%. opportunities with business partners like landlords, suppliers and service providers. Our relationship with suppliers has enabled us to successfully We rely on our employees to be the creative and innovative hub implement programmes like Farming for the Future and Fishing for of our businesses. Through the integration of sustainability thinking the Future. Beyond these sustainability initiatives, our suppliers Roundtable discussions with non-governmental into everything we do at work, we continue to improve how we engage with us on issues such as timely payment and favourable organisations (NGOs) representing the breadth of operate and create efficiencies within this. Since the start of the terms, infrastructure and logistical support, resource efficiency and ethical sourcing issues, along with visits to factories Good Business Journey in 2007 in South Africa, through the efforts of our employees, we have saved the business in the region research support. We hold regular supplier roadshows, conferences in China, India, Bangladesh and South Africa to and audits that create broad understanding of our strategy, of R743 million. business requirements and growth plans. ensure that the perspective of suppliers and factory operators has been accurately reflected in David Jones’ Ethical Sourcing Strategy. SINCE THE START OF THE GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY IN 2007, WE HAVE SAVED THE BUSINESS IN THE REGION OF R743M. WHL 24 / 2016 GBJ REPORT 2016 GBJ REPORT / WHL 25 27/ OUR PEOPLE AND TRANSFORMATION IMPERATIVE Translating what we stand for as a business into how we actually deliver on that value proposition depends largely on the people at WHL. As a values-based organisation, we strive to ensure that our values are reflected in everything we do. These values transcend our employee and supplier base in order to build a highly engaged, innovative and successful business by using our skills base and diversity as an advantage. Organisational sustainability depends on having this values culture entrenched across the value chain. Building this kind of leadership from within is key for any business that is expanding globally. Our strategy is grounded on enabling a values-based and led • align the structure, people and processes with organisation through our people strategy to: the Woolworths future-fit business strategies; • enable a future-fit organisation; • continue to engage meaningfully with our people and • attract, develop and retain leaders to create a highbuild relationships and emotional connections with key performance, values-based, connected and employment stakeholders; and experience by delivering a compelling employment brand; • entrench value-adding and business-relevant transformation as our commitment to the diversity of our workforce. STRATEGY RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES HIGHLIGHTS Our vision for our people is a modern, • Addressing diversity within our human • 74.5% positive responses from 'Let’s Ask' compelling, unique, personalised, connected resources (direct and indirect operations) employee survey employment experience underpinned by an • Meeting our transformation targets set in • 1 652 employees on WSA employment value proposition that attracts, line with the Black Economic Empowerment skills programmes inspires, engages, develops, rewards and Codes of Good Practice retains the right, diverse leadership and • R117.7m Woolworths spend on employee talent to deliver our strategy. • Attracting, retaining and developing training in the last year • Scarcity of skills • R3 897 average amount spent on training • Collaboration across the WHL Group per WSA employee in managing talent across geographies • A$3.3m David Jones spend on employee • Creating competitive advantage through training in the last year our people • 87% positive responses to David Jones Pulse survey Woolworths produce supplier 2016 GBJ REPORT / WHL 27 OUR PEOPLE AND TRANSFORMATION Mapping Our Risks KEY: Moderate Significant Major Not applicable Across the Supply Chain RISK IDENTIFIED SUB ISSUES Talent management • Build a high performance culture • Individual Performance Plans • Succession management • Rewards and recognition management Addressing diversity • Workforce transformation • Employment equity • Promoting equality • Redress discrimination BEE Codes of Good Practice and • Entrench economic transformation Reconciliation Action Plan • Supplier and enterprise development • Job creation • Equal access to health, education and opportunity BUILDING A VALUES-BASED ORGANISATION One of the biggest challenges that we face as a business is EMPLOYEE OPINION SURVEY acquiring and retaining the best talent. Our strategic intent is to Every year, we conduct a company-wide employee opinion establish and drive an employment experience that is underpinned survey, the ‘Let’s Ask’ survey. This is our way of understanding, by a value proposition that continues to appoint the right leaders, from the employee’s perspective, their experiences in working 74.5% 69% 87% develop, lead and retain the best diverse talent, in the right roles, for Woolworths, how we measure against their expectations performing optimally, enabled by the right culture. In this reporting and where we can improve. In the last year, over 88.4% of our year, a total of 1 371 staff members at Woolworths received valuesemployees took part. WSA achieved 74.5% positive responses. Positive response rate Positive response rate Positive response rate from based leadership (VBL) training in line with our vision of being a The biggest positive shifts were achieved on the dimensions of at Woolworths at Country Road Group the David Jones Pulse survey values-led organisation. community, diversity, employee engagement, team leadership, The Country Road Group also launched a values-based benefits and rewards and recognition, which is reflective of the leadership programme. During the year, 84 head office employees focus areas identified in the previous survey. participated in this programme, with plans to roll out the Scores for benefits, workplace and community remained programme further in the year ahead. high and we saw an improvement in team leadership and A recent review of leadership capability identified development development – which is especially pleasing given our focus on opportunities to help David Jones’ managers improve employee values-based leadership. Exco leadership was very positive, 482 engagement by creating work environments that enable, and the improvement in rewards and recognition was particularly engage and energise employees. In response to these findings, encouraging, given that this is an integral part of striving to be the people working at Woolworths Woolworths’ values-based leadership programme was added retail employer of choice. and living with disabilities to David Jones’ existing learning and development offer. To date, In order to address employees’ priorities, the Country Road Group more than 100 people from the executive leadership team and key also undertook an externally hosted alignment and engagement projects teams have participated in the programme and it will be survey. The results of the 2016 Pulse survey revealed positive rolled out to David Jones’ retail operations management teams. engagement scores across all areas of the business. In 2016, the In total, 1 555 WHL employees received VBL training. Country Road Group achieved a 69% response rate compared to 71% in the previous year. The David Jones Pulse survey showed an 87% positive response rate 1555 2 219 from employees, up 4% from the previous year. SCORES FOR BENEFITS, WORKPLACE AND COMMUNITY REMAINED HIGH AND WE SAW AN IMPROVEMENT IN Employees received values-based training across WHL Staff members participated in learnerships and internships TEAM LEADERSHIP AND DEVELOPMENT – WHICH IS ESPECIALLY PLEASING GIVEN OUR FOCUS ON VALUESBASED LEADERSHIP. PROGRESS IN SUPPLIER AND ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME SINCE PROMULGATION OF THE NEW CODES Woolworths supports 44Businesses R25.5M in loans disbursed 381 New jobs created 2016 GBJ REPORT / WHL 29 OUR PEOPLE AND TRANSFORMATION WASTE MANAGING DIVERSITY WHL is committed to respecting human rights, which includes requires regular reviews and sense checks, hence the changes ensuring that all employees and others connected with our in the Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment (BBBEE) legislation business are treated with dignity and respect. We value diversity including the (BEE) Codes of Good Practice in 2013. This legislative and inclusion and are committed to non-sexism and non-racism requirement however is only applicable to our South African-based across our policies, practices and daily operations. Through the entity, not the entire Woolworths Holdings Group. In the other implementation of our Black Economic Empowerment strategy, areas in which we operate, we apply the same principles to drive Woolworths remains true to its journey to contribute to the socioworkforce transformation and reconciliation and allow legislative economic transformation of South Africa. This journey is underpinned requirements specific to those geographic areas to enable this. by our company values and solid transformation principles to Woolworths’ approach to contributing towards transformation ensure the sustainability of our efforts and impact thereof. We also as a corporate citizen beyond compliance and in the context of understand that this is a country journey that ever-changing business landscape is as depicted in the table below: VISION AND PRINCIPLES STRATEGY AND PLAN GOALS AND TARGETS Organisational culture HUMAN CAPITAL SUPPLY CHAIN DIRECT EMPOWERMENT SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT TRANSFORMATION TRANSFORMATION • Equity Ownership • Employment Equity • Preferential Procurement • Corporate Social • Management Control • Skills Development • Supplier Development Investment • Enterprise Development GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE MONITORING AUDIT REPORTING We deliver on these elements under the governance of the WHL Social and Ethics Committee. We have to improve on ensuring that there are appropriate strategies, policies and processes in place in order to drive sustainable transformation through the implementation of this legislation. Participating EduPlant school, Gugulethu WHL 30 / 2016 GBJ REPORT OUR PEOPLE AND TRANSFORMATION OUR PEOPLE AND TRANSFORMATION OUR TRANSFORMATION JOURNEY PROGRESS ON ALL BBBEE INDICATORS Woolworths was among the first big companies to independently verify against the revised BBBEE codes. This step was critical in managing the organisational change required – it stated the new base from which we have to propel into a meaningful transformation PERIOD contribution. The table below provides a detail of the outcomes of Woolworths independent verification process against 2014 scores. 2007 February DTI promulgated the BBBEE Codes of Good Practice OLD JUNE NEW JUNE WEIGHTINGS FY2014 WEIGHTINGS FY2015 2007 May Woolworths launched the BEE Employee Share Ownership Scheme (BEESOS) Equity ownership 20 4.94 25 10.57 2007 Woolworths set target to be Level 4 contributor to BBBEE by 2012 Management control 10 10.33 19 11.84 2007–2013 Woolworths hardwiring BEE as a way of working across the business Employment equity 15 10.75 Skills development 15 13.35 20 2011 Woolworths achieved Level 4 target one year early Enterprise and supplier development 20 17.81 40 18.60 2012 Woolworths achieved a Level 3 contributor status (previously preferential procurement and enterprise development) 15 15.00 2013 Woolworths achieved a Level 3 contributor status despite increased targets Socio-economic development 5 5.0 5 5.00 2013 October DTI revised BBBEE legislation and codes Total 100 80.19 109 59.06 2013–2014 Woolworths revising its strategy and aligning to the new legislation and codes Level 7 discounted Contributor level Level 3 to Level 8 2014 Woolworths achieved a Level 7 (discounted to Level 8) status in line with revised BBBEE codes Level range (75–84.9) (55–70) 2015 June BEE employee share ownership scheme launched, thereby realising economic benefit to the value of R2.4bn for the beneficiaries at the end of the scheme and R332m in dividends paid during the scheme EMPLOYMENT EQUITY (EE) Employment equity is a national imperative that applies to every The continuous improvement of Integrated Performance Lessons learnt throughout our transformation journey: employer, employee and employment seekers. Legislated through Management (IPM) has now seen BBBEE and/or transformation • Being true to the cause in approach and impact is key to sustainability. the Employment Equity Act, compliance requires that we put in included in individual employees’ performance goals. Individual place systems to enable a diversified and equitable workplace that goals, coupled with an effective tracking and measurement • Transformation and BBBEE specifically is very complex and requires investment in capacity building, education and sensitisation. continues to reflect national priorities. There has been extensive capability, contributes to embedding BBBEE as a way of working • Internal mobilisation and external partnerships are key success factors of transformation; and work done to ensure integrated and sustainable Employment Equity that is integral to business strategy. • Unless lives are changed and measurable impact is made, there is no point. Act compliance and consultation across the business via diversity We have 11 members at top management in Woolworths SA, committees in all business units. comprising Executive Directors on the Board and members of Exco. Of this, three are black (27%), four are women (36%) and we have WOOLWORTHS SA WAS PRESENTED WITH AN one black woman (9%). HONORARY LEGENDS OF EMPOWERMENT AND TRANSFORMATION AWARD AT THE 15TH ANNUAL OLIVER EMPOWERMENT AWARDS. WHL 32 / 2016 GBJ REPORT 2016 GBJ REPORT / WHL 33 OUR PEOPLE AND TRANSFORMATION OUR PEOPLE AND TRANSFORMATION WOOLWORTHS’ EMPLOYMENT EQUITY PROFILE AS OF JUNE 2016 DIVERSITY AT COUNTRY ROAD GROUP case study: The Country Road Group is exempt from the South African-specific DEVELOPING DAVID JONES’ FIRST labour-related laws however, as part of ongoing commitment to A C I W FN TOTAL the representation of women in the workplace; a plan is in place to RECONCILIATION ACTION PLAN Top management 1 3 – 2 2 8 revise the Diversity and Inclusion Strategy for the next financial year. David Jones’ employees and customers come from a diverse Country Road Group submitted the annual Workplace Gender range of backgrounds and cultures, including Australia’s Senior management 11 23 15 87 15 151 Equity Agency (WGEA) Report in May 2016 detailing women first people from Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander (ATSI) representation in the workplace as: nations across the country. To support reconciliation in the Middle management 346 560 173 691 51 1 821 community and help bridge the gaps that prevail between Junior management 1 580 1 167 266 418 22 3 453 Indigenous and non-Indigenous Australians in the areas Proportion of health, education and social inclusion, David Jones Semi-skilled 14 751 4 516 601 228 29 20 125 of women has commenced development of its first Reconciliation Exco 33% Action Plan (RAP). Unskilled 3 024 840 86 40 3 3 993 Country Road Group (CRG) leadership team 67% By developing its first RAP, David Jones is joining other Permanent employees 19 713 7 109 1 141 1 466 122 29 551 leading Australian organisations in publically outlining Exco and CRG leadership team combined 62% the commitments that the organisation is making to create Temporary employees 23 13 – 8 1 45 Organisation 91% more respectful relationships with the Indigenous community and more meaningful development opportunities for ATSI TOTAL 19 736 7 122 1 141 1 474 123 29 596 Source: Country Road Group WGEA report 31 March 2016 (Australia only). people and businesses. As an iconic Australian brand, it Male 6 498 2 505 424 598 55 10 080 has become increasingly important for David Jones to have a RAP in place because it establishes a framework and The Country Road Group is also committed to equal opportunity Female 13 238 4 617 717 876 68 19 516 dialogue for greater understanding between Indigenous in the workplace for all regardless of age, career status, disability, and non-Indigenous Australians through respect, industrial activity, physical features, political belief or activity, relationships and opportunities. pregnancy, race, religion, gender or sexual preference. Compulsory PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) training is completed for all David Jones’ RAP has been developed by a working group The Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) has also set a BBBEE employees with disabilities, which places us over the minimum new employees to increase awareness of these issues. comprised of senior leaders from across the business and target for black people with disabilities of 2% of the company threshold of 1.2% of the workforce. Over the past year, we’ve representatives from the Indigenous community, including UNION MEMBERSHIP David Jones’ Brand Ambassador, Adam Goodes, and workforce. Our strategic approach to people with disabilities seen the numbers of all people with disabilities increasing slightly is aligned with our people and transformation strategies and from 466 to 482. Management is working on understanding the Woolworths, whilst subscribing to freedom of association, Aboriginal artist and advocate, Graham Toomey. In time, the national skills development strategy. This is enabled by an issues and the trends in terms of reasons for terminations and will also believes in fostering strong one-on-one and work group this working group will be expanded to include David Jones’ integrated, holistic implementation approach to sourcing and implement plans to retain more employees meeting this EE profile. relationships with our own employees as part of our employee employees and customers who identify as being Indigenous. developing people with disabilities and sensitising the environment. We have a proud history of affirming persons living with disabilities experience. Overall union membership is currently below the level The first draft of the plan has been submitted for review by The implementation of this strategy is being done in partnership and breaking stereotypes. We strive to provide equal employment that provides for collective bargaining across the business. In the Reconciliation Australia, the not-for-profit organisation that with the Wholesale and Retail SETA. opportunity, development and support of our employees living last year however, we did experience industrial action at our manages RAP accreditation. The business will now work with disabilities. Please read the Disability Award case study in the Midrand distribution centre. with Reconciliation Australia, through multiple rounds of The total number of people with disabilities constitutes 1.63% of our employees, of which 1.53% of our workforce are black Health and Wellness section (page 59). Union membership at Woolworths stores is down to 3.6% compared feedback and revisions, to ensure that the final document to 5.3% last year. In David Jones, it is 28.94%. is best placed to deliver meaningful change in a culturally sensitive manner. Once this consultation and accreditation process draws to a close, David Jones will publish its RAP and commence implementation of its first two-year plan. To find out more about David Jones’ RAP and Case Study: Disability in the workplace, its broader Diversity and Inclusion programme, on page 59. go to davidjones.com.au/gbj. WHL 34 / 2016 GBJ REPORT 2016 GBJ REPORT / WHL 35 OUR PEOPLE AND TRANSFORMATION SUPPLIER AND ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT (SED) case study: The Woolworths SED programme is a tool that was specifically SEASON'S FIND adopted in order to enable emerging black and black womenowned businesses to enter our supply chain, build and maintain Season's Find is a family run business that started with only business sustainability. Barriers to entry into the commercial a R2 750 investment in 1998 to make promotional material supply chains include access to finance, business skills, financial from a residential garage. As the business was awarded management skills, land ownership, access to resources and more contracts, Lance Luiters and his family decided to infrastructure. Investing resources in this space has allowed open a second business to increase their output. Financial Woolworths to not only meaningfully contribute to building the constraints later forced the owners to start cutting costs; this smalland medium-sized business sector but to also increase involved merging the two businesses and moving it back to our preferential procurement targets. Support is provided the garage. This is how Season's Find was established. As to these enterprises for a period, after which it should be luck would have it, a year later the demand for their clothing demonstrated that the enterprise has reached a certain level of increased enough for them to seek premises in Woodstock sustainability. We are also able to build long-lasting and mutual and employ 35 people. relationships with our suppliers through this commitment to build Financial stability was still a challenge, and Lance realised and transform our supply chain. that the only way to alleviate this would be to supply We currently have a total of 44 suppliers as part of this retailers directly, so he started courting Woolworths. The programme. Over the last three years, Woolworths has had an 2010 FIFATM World Cup in South Africa was Lance’s big break. accumulated procurement spend of R666 million with Enterprise Woolworths was looking for a local supplier with a quick Development beneficiaries and disbursed R25.6 million in loans. turnaround time to assist with the manufacturing of World Cup merchandise. Currently, Woolworths has a loan pipeline in the agricultural sector worth R12.5 million which is currently under review. Lance had to double his staff and in two months he supplied A non-cash grant is also invested through micro-enterprise over 75 000 units of 2010 World Cup branded kidswear and support and The Clothing Bank to the value of R44.5 million, menswear. Based on the success of this order, Woolworths up from R25.5 million last year. Over 381 people jobs have asked Season’s Find to become an official Woolworths supplier and placed their next order for Autumn/Winter been created and conservatively, 3 632 people are positively 2011. Season’s Find products are proudly Southern African in impacted by these small enterprises. that not only are all garments made in Cape Town, but the fabrics and trimmings are also manufactured locally or in Swaziland. In 2014, Woolworths Enterprise Development department offered Season’s Find a loan of R1.9 million. This investment and the additional Woolworths orders have resulted in Season’s Find doubling their turnover, and they now employ 179 locals in Cape Town – mostly women. Being a local supplier with a big social community focus R25.6M We invested a cash grant of aligns the business with our Good Business Journey. to build small black-owned enterprises since new BEE codes 2016 GBJ REPORT / WHL 37 OUR PEOPLE AND TRANSFORMATION OUR PEOPLE AND TRANSFORMATION REMUNERATION SKILLS DEVELOPMENT AND TALENT MANAGEMENT LABOUR TURNOVER 2016 2015 2014 Woolworths’ remuneration policy is highly The National Development Plan reiterates Our talent management strategy integrated and has been designed and that the single most valuable investment involves building capacity from within implemented to attract, retain and reward any country can make is in its people. the business. This follows a formalised Woolworths labour turnover (management) 9.6% 6.6% 8.5% top executives and scarce skills. The Developing a future-fit talent pipeline career management and retention process, Woolworths labour turnover (stores) 29.8% 26.6% 27.4% benefits are structured around retirement, pool to support our business growth enabling us to retain talent. All employees healthcare, death and disability. Other and transformation is still one of our key receive performance reviews and career David Jones overall labour turnover 23.7% – – benefits available are different types of objectives. We do this through offering development discussions on a regular leave, company discount on Woolworths opportunities throughout the talent ‘value basis as part of their career management David Jones labour turnover (management) 16.7% – – merchandise, company car for tool-of-trade chain’ – from bursaries for students, to planning within the organisation. In the last Country Road Group labour turnover (head office) 18% 20% – users, car allowances, etc. The principles co-op student placements, to workplace year, internal appointments constituted applied in the integrated remuneration experience programmes for SETA 15.2% for corporate head office, supply Country Road Group labour turnover (retail management and full-time employees) 33% 32% – policy are: unemployed graduates, through chain and stores divisional and regional • to support the delivery of the company to job placement (refer to skills management in 2016. For the entire development and talent management category of junior management and We also offer a range of internal and strategy; SKILLS DEVELOPMENT PROFILE 2016 2015 2014 section for more information). above (including junior management external NQF accredited training and • rewards and recognition for individual tertiary studies designed to help Skills management forms a large part of in supply chain and retail Operations), responsibility, performance and WOOLWORTHS employees deliver our business strategies, our people management strategy, built the internal appointment percentage behaviour and living the values; foster talent and equip our employees into the individual performance plans of was 78.3%, with labour turnover for the Number of employees trained • to enable short and long-term incentive same category at 9.6%. Staff turnover in (includes employees that have since 30 218 32 171 28 125 with vital skills and experience and also in each employee. Talent identification and schemes through the IPM; and corporate stores was 29.8%, which is fairly left the business) turn prepare our employees with skills for pipeline establishment to nurture this talent • a guaranteed pay (TCoE) that is static and still within the targeted range. the retail environment. therefore enables us to offer tailor-made Black employees trained benchmarked against major retail skills development opportunities for the next Delivering a compelling employment value 95% 95% 95% as a % of employees trained and non-retail companies to ensure generation of leaders and specialists within proposition has enabled us to keep our competitiveness. our business. Succession planning is vital, labour turnover as low as possible. Number of employees trained on scarce skills1 10 077 11 873 2 581 A detailed report on remuneration is and put in place as part of the IPM process, The Country Road Group achieved available in our Integrated Report. with clear deliverables, for individual a 52% internal appointment rate at the Black employees trained growth within the company. This remains head office, compared to 66% at retail as a % of scarce skills2 94% 93% 79% 1 The sector scarce skills list has been revised All employees at the Country Road Group again for 2013/14, and sales assistants were a key focus for the Board and Exco and management. Staff turnover was 18% at participate in performance-based incentive again removed from the list. is a critical enabler of the overall business the head office (2015: 20%) and 33% for Average numbers of training3 3.6 N/A N/A programmes, from store team members, If we compare like for like, the number strategy. The new BEE Codes of Business retail management and full-time including sales assistants = 9 556. store managers, head office employees Number of learning interventions Practice have also continued to make this employees (2015: 32%). 110 065 139 297 126 120 through to the executive team. 2 Black employees trained as a % of scarce an imperative for companies wanting to Labour turnover at David Jones was 23.7% skills increase to 93% when including sales Number of learnerships registered 2 219 1 748 1 024 align with the developmental priorities of in total and 16.7% at a management level. assistants. South Africa. Number of employees on skills programmes4 3 (NEW) Average hours of training per year per 1 652 1 685 1 615 employee by gender (Female: 4.3, Male: 4.4). WOOLWORTHS SA WAS THE WINNER OF THE WHOLESALE 4 Significant increase in the attendance DAVID JONES of conflict management, VBL 2 and USB programmes. VBL 3 is an additional AND RETAIL SECTOR EDUCATION TRAINING AUTHORITY Number of employee training interventions 17 472 – – accredited programme that was introduced in 2013/14. GOOD PRACTICE AWARD IN THE ‘ENTERPRISE: SUPER LARGE RETAIL CATEGORY’ FOR 2016. WHL 38 / 2016 GBJ REPORT 2016 GBJ REPORT / WHL 39 OUR PEOPLE AND TRANSFORMATION DEPENDANT BURSARY COUNTRY ROAD case study: This year the undistributed residual funds in GROUP TRAINING SETA UNEMPLOYED the Black Economic Empowerment Employee Share Ownership Scheme Trust enabled AND DEVELOPMENT GRADUATES – Woolworths to establish a Dependant The Country Road Group invests in the WORKPLACE Bursary Fund solely for dependants of development of its people and focuses EXPERIENCE black employees in our employ on on providing strong career paths PROGRAMME 30 June 2015. Through the investing of these and development opportunities for funds we anticipate that we will be able all employees. The number of internal Woolworths launched the 3rd instalment to fund bursaries over a 10-year period management appointments across the of the A+ Graduate Programme for 79 (depending on the investment return rate). business is a key measure in the corporate unemployed graduates with core/scarce strategic plan, tracking positively against skills. The programme has been used Fifty-five employee dependants, who internal targets across the majority of as a feeder of Employment Equity (EE) met the required selection criteria, were the brands. Formal succession planning talent into entry level positions and approved for Tertiary education funding meetings are conducted bi-annually, we’ve appointed approximately 67% amounting to a total of R1.5 million bursary covering store management positions, of these graduates into permanent/LPE funds that will be disbursed to cover their through to executive level. This process positions. 2016 tuition, books and exam fees. assists to identify and plan the ongoing Programmes like this offer us an development and sustainability of highopportunity to proactively develop potential employees across the Country skilled people for consideration as Road Group, and determines current our future pipeline and help resolve and future operational requirements in the general shortage of qualified, the business. skilled and experienced youth by Witchery has collaborated with the RMIT contributing to the National Skills University in Melbourne, to offer a work Development Strategy (NSDS III) placement programme for selected Visual through training and providing Merchandising students. The programme workplace experience. is designed to provide work experience Woolworths has been voted as the opportunities and bridge the gap between top graduate employer of choice students and experienced merchandisers. in 2016 in a survey conducted by WOOLWORTHS SA Over the past year, six students completed the placement programme, with potential the South African Graduate Employers Association. The independently held VOTED AS THE to extend the programme in the future. In survey asks graduates to name up to TOP GRADUATE addition, Country Road partners with visual merchandising students from RMIT University two organisations whom they felt had the best graduate programme in specific EMPLOYER OF to produce an annual window display at one of Country Road's flagship stores sectors or industry groups with which they were familiar. We were recognised CHOICE IN 2016. in Melbourne. as leaders in the retail sector. Participating EduPlant school, Gugulethu 2016 GBJ REPORT / WHL 41 43/ SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT IMPERATIVE Our social development strategy is not only aligned to our core business strategy, but also to the developmental priorities of the countries in which we operate. These countries suffer from socio-economic issues that are set to grow as a result of global socio-economic challenges. CSI contribution R693m* R million R636m* R555m R500m R438m These social ills are exacerbated by economic and climatic pressures that continue to push up inflation, increasing the cost of living and limiting access to basic resources. This picture is not unique to South Africa; it is a common occurrence in developing countries as a whole. The poor continue to experience greater variability in the cost of living and social instability. 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 * Includes David Jones and Country Road Group. STRATEGY RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES HIGHLIGHTS The Woolworths Corporate Social • Food insecurity • R693 million in WHL Group social Investment (CSI) strategy is aligned both • Quality of education in marginalised contribution for the year to our core business strategy and to the communities • 8 056 beneficiaries in our MySchool developmental priorities of the countries we MyVillage MyPlanet programme operate in. We strive to make a meaningful • Access to services in marginalised contribution through the activities of the communities • R70 million contributed through Woolworths Trust in education, food security • Leverage our influence to raise capital MySchool MyVillage MyPlanet and child safety. for CSI • R27.7 million donated to the EduPlant • Opportunities for our employees and programme in the last 12 years customers to get involved in CSI through our community-based initiatives SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT Mapping Our Risks KEY: Moderate Significant Major Not applicable Across the Supply Chain RISK IDENTIFIED SUB ISSUES Food security • Poverty alleviation • Addressing food waste Education • Access to quality resources Child safety and vulnerability • Preventing injury R693M Total WHL social contribution for the year SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT IN SOUTH AFRICA case study: Our social development strategy aims to make a meaningful contribution through SEED & FEED the activities of the Woolworths Trust with a strong focus on education, food security and child safety. Studies have shown that almost half the learners in South Africa that enrol for school drop out before they can write their final matriculation exams, thereby decreasing their employability and preventing optimal economic growth rates as a result of continued skills shortages. In addition to this, we are in a region with the highest prevalence of hunger, with one in four people mal or under undernourished. THE WOOLWORTHS TRUST In 2003, Corporate Social Investment (CSI) was formalised within Woolworths with the A$4.8M formation of The Woolworths Trust. This legal entity is managed by a Board of trustees R44.5M that oversees our South African social development activities in line with the CSI policy. The Seed & Feed initiative is an A key focus of all the Trust’s activities is to build capacity in our communities – to encourage opportunity for our customers Community contribution in the last year by CRG and support our beneficiaries in becoming self-reliant. to contribute to the EduPlant Value of surplus clothing donated to programme through purchases of The Clothing Bank FOOD SECURITY specific vegetables chosen monthly, identifiable with a Seed & Feed logo EDUPLANT on-packets. Every time a customer EduPlant, initiated and co-ordinated by Food & Trees for Africa, is a national permaculture makes a purchase, a portion of the gardening and greening programme that supports schools and their surrounding proceeds is donated as seeds and/ communities to create abundant gardens using permaculture practices. Woolworths or seedlings to an EduPlant school is in its 12th year of supporting the programme. on their behalf. The seeds and/or Through the Woolworths Trust, we have donated more than R27.7 million to the EduPlant seedlings are given to schools in all Witchery White Shirt Campaign has raised programme over the past 12 years. provinces participating in workshops R485M A$9M where they learn how to grow and These donations are in the form of training for educators from hundreds of schools on sustain their own food gardens. permaculture techniques so that they can initiate and manage sustainable food gardens at their schools and also monetary donations. The schools continue to maintain these Surplus food donated by Woolworths for the Ovarian Cancer Research Foundation EduPlant food gardens using fresh vegetables to supplement feeding schemes at their to charities since 2000 schools. This year, we also launched the Seed & Feed initiative, as a part of this partnership (see case study opposite). The Woolworths Trust has donated A$2.1M Community contribution in the last year by David Jones R70M MySchool MyVillage MyPlanet contributed through R1.2m active supporters for 8 056 beneficiaries R13M in the last year to charities 3 087 Schools received hundreds of seedlings to start their vegetable gardens 2016 GBJ REPORT / WHL 45 SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT EDUCATION R5.3M NATIONAL EDUCATION COLLABORATION TRUST The National Education Collaboration Trust (NECT) is a partnership initiative involving government, business, labour and civil society. It is aimed at increasing co-operation among the stakeholders in contributing to implementing the education chapter of the Donated to 569 MyVillage beneficiaries South African National Development Plan. The programme supports, educators, learners and community members with the 2 800 knowledge that they require to grow and sustain their own food gardens. Many of the schools use the produce from the gardens to supplement their school feeding schemes. MYSCHOOL MYVILLAGE MYPLANET In the last year, Woolworths contributed R70 million to the MySchool MyVillage MyPlanet Number of schools benefiting programme through 1.6 million active MySchool cardholders and supporters. These from our Making the Difference contributions have supported more than 8 000 beneficiaries (including schools, community educational programmes initiatives and environmental charities). Of this, R8.1 million of the total was donated to 144 MyPlanet charities, and R5.3 million was donated to 569 MyVillage charities. Country Road Group also contributed to the programme in South Africa and Australia with almost The Woolworths Trust has A$170 000 raised. donated more than R6M MAKING THE DIFFERENCE EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMMES The Woolworths Making the Difference (MTD) educational programmes is a suite of primary school and high school initiatives providing teachers and learners educational resources and a range of experiential components. Experiential to support the work of the components include our annual ‘Making the Difference Through Design’ competition National Education Collaboration Trust over the last three years and design workshops for teachers. Once a year, a design competition is run for high school learners and the competition winners’ works are exhibited at the annual Design Indaba Expo. There are over 2 800 primary and high schools across the Western Cape, KwaZulu-Natal, Gauteng and the Eastern Cape currently benefiting from the programmes. The primary school programme targets Grades 4 to 6 and focuses on healthy living and the environment. The high school programme is a design programme targeted towards Grades 10 to 12 design learners and promotes sustainable and innovative design. Woolworths makes an annual contribution of R3 million to run these programmes. 2016 GBJ REPORT / WHL 47 SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT CHILD SAFETY AND VULNERABILITY CAUSE-RELATED MARKETING case study: Woolworths continues to support the awareness campaign ‘You're Bigger, Be the Adult’ through collaboration with Childsafe, a campaign AND PARTNERSHIPS THE GIFT OF HEARING of the Child Accident Prevention Foundation of Southern Africa aimed at raising awareness of childhood injuries and their prevention. Over Our cause-related marketing initiatives create awareness and raise WITH PHARRELL 90% of child injuries are preventable – a scary statistic which is one of the motivating factors behind the partnership between Childsafe funds for important conservation and sustainability related issues. and Woolworths. Parents and child carers are crucial in preventing some of these injuries. They are therefore targeted for training to Through the sale of certain products, funds are collected and develop crucial lifesaving techniques and safety skills through Child Safety courses. These are two-day Child Safety courses focusing on donated to nominated organisations. In the last year, we raised practical ways to prevent different accidents in and around the home such as poisoning, drowning, choking, burns, road accidents and over R5.5 million through the sale of bags, sweets and bracelets. general accidents. The courses also include a five-hour infant and child emergency care course (first aid). These funds go towards programmes supporting the conservation In addition to these workshops, we celebrate Child Safety Month in August, using this to leverage our position to influence communities of rhino and other endangered species as well as raising funds for around child safety and vulnerability. campaigns such as breast cancer awareness and Operation Smile. PRODUCT DONATIONS EMPLOYEE CONTRIBUTION TO CSI To address the issue of food security, we have established a As part of our CSI strategy, our employees are encouraged and supported to get involved in community activities. Initiatives such as system whereby we divert our surplus food from going to waste. Matching Funds, Team up for a Just Cause and the highlight on the calendar, Mandela Day, form part of the employee community We donate this food to needy communities via structured charity involvement programme. These initiatives support a wide range of causes, for example: children, animals, the environment, education and organisations. In the last year, we donated over R485 million worth the aged. It is through the efforts of employees that Woolworths is able to extend its reach and make more of the difference to others. of food to needy causes. Going forward, surplus food donations will be reported net of spoilage. MANDELA DAY TEAM UP FOR A JUST CAUSE In addition, R44.5 million worth of surplus clothing was donated On 18 July – Mandela Day – South African citizens join a call to In order to enable employees to participate in CSI activities, the to charities through The Clothing Bank. devote at least 67 minutes of their time to helping others, as a Woolworths Trust invites staff to ‘team up for a just cause’. The tribute to Madiba’s legacy. For the past three years, as part of purpose of the initiative is to support team building and support In the last year, Country Road Group donated over $2.7 million the Woolworths Employee Community involvement programme, teams to raise funds for causes that are important to them. worth of surplus clothing to the Red Cross in Australia and Woolworths employees have devoted 67 minutes (and more). In New Zealand. In September last year 20 teams from different business units 2015, we made a meaningful contribution to 67 projects – in honour took up the challenge to raise funds for a just cause and set David Jones donated clothing to the value of $700 000 to The Smith of Mandela Day. Woolworths' employees were encouraged to fundraising targets. Family, with the proceeds being used to support educational suggest the projects and the Woolworths Trust selected 67 of those outcomes for Australian children from disadvantaged communities. In 2015, Woolworths entered into a partnership with The Woolworths Trust gave each team R10 000 seed funding Grammy Award-winning musician, record producer to support. These projects support a variety of organisations such to get them started. Over and above that, The Woolworths as the elderly, children, people with disabilities and abandoned Trust committed that, for every team that reached its fundraising SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT IN AFRICA and philanthropist, Pharrell Williams. As part of our 2015 Christmas campaign with Pharrell, we helped buy animals. Further, the Woolworths Trust gave each of the 67 projects Woolworths expansion into the rest of Africa requires that we target, it would match the funds up to R40 000. In total R1.9 million equipment for 760 children suffering from ear disease a R5 000 donation. develop a position on how the CSI strategy, as part of the broader was donated to the 20 charities and organisations supported by or hearing loss. Funds raised during the Christmas the teams across the business. Good Business Journey and the Woolworths brand, is implemented period via MySchool MyVillage MyPlanet were donated and governed across the rest of Africa. The roll-out of CSI in to the Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital to countries outside of South Africa will be implemented in a phased assist in much-needed specialist equipment and medical approach. tools used for ear and hearing examinations, diagnosis and life-changing operating procedures. These donations SPONSORSHIP to the Children’s Hospital Trust were in addition to the IN THE LAST YEAR, OVER R1.9M WAS DONATED TO Our sponsorship policy aims to facilitate our activity as a dynamic regular contributions made to MySchool MyVillage MyPlanet beneficiaries selected by our customers. In total, 20 CHARITIES AND ORGANISATIONS SUPPORTED BY THE role player and deliver to our business strategy. Some of our key R400 000 was donated to the Children’s Hospital Trust. sponsorships include Design Indaba and the Cape Epic mountain WOOLWORTHS EMPLOYEE COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT bike race. No political donations were made, in line with our policy. PROGRAMME, ‘TEAM UP FOR A JUST CAUSE’. WHL 48 / 2016 GBJ REPORT 2016 GBJ REPORT / WHL 49 SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT IN AUSTRALASIA WITCHERY WHITE SHIRT CAMPAIGN AND DESIGN AWARD case study: Our expansion to Australia and New Zealand through our David Jones and Country Road Group acquisitions has created an opportunity This year, Witchery raised over A$1.5 million for the Ovarian Cancer MIMCO ENCOURAGES CUSTOMERS Research Foundation (OCRF) through the annual White Shirt to expand our CSI programmes. We acknowledge that the countries on which we operate in have different social contexts and therefore Campaign and the sale of The Silver Gift Collection. This brings TO STAND UP, SPEAK OUT AND BE require different approaches to making meaningful contributions to the communities we impact. the total donations raised by Witchery for the OCRF to more PART OF THE CHANGE than A$9 million since first partnering in 2000. Witchery’s ongoing DAVID JONES support has enabed the OCRF to appoint several full-time research In Australia, one in four women have experienced physical scientists and buy vital medical equipment to assist their efforts in or sexual violence from a current or former partner, and David Jones provides support to causes that directly benefit pre-school children express their emotions and better deal with finding an early detection test for ovarian cancer. one in four children have been exposed to violence against the health and well-being of Australian women, with the majority the trauma they are facing; and their mother. In March 2016, Mimco launched a partnership of our support going to the National Breast Cancer Foundation. • The Black Dog Institute, a leader in the diagnosis, treatment The annual Witchery White Shirt Design Award was launched with Our Watch, a not-for-profit organisation dedicated to Every year, David Jones holds a Shop Pink Donation Day where and prevention of mood disorders such as anxiety, depression in 2011 in partnership with the Whitehouse Institute of Design preventing domestic violence through challenging its drivers all profits made on the day from all stores across Australia are and bipolar disorder. to nurture creativity among the next generation of design talent. – gender inequality and restrictive gender stereotypes. donated to the National Breast Cancer Foundation. We have also This award is open to second year Fashion Design students established David Jones Rose Clinics that provide a unique in-store COUNTRY ROAD GROUP from the Sydney and Melbourne campuses and is designed The three year commitment will see Mimco release seasonal free health screening service for women over 40 to assist with capsule collections with 100% of all profits going towards The Country Road Group is committed to supporting a range to offer industry mentorship and encourage an understanding the early detection of breast cancer. educational programmes and training to help end violence of charities through our various brand community partnerships of design commerciality. against women and children. David Jones also partners and supports other institutions to drive as well as providing opportunities for employees to give back The winner of the White Shirt Design Award receives a the CSI strategy such as the National Breast Cancer Foundation to their communities. once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to see their design produced The first collection of pouches were designed in collaboration (NBCF) that provides financial grants to support to breast as part of the annual White Shirt campaign and sold in over with print designer, Karolina York, and are embossed with the REDKITE PARTNERSHIP words ‘INSPIRE’, ‘EMPOWER’ and ‘RESPECT’. cancer researcher. David Jones provides ongoing support for 180 stores across Australasia in support of ovarian cancer research. Country Road partners with Redkite, one of Australia’s leading Breast Cancer Awareness Month through the sale of Pink Ribbon In the past year, the Whitehouse Institute of Design has integrated The campaign not only strives to raise awareness among cancer charities for children and young people. As the major merchandise (which raised A$71 925) and internal/employee the award into their second year Fashion Design course curriculum. customers, but internally among employees too. partner of Redkites’ Red Bag programme, Country Road supports fundraising (A$20 451). In February 2016, a new campaign whereby 5% from the sale of bras is donated to NBCF when customers families with practical support packs, designed, produced and EMPLOYEE COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Through the sale of the pouches to date, over A$164 000 filled by Country Road with items designed to make the families In December 2015, Country Road Group re-launched the workplace has been raised for Our Watch, with a second collection purchased two or more bras raised A$63 000. more comfortable during their stay in hospital. During the last year, giving programme at head office, by introducing Good2Give, an to be launched later this year. • The Rose Clinics provide free in-store breast screening services Country Road raised over A$147 000 (FY2015: A$102 000) for Redkite online platform that offers employees the opportunity to make to more than 35 000 women over the age of 40, each year; through customer, employee and corporate fundraising. Since a tax-deductible donation to a charity of their choice. Through • The Look Good Feel Better organisation teaches cancer partnering with Redkite in 2008, Country Road has raised over this programme, employees are supporting over 20 charities on a patients how to manage appearance-related side effects A$1 million and donated 4 400 support packs to Redkite. monthly basis. The programme will be rolled out to retail employees caused by cancer treatment. Of all lipsticks and lip glosses sold in the next financial year. by David Jones in the month of September, A$1.00 is donated In March 2016, Country Road Group began piloting a new to this organisation. In 2015, we donated A$65 945; employee volunteering programme, with the objective of increasing • The Australian Literacy & Numeracy Foundation (ALNF), awareness around employees’ annual day of volunteering leave an organisation dedicated to raising language, literacy and making it easier for employees to give back to the community. and numeracy standards, particularly in indigenous and To date, 70 employees have participated in the programme, marginalised communities. In 2016, 110 indigenous students sorting clothing donations at the Australian Red Cross Warehouse from low-socio economic circumstances and have learning in Melbourne. disabilities were assisted through this programme; Country Road has raised over A$1M • Gunawirra provides transformational programmes that empower Aboriginal parents with young children to break the lifecycle of trauma and disadvantage. A$25 000 was contributed to fund a 12-month art therapy programme at Sydney Primary School to help at-risk and traumatised and donated 4 400 support packs to Redkite WHL 50 / 2016 GBJ REPORT 2016 GBJ REPORT / WHL 51 53/ HEALTH AND WELLNESS IMPERATIVE The global surge in nutrition and lifestyle-based diseases, including cardiovascular disease, type II diabetes and obesity as a result of increased consumption of energy-dense, nutrient-poor foods that are high in fat, sugar and sodium, is identified as a risk factor which can affect all of our customers and employees. As a result, we make it our business to help customers lead better lifestyles, by providing a variety of healthier food options to support a multitude of dietary needs. We also know from surveys that our customers’ family health, security and happiness is We recognise that a top priority, so we ensure that customers are able to make informed buying decisions by promoting awareness and providing labelling to ensure transparency in how we the health, safety communicate the nutritional content of our food. and wellbeing of our While customer wellness is a key strategic focus area for us, we recognise that the health, workforce is at the very safety and wellbeing of our workforce is at the very heart of our operations. We therefore heart of our operations. take the time to understand physical and mental health challenges facing our employees and assist by offering support and care programmes. We aim to create a safe and healthy environment with necessary support structures to enable employees to thrive both at work and at home. STRATEGY RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES HIGHLIGHTS We aim to inspire a healthy lifestyle by • Unhealthy diets and physical inactivity are • First South African retailer to remove making healthy eating satisfying delicious among the leading causes of poor health, sweets from checkout aisles and convenient across our product ranges including obesity, heart disease and • David Jones maintains strong results in whilst also innovating and improving diabetes – an emerging global problem workplace safety and absenteeism nutritional quality through reformulation. • Personal health and wellness are one of the In doing this, we assist customers in • Winner SETA National Disability Awards, top concerns for customers and employees South Africa making informed dietary choices through transparent product ingredient and • The health and wellbeing of our employees • By the end of 2016, we will have removed nutritional labelling. As well as this, our have the potential to positively or negatively 29.3 million teaspoons of sugar and goal is to create a safe and healthy influence productivity in the workplace a further 1.9 tonnes of salt from our environment with necessary support Woolworths food products structures to enable employees to thrive in the workplace. 2016 GBJ REPORT / WHL 53 HEALTH AND WELLNESS Mapping Our Risks KEY: Moderate Significant Major Not applicable Across the Supply Chain RISK IDENTIFIED SUB ISSUES Nutrition and wellness • Non-communicable diseases linked to overnutrition or undernutrition • Responsible marketing • Food labelling and safety • Product safety Employee health and safety • Prevalence of preventable and non-preventable diseases • HIV/AIDS • Employee wellbeing • Accessibility for disabled OUR WORLD OF WELLBEING case study: • Accidents in the workplace The Good Food Journey is the name we’ve given to our ongoing FIRST RETAILER IN SA TO commitment to offering Woolworths customers food that’s better REMOVE SWEETS FROM for them, better for the environment and better for the people FOOD CHECKOUT AISLES who produce it. It encompasses everything from avoiding additives like tartrazine and all other azo dyes, MSG, aspartame, saccharine In August 2015, Woolworths announced a decision to and cyclamate in our foods, switching to natural colourants and remove all sweets and chocolates from food checkout aisles, flavourants, labelling ingredients from potential GM crop sources reflecting a commitment to providing better alternatives for Woolworths removed sweets and offering more organic and free range choices, to caring for children and parents at checkout, particularly in light of the 2570 171 from Food checkout aisles in the welfare of animals and promoting healthy eating as part of many health-related issues faced by children in South Africa a healthy lifestyle. today. This was also in response to a significant amount of customer feedback received around this issue. NUTRITION COMMITMENT We promote a holistic approach by providing delicious, nutritionally Following the initial statement in 2015, a phased approach balanced food solutions to our customers, while also promoting to the removal of sweets was adopted, with all the sweets Vitality HealthyFoodTM products in store stores, representing 50% of stores and sustainable food production systems. and chocolates from checkout aisles in 104 stores replaced 70% of total sweets and chocolate sales We aim to: with better snacking options, such as nuts and dried fruit. As of June 2016, 171 stores have implemented the change • inspire healthy lifestyles by making healthy eating satisfying, across South Africa and Africa, which is more stores than delicious and convenient across our product ranges. We aim to the initial target (166). These stores represent 50% of total provide our customers with a variety of product options (such as Woolworths stores and 70% of total sweets and chocolate Ready-to-Eat salads, portion-controlled snack packs, Slimmer’s sales, and include all of our large format flagship stores. Choice, Carbclever and Free-From ranges); The remaining 50% of stores will be completed in a phased • iInnovating to improve the nutritional quality of our foods by approach over the course of 2016 and 2017. This milestone 1 Less than % represents a huge transformation for Woolworths, with A$1.2M David Jones contributed always considering the nutrient profile of products and offering products with functional ingredients such as omega-3; and both operational and financial impact. • promoting healthy and informed choices through customer communications with clear nutrition labelling as well as our Healthy Living Hub; through practical tools such as product of products containing information lists, on-pack icons, experiential learning components towards breast cancer research and prevention ingredients from potential and through healthy food promotions and partnerships such GM crops as per our labelling as Discovery Vitality HealthyFoodTM . As part of this ongoing nutrition commitment, we are working to reduce the sugar and salt content of our private label foods products. By the end of 2016, we will have removed 29.3 million teaspoons of sugar and a further 1.9 tonnes of salt from our Woolworths Food products. 363K Customers linked to Vitality HealthyFoodTM To read additional content on our healthy living, go to www.woolworths.co.za/goodbusinessjourney 2016 GBJ REPORT / WHL 55 HEALTH AND WELLNESS HEALTH AND WELLNESS DIABETES DAY David Jones continues to provide cash and in-kind support to its EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND SAFETY Diabetes affects one in ten South African adults. In support of BreastScreen partners, totalling A$1.2 million in 2016. This includes the WHL is committed to providing a safe and healthy working compliance health and safety legislation are covered in a collective World Diabetes Day (14 November) and in order to help customers provision of space and funding of wages for the nurses to facilitate environment for all employees. Prevention is an important aspect agreement with a trade union. understand the importance of good nutrition in managing diabetes the screening in these clinics. These programmes are supported of our health and safety procedures; hence, all our buildings are Across the Group, we aim to deliver comprehensive occupational symptoms, each year Woolworths hosts a series of dietician-led by employee activities through the year that also help to increase designed within stringent health and safety guidelines and with health and safety programmes which meet the needs of our store tours across the country. The tours help educate customers awareness about breast cancer and raise funds for the National employee and customer well-being as a primary consideration. employees in the context of their country of operation and local and their families on how to make more informed food choices Breast Cancer Foundation. when they shop. As per legislative requirements, health and safety representatives legislation. This work is supported by our teams of occupational VITALITY HEALTHYFOODTM PRODUCT SAFETY are appointed in each part of the business, and health and safety health practitioners employed across our operations in South Africa committees are in place. At our South African distribution centres, and Australia. Now in its third year, Woolworths partnership with the Vitality FOOD SAFETY AND INTEGRITY HealthyFoodTM programme, continues to deliver incentive rewards Food safety is critical to Woolworths, and mechanisms are in for making healthy food choices to 363 000 customers place to ensure that consumers are offered products which have COUNTRY ROAD undergone thorough testing and rigid process control to ensure WOOLWORTHS DAVID JONES (2015: 334 00) linking their Woolworths loyalty cards to Vitality. GROUP Through this benefit, customers can earn up to 25% cash-back they are safe. In addition, all Woolworths suppliers are audited rewards through the purchase of any of the 2 570 healthy food independently by rigorous inspection services and visited by our Employee assistance programme products at Woolworths including vegetables, fruit, wholegrains, technical teams to ensure that the highest standards of hygiene fat-free dairy products, lean protein, legumes and healthy fats and safety are upheld. Health screening (health weeks) and oils. These foods contribute towards preventing lifestylePRODUCT RECALLS related chronic diseases, such as diabetes, heart disease, and Woolworths has a robust product recall process in place, whereby Health information communication certain cancers. In addition, of the total number of HealthyFoodTM products posing a safety risk are removed from the shelves (intranet; newsletters) customers, 41.5% are also giving back through the MySchool within two hours of the respective executive being made aware programme (page 47). of the risk. During the course of FY2016 one product recall was Basic primary health services and advice – FOCUS ON NUTRITION IN EDUCATION necessitated for a range of 12 ice cream and sorbet products, due Woolworths helps educate primary school learners and their to inconsistent peanut allergen labelling on packaging. Monitoring of chronic illnesses – – parents on nutrition through the Making the Difference educational CHILD SAFETY programme (page 47). We offer curriculum-linked resources for From our no-pin policy and metal detectors in factories to using the schools on healthy eating as well as store tours to help teachers HIV/AIDS voluntary counselling and testing – – softest and most protective fabrics, Woolworths is committed to and parents learn about nutrition, healthy living and caring for maintaining the highest possible levels of product safety through the environment. We also conduct learner talks hosted at schools the design and manufacturing of our baby and children’s clothing. HIV/AIDS and TB policy and guidelines – – by dieticians. GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS BREAST CANCER AWARENESS In keeping with our public commitment to remove or replace Mental health training Breast cancer is one of the most common causes of cancer-related ingredients from genetically modified (GM) crops in our foods deaths of women in Australia. Over 14 000 women are diagnosed where possible, Woolworths has reduced the number of products Number of health and safety with this devastating disease each year, and sadly, thousands of 17 8 3 containing ingredients derived from GM crop sources in private practitioners employed women may not win the fight. In partnership with the National label foods by a further 66%. Last year, 1.8% of Woolworths private Breast Cancer Foundation (page 50), David Jones is the exclusive label foods contained ingredients from potential GM crop sources. department store retailer of Pink Ribbon merchandise during Breast This has now dropped to less than 1%. Cancer Awareness Month. In addition, David Jones also partners with BreastScreen associations in each state to establish Rose Clinics within five flagship stores, where women over the age of 40 can get a free breast cancer screening. The clinics use state-of-the-art digital mammography technology, offering a To read our position statement on GM, go to first class clinical service in a comfortable, non-clinical environment. www.woolworths.co.za/goodbusinessjourney WHL 56 / 2016 GBJ REPORT 2016 GBJ REPORT / WHL 57 HEALTH AND WELLNESS HEALTH AND WELLNESS EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAMME Woolworths is commited to the Constitution associated with the illness. The Woolworths INJURIES AND ABSENTEEISM Each operating company within the Group of South Africa, and applicable employment Code of Business Principles (page 63), David Jones has been working to improve workplace health and safety outcomes through various strategic measures, including annual offers an Employee Assistance Programme legislation and other related legislation against which all our first tier suppliers are compliance training for all employees, engagement and capacity building for in-store WHL Consultative Committees and an upgrade (EAP), open to all employees, consisting of which informs our HIV/AIDS policy. This assessed, prohibits discrimination against in incident management and reporting. These, and other measures implemented to date, have already reduced workers compensation professional and confidential counselling policy is very explicit on how employees affected and infected people across our premiums by A$3.1 million (56%) and delivered an industry leading 51% reduction in Total Recorded Injury Frequency Rates (TRIFR) since 2012. services, designed to assist with personal who test positive for the virus are to be supply chain. Coinciding with the launch of Mimco’s partnership with the not-for-profit ‘Our Watch’ which aims to eradicate domestic violence (see concerns that may or may not impact on treated in order for them to continue to lead MENTAL HEALTH AWARENESS page 51), Country Road Group updated the Personal Carer's Leave Policy in FY2016, to enable employees to access their paid personal productivity or work performance. These productive lives: AND SUPPORT carer’s leave entitlements in the event they face situations of violence or abuse in their personal life that may affect their attendance or concerns include, but are not limited to • they will not be removed from According to Mental Health Australia, performance at work. health (including mental health), relationships their position, victimised or approximately 20% of the Australian and family, financial and legal, alcohol and discriminated against; population will experience mental illness substance misuse, grief and bereavement, • they are entitled to confidentiality; in any given year. Through our Employee EMPLOYEE HEALTH INDICATOR WOOLWORTHS DAVID JONES COUNTRY ROAD GROUP trauma and critical incidents. In FY2016, Assistance Programme, David Jones 1 652 Country Road Group and Woolworths • they are entitled to treatment via the Confirmed fatalities on duty 2 0 0 Woolworths Clinical Management offers free and confidential counselling employees made use of the EAP programme. to employees and their immediate family programme run by Metropolitan Health Primary healthcare cases (acute and chronic care) 8 550 NR NR HIV/AIDS MANAGEMENT Risk Management under the name of ‘HIV members, to help improve mental health HIV/AIDS is a global epidemic which affects Your Life Programme’ if they do not have and personal resilience. This programme Injuries/incidents on duty 672 1 702 271 around 36.9 million people, predominantly access to a medical aid; and has been strengthened by the phased from lowand middle-income countries. introduction of mental health awareness • they are eligible for all employee benefits. Lost Time Injuries (LTI) 408 37 53 According to the World Health Organisation, training for executives and managers sub-Saharan Africa is the most affected Woolworths has also identified the following in FY2016, ahead of a national rollout in components to managing HIV/AIDS: Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR) 0.01%* 14.0** 19.01** region. Data from Statistics South Africa FY2017. On an annual basis, David Jones indicates the total number of persons living • prevention of HIV/AIDS by offering also runs Mental Health Awareness Month Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) 0.04%* 4.2** 9.16** with HIV in South Africa has increased from free voluntary HIV/AIDS screening and and supports RUOK? Day, to actively an estimated 4.02 million in 2002 to 6.19 counselling to all employees. In addition, promote discussion about mental illness and Gross Absentee Rate (GAR) 3.21% 2.10% NR million in 2015, with a prevalence rate of the distribution of condoms in all facilities; encourage affected employees to seek help approximately 11.2% throughout the whole through the EAP, from family, friends or from NR – Not reported at present. • living positively with HIV/AIDS; and population and 16.6% for adults aged qualified mental health professionals. * calculation per FTE work days. • communication, education and awareness ** calculation per million hours worked. 15 to 49 years. As a large majority of the The key focus areas for this year’s Mental across all our operations via our intranet working class impacted, it is imperative Health Awareness Month include managing and other staff communication channels. to have the necessary management aggressive behaviour from customers systems in every work environment. During FY2016 the total number of employees or colleagues, improving mental health Woolworths acknowledges HIV/AIDS receiving voluntary counselling and testing through exercise and promoting a number case study: The wholesale and retail sector is a low-risk The successful implementation of this strategy is (VCT) for HIV/AIDS was 7 441 (2015: 4 447). environment, yet the percentage of persons living aided by our partnership with the Wholesale and as a potential threat to our workforce, of new services available to David Jones’ DISABILITY with disabilities employed in these sectors remains Retail Sector Education and Training Authority and consequently business productivity, In addition, we support and engage in a employees such as an online portal IN THE low. Woolworths has made a concerted effort (SETA). The total number of people living with and recognises our required role as an range of community wellness campaigns providing information about improved employer to assist in the management and pertaining to HIV/AIDS (e.g. World AIDS Day) mindfulness and resources from David Jones’ WORKPLACE in recent years to change this. We have a proud disabilities constitutes 1.63% of our workforce, of history of affirming persons living with disabilities which 1.53% is black – exceeding the minimum monitoring of HIV/AIDS through leadership, to raise awareness on a much wider scale health insurance provider about personal and breaking stereotypes and strive to provide threshold of 1.2%. In recognition of these efforts, strategic planning and implementation of within our corporate environment, supply resilience and work-life balance. equal employment opportunity, development and Woolworths won the SETA Disability Award in cost-effective and sustainable measures. chain and the communities we impact. We support of our employees living with disabilities. 2016. The aim of these awards is to celebrate and To address some of the challenges that also engage with organisations such as the Our strategic approach to the employment of recognise disability service delivery excellence, come with HIV/AIDS, we have adopted South African Business Coalition on HIV/AIDS persons living with disabilities is aligned with the highlight the achievements and contributions of a company-wide HIV/AIDS policy, last in order to understand workplace issues Read more about Woolworths Code Woolworths people and transformation strategies disability rights activists and organisations, change reviewed in June 2015. of Business Principles on page 63. and the National Skills Development strategy. agents and disability champions in South Africa. WHL 58 / 2016 GBJ REPORT 2016 GBJ REPORT / WHL 59 61/ ETHICAL SOURCING IMPERATIVE The diverse and often complex supply chains involved in producing the food and clothing products we sell can have much more significant social and environmental impacts than those occurring within our direct operations. Increased pressure from activist groups regarding the transparency of supply chains and the traceability of products is also an important factor. Transforming company value chains through establishing ethical sourcing strategies has therefore become non-negotiable. Ethical sourcing for Woolworths means building meaningful or This is core to the UN Global Compact, to which we are signatories. value-sharing relationships with stakeholders and working with Our continued success is linked to the success of the farmers and our suppliers to ensure that the products we source are created in suppliers who grow and produce our products. safe facilities by workers whose human rights are respected and Although this is one of the most difficult areas to drive consistency who are paid fair wages. In addition, this means only working with with direct, indirect and commodity suppliers due to the global suppliers that practice duty of care towards the environment, do footprint of our business, the reputational risks in particular of being not use child labour or subscribe to any form of corruption. associated with unethical behaviour in our supply chain are huge. STRATEGY RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES HIGHLIGHTS We are committed to ensuring that both • Increasing global pressure on retailers to • 100% UTZ-certified cocoa sourced WHL and our suppliers operate in a way consider both the environmental impacts of for Woolworths private label boxed that respects workers’ rights, maintains products and the labour relations standards chocolates, slabs and bars safe working conditions, upholds local of the suppliers they are sourcing from • First two suppliers converted to massemployment laws and protects the • Greater demands for accountability and balance CSPO palm oil environment and the welfare of animals. transparency from customers, media and Not only is this what our customers expect • Viscose traceability exercise completed non-governmental organisations but we believe that suppliers and business • Country Road Group rated as B+ and partners who share our values, with safe, • Long-term security of supply and quality David Jones Bin the 2016 Baptist World environmentally responsible and fair of commodities sourced is a concern Aid Australian Fashion Report working conditions, produce the best • Traceability becomes increasingly difficult quality goods. where we do not have a direct relationship with producers, particularly in the case of commodities • Partnering with credible sustainability standards can increase transparency, encourage more sustainable farming practices, ensure ethical working conditions and better prices ETHICAL SOURCING Mapping Our Risks KEY: Moderate Significant Major Not applicable Across the Supply Chain RISK IDENTIFIED SUB ISSUES Ethical conditions in supply chains • Wages • Safe working conditions • Freedom of association • BBBEE Traceability • Key commodity inputs across the Group Environmental conditions in supply chain • Deforestation • Energy • Water • Waste • Animal welfare APPROACH TO ETHICAL SOURCING Our approach to ethical sourcing is broadly WHL supports the following ethical Woolworths has always taken ethical built around a number of key elements: sourcing principles: sourcing very seriously and driven this 88 82 primarily through the Woolworths Code % • building internal awareness and capacity • that employment is freely chosen, not around ethical trade; forced, bonded or resulting in involuntary of Business Principles and supplier audits. prison labour; We are also partnering with credible • ensuring we work with suppliers and third-party organisations and standards, business partners who share our values; • that freedom of association and the right particularly where we are sourcing • monitoring supplier performance to to collective bargaining is respected; WHL suppliers on SEDEX Food supplier compliance with Woolworths’ Code of Business Principles commodities and do not have direct identify issues; • that working conditions are safe relationships with the producers. • addressing problems where they arise and hygienic; WOOLWORTHS’ CODE and supporting our suppliers to align with • that child labour will not be permitted; OF BUSINESS PRINCIPLES WHL best practice; • that minimum wages should be paid; All Woolworths suppliers, service providers 97 • building capacity along the supply chain, • that working hours are not excessive; and franchisees, whatever their location, % as a means of improving social and are bound by the Woolworths Code of • that discrimination should never be environmental outcomes; Business Principles and all first-tier suppliers permitted or tolerated; • engaging our stakeholders regularly on are regularly assessed against it by a • that regular employment is provided; third-party auditor. This means that the ethical trade matters; • that harsh or inhumane treatment should quality of their workmanship has to be the • working with others to tackle complex not be allowed; highest, their workforce has to be treated Acceptance of David Jones’ private and systemic problems that we cannot fairly, their premises must be safe and that • commitment to compliance with label suppliers to Code of Conduct tackle on our own; and all applicable environmental laws any negative impact their operations might • driving transparency – being open have on the environment is minimised. and regulations and a commitment and honest about our challenges and to environmental efficiency and Foods targeted 95% compliance with the progress. improvement over time; Code of Business Principles for 2016 and We believe that the most sustainable achieved 82% compliance. This has been 58% 95 • that animal welfare is promoted by the way to drive improvements is to work in part the result of stricter audit standards % minimising of any potential harm, stress collaboratively, as signatories to the UN and the retraining of external auditors or pain to animals; Global Compact, via the SEDEX programme around ethical issues. (the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange) and • that bribes, favours, benefits or other similar unlawful or improper payments, Common trends also bringing compliance using the conventions of the International in cash or kind, whether given to obtain rates down are suppliers not paying Labour Organisation (ILO) and Ethical Engagement of David Jones branded Country Road Group supplier compliance business or otherwise is prohibited; and premium overtime rates and employing Trading Initiative (ETI) Base Code to suppliers (returned questionnaire) with Code of Labour Practice foreigners without permits or with underpin our programme, and to help • commitment in South Africa to the expired permits. determine principles specific to WHL. principles of broad-based black economic empowerment as set out in Clothing’s 2016 compliance target was 98 the Department of Trade and Industry 95%, and 98% was achieved. % (DTI) BBBEE Codes of Good Practice and In response to the unfortunate incidents requiring our South African suppliers and that took place in some factories in Clothing and GM contractors to do the same. Bangladesh in the past few years, we supplier compliance have incorporated stricter fire safety and with Woolworths’ Code To read our position statement on ethical sourcing, building compliance standards in our thirdof Business Principles go to www.woolworths.co.za/goodbusinessjourney party audits. 2016 GBJ REPORT / WHL 63 ETHICAL SOURCING ETHICAL SOURCING Woolworths Clothing and General SEDEX AUSTRALIAN FASHION REPORT 2016 Merchandise is currently sourcing from SEDEX is a non-profit, web-based platform The 2016 Baptist World Aid Australian Fashion Report was released in late April 2016 – South Africa, Lesotho, Swaziland, Mauritius, which assists companies in managing their this is the most high-profile report in Australia dealing with ethical trade issues, grading Madagascar, India, Bangladesh, Cambodia, ethical risks in their supply chain as well as companies based on their efforts to mitigate the risks of forced labour, child labour and China, Vietnam, Turkey and Italy. Of this, simplifying the engagement across tiers in worker exploitation through their supply chains. In total 87 apparel companies were graded 52% of sourcing, at present, is from SADC. the supply chain. Woolworths has been a (up from 59 in 2015): We are finalising a review of the Code member of with SEDEX since 2015; we are • David Jones received a Bin 2015, up from Cin 2015 (and was featured of Business Principles in order to address one of about 40 000 members spanning in a progress case study in the report); more globally identified issues while also 50 countries. SEDEX engages in multi-tier • Country Road Group received a B+ (same as 2015); and strengthening areas which we felt were not supply chains like Woolworths and drives prescriptive enough and to drive alignment improvement at all levels with a goal of • the median score across the whole sample was C+. across the WHL Group. converging responsible business practices. In the third edition of the Australian Fashion Report, Baptist World Aid introduced a new Currently, 40 Woolworths food suppliers grading tool to challenge brands to continuously improve. The new tool has an increased COUNTRY ROAD GROUP are SEDEX certified of which 39 are emphasis on traceability and worker empowerment including the payment of living wages. All manufacturers must sign the Country Mimco, Ethical Fashion Initiative considered medium risk, and one is high risk. For the majority of companies, this new scoring methodology has increased the difficulty Road Group Code of Labour Practice which David Jones has 48 factories SEDEX-certified in achieving higher grades this year. Using last year’s methodology, Country Road Group is aligned with ILO conventions in relation to launched three successful collections made suppliers and largest branded suppliers and another 20 are in progress. Going would have received an A, which reflects the positive progress made over the last ethical trade and the ETI base code. Suppliers in collaboration with the EFI and Kenyan together comprising 75% of sales. forward, the aim is to not only increase the 12 months, since scoring a B+ in the 2015 Australian Fashion Report. undergo on-going social compliance checks artisans, with plans to release a fourth In addition, all suppliers have been asked number of audited suppliers but also to shift conducted by independent auditors, or collection made by artisans in Haiti in the This acknowledgement by Baptist World Aid reinforces WHL’s commitment to ethical to counter-sign the newly enhanced our suppliers from medium risk to low risk are required to supply audit reports from next financial year. The collections have sourcing as part of our ongoing Good Business Journey, as we strive to become the most David Jones Supplier Code of Conduct. with the help of SEDEX tools. independent auditors, to ensure they meet contributed to an increase in salary, and sustainable fashion retailer in the southern hemisphere. The updated code has strengthened and the standards of the code. through training, the artisans have gained clarified requirements for suppliers and Country Road Group targeted 95% the confidence and skills to share their provided an opportunity to align David knowledge within their communities. compliance with the Code of Labour Practice Jones with Woolworths, Country Road case study: for FY2016 and achieved 95% compliance. DAVID JONES ETHICAL Group and industry best practice. To TRENERY PARTNERS SOURCING PROGRAMME date, more than 97% of private label The majority of the Country Road Group’s suppliers have signed the code, and are WITH PACHACUTI apparel and accessories are sourced Determined to evolve beyond the ‘House offshore from a range of countries, including of Brands’ to become known as the ‘House undergoing audits to prove compliance. In October 2015, Trenery launched a range of Pachacuti panamas. Timeless and China, India, Italy, Thailand, Indonesia, of Ethical Brands’, David Jones focused its To date a compliance level of 77% has unique in design, each Pachacuti panama combines sustainability, history and luxury. Portugal and Vietnam. efforts on building a solid foundation for been achieved by audited suppliers. its ethical sourcing programme in 2015 and To help improve awareness and The panamas are made by artisans living in remote Ecuadorian communities high Work has begun to further improve 2016. A number of ethical sourcing experts management of ethical sourcing issues, in the Andes, using traditional weaving techniques passed down through generations. traceability through the supply chain. Country joined the sustainability team to take on we have already started to provide They are woven from natural straw sourced from community-owned plantations, Road Group currently uses raw materials where they have been sustainably harvested for more than one hundred years. from a range of countries, including China, the challenge of engaging with and guidance and training to our suppliers, Pakistan, India, Spain, Portugal and Australia. supporting more than 1 200 suppliers explaining how they can identify, manage Pachacuti, a Fair Trade-certified organisation, aims to empower women, working on their journey to more ethical and and resolve ethical sourcing issues within directly with women's cooperatives in Ecuador where weavers carry out the entire MIMCO’S PARTNERSHIP WITH THE sustainable management of their supply their own supply chains. production process from weaving to finishing. ETHICAL FASHION INITIATIVE chain. To improve transparency and The next steps to further improve By encouraging fair working practices and paying a fair price, Pachacuti is helping Mimco has committed to a long-term traceability along the supply chain, David transparency and traceability include to make a real difference to the lives of artisans, their families and communities. partnership with the Ethical Fashion Initiative Jones has been engaging with suppliers engaging with second and third tier (EFI), to play an active role in empowering to understand key supply chain risks Following the success of this limited edition range, Trenery plans to partner further suppliers to understand more about the women and reducing poverty through fair through development of a self-assessment with Pachacuti in the coming year. various inputs and raw materials they use. work opportunities. To date, Mimco has questionnaire, completed by private label WHL 64 / 2016 GBJ REPORT 2016 GBJ REPORT / WHL 65 ETHICAL SOURCING ETHICAL SOURCING case study: DEFORESTATION COMMITMENT SUSTAINABLE PALM OIL assessment, and have identified that around 99% is consumed within the animal feed associated with the production of our fish, OVATION WINES Deforestation and forest degradation are driven primarily by Palm oil is an important and versatile raw material for both food dairy, pork and poultry. We have identified numerous challenges and non-food industries, which contributes to the economic the increasing global demand for agricultural commodities such development of the producing countries and to the diets of millions in the traceability of soy and have become the first South Thokozani was started 10 years ago on Diemersfontein Wine as timber, palm oil, soy and leather, used to make a wide range of people around the world. Although palm oil has the highest yield African member of the Round Table on Responsible Soy (RTRS) Estate in the Western Cape by David and Sue Sonnenberg of food, clothing and other everyday products. According to who wanted to set up a trust for their staff members. per hectare of any oil or oilseed crop, it is recognised that there to collaborate with leading brands and NGOs to explore the WWF International, deforestation contributes to an estimated 15% Diemersfontein Wine Estate has been supplying quality are environmental and social pressures on its rapid expansion to opportunities available for supporting and increasing demand for of the global greenhouse emissions. Furthermore, the destruction of wines to Woolworths for a number of years. What began eco-sensitive areas, particularly as palm oil can only be cultivated certified sustainable soy. these valuable habitats threatens the livelihoods of over 1.6 billion as an empowerment BEE project, blossomed into a story of in tropical areas of Asia, Africa and South America. As part of our WHL Group commitments for 2020, we have people that depend on forests for fuel, materials, nutrition and true human development, and is a breakthrough in BBBEE As part of our commitment to responsible sourcing, we aim to stated that we are aiming for 100% responsible sourcing of all income generation. business. use only certified sustainable palm oil (CSPO) from physically key commodities, including soy (primary tier products and, WHL recognises the environmental and social importance of Thokozani began with 35 staff shareholders. Each farm segregated supply chains in our private label products by 2020. secondary tier used in animal feeds). We are still working to safeguarding the world’s last remaining ancient and endangered worker, with at least one year’s service and a willingness to Woolworths was the first South African company to become a define the strategy and standards which will meet our responsible forests, as well as the role of reducing deforestation and forest participate, was given shares in Thokozani, conditional on member of the global Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) sourcing requirements. degradation in mitigating climate change. the workers staying and working on the farm for five years. and has been working with suppliers and local refiners to create UTZ CERTIFIED COCOA Each month thereafter, participating members We are committed to reducing and eventually, removing the demand and develop the market for sustainable palm oil since deforestation and forest degradation from our direct operations Sourcing UTZ Certified cocoa for our chocolate provides assurance 2011. With only 21% of the world’s supply certified-sustainable, we that the cocoa has been grown and harvested responsibly. The devoted 2% of their salary to buying more shares in and supply chain. This commitment includes systematically removing have faced significant challenges in securing a physical supply of programme helps farmers learn to improve the quality and yield of Thokozani. Thokozani wines have now shifted from 30% commodities from our supply chain that cannot be traced to a ownership by staff members, to 80% ownership by farm CSPO into South Africa. Through engagement with South African their cocoa while reducing their impact on the environment and sustainable source, and therefore may potentially have been refineries, Woolworths has secured a physical supply of CSPO for workers and the remaining 20% by Diemersfontein. The illegally harvested; that come from an area of high conservation enabling them to take better care of their workers and families. wine brand is run by the team who have nominated their use in a mass balance system and also facilitated the training of a We started by sourcing 25% UTZ Certified cocoa for our boxed value; that contributed to the conversion of forest into plantations local auditor to undertake RSPO audits. own set of directors. chocolates in 2012. As more UTZ Certified cocoa has become or for non-forest use; and/or, were obtained in violation of Through our palm oil baseline, we have identified usage across all available to meet our demand, we have increased this amount Ovation is their new wine label, made exclusively for traditional and civil rights. of our products and suppliers, and have succeeded in converting and are currently sourcing 100% UTZ Certified cocoa for all our Woolworths, and comprises a collection of three wines Through engagement with customers, suppliers, NGO partners and – a Sauvignon Blanc, a Merlot and a Pinotage. one major food supplier and a beauty department soap supplier Woolworths private label boxed chocolates, slabs and bars, a certification bodies, we aim to increase both awareness around to using mass-balance CSPO. All palm oil based ingredients and year ahead of our original timelines. We are now also committing and demand for sustainably sourced forest products within our palm oil derived ingredients will be sustainably sourced for the to source 100% UTZ Certified cocoa as an ingredient in all operations, and more broadly. Woolworths private-label skincare and bath and body ranges by Woolworths-branded foods by June 2018. Woolworths is working towards using only sustainably sourced April 2017. We continue to purchase GreenPalm certificates to offset ORGANIC AFRICAN COFFEE or recycled wood products throughout our operations. We will the remainder of our usage to incentivise Indonesian and Malaysian endeavour to ensure that we use timber and paper which is chain palm oil growers to become RSPO-certified sustainable producers A number of challenges have been experienced with cost and of custody certified through the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC™), (www.greenpalm.org). consistency of the supply of Fairtrade coffee beans, and as a result, indicating that the product originates from certified, well-managed the main focus for our WCafes’ has been organic certification Ultimately, we want to see all Woolworths suppliers converting to and the African sourcing of beans. We now source coffee directly forests and/or other controlled sources. a ‘segregated’ supply of RSPO-certified sustainable palm oil, but from the farmers. As we do with all our suppliers, we will work in this will only be possible in a few years’ time when the demand for a mutually beneficial manner with them to improve supply and certified sustainable palm oil in South Africa grows to a scale where quality, while paying fair prices that allow them to contribute to it is viable to transport fully segregated palm oil from origin through development in their communities. transport, storage and refining to end product. A wide range of certified sustainable packaged coffees from all RESPONSIBLE SOY over the world is also sold in our stores. Woolworths acknowledges the significant deforestation risks associated with the clearing of ancient and endangered rainforests or areas of high conservation importance for the production of To read our position statement on deforestation, To read our position statements on UTZ cocoa and palm oil, go to www.woolworths.co.za/goodbusinessjourney soy. We have completed a high-level soy footprint and volumes go to www.woolworths.co.za/goodbusinessjourney WHL 66 / 2016 GBJ REPORT 2016 GBJ REPORT / WHL 67 ETHICAL SOURCING LEATHER In addition to eliminating the use of harmful chemicals in the Leather is commonly used across our clothing and homeware production process, we have banned sandblasting using crystalline ranges. To WHL the use of leather poses challenges in terms of silica for all Woolworths denim production. All our suppliers have ensuring the welfare of animals (see page 79) and the environmental signed a no-sandblasting policy and we will continue to do regular impact of processing animal hides. The various Woolworths Codes audits to ensure adherence to this policy. of Business Principles already include standards around the use of All Country Road Group manufacturers must sign the Environmental hazardous and toxic chemicals for processing leather. We are also Code of Practice (ECoP) for the dyeing, printing and finishing working towards developing better traceability within our supply of merchandise supplied. This code aims to ensure that within case study: chain to ensure that the leather we use in our products does not existing technology, no dye or chemical used in the production of contribute towards deforestation or forest degradation, and is not VISCOSE against our animal welfare policies, and we will encourage our garments, fabrics, leather and/or textile-related products present an unacceptable health or environmental risk during manufacturing, use clothing and general merchandise suppliers to purchase leather or disposal. More than 100 million trees are logged every year and turned into dissolving from Leather Working Group (LWG) certified suppliers. Suppliers are responsible for ensuring that both their own facilities pulp for fabrics such as rayon/ and those of their third-party suppliers follow the guidelines in viscose, modal and lyocell. Canopy, PRIORITY CHEMICALS/DETOX STRATEGY the ECoP. an environmental non-profit group The Detox campaign was launched by Greenpeace in 2011 to has provided research to show that in expose the links between global clothing brands, their suppliers BETTER COTTON INITIATIVE some cases logging is resulting in the and water pollution around the world. destruction of some of the world’s most Woolworths joined the Better Cotton Initiative (BCI) as part of our Woolworths has always taken our responsibility to protect commitment towards sourcing more sustainable cotton and helping precious ancient and endangered forests. Between 5% and 8% (depending on customers, workers and the environment seriously. We accept that to transform the cotton sector. The BCI aims to create long-term season) of all Woolworths SA, and around without the use of dyes and chemicals we would not be able to change by helping farmers to grow cotton in a way that reduces 10% of Country Road Group garments provide our customers with satisfactory products, but it is incumbent stress on the local environment and improves the livelihoods of contain viscose in some form. Woolworths on the supply base to use chemicals responsibly and to use those farming communities. It is a global approach that provides a solution SA has visibility across 99% of total that do not pose unnecessary risks to workers, customers or the for the mainstream cotton industry, including both smallholders viscose usage, which comes from 12 environment. and large-scale farmers. All farmers can benefit from implementing different suppliers, and we are working While our Woolworths Code of Business Principles has served Better Cotton principles and the development of a new and more toward traceability to mill. A number of us well for many years (including our C99 Environmental, Chemical sustainable mainstream commodity. viscose suppliers are already working and Factory Minimum Standards for Dyeing, Printing and Finishing We have worked hard in conjunction with our suppliers to get with Canopy and have forest-friendly Clothing and Textiles), we are now working with a far more key spinners BCI-accredited and develop BCI-specific sourcing policies in place. These companies, complex range of products from a truly global supply base, strategies, resulting in us doubling the amount of BCI cotton in our like frequent Woolworths SA supplier against a backdrop of tighter legislation. Woolworths recognises garments from the previous year. Our aim is to have at least 15% Lenzing, are undergoing third-party the urgent need for eliminating industrial releases of all priority of our cotton fibre converted to Better Cotton by 2017 and by 2020, audits to assure compliance against these policies. We are engaging with the rest of chemicals. Accordingly, our approach is based on prevention and all our cotton lint will be from sustainable production. our suppliers to ensure they also adopt the precautionary principle and Woolworths is committed to zero In the past year, CRG was one of the first Australian retailers to forest-friendly policies, and will work discharge of all priority chemicals from the whole lifecycle and all become a member of the Better Cotton Initiative and has begun with us to meet our Canopy commitment. production procedures that are associated with the making and engaging with suppliers to find ways to work with BCI-accredited Woolworths Holdings commitment using of all products Woolworths clothing sells by 1 January 2020. mills and move towards sourcing more sustainable cotton. is consistent with, and builds on the We recognise that to achieve this goal, mechanisms for disclosure efforts of other brands, designers and and transparency about the priority chemicals used in our global retailers collectively working as part of supply chains are important and necessary, in line with the ‘Right the CanopyStyle initiative to ensure that to Know’ principle. our supply chains are free of ancient and endangered forests by 2017. Woolworths also commits to support systemic (i.e. wider societal and policy) change to achieve zero discharge of priority chemicals Read more about Animal Welfare (associated with supply chains and the lifecycles of products). on page 79. David Jones, Summer 2016 2016 GBJ REPORT / WHL 69 71/ SUSTAINABLE FARMING IMPERATIVE A high proportion of the environmental impact resulting from our operations is linked to the farming and processing of products that we sell. As a result, we make it a priority to work together with our suppliers to minimise these impacts and positively influence the environmental and social outcomes of doing business. Global challenges we face include impacts of extreme weather events, soil degradation, The impacts of the worsening water quality and declining fish stocks. At a local level, the impacts of the ongoing drought in South Africa have been a significant challenge for farmers and suppliers ongoing drought in in terms of productivity in both crop and livestock farming. South Africa have been As well as monitoring and taking steps to manage these significant and complex a significant challenge challenges, we also recognise our ethical obligation to ensure that our farmers and for farmers and suppliers are meeting our exacting requirements for human rights in the supply chain. suppliers. STRATEGY RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES HIGHLIGHTS We work directly with our suppliers to • Water scarcity and quality • Pass rate of 94% for Farming reduce the environmental, social and animal • Climate change and extreme weather events for the Future suppliers welfare impacts of the products we sell • Fair Carbon Exchange soil carbon and ensure the dignity of the people that • Soil quality and ecosystem degradation trial underway are part of our supply chain. We also work • Security of land tenure, rising input costs, in partnership with organisations such as urbanisation • Phase 2 of Kinder to Sows WWF-SA, Compassion in World Farming project commenced and Cotton SA to drive further progress • Rising commodity prices • Wildlife-friendly protocol finalised against responsible sourcing goals and to • Reputational risks related to the welfare develop strategies to reduce the impact of our of animals associated with food and • Country Road Group becomes a member operations. clothing products of the Better Cotton Initiative • Food insecurity and food waste • Building resilient supply chains Inspired leaf farm, Woolworths supplier WHL 70 / 2016 GBJ REPORT 2016 GBJ REPORT / WHL 71 SUSTAINABLE FARMING Mapping Our Risks KEY: Moderate Significant Major Not applicable Across the Supply Chain RISK IDENTIFIED SUB ISSUES Ecological health • Soil degradation • Water quality • Water availability Climate change • Extreme weather events • Climate variability Farmer access to market • Security of land tenure • Rising input costs Animal welfare • Humane treatment of animals FARMING WITH TOMORROW IN MIND Through our work in promoting sustainable farming practices In order to motivate farmers to adopt the correct practices among our private label suppliers as well as the broader network needed to achieve the required results, the project will be of upstream farmers, we can improve soil health, protect water channelling carbon offset and carbon credit payments to supply, restore biodiversity, support rural livelihoods, help farmers according to the amount of carbon they sequester 97 communities adapt to climate change and ultimately help ensure each year. To achieve this, Fair Carbon Exchange will provide % we produce sufficient food to meet the needs of our customers. training materials to the farmers to ensure that they can enhance the soil biota correctly for their climate, soil and crop types, FARMING FOR THE FUTURE as well as guidance in the application of the methods and Woolworths pioneering approach to growing food in a sustainable, practices. Work has already begun with two overseas trainers harmonious way is now in its seventh year. Farming for the Future who have been working with two farmers supplying Woolworths manages the entire farming process from the ground up, with soil Of wild-caught seafood species sold meets in October 2015. Progress has unfortunately been slowed as a quality at the heart. Healthy soil requires fewer chemical inputs and our sustainability commitments result of the drought, but the initiative will continue as the drought less irrigation resulting in less chemical run-off and soil erosion with conditions in South Africa lessen. positive biodiversity impacts. The auditing and certification scheme works with the farmers to improve their performance through the FOCUS ON FOOD WASTE development of individual enhancement programmes based on Lifecycle assessments (LCAs) provide an invaluable tool in the the farmers’ individual needs, at no extra cost to the customer. The identification of opportunities to reduce the impact of the products 100 % focus on water footprint reduction has been particularly important we sell on the environment. During the year we conducted an in relation to water scarcity being experienced across many parts LCA on free range versus feedlot beef. Another landmark piece of South Africa (page 97). of research conducted as part of Woolworths’ partnership with As of 2016, we have 149 primary produce, horticulture and wine WWF-SA included an assessment of food waste in our spinach suppliers and 80 of our secondary suppliers working as part of the supply chain. The study formed part of a broader pilot of the Fresh pork (i.e. non-processed) scheme. Among primary suppliers, a 94% pass rate was obtained World Resources Institute's Food Loss and Waste (FLW) Protocol, products Kinder to Sows against compliance criteria. making Woolworths one of the first retailers to have participated in an exercise to report on food waste in a transparent and FAIR CARBON COLLABORATION benchmarked way (see case study on page 87). Carbon stored in soils worldwide exceeds the amount of carbon stored in above-ground biomass and the atmosphere. Land-use change and soil degradation is therefore a leading contributor 229 95 to climate change. Woolworths has embarked on a collaborative % project with Fair Carbon Exchange, which ultimately aims to fund of our eggs are free range farmers working as part of Farming for the Future for their efforts Case study: Piloting the Food Loss and Waste Protocol Over in soil carbon sequestration. Through this, farmers cannot only with WWF-SA on page 87. (incl. egg ingredients) increase the quality of their soil and therefore crop yields but Suppliers in Farming for the Future also contribute towards greenhouse gas mitigation, all at zero To read additional content on Farming for the Future, risk to farmers and consumers. go to www.woolworths.co.za/goodbusinessjourney 23 % Of Woolworths cotton lint is sustainable 16 % Of Woolworths Clothing and General Merchandise sales contains sustainable fibres 2016 GBJ REPORT / WHL 73 SUSTAINABLE FARMING FISHING FOR THE FUTURE Woolworths remains deeply committed to procuring all seafood from sustainable fisheries and responsible farming operations. Eight years ago Woolworths became the first South African retailer to sign the WWF-SA Sustainable Seafood Initiative (WWF-SASSI) Retail Charter, and since then we have made significant strides in implementing a sustainable seafood policy. We have set time-bound sustainable seafood commitments and continue to work with a range of partners, WWF-SASSI, the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) and the Aquaculture Stewardship Council (ASC). In 2012, Woolworths committed that by 2015, all our wild-caught seafood would be either WWF-SASSI green-listed, caught from MSC (or equivalent) certified fisheries, or sourced from fisheries that are undertaking credible, time-bound improvement projects. By the end of 2015, we achieved 93% of these goals, and by February 2016, this increased to 97% (by sales tonnage). The remaining 3% of Woolworths volume sales comes from wild-caught fish species that are not currently assessed by either WWF-SASSI or MSC. We do not sell red-listed fish species. We’re now working on improving the sustainability of the farmed fish in our supply chain. It is our goal that by 2020, all aquaculture species sold by Woolworths will be either WWF-SASSI green-listed, ASC (or equivalent) certified, or from aquaculture operations that are engaged in a credible, time-bound improvement project. Our journey towards these commitments has already begun with the launch of South Africa’s first ASC certified farmed tilapia lines. Currently 75% of our seafood in total (i.e. including farmed fish) case study: In collaboration with the International The journey to achieve this milestone has Seafood Sustainability Foundation (ISSF) entailed considerable effort and engagement meets our commitments. We are looking forward launching more CANNED TUNA and WWF-SASSI we have been working with the various stakeholders within the tuna sustainable and ASC certified farmed fish choices in 2016/17. MILESTONE towards the development of a sustainable industry and regional fishery organisations canned tuna offering for the last three to obtain a supply of MSC certified poleand years, as part of our Fishing for the line-caught skipjack canned tuna. Future initiative. MSC certification recognises and rewards We are now pleased to report that from sustainable fishing practices, ensuring the the end of March 2017, all private label canned tuna you serve can be traced from canned tuna sold in Woolworths stores will boat to store. As part of this certification, be pole and line Marine Stewardship Council suppliers are required to adhere to strict (MSC) certified – a first for South Africa. anti-shark finning policies and are regularly This method allows for selective baiting of audited for compliance. skipjack tuna, (which is WWF-SASSI greenlisted) and reduces by-catch of other species such as shark and dolphin. To read additional content on Fishing for the Future, go to www.woolworths.co.za/goodbusinessjourney WHL 74 / 2016 GBJ REPORT SUSTAINABLE FARMING SUSTAINABLE FARMING ANIMAL WELFARE IN FOODS case study: As retailers, we believe, it is our ethical obligation to ensure that WILDLIFE-FRIENDLY PROTOCOL FREE RANGE AND CAGE-FREE our suppliers treat all the animals in our supply chain with respect Our ethical obligation to animal welfare also extends to the wildlife EGGS MILESTONE and in the most humane way possible. We are on a journey with which comes into contact with the farmers and livestock in our our suppliers to improve animal welfare by minimising any potential supply chain. For a number of years, Woolworths has been funding Woolworths is proud to have been the first major local retailer harm, stress or pain to animals, and adhering to relevant national work with various NGOs (Conservation South Africa, The Cape to stop selling whole eggs from hens kept in cages in 2004 – and international standards in animal welfare. Leopard Trust, the Landmark Foundation and the Endangered only whole free range eggs are sold in Woolworths stores. We As part of this, and with support from international organisations Wildlife Trust) to develop a protocol seeking to minimise humanremain the only major local retailer to have achieved this. Of such as Compassion in World Farming, we are on a journey to wildlife conflict associated with predators in livestock farming. the 120 million eggs we source every year, about half are sold in Our ultimate goal – to develop a wildlife-friendly lamb cartons; the rest are turned into pasteurised liquid or dried egg reduce the use of close-confinement systems in the production of supply – has entailed a three-year trial of various non-lethal and used as ingredients in food products. livestock in recognition of the impacts that this can have on their health and mental wellbeing. predator management techniques including Anatolian guard dogs, As of 2016, we are proud to report that over 95% of locally llamas, protective collars, alpacas and shepherds. The outputs manufactured Woolworths private label food products listing We continue to sell extensive lines of free range chicken, beef and of the trials were used in the development of a wildlife-friendly egg as an ingredient are made with free range eggs. Excluding lamb which are able to eat a natural diet, and are not given routine protocol, which was recently registered with the regulator assignee. micro-ingredients, the remainder is cage-free. antibiotics or growth promoters. The aim is to provide an auditable code of practice for farming KINDER TO SOWS lamb to reduce indiscriminate or non-selective predator control, As sourcing free range pork that is available all-year round and while at the same time improve the farmer’s commercial viability competitively priced has been very challenging, we have focused by reducing stock loss. on tackling some of the practices used in intensive pig farming such as the use of sow stalls. In 2014 we launched pork sourced from farmers who only keep sows in stalls for one week during gestation and thereafter placed in group housing where they can move SPENT HENS around and socialise. This has been at considerable expense to our The Woolworths ‘spent hens’ initiative began last year as farmers, but they are also committed to doing the right thing for a means of using the Woolworths hard-working, free range their sows. egg-laying hens in a more holistic and humane way. The initiative is borne out of Woolworths’ central philosophy Currently, 100% of the fresh pork sold in Woolworths meets our that free range animals should enjoy higher levels of welfare Kinder to Sows criteria, identified by the on-pack logo. We are throughout their lives and not just when their productivity is now implementing the second phase of our Kinder to Sows pork high. Traditionally, laying hens that have reached the end of project to roll-out to the ‘Easy to Cook Pork Range’. Eventually we aim to ensure all of locally produced pork products come from CURRENTLY, 100% OF their productive lifespan are sold live as a source of cheap protein for poorer communities, meaning that we cannot farms that only keep sows in stalls for one week rather than the entire 16-week pregnancy. This will be a phased-in journey with THE FRESH PORK SOLD IN control their welfare once sold to the cull buyers. We have WOOLWORTHS MEETS OUR been working to change this practice through the development several milestones that we will announce to our consumers when of a new facility in Cape Town which can process these hens we have confirmed that we have reached sufficient volumes to maintain continuous supply. KINDER TO SOWS CRITERIA. in a humane way. This supplier produces fresh free range chicken products such as mince, burgers and meatballs, as well as a range of free range liquid products, including stocks, gravies and demi-glace for Woolworths food manufacturers. Like all journeys, this has begun with a single step. At present, around 10% of the spent hens in the Western Cape are being processed in this way. The project is still in its infancy but good To read our position statement on animal welfare go to progress is being made. In time, we plan to expand this further www.woolworths.co.za/goodbusinessjourney and replicate it in Gauteng. WHL 76 / 2016 GBJ REPORT 2016 GBJ REPORT / WHL 77 SUSTAINABLE FARMING ANIMAL WELFARE IN CLOTHING, HOME AND BEAUTY ANIMAL TESTING WOOL Since 2008, Beauty Without Cruelty approves the entire WHL Group takes a proactive approach to sourcing a sustainable Woolworths private label range of cosmetics and toiletries, supply of wool that is non-mulesed, in line with our Animal Welfare which means that it is not tested on animals, in line with our Policy. The Country Road Group is a supporter of the Australian animal welfare policy. wool industry and many wool products proudly display that they are made from merino wool. We are working to update our ANGORA approach in line with the Responsible Wool Standard launched In response to the animal welfare concerns highlighted by People in 2016. for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), the WHL Group ceased ordering product containing angora in January 2014. LEATHER The Group will maintain this position until it is completely satisfied It is our policy that no animal will be slaughtered specifically for that ethical standards of fibre procurement are being followed the production of WHL Clothing and General Merchandise by the angora industry. products, therefore only by-products of the meat industry may be used. As we work towards obtaining a greater degree of FUR transparency in our leather supply chain we will encourage our We do not permit the use of any natural fur or farmed fur in our clothing and general merchandise suppliers to purchase leather products. This includes mink, chinchilla, fox, rabbit, astrakhan and from Leather Working Group (LWG) certified suppliers. karakul fur. Woolworths is a proud member of the Fur-Free Alliance. FEATHERS AND DOWN Duck and goose down must not be obtained from live plucking, and must not be associated with the fois-gras industry. In order to increase transparency, we aim to source from suppliers that are Responsible Down Standard (RDS) compliant. At the same time, we are shifting to the use of synthetic alternatives – including To read our position statement on animal welfare, filler content made from recycled bottles. go to www.woolworths.co.za/goodbusinessjourney WOOLWORTHS IS A PROUD MEMBER OF THE FUR-FREE ALLIANCE. Country Road, Winter 2016 2016 GBJ REPORT / WHL 79 SUSTAINABLE FARMING SUSTAINABLE FARMING WHAT IS BCI? SUSTAINABLE FIBRES In recognition of the impact that farming of cotton has on global land, soil and water resources we continue to drive the use of The Better Cotton Initiative is an independent multi-stakeholder organisation whose members are committed to more sustainable fibres and alternative fibres from sources that making Better Cotton a mainstream commodity. BCI exists to make global cotton production better for the people reduce raw material consumption such as polyester made from who produce it, better for the environment it grows in and better for the sector's future. recycled plastic bottles. We are also working to address risks related to deforestation or forest degradation, through improved traceability and procurement of sustainably sourced cellulosic fabrics (e.g. viscose, rayon and modal) (see page 68). As of 2016, a total 16% (2015: 9%) of Woolworths Clothing and General Merchandise sales comes from products containing sustainable fibres. SUSTAINABLE COTTON We have set an ambitious WHL Group target that by 2020, 250M People depend on cotton production for their livelihood. 2700L Of water is used to produce the average cotton T-shirt. all our cotton lint will be from sustainable production, including organic and Better Cotton Initiative (BCI) cotton. In the last year, we have made significant progress against this target Farmers who grow Better Cotton commit to using the BCI production principles: as a Group. Country Road Group is one of the first Australian retailers to become a member of the Better Cotton Initiative, and has embarked on a process to engage suppliers to find ways to work with BCI-accredited mills, to support the transformation Crop protection Water usage Soil health Biodiversity Fibre quality Decent work of the cotton supply chain. Currently, 23% of cotton lint used by Woolworths is sustainable. Over the next few years, our strategy is to significantly upscale our procurement of BCI cotton. Woolworths joined BCI in July 2014 with the goal to convert 15% of cotton lint to Better Cotton by 2017. Meeting this target will mean even greater collaboration with suppliers in southern Africa and creating valuable partnerships to make our sustainable case study: The cotton industry in South Africa, once industry. Once the standards have been a thriving industry, has sadly suffered fully introduced and evaluated, BCI will procurement goals a reality. SA COTTON CROP significant declines in recent decades. verify compliance and deliver licences at Woolworths progress against sustainable cotton commitments (2016) TO ATTAIN BCI Thanks to efforts from the multi-sector the farm or producer level. STANDARD initiative led by the SA Sustainable The first round of BCI verification visits Cotton Cluster (governed by Cotton SA) has been conducted and no significant in collaboration with a number of 23% non-compliances have been identified. retailers – a resurgence of the local Third-party audits are planned for industry pipeline is once again a reality. In July 2016, after which BCI will finalise developing the approach it was identified 77 Sustainable cotton % (4 161 tonnes) that growing international demand for licensing decisions. Woolworths joined the Sustainable Cotton Cluster at the end sustainable cotton should be the focus of Conventional cotton of 2015, in recognition of the value that the strategy. The cluster has therefore been (18 470 tonnes) this will bring in terms of reaching our implementing a programme to obtain BCI sustainable sourcing commitments. certification for the South African cotton WHL 80 / 2016 GBJ REPORT 2016 GBJ REPORT / WHL 81 83/ WASTE IMPERATIVE The disposal of waste to landfill is a developmental pressure across the world, which is resulting in significant environmental, social and economic costs. In the food industry, an estimated 1.3 billion tonnes of food produced worldwide (around a third of all food) and the resources used to produce it are going to waste each year. We recognise that the production of the goods we sell results protecting our products but also poses a significant problem to in consumption of natural resources for their production and the consumer in its disposal. However, this situation also creates processing, and to the generation of waste throughout their opportunities for developing more integrated systems for reusing lifecycles. A key component of this waste is the packaging that materials into products and packaging, thereby moving towards we supply our goods in, which serves the vital purpose of an ideal closed-loop system. STRATEGY RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES HIGHLIGHTS Woolworths is committed to reducing the • Many cities running out of landfill space – • First plant-based packaging launching amount of waste sent to landfill from our solutions will come with increased cost • Through our partnership with own operations, using recycled content in • Environmental and economic cost of using Hangerman, we have recycled our products and packaging, and making it virgin and non-renewable materials nearly 350 million hangers since easier for our customers to recycle. We are the project’s inception also increasing our focus on reducing food • Poverty and food security concerns across waste in our supply chain, operations and many of our operating regions • Woolworths won the 2015 PETCO awards customers’ homes. By making it easy for our • Enabling the increased development of in the Best Product using recycled PET customers to recycle the packaging from our recycling markets and collaborations (rPET) category for its denim range of products, we are helping to create a higharound waste management clothing ‘RE:’ value market for consumer waste, supporting • Country Road Group received a rating of the local recycling economy, and minimising 4 out of 5 and David Jones a 3.5 from the our dependency on limited natural resources. Australian Packaging Covenant We will carry on increasing our efforts around waste reduction across our entire value chain, including suppliers, operations and with customers. 2016 GBJ REPORT / WHL 83 WASTE Mapping Our Risks KEY: Moderate Significant Major Not applicable Across the Supply Chain RISK IDENTIFIED SUB ISSUES Waste generation • Packaging • Food waste • Plastic bags Waste disposal • Recycling • Product labelling Natural resource consumption • Product lightweighting • Sustainable materials 120 91 % WASTE GENERATION At our own operations, we are working towards achieving zero waste to landfill. In South Africa, challenges exist in that the infrastructure Recycling sites (2015: 80) at Woolworths % waste recycled South Africa head office for consistent recycling of all different waste streams still remains underdeveloped. Despite these challenges, we sent 9% (2015: 6.73%) of waste generated at our head office to landfill, and 5% (2015: 6.17%) overall from distribution centres during the course of FY2016. A new cleaning contract and head office renovations impacted our waste to landfill rate at the head office complex. We have also undergone an external stores waste audit, and implemented a recycling pilot across 40 of our stores, currently achieving a recycling rate of 53%. PACKAGING Through using recycled material in our packaging, Woolworths is Our Good Business Journey targets place emphasis on achieving dedicated to reducing virgin raw materials consumption from our packaging improvements every year. This includes lightweighting, operations. We also support the growth of South Africa’s green substituting virgin material with recycled material, designing for 1.89M Reusable bags sold by Woolworths economy through waste recycling initiatives and making it possible local recyclability and supplying customers with clearer disposal for customers to recycle more easily. instructions. We are also committed to ensuring that where Packaging reduction is an important environmental factor we are renewable materials are used these are sourced from welltrying to address, but it needs to be balanced. We see it necessary managed forests and other controlled sources (e.g. paper and to make sure that our products continue to stay protected; in the board with certified chain ofcustody) certified by the Forest (2015: 1.73M) case of food we want it to remain safe and hygienic. It is also Stewardship Council (FSCTM). essential to extend shelf life for as long as possible so that food AUSTRALIAN PACKAGING COVENANT waste is not created. To us, this means using packaging responsibly. The Australian Packaging Covenant (APC) is a federal government We have committed to achieving this by: initiative focused on reducing the amount of used packaging that • using the lightest weight of materials to do the job; reaches landfill. Signatory responsibilities include the submission and • purchasing packaging materials from certified renewable sources execution of a packaging and waste action plan. The APC provides wherever possible; a rating based on previous years’ performance. 95 % • encouraging the use of packaging materials which have recycled For the most recent rating period, Country Road Group achieved content in them to help create a market for consumer waste and a rating of 4 out of 5 (FY2015: 3.5) and David Jones’ rating remains help build a recycling economy; stable at 3.5. Both Country Road Group and David Jones’ are rated above the industry average. • designing packaging holistically with the product in mind in order % waste recycled at South African distribution centres to optimise overall environmental performance and considering (2015: 93.8%) the opportunities for recycling at the end of its life; • working with various industry bodies to encourage the development of recycling facilities to make recycling even easier; • printing clear, simple labels on all our packaging to help customers identify the packaging material used and know if it can be recycled; R44.5M 64 • taking advice from leading experts and listening to our customers % Gently worn clothing value donated to The Clothing Bank WFS e-statement switchover to ensure we deliver our goal of responsible packaging; and • understanding more about the impact packaging can have on climate change and using this to help inform our decision-making. (2015: R25.5M) (2015: 63%) 2016 GBJ REPORT / WHL 85 WASTE WASTE case study: FOOD WASTE case study: PLANT-BASED PACKAGING According to the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), PILOTING THE FOOD LOSS AND nine million tonnes of foods are wasted annually in South Africa – an WASTE PROTOCOL WITH WWF-SA In collaboration with Braskem and Polyoak, Woolworths is untenable situation in a country where hunger and malnutrition are launching a milk bottle range which is made using 30% of serious concerns. This study included testing and trialling the World a plant-based substrate. The bottle incorporates ethically Resources Institute’s (WRI) Food Loss and Waste protocol As an ongoing initiative, Woolworths donates surplus food which farmed Brazilian sugar cane, and the process used to make in the Woolworths supply chain with processed food supplier would otherwise go to landfill from stores to charities. In FY2016, this bottle has a carbon negative footprint. The packaging is In2food and fresh-produce farmers. 100% recyclable and reduces the dependency on the use of we donated food to the value of R485 million (2015: R490 million). crude oil-based packaging. We recognise, however, that we generate waste across our entire This study was possibly the first in the world where a value chain in the growing, making and manufacturing of our retailer investigated one product with multiple stock-keeping products as well as in our customers’ homes. units (SKUs), over 50 in the case of spinach, to determine Through various means such as excellent temperature control in our waste from farm to consumer. The highest levels of food loss logistics chain and stores as well as on clear on-pack information and waste occurred at the farm. Primary causes for waste pertaining to ‘Sell By’, ‘Best Before’ and ‘Use By’ dates, we try to at the farm were damaged harvests or over-planning by the grower. At processing, waste is caused by quality issues minimise this waste as far as possible. There is still a long way to as well as size variations that result in failure to meet the go, however, and we partnered with WWF-SA, to complete a food required Woolworths procurement specifications. waste scoping study to better understand the extent to which food waste is occurring across the Woolworths value chain. Waste is an economic issue as well as an environmental one, The study was conducted to identify hotspots in levels and sources so for the most part suppliers strive to root out the causes. of waste, identify means of reducing food and packaging waste In recognition of the many issues that influence the quality and availability of green leafy crops, Woolworths adopts a delivered to landfill and to propose new ways of working and fairly fluid approach to specifications, adapting these on business practices across the supply chain to prevent waste. The a regular basis to accommodate issues of quality or the study found that, among other areas, significant volumes of waste impact of weather conditions. is generated in the post-harvest phase of produce processing. A second phase of the research zoned in on tracking food By understanding where and why food losses occur in the loss and waste through the supply chain for a particular supply chain, Woolworths will be in a position to work more closely with its suppliers to reduce food loss on food products product – in this case spinach (see case study opposite). that have the highest yield of waste, such as Swiss chard and baby leaf spinach. By understanding where and why food losses occur in the supply chain, Woolworths will be To read our position statement on food waste, in a position to work more closely go to www.woolworths.co.za/goodbusinessjourney with its suppliers to reduce food loss. WHL 86 / 2016 GBJ REPORT 2016 GBJ REPORT / WHL 87 WASTE WASTE GENTLY WORN CLOTHING THE CLOTHING BANK FASHION TRADE Woolworths donates surplus clothing as Since 2010, Country Road has partnered well as employees’ and customers’ prewith the Australian Red Cross and owned clothing to partner organisation, New Zealand Red Cross on Fashion The Clothing Bank. The Clothing Bank Trade – a clothing exchange programme aims to empower unemployed that rewards customers with a A$10 women from disadvantaged areas in voucher for donating pre-owned Country South Africa through a programme of life Road clothing to the Red Cross, and thereby skills, financial and career development to saving clothing from going to landfill. During start sustainable clothing micro-businesses. the past year almost 60 000 (FY2015: This highly successful programme is currently 44 000) items of clothing and accessories being replicated across South Africa were donated to the Red Cross and saved and now has outlets in Cape Town, from landfill. Of these, over 10 000 items Johannesburg, Paarl, Durban, Hermanus were donated by customers, and close to and East London as support for the initiative 50 000 items were donated by the Country continues to grow. This helps not only Road Group. to create much-needed employment but DAVID JONES also divert surplus textiles from landfill. David Jones has launched a clothing The programme was launched in 2010 as donations programme of Woolworths an enterprise development programme private label product in conjunction with The through R1.5 million start-up capital from Smith Family. This programme has generated Woolworths. The Clothing Bank has A$700 000 to date in proceeds to support trained over 1 135 women, with 500 educational outcomes for Australian children recruited in the last year. In the past from disadvantaged backgrounds. 12 months, the women have cumulatively generated profits worth R12.6 million, and since inception an amount of R38.1 million. The supporting retailers have collectively donated 876 950 garments in the last 12 months of which R44.5 million was contributed by Woolworths. IN THE PAST 12 MONTHS, The Clothing Bank won the 2016 Schwab Foundation’s Social Entrepreneur of the THE WOMEN HAVE Year award. CUMULATIVELY GENERATED We currently have clothing recycling units in 30 selected stores for customers to support PROFITS WORTH R12.6M, The Clothing Bank, and will assess the level of customer support before looking at AND SINCE INCEPTION AN further roll-outs. AMOUNT OF R38.1M. The Clothing Bank, South Africa WHL 88 / 2016 GBJ REPORT WASTE WASTE RECYCLING case study: WOOLWORTHS BEAUTY MICROBEAD COMMITMENT CUSTOMER RECYCLING Our ranges of the colourful fabric bags are made using 85% BAGS4GOOD AND BEADS4GOOD Microbeads are plastic microspheres used predominately in exfoliating face and body washes. In personal care products, Woolworths had committed to introducing a nationwide post-consumer PET waste (recycled polyethene terephthalate Since the launch of our first cause-related rhino bag in 2010, they act to gently scrub away dead skin in much the same way programme supporting the recycling of customers’ waste by bottles). Woolworths has used 360 tonnes of fibre to date made we have raised over R10.7 million for the conservation of a sponge would. Recently, concerns have been raised about the providing recycling facilities at selected Woolworths stores, Engen from recycled PET bottles to make the fabric bags. This translates endangered species and other causes such as breast cancer environmental impact of plastic microbeads and our Good Beauty sites and school. We have recycling facilities at 30 schools in the to approximately 9.5 million bottles diverted from landfill, and awareness and Operation Smile. Journey means that we not only care about the safety of our Western Cape and are looking to roll these out at selected schools reducing carbon emissions associated with producing virgin consumers but also about our environment. Woolworths SA is in in other areas of the country. The relatively low oil price at present material by approximately 54%. Through the sale of our cause-related reusable bags, the process of phasing out and will eliminate plastic microbeads is putting major financial pressure on the recycling industry and we During the year Country Road offered customers in Australia a Woolworths raised just over R2 million in FY2016. A number in our private label beauty and personal care products by 2017. We continue to look for new partners and ways of working in this area. reusable cloth bag as an alternative to plastic carrier bags – of new designs were launched to raise awareness and funds have stopped developing new products containing polyethylene of which 2 617 (2015: 3 497) units were sold in the last year. around sustainability and conservation-related issues. Due to collection challenges and concerns from Engen dealers we microbeads and we have conducted assessments on using other have had to withdraw recycling bins from a number of Engen sites Through partnerships with our customers and conservation suitable substitutes in our formulations that are just as effective and are reallocating these to schools in collaboration with the organisations, Woolworths is increasing awareness of on the skin as plastic microbeads but also safe for personal care Reusable bag sales (000’s of bags) threats to South Africa’s biodiversity, while actively Wildlands Conservation Trust. use and safe for the environment. We have only one skincare item 140 000 2 000 supporting conservation projects in South Africa. Recently, (exfoliating face cleanser) which still has the microbeads – this is STORE OPERATIONS through the sale of each bag, Woolworths has donated from old stock which we are currently running down. In our stores we are continually discovering ways to reduce and R10 from each bag to the Blood Lions™ awareness, 120 000 I.T. PRODUCTS AND CONSUMABLES recycle waste. This comprises using recycled plastic in the lugs education and action campaign. This campaign aims to used to transport products to and from stores, and recycling all 1 500 end exploitative lion breeding, petting and hunting on We continue to drive reductions in printer consumables such as 100 000 transit packaging used to protect clothes during transportation, farms across South Africa. By partnering with RELATE, paper and ink. In partnership with Lexmark, we recycle all waste Reusable bag sales (000's) including hangers. Our hangers are made of recycled material, as we’ve also raised over R4 million by selling cause-related printer cartridges in our stores. In the last year, we diverted Plastic bag sales (000’s) 80 000 are our store signage, shopping baskets and trolleys. Through our 1 000 beaded bracelets in store, supporting a variety of social 5 300 kg (2015: 4 290 kg) of cartridges from landfill as a result of partnership with Hangerman we have recycled nearly 350 million 60 000 and environmental initiatives. Approximately a third of our ongoing collection initiative. The proceeds generated from the hangers since the project’s inception. We also work with a number RELATE’s proceeds are donated to Causes. Relate bracelets recycling initiative are donated to the charity ‘Cotlands’, which of partners on international coastal clean-up campaigns. 40 000 have supported over 82 charitable causes, to date and 12 supports learning and development for vulnerable children in poor 500 in collaboration with Woolworths. Approximately a third communities from birth to six years old. PLASTIC AND REUSABLE BAGS of RELATE’s proceeds are also invested in creating earning 20 000 Reducing plastic bag usage is one of the strategies Woolworths opportunities, skills training and enterprise development E-STATEMENTS is using in minimising impact on the environment, saving costs and 0 0 initiatives. Over the last two years, Woolworths Financial Services has been assisting customers to save costs. To reduce our impact from plastic 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 driving significant printing reductions through the implementation bag use, we follow two main strategies; firstly, promoting the use of electronic statements. We continue to see an increase in KEY: of recycled plastic within our single-use plastic bags and secondly, uptake as customers switch from traditional paper statements to Plastic bags encouraging customers to buy and reuse one of our cause-related e-statements and today 64% of customers have made the switch, polypropylene or recycled plastic reusable shopper totes. Our Reusable bags up from 63% in previous years. plastic food carriers now contain a minimum of 70% post-consumer and manufacturing waste, while the shopping bags used for clothing and general merchandise contain 55% recycled material. We have also redesigned our bags to reduce the amount of raw Through selling reusable bags, we material required to manufacture a single bag. support 140 jobs and skills development Plastic shopping bag usage has increased marginally from last year with 0.88 bags used per transaction compared to 0.87 last year. at Woolworths’ two main reusable bag We have some work to do to better educate customers on this suppliers, Isikhwama, based in issue, and in incentivising behaviour change. Reusable bag sales Cape Town, and Gusco, based also increased, with 1.89 million bags (2015: 1.73m) sold in FY2016. in Uitenhage. WHL 90 / 2016 GBJ REPORT 2016 GBJ REPORT / WHL 91 93/ WATER IMPERATIVE Our operations stretch across Africa and Australasia, which are among the most ‘at risk’ regions in the world in respect of current and future projected water scarcity. We rely on a steady and clean supply of water across our entire value chain to grow, process and manufacture our clothing and food products, as well as to ensure the wellbeing and safety of our employees. The ongoing drought in South Africa has illustrated the critical these collective risks, as well as our delivery against Goal 6 interdependencies of the economy, society and the environment of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. Woolworths on the availability and quality of water resources. To Woolworths, is a signatory to the UN CEO Water Mandate, through which we navigating the impacts of the drought on commodity prices and have committed to making a positive impact with respect to the the availability and quality of produce has proved challenging, emerging global water crisis and to remaining transparent about but has highlighted the importance and immense opportunity our performance. This section presents a summary of progress to be gained from multi-stakeholder initiatives dealing with against the core focus areas. To read our position statement on water, go to www.woolworths.co.za/goodbusinessjourney STRATEGY RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES HIGHLIGHTS Reducing water consumption and managing • Water scarcity, quality and extreme weather • Water use reduced by 41.9% since 2007 wastewater across our own operations as well events (exacerbated by climate change) in South African stores as in our supply chain, through partnerships, • Freshwater used in the manufacture and • First South African signatory to collective action, research and education. We use of our products the WBCSD WASH pledge are also committed to creating awareness among employees, suppliers, customers and • Improving our measurement and • 61% of Farming for the Future farmers schools. management of water to reduce deemed to be ‘water-wise’ operational costs • Collective action projects initiated in • Collaboration through water stewardship to the Ceres catchment manage collective risks • Donated R500 000 to drought relief charities • Woolworths working to eliminate 13 priority chemicals from clothing supply chain. Graaf Fruit, Woolworths supplier WATER Mapping Our Risks KEY: Moderate Significant Major Not applicable Across the Supply Chain RISK IDENTIFIED SUB ISSUES Water availability • Water security • Water quality • Sanitation and hygiene • Water consumption Wastewater discharge • Pollution of water resources from agricultural inputs and clothing manufacturing processes (dyes, chemicals, etc.) Post-consumer • Use of high-quality treated water for care/washing of garments water consumption DIRECT OPERATIONS 61 Woolworths is on a journey to drastically reduce the amount We have also made considerable savings at the Country % of water we use by putting water use into focus in stores, head Road Group head office in Melbourne where we captured 41.9 Reduced water use across SA stores by offices, distribution centres and across the supply chain. We approximately one million litres of rain water over the last year % Of Woolworths Farming for continue to improve the monitoring, management and efficiency of water use across our growing property portfolio and seek to maximise opportunities presented in the real-estate space. The rollout of our real-time water metering system in African and Australian for use in toilets. In addition, the Omni Fullfilment Centre includes 100 000 litre water tanks for the facility's water re-use programme. While these achievements are a step in the right direction, we recognise that we are only a part of the way there, and there the Future suppliers have stores is a priority, particularly in those regions experiencing water is still a lot of work to be done in transferring our learnings to since 2007 a Low Water Footprint Index scarcity. Through our efforts in South Africa, we have already our Australian and other African operations. achieved 90% visibility across all our stores and have reduced water consumption by 41.9% since 2007. WASH PLEDGE Given serious constraints related to water availability, we are In March 2016, WHL became the first South African signatory to working to address possible disruption in business continuity the World Business Council on Sustainable Development’s (WBCSD) through establishing opportunities for backup supply, and pledge for ‘Water, Sanitation and Hygiene Implementation at the 14 2 16 sustainable alternative water supplies in stores, head office and Workplace’ (WASH). The pledge challenges companies to ensure distribution centres. In 2015, we completed the expansion of the access to safe water and sanitation, and appropriate facilities Woolworths head office renewable groundwater capture and to ensure personal hygiene, to employees in all premises in their direct control, within three years of signing. The longer-term vision Donated rainwater tanks to schools in treatment system, to encompass all four buildings. This system taps of the pledge is to advocate for access for all employees in the into water from the Table Mountain aquifer which was previously pumped to stormwater. This system currently provides 49% of supply chain and ultimately employee homes and communities the water used at head office – reducing our reliance on precious where employees live. potable water resources. Cumulative reduction in like-for-like water consumption (%) 500BN 49 WATER WITHDRAWLS (KL) 2015/16 2014/15 % Our goal is to save 60 50 WOOLWORTHS 40 litres of water by 2020 Of water used at Woolworths head office complex 30 Stores 487 383* 472 143 comes from the Table Mountain aquifer via our own water treatment plant 20 Distribution centres 65 699* 54 384 10 388 0 Head office complex 23 508* 17 855 -10 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 DAVID JONES 82 299 69 747 Real-time water pulse KEY: Woolworths stores meters in buildings across Woolworths head office * Part of EY’s audited key performance indicators. The basis for measurement of this indicator can be found on http://www.woolworthsholdings.co.za South Africa and Australia 2016 GBJ REPORT / WHL 95 WATER case study: MAPPING DAVID JONES’ SUPPLY CHAIN AND WATERSHED MANAGEMENT WATER CONSUMPTION Our direct operations account for a small portion of our overall water footprint; the bulk of water use is associated with the farming and manufacture of our products. Over the next few years, our goal is to significantly upscale the work we are doing in the supply While David Jones is a relatively low chain to reduce water and manage wastewater. We are also addressing the sustainability of the water-intensive commodities consumer of water, in comparison to other we consume through implementation of responsible sourcing strategies (page 67). In achieving this we will require continued close large organisations, water management has collaboration with suppliers and key strategic partners such as WWF-South Africa, the National Business Initiative and the United been identified as a key focus area for the Nations CEO Water Mandate. business given the importance of drought resilience to the Australian community. To meet these expectations, David Jones FARMING FOR THE FUTURE WATER WWF-WATER BALANCE CHEMICAL DETOX will develop a water management plan FOOTPRINT INDEX Alien plants use over 7% of South Africa’s Our clothing teams across the Group in 2017, which will aim to reduce overall Farming for the Future (page 73) continues water resources. In partnership with are engaging with our suppliers through water consumption by increasing reuse and to deliver strong results in helping the WWF’s Water Balance project, supplier audits and are also working minimising leaks. A critical element of this participating farmers to improve their Woolworths continues to invest in the with them on our chemical detox strategy, plan is improving the organisation’s ability water efficiency. In 2015, we finalised our clearing and removal of water-thirsty in which we have committed to eliminate to access accurate metering data, to improve Water Footprint Assessment as part of the invasive alien vegetation in the Leeu River 13 key priority chemicals from our clothing the understanding of David Jones’ current Farming for the Future audits. The custom catchment and Ceres and Riversdale supply chain in recognition of their harmful water usage. Water Footprint index (WFI) methodology areas. Woolworths has invested in the impacts on water resources if not properly To support this objective, the business recently includes 116 water management parameters WWF-SA Water Balance Programme for managed. Woolworths’ intent is to have all commenced the roll-out of smart water meters, relating to practices on farms and in more than six years. The scheme, launched 13 chemicals removed from production by which provide water consumption data in packing or processing facilities that may in association with the government’s 2020 using the Oeko-Tex® standard as the real-time. Not only will this data facilitate the negatively impact on water quality, for Working for Water programme, has multiple chosen benchmark for ensuring compliance. early detection of leaks, minimising water example, fertiliser application processes, objectives, including reducing the impact We are also working to align this strategy usage and potential loss or damage, it will alien vegetation management etc. The of invasive alien plants on water supplies with the development of green production also enable the business to identify future main objective of the WFI is for suppliers to and restoring biodiversity and functioning facilities, and have engaged with the opportunities for improvement in its stores, demonstrate a continual decrease to their ecosystems, as well as creating jobs and ZDHC group (Zero discharge of hazardous fulfilment centres and corporate offices. WFI over time. Initial results suggest a strong economic empowerment. Through this chemicals). To date, smart water meters have been correlation between farmers WFI and initiative over 200 condensed hectares, In support of these goals, a first step installed in David Jones’ seven largest stores, overall Farming for the Future score. Analysis spread over an area of over 440 hectares has been to develop a custom technical representing 30% of total floor space, with from the 2014/15 WFI assessment indicates have been cleared to date. This prevents training module (to launch in August 2016) the new solution already proving to be an that 61% of participating farmers are approximately 330 000 kilolitres of water to assist Woolworths technical and buying effective tool in the proactive management of classified as having a ‘low’ water footprint, being lost to thirsty invasive alien plants teams in the identification of possible water consumption and leaks. Going forward, according to the independently developed annually and has generated approximately non-conformances related to water the installation of smart water metering will scoring system. Woolworths will continue 5 000 person days of work. management during factory visits. continue and data from all meters will be assessing WFI at its suppliers on an integrated into the overarching environmental annual basis as part of the independently reporting system, enabling David Jones to assessed Farming for the Future audits. map and monitor its water usage in a more accurate and timely manner. WOOLWORTHS’ INTENT IS TO HAVE ALL 13 CHEMICALS REMOVED FROM PRODUCTION BY 2020 USING THE OEKO-TEX® STANDARD AS THE CHOSEN BENCHMARK FOR ENSURING COMPLIANCE. 2016 GBJ REPORT / WHL 97 WATER WATER COLLECTIVE ACTION COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT case study: CERES WATER STEWARDSHIP PROJECT With water being such an important focus in South Africa, much WOOLWORTHS AND Woolworths has been working in partnership with WWF-SA, effort was placed in engaging employees and customers on the SA DEPARTMENT the Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS) and Marks and Spencer in topic of water-saving during the year – with activities including a OF WATER AND water saving competition, for stores marketing campaigns, visuals the progression of the Ceres Water Stewardship project to address as well as plasma screens showing water savings tips. SANITATION water-related risks in the supply chain since 2013. Nine stone-fruit farmers in the Western Cape of South Africa volunteered their coOver the past few years, Woolworths has embarked on a drive to ‘DROP THE BLOCK’ operation. They have worked through the AWS certification standard, create awareness in schools through social development initiatives In collaboration with the South African first understanding and putting in place steps to reduce farm level including the Making the Difference and EduPlant programmes Department of Water and Sanitation risks. This was followed by a process to determine catchment level (pages 45 to 47). To support water-conservation efforts across (DWS), Woolworths engaged in a national initiatives to reduce collective risks. In the last year, the focus has been the country Woolworths donated 14 rainwater harvesting tanks water-saving initiative which highlights on implementing these catchment level initiatives which have included to schools during the year. Through EduPlant, we are supporting the method of dropping a plastic block the formation of a community ‘water savers’ initiative to address more than 2 000 schools in growing sustainable, water-efficient, into the toilet cistern to help reduce challenges related to litter and sanitation in the local community, and permaculture food gardens to provide nutritious, fresh food for the volume of water used to flush a co-ordinating alien clearing in the upper reaches of the catchment their communities. toilet. In this head-office activation to provide better assurance of water supply to downstream users. campaign, employees were educated by MAKING EVERY DROP COUNT Funding from Woolworths will see to the initial engagement and the department on ways to save water We continue to engage with customers through marketing and at home and were provided with a block planning phase of a clearing initiative in this area, as well as the communication campaigns, for example, through Woolworths’ made from recycled plastic to reduce the appointment of a local alien tree clearing coordinator in the area. collaboration with Pharrell Williams in 2015/16. In this collaboration, volume used in each flush by two litres. The project continues to provide invaluable insight to Woolworths water conservation formed one of the core communications The initiative was supported with an and other project partners about the value and also the challenges topics for a two month period launched at Water Week 2016 address from the director general of the of water stewardship approaches, which was the overall objective (14–22 March). The impetus behind the campaign to promote DWS in the Western Cape, Rashid Khan and will ultimately allow a more refined approach to be scaled up in water awareness among South African youth was supported (pictured below, left). other parts of the country in the future. One of the most significant by social, digital and print media. outcomes has been facilitating the discussion between numerous catchment stakeholders resulting in the signing of a Memorandum of DROUGHT RELIEF Understanding with the Breede-Gouritz Catchment Management The year 2015 was the hottest year on record in South Africa, with Agency (CMA) and other project partners which, will continue to the lowest rainfall in 112 years. Eight provinces were declared disaster guide learning related to the ongoing role of CMAs in future water areas as a result of the drought, with many farms and communities stewardship initiatives. unable to satisfy basic water needs for humans and livestock. To contribute to the drought disaster effort, Woolworths donated R500 000 to AgriSA’s drought-relief programme and Gift of the Givers in support of drought-affected agricultural communities. THIRSTY FOR ACTION We are committed to water conservation education, through increasing awareness around water conservation in customers' homes and in schools. Through the Making the Difference programme, Woolworths once again hosted a ‘Thirsty for Action’ water-saving competition among primary and secondary school learners. This year, 10 rainwater tanks were awarded to the schools presenting the best letters on why it is important to save water and how a water tank Read more about Making the Difference would benefit their school. A further four tanks were donated as part Woolworths Pharrel Williams water campaign 2016 and EduPlant programmes on pages 45 to 47. of other initiatives throughout the year. WHL 98 / 2016 GBJ REPORT 2016 GBJ REPORT / WHL 99 WATER PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT TRANSPARENCY PUBLIC POLICY ALTERNATIVE FIBRES We report transparently on our water We support clear and decisive policy Woolworths, Country Road GRoup and management performance and material on water strategy and implementation David Jones continue to expand clothing, risks posed by water resources in our planning and maintenance to ensure homeware and general merchandise business through various voluntary reporting preservation of South Africa’s scarce offerings which are made in an mechanisms. For the last five years, we water resources and are committed to environmentally responsible manner have voluntarily reported our performance working in partnership with government, (page 80). For example, the use of recycled through the CDP Water disclosure. We also NGOs and the private sector. We continue fabric alternatives such as recycled respond to the Dow Jones Sustainability to engage through membership of the polyester in Woolworths RE:cycled denim Index and the FTSE/JSE Responsible UN CEO Water Mandate and through the jeans, uses only around 35 litres of water Investment Index. NBI to advance sustainable water policies compared to 90 litres used to manufacture and management across the industry. a pair of ‘normal wash’ jeans. As a Group, we have also committed to sourcing 100% of cotton lint from sustainable sources by 2020 and have been working closely with the South African Cotton Cluster to develop a local pipeline of Better Cotton in South Africa (page 81). Read more about Sustainable Fibres and Better Cotton on page 81. case study: Through the sales of Woolworths spring water in-store, R360 000 is donated each year to the Wilderness Foundations’ Pride Project – developed to fulfil the need for an environmental education outreach WILDERNESS programme among disadvantaged youth from urban and rural areas. The various Pride Projects FOUNDATION scattered throughout wilderness areas in South Africa introduce over 3 000 previously disadvantaged WOOLWORTHS primary and senior learners to a one-day, entry-level outdoor experience every year. The experience SPRING WATER has been proven to help stimulate the learners’ interest in their immediate natural environment and concern for its preservation and conservation. The bulk of the projects’ running costs has been achieved through the sale of Woolworths spring water which carries the Wilderness Foundation logo and website address. See www.wildernessfoundation.co.za/pride WHL 100 / 2016 GBJ REPORT 103/ ENERGY AND CLIMATE CHANGE IMPERATIVE The year 2015 could go down in history as a game-changing year. We saw a record-breaking investment in renewables reported, signalling the continued upward trend in support of less fossil fuel intensive sources of energy, even with the drop in the price of crude oil. We also witnessed close to 200 countries sign and adopt the COP21 agreement in Woolworths is December 2015. This agreement calls for signatories to achieve net greenhouse gas emissions reduction in order to curb global temperatures to below 2 °C degrees. In the committed to reducing same year, the new United Nations Sustainable Development Goals were also signed. energy consumption, Woolworths is committed to reducing energy consumption, carbon emissions and waste to carbon emissions and landfill in order to mitigate the negative impacts of climate change across our supply chain. waste to landfill. With energy and climate change one of our eight Good Business Journey pillars, we have put in place a coordinated energy programme that addresses all aspects of energy and climate change across our direct and indirect operations. STRATEGY RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES HIGHLIGHTS Our strategy for energy and climate change • Fluctuating commodity pricing affecting • 96* stores meet our green store aims to increase energy efficiency in our own energy prices and high energy costs status as per our rating model based operations and reduce our carbon emissions. • Climate change mitigation and adaptation on sustainability features Working with stakeholders in our supply • R396 million worth of electricity chain is key to meeting the targets that we • Legislative frameworks and capital for clean energy generation saved to date through energy have set. efficiency interventions • Carbon tax, carbon budgets and mandatory emissions reporting • 40% relative reduction in energy achieved from 2004 benchmark in • Climate change adaptation across Woolworths stores supply chain • 10.9% relative reduction in energy • Global agreements and imperatives achieved by African stores on climate change and energy efficiency *This includes 82 new SA corporate stores, as assured by EY, as well as other African stores and refurbishments. Country Road Group, Omni-channel Fullfilment Centre 2016 GBJ REPORT / WHL 103 ENERGY AND CLIMATE CHANGE Mapping Our Risks KEY: Moderate Significant Major Not applicable Across the Supply Chain RISK IDENTIFIED SUB ISSUES Electricity pricing and • Electricity prices availability • Commodity prices (fuel) • Electricity rationing (South Africa) Energy efficiency • Reducing energy use • Reducing emissions • Renewable energy • Energy storage • Climate mitigation and adaptation across supply chain Extreme weather patterns • Impact on supply chain ENERGY USAGE case study: One of our most successful energy-saving interventions is the DAVID JONES’ INVESTMENT Climate framework • Mandatory emissions reporting Metering Online monitoring system. This has allowed us to IN ENERGY EFFICIENCY • Voluntary emissions reporting effectively track our energy and water consumption on a real-time • Carbon tax and budgets basis. We have also been able to challenge inaccurate billing from David Jones has been proactively reducing its electricity municipalities or landlords. consumption through behavioural and structural changes Our electricity consumption for 2015 (January–December), verified since its energy efficiency programme commenced in 2007. as part of our carbon footprint verification, was 354 557 615 kWh In that time, the business has improved energy intensity by Consumer use • Caring for clothing products (2014: 337 013 947 kWh). This only includes South Africa and 41% resulting in a 36% reduction in energy consumption, • Disposal of waste exceeding its target of 30%. international (African) stores, corporate buildings and distribution centres. Our overall coverage has increased due to an increase The use of LED technology for ambient and accent lighting in actual footprint of stores and also increased accuracy in our has been successfully applied in all new stores and reporting. We continue to successfully roll out the metering online refurbishments since 2014 because retrofitting LED lighting system to cover all facilities under our operational control. Our into existing stores has proved problematic due to technical Woolworths relative constraints. To test this technology in a live environment, energy usage relative energy usage was 369 kWh/m2 for this year based on 354 557 615 369 kWh/m2 gross lettable area compared to 375 kWh/m2 in the previous year. and assess the impact of LED lighting on employees and kWh used This figure is the measure of our energy efficiency – the average customers, a pilot study was conducted at David Jones, by Woolworths electricity used within the business will continue to increase as we Hornsby. Work to retrofit the existing lighting grid with LED (2014: 337 013 947 kWh) in 2015 (2014: 375 kWh/m2) expand but due to increased efficiency measures, the average equivalents was done on the store; initially in one small used per square metre will decrease. section of the store. At each stage of the process, lighting levels were monitored and feedback was captured, to ensure In the last year, the Country Road Group installed energy no adverse impact on the customer experience. monitoring systems in 20 of its stores located in Melbourne and Sydney, with plans to roll this out to a further 30 stores As a result of this pilot study, energy consumption at 18 in the next financial year. The ability to effectively track energy Hornsby has been reduced by a further 20%–25% and the consumption on a real-time basis across a variety of stores store has become one of the most energy efficient retail Green stores (10 platinum, 6 gold, has enabled Country Road Group to start identifying potential spaces operated by David Jones. Additional stores are now 2 silver) added in the last year energy savings. being assessed as potential candidates for a wider roll-out of LED technology into existing stores. CLEAN ENERGY During the course of FY2016 our solar photovoltaic (PV), the panels installed at our head office complex provided 90 33.9 4 246 059 kWh of electricity. % % Over The panels installed at Country Road Group’s channel Fulfilment solar Centre in Melbourne, Australia, generated 319 422 kWh of electricity WHL projects in the first year of operations. to date of Woolworths Food Woolworths clothing products sourced regionally with ‘Think Climate’ attributes COMMITTED TO 50% RELATIVE REDUCTION R396M Woolworths electricity IN ENERGY USE BY 2020. saving to date through efficiency interventions * Part of EY's audited performance indicators. The basis for measurement of this indicator can be found on http://www.woolworthsholdings.co.za 2016 GBJ REPORT / WHL 105 ENERGY AND CLIMATE CHANGE ENERGY AND CLIMATE CHANGE GREEN BUILDING INNOVATION case study: CARBON FOOTPRINT Whenever we design a new store, our teams look at how WOOLWORTHS MIDRAND WHL's greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions were calculated for to include energy-saving elements. We have created our own green building rating model which we use to classify our stores, DISTRIBUTION CENTRE (DC) the period 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015 with a focus allowing us to easily identify stores that need improvement. GOES SOLAR on the company’s South African and International operations and independently verified by Global Carbon Exchange (GCX). The Country Road Group continues to drive energy efficiency and The verification statement (available on www.woolworthsholdings.co.za) The Midrand DC is a 78 000 m2 operation sustainable store design by: that was designed using our green building was carried out in accordance with ISO 14064 Part 3 ‘Specification • installing LED light fittings in all new and refurbished stores; design criteria after being subject to thorough with guidance for the validation and verification of greenhouse evaluation from a social and environmental gas assertions’. Guidelines from the GHG Protocol Corporate • using timers on shop front lights and sensors in back areas; perspective. Being a foods distribution centre, Standard (www.ghgprotocol.org) were also followed during the • using only cold water in most stores and timers on hot water it has high energy consumption as a result verification process. systems in large stores; of the cold chain requirements for the food REPORTING BOUNDARY • encouraging employees to take public transport to work; and products. To counter the need for increased dependency on the grid for energy, a solar WHL has stores and corporate buildings in the following countries: • using low VOC paints in all new stores and refits. installation was approved for the DC. This • Woolworths: Namibia, Botswana, Ghana, Kenya, Zambia, In June 2015, Country Road Group opened a purpose-built facility installation will provide 2 mW of photovoltaic Mozambique, Tanzania, Uganda, Swaziland, Lesotho, to centralise distribution across both its online business and retail power when completed. This translates to South Africa and Mauritius; stores. The channel Fulfilment Centre (OFC) was designed and between 26% and 34% of the centre’s energy • Country Road Group: Australia and New Zealand; and built with sustainability in mind, not only to minimise environmental needs per year provided via this renewable impact, but also to create a safe and positive working environment source every year. • David Jones: Australia. for the specialist fulfilment team. The building is the first facility in The boundary excludes activities where data is currently Other design features that have been Victoria to receive a ‘5 Star Green Star – Industrial As Built v1’ rating not available (see verification statement) – this data is deemed incorporated (previously at the DC) to ensure from Green Building Council of Australia and was named a finalist not materially relevant. that its functioning does not negatively impact in the 2015 Victoria CitySwitch Awards. The key sustainability the environment and surrounding communities KEY FINDINGS features for this facility include: include: Following verification by GCX, the WHL total Scope 1 and 2 GHG • 1200 solar panels that generate around 20% of OFC’s energy • use of natural light; emissions increased by 0.76% and decreased by 0.38% with Scope requirements each year; 3 included. This is as a result of: • additional ventilation and insulation to reduce heating and • automated lighting systems that are capable • organic business growth from store expansion; cooling, energy efficient sensor lighting and natural lighting; of dimming to adjust to ambient natural light and switching off in unoccupied rooms; • inclusion of more facilities for the carbon footprint as data • the installation of the latest technologies for energy efficiency, capturing becomes more efficient and accurate; including energy efficient conveyor systems; • using heat recovered from refrigeration plant for under-floor heating; • 50% more stores were captured this year than in the 2014/15 • reusable plastic pallets made from 100% recycled material financial year for air-conditioning and refrigerant gases; are used for online picking; • using solar thermal hot water production • the increase in stationary fuel is attributed to more international • energy monitoring for the ongoing measurement for ablution facilities; stores also reporting generator fuel usage; and and management of energy usage; and • planting grass on the roofs for insulation, • business travel increased as a result of increased overseas • recycling facilities and a customised recycling system to reuse and to prevent solar heat from being reflected; and travelling required visiting an increasing number of facilities the majority of supplier cartons for outbound purposes. • using evaporative cooling technologies abroad. for the refrigeration, etc. Read more about our full year-on-year comparison of our emissions and intensity figures on page 124 Solar installation at Woolworths head office WHL 106 / 2016 GBJ REPORT 2016 GBJ REPORT / WHL 107 SCOPE 3*** Municipal water 108/ 597 tCO2e WHL CARBON Plastic bags sold 3 598 FOOTPRINT Business travel (car rental, airlines and bed nights) tCO2e SCOPE 1* 13 215 tCO2e 1762 Mobile fuel tCO2e Fuel and energy-related activities (transmission and distribution losses) 39 434 tCO2e Office paper 2816 37698 Stationary fuel 330 Air-conditioning and refrigerant gases tCO2e tCO2e tCO2e Cardboard packaging SCOPE 2** 8 879 tCO2e 442 673 Purchased electricity tCO2e Employee commuting 20 877 Contracted solid waste disposal 2 590 tCO2e tCO2e 565 481 Electricity from renewable sources kWh Third-party distribution (Imperial) 40 022 tCO2e * Emissions from sources owned and controlled by WHL (generators, refrigeration and air-conditioning units). *** Emissions from sources not directly owned by WHL, but relevant, excluding electricity. ** Emissions associated with the generation or consumption of electricity. case study: WOOLWORTHS SA Transporting our products plays a huge role in the delivery of the Woolworths value proposition. This requires channels of distribution that align with our company values, are efficient and seek cost reduction through continuous innovation. In choosing a distribution partner, the environmental and social integrity of that company were an essential attribute because we not only wanted to have improved distribution AND IMPERIAL LOGISTICS capabilities to stores but we also needed to make our distribution more sustainable. It was for this reason that we have partnered with the Imperial Group. When we partnered with Imperial Logistics, we had realised that our transport solutions prior to that time were unreliable, unsustainable PARTNERSHIP and lacked the innovation to effectively integrate and optimise our logistics capabilities in a cost-effective manner. This relationship has continued to excel in driving innovation through our transport strategy. Our approach to sustainable transport involves behavioural change interventions for our drivers/employees and also introducing innovative technology across our logistics chain and vehicle fleet. ROUTE OPTIMISATION FLEETBOARD MiXTELEMATICS CRYOFRIDGE Making our logistics operations more sustainable and efficient Fleetboard is a vehicle management system (a telematicsThe rollout of MiXTelematics is also in progress. To date, This is a closed-loop system that was trialled at one of our required a route optimisation process. This was achieved supported, internet-based system that provides real-time we have installed approximately 54 units and plan to have distribution centres. Using liquid nitrogen as a coolant, air via vertically integrating our supply chain through taking information on the operational performance of individual the entire fleet fitted before the end of 2016. This improved inside the trailer is distributed over pipes filled with liquid ownership of our primary transport (inbound/outbound from vehicles, fuel levels and consumption via a network) that technology allows for voice communications and in-cab nitrogen in order to maintain cold chain temperatures. The suppliers) and also by establishing a logistics integration centre has been fitted to our vehicles. A reduction of 5%–15% in fuel video cameras as part of the vehicle tracking management CryoFridge technology to date has been very successful, with to house advanced logistics planning and also support more consumption can be achieved via this system. Driving scores system. The initial strategy was to fit the technology as and not a single temperature related issue to date. We have allocated transparent reporting. By doing this, we have been able to are allocated to drivers in order to improve their skills that when vehicles are being replaced but it has proven essential resources to have three more units installed in the Cape Town achieve full visibility of our operations, optimise routes from contribute to more efficient transport planning. in optimising our logistics and will therefore be fitted secondary fleet. Part of this rollout is the installation of a bulk suppliers to stores and also increase our competitiveness as a systematically into the existing fleet. liquid nitrogen vessel at our Montague Gardens depot, which is business. This also enabled us to build relationships with our In the last year, Imperial Logistics held a Drivers’ League in its planning stage at this point. The solar panels installed suppliers for full integration across our supply chain. Since competition to award drivers that showed change in driving I-PLEDGE on some of our trailers assist with the charging of batteries of inception, this integration has also allowed us to move from a performance and behaviour. Two drivers, Marshall Hendricks We continue to run the I-Pledge campaign aimed at addressing these units. paper intensive logging system by our drivers and also reduce and Pieter Adriaanse, won and have been sponsored by road safety by improving driver behaviour. This is a campaign travel distance using an online route optimisation tool, thereby Mercedes-Benz to travel to Germany. Marshall Hendricks for both our drivers and the public. Our drivers take the pledge CLEANER FUEL reducing carbon emissions associated with distributing our finished 1st in the world and Pieter Adriaanse came 2nd as part of their driver training and responsible driving patterns We have tested the usage of low sulphur diesel to reduce our products. We have achieved the integration of our transportation in South Africa and 5th in the world. This is magnificent are linked to their incentives. carbon emissions. Bulk low-sulphur fuel tanks will be available schedules through a paperless control process and since achievement not only for the drivers, but also for Imperial in all our main distribution centres. inception, also seen a constant reduction in kilometres travelled Fast ’n Fresh, as this is a direct result of our dedicated drivers TK TRACKING and cost, which also reduces our carbon emissions footprint. and the driver training programme. This is now a standard fixture on all new trailer fridge units SOLAR-POWERED TRAILERS that is web-enabled to track the temperature of the refrigeration Solar panels have been installed to power internal load body unit in the trailer. The temperature can be adjusted remotely, LED lights and supply power to the tail lift via independent reducing the overall potential of products rejected because batteries. This intervention will reduce fuel consumption, of fridge failure. emissions, noise levels and also extend the lifecycle of component parts on the trailer. “Imperial Logistics’ relationship with Woolworths has positively progressed over the years. The prerequisites to the success of a strategic alliance include profit generation, information sharing, shared risk taking and responsibility, collaboration, open communication, initiative and innovation. The two organisations jointly focus efforts on activities resulting in cost savings and improved business efficiency. Focus is placed on business simplification in eliminating duplicate activities resulting in holistic benefits to the supply chain, and both organisations. We have experienced that the greater the integration between Woolworths and Imperial Logistics, the greater the performance. The relationship is governed by jointly agreed performance measures that link the execution of the outsourced function with collaborative plans.” Angela D’Amato, Strategic Client Lead, Imperial Logistics Imperial truck, Woolworths SA ENERGY AND CLIMATE CHANGE CLIMATE FRAMEWORK AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Our progress in meeting the goals we have set would not be CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT possible without the guidance of global policies that advocate for We communicate with customers on our energy management collective effort. Our energy management commitments have also initiatives and how they can contribute towards them, through a taken a holistic approach to enable meaningful contribution from suite of platforms. We also guide customers on textiles care using our stakeholders, customers and employees. a wash care label on our textiles that encourage washing at 30°C. LEGISLATIVE REQUIREMENTS EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Government departments are crucial in assessing and discussing Across our corporate buildings, we ensure visibility of our energyregulatory risks associated with climate change and in turn, savings focus through strategic communications, including plasma assisting us in finding ways and partnerships to mitigate where screens in our corporate buildings. required. We are also able to provide input on policy formation We conduct training workshops for our store employees through through these engagements. the GBJ Champ programme and continue to distribute energy and COLLECTIVE ACTION water packs to all stores containing a DVD, stickers and a poster Woolworths signed the National Energy Efficiency Leadership guiding our champs on how to implement water and energy saving Network (EELN) with the then Minister of Minerals and Energy initiatives in their stores. in 2006 and is working towards achieving the National Energy TRANSPARENCY Efficiency Strategy targets as part of the EELN. Woolworths is committed to improving disclosure about the We also have a formal and broad-based sustainability partnership financial and material risks posed by energy resources and our own with WWF-SA to drive greater sustainability through selected usage reduction strategies. We voluntarily report our performance Woolworths products and operations. Through this partnership, through the CDP Climate Change programme, with our 2015 score we have agreed to collaborate around a proactive response to being 98%/B. We also respond to the Dow Jones Sustainability addressing climate risk in the supply chain. Index and FTSE/JSE Responsible Investment Index. Our engagement with the National Business Initiative allows us David Jones also reports to the National Greenhouse and Energy to partner and contribute to collective engagement with other Reporting Act (2007) (NGER), a mandatory federal legislation in corporates on issues regarding climate, energy and water in Australia that establishes a national framework for the reporting of South Africa and how businesses can actively respond to greenhouse gas emissions and energy consumption. these challenges. We have also made a commitment via the ‘We Mean Business’ call-to-action to set science-based targets for emissions reduction. case study: The transportation options that we choose have WRewards programme. This was a pilot initiative an impact on our carbon emissions and footprint that saw BMW availing their i3 and Nissan UBERGREEN as individuals. Uber has identified an opportunity availing their Leaf electric vehicles for customers in this space by not only evolving the way the to choose when calling the services of an Uber, world moves – connecting riders to drivers through in Johannesburg and Cape Town. Both these car smartphone technology; but also connecting riders models are fully electric. Woolworths WRewards to more sustainable modes of transport. In order to members had exclusive access to the BMW i3 empower our stakeholders to make a sustainable vehicles for a limited period of time. After this, and emission-free transportation choice, Uber, BMW the UberGREEN services were opened to the public. and Nissan partnered with Woolworths to bring See www.uber.com/go. UberGREEN to Woolworths customers through the Woolworths SA, Mall of Africa WHL 112 / 2016 GBJ REPORT 116 Key Sustainability Indicators 118 Awards and Recognition APPENDICES 120 Material Impacts to our Business 122 Key Stakeholder Groupings 124 WHL Carbon Footprint 126 Independent Assurance Report KEY SUSTAINABILITY INDICATORS INDICATOR 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 PROGRESS 2016 TARGETS Revenue R66.9bn R58.1bn R39.9bn R35.4bn R28.8bn R25.8bn – Return on equity (ROE) 25.6% 26.3% 46.7% 49.7% 47.1% 44.1% – Adjusted Headline Earnings per 456.6 419.4 365.2 340.4 267.3 214.9 – Share (aHEPS) Share price appreciation 604 2 092 1 228 1 402 2 129 567 – Customer tracking study regarding 37% 35% 35% 26% 26% 29% 32% Good Business Journey elements Inclusion in FTSE/JSE Responsibile Top performer Top performer Investment Index Inclusion in Dow Jones index Good Business Journey index overall score 86% 87% 91% 90% 85% 86% 80% (new targets from 2012 to 2015) Estimated GBJ savings (Woolworths) R743m R567m R269m R189m R105m R80m R700m Number of permanent employees 43 141 28 344 25 598 23 538 22 462 20 433 – (Woolworths only prior to 2016) Training spend (Woolworths) R117.7m R131.4m R110.2m R99.8m R75.1m R58.2m – BEE score (Woolworths) Verified in arrears Level 8 Level 3 Level 3 Level 4 Level 4 – Corporate Social Investment contribution R693m R588m R518m R500.1m R438m R370m R600m (2016 onwards includes WHL Group) Health and safety – number of 672 771 735 682 778 563 – injuries on duty (Woolworths) % of Woolworths Clothing products 65% 60% 60% 48% 50% New focus areas 70% with a sustainability attribute % of Woolworths Food products 59% 63.3% 58.4% 57.4% 52% New focus areas 68% with a sustainability attribute Woolworths produce suppliers qualifying for the Farming for 94% 98% 98% 98% 95% 70% 95% the Future programme Foods packaging 1 92 238 185 105 significant packaging packaging packaging packaging 8.24% 2 (target has changed) packaging project improvements improvements improvements improvements reduction Water (reduction in relative consumption from benchmark 41.9% 41.35% 34% 20% 1% (5%) 43% Woolworths stores) Energy (reduction in relative consumption from benchmark 40% 40% 38% 31% 27% 22.5% 41% Woolworths) 96 Green buildings (82 of these are new 64 45 29 24 18 100 (as per Woolworths model) SA corporate stores, as assured by the EY) Carbon footprint (total tonnes of CO2) (2015 onwards includes WHL 657 965.29 621 132.72 444 249.80 398 568 411 522.35 452 996.73 – group) AWARDS AND RECOGNITION WOOLWORTHS HOLDINGS LIMITED WOOLWORTHS FINANCIAL SERVICES • Woolworths Holdings won the award for Best Public South African-listed companies included, and also included in • Woolworths Financial Services won the South African National Company at the Ethical Corporation Responsible Business the DJSI Emerging Markets Sustainability Index. Best Captive Call Centre Award. Awards in London. • Woolworths Holdings was included in the Euronext Vigeo index: • Woolworths Holdings was a finalist in the Responsible Retailer Euronext Vigeo – Emerging 70 (the 70 most-advanced companies of the Year award, at the World Retail awards 2016. in the Emerging Market Region). DAVID JONES • Woolworths Holdings was included in the FTSE/JSE Responsible • Woolworths Holdings rated as ‘excellent’ in the EY Excellence • David Jones Eastland in Melbourne was named the best Investment Index for 2015/2016. in Intergrated Reporting awards. new department store globally in the Retail Design Institute's • Woolworths Holdings was included in the Dow Jones • Woolworths Holdings has been shortlisted for the IGD international store design competition. Sustainability Index (DJSI), the world’s most respected Sustainable Future Award. • David Jones received a Bin the 2016 Baptist World Aid Australian sustainability index for 2015/16. Woolworths is one of only five Fashion Report. A report that grades the efforts made by fashion brands to mitigate the risks of forced labour, child labour and worker exploitation in the supply chain. WOOLWORTHS • Woolworths won the Corporate Citizenship Award at the in London for our WRewards, ‘Are you with us’ campaign that 14th Annual National Business Awards as well as being Highly featured Grammy Award-winning musician, record producer COUNTRY ROAD GROUP Commended for the Sustainability Award. and philanthropist, Pharrell Williams. • Country Road Group received a B+ in the 2016 Baptist World Aid • Woolworths was finalist in the headline Award at the • The MySchool MyVillage MyPlanet programme won Best Loyalty Australian Fashion Report. 14th Annual National Business Awards. Programme of the year for the Middle East and Africa for the • Country Road Group was a finalist for the Retail Customer • Woolworths was a finalist for Energy Company of the Year MyPlanet Rhino campaign. Excellence Awards in the category of ‘Responsible Impact and the Excellence Award in Energy at the Southern African • Woolworths was a finalist in the Eco-Logic Awards, announced Excellence Award’. Association for Energy Efficiency Awards. in April 2016, in the Water Conservation (Bronze award received) • Country Road Group was named a finalist in the 2016 • Woolworths was once again ranked as the supermarket industry and Business Green Economy (Silver award received) categories. National Retail Association (NRA) Rewards for Excellence, leader for customer satisfaction. The South African Customer • Woolworths has won the 2015 PETCO Best Product Award using in the Sustainability Excellence Award category. Satisfaction Index (SACSI) measures the things that drive customer recycled PET (rPET) category of the PETCO awards, for its denim • Country Road was a finalist in the annual Victorian CitySwitch satisfaction. range of clothing. Awards for 2015. • Woolworths retained our position as South Africa’s most • Woolworths is a finalist in two categories for the 2016 reputable retailer for the third consecutive year in the annual Mail & Guardian Greening the Future Awards: Reputation Institute’s (RI) National RepTrak™ Pulse survey for 2016. Water Efficiency and Management Our reputation score also increased from 71.2 last year to 75.4 Innovations for Climate Change Adaptation this year. • Woolworths has won Most Outstanding Online Retailer in • Woolworths was awarded the National Disability Company South Africa in the Corporate Livewire Innovation and Excellence Award in the 2015 National Disability Awards. Awards 2016. • Zinzi Mgolodela (Woolworths Head: Transformation) won • Woolworths was rated the Coolest Grocery Store in the country the Black Management Forum's National Manager of the in the 12TH annual Sunday Times Generation Next youth survey. Year Award. Our clothing business also came second in the Coolest Fashion • Woolworths received an honorary Legends of Empowerment Retailer category, which is a significant improvement from and Transformation Award at the 15th Annual Oliver 4th position last year. Empowerment Awards. • TASTE magazine won a Gold award at the 2015 Eddies • Woolworths won the Best Marketing Campaign linked to and Ozzies Awards in New York. Loyalty, at the 2016 International Loyalty Magazine Awards held MATERIAL IMPACTS TO OUR BUSINESS MATERIAL ASPECTS INCLUDED MATERIAL ASPECTS INCLUDED FOCUS AREA IDENTIFIED RISKS FOCUS AREA IDENTIFIED RISKS (SOME DERIVED FROM GRI G4 INDEX2) (SOME DERIVED FROM GRI G4 INDEX2) GOVERNANCE1 • Ethics and values Labour/management relations (G4) ETHICAL SOURCING • Ethical conditions in supply chains Supplier assessments labour practices (G4) • Verification/assurance Employment (G4) • Traceability Investments (human rights) (G4) • Risk management and business continuity Economic performance (G4) • Environmental conditions in supply chains Supplier human rights assessments (G4) • Anti-corruption Market presence (G4) Supplier assessments impacts on society (G4) • Human rights Indirect economic impacts (G4) Environmental assessments (G4) Procurement practices (G4) Grievance mechanisms (G4) Public policy (G4) Non-discrimination (G4) Investment (G4) Child labour (G4) Anti-corruption (G4) Forced or compulsory labour (G4) Anti-competitive behaviour (G4) Supplier capacity building Governance (G4) Deforestation Ethics and integrity (G4) Wages Non-discrimination (G4) SUSTAINABLE • Ecological health Supplier environment assessments (G4) TRANSFORMATION • Addressing diversity Equal remuneration for men and women (G4) FARMING • Climate change Supplier assessments labour practices (G4) • Talent management Diversity and equal opportunity (G4) • Farmer access to market Environmental assessments (G4) • BEE Codes of Good Practice and Reconciliation Broad-based black economic empowerment • Animal welfare Biodiversity (G4) Action Plan Enterprise and supplier development Environmental grievance mechanisms (G4) Training and education (G4) Compliance (G4) Freedom of association (G4) Animal welfare SOCIAL • Food security Local communities (G4) WATER • Water availability Effluent and waste (G4) DEVELOPMENT • Education Food security • Wastewater discharge Water (G4) • Child vulnerability and safety Education • Post-consumer water consumption Water stewardship Charitable donations WASTE • Waste generation Materials (G4) HEALTH AND • Nutrition and wellness Occupational health and safety (G4) • Waste disposal Products and services (G4) WELLNESS • Employee health and safety Customer health and safety (G4) • Natural resource consumption Product and service labelling (G4) Product and service labelling (G4) Responsible marketing Marketing and communications (G4) ENERGY AND • Electricity availability and pricing Energy (G4) Compliance (G4) CLIMATE CHANGE • Energy efficiency Emissions (G4) Child safety • Extreme weather patterns Transport (G4) Responsible marketing • Climate framework Nutrition • Post-consumer use Food safety 1 Governance underpins all focus areas. 2 G4 denotes that the aspect is aligned to the GRI G4 reporting guidelines. WHL 120 / 2016 GBJ REPORT 2016 GBJ REPORT / WHL 121 KEY STAKEHOLDER GROUPINGS STAKEHOLDER WHY WE ENGAGE HOW WE ENGAGE WHAT WE ENGAGE IN STAKEHOLDER WHY WE ENGAGE HOW WE ENGAGE WHAT WE ENGAGE ON OUR CUSTOMERS • To meet our • Advertising • Product value and choice OUR COMMUNITY • To contribute to the socio • EduPlant workshops • Education customers’ needs • In-store communication • Service economic development of • Making the Difference • Capacity building on relevant • To enhance the WHL brand and campaigns the communities in which educational programmes issues such as food security, • Rewards we trade and thereby grow revenue • Group company websites • MySchool MyVillage MyPlanet nutrition and child safety • Key sustainability issues: • Increase customer • Social media animal welfare, packaging programme via charity partners • Health and disease awareness and and recycling and responsible • CRG and DJ community partners prevention understanding of • Customer service centre sourcing are among the issues sustainability issues • Focus groups and surveys we receive the most customer OUR • To create an informed • Annual General Meeting • Business performance, • WRewards loyalty programme feedback on SHAREHOLDERS perception of Woolworths • Biannual analysts expectations and strategy • MySchool MyVillage • Innovation AND INVESTORS and create a positive results review • Economic, social and MyPlanet programme investment environment environmental risks • Store walkabouts OUR EMPLOYEES • To share relevant • Exco talks and blog • Business strategy • Annual Integrated Report information and get • ShopTalk magazine and performance • Participation in the Dow Jones input and feedback • Rewards and recognition World Sustainability Index, • GBJ Champ programme FTSE/JSE Responsible Investment • Increase employee • Training and development awareness and • 'Let’s Talk' team meetings Index, Carbon Disclosure (CDP) understanding of • 'Let’s Ask' employee • Employee wellness and other assessments sustainability issues and opinion survey • BBBEE and transformation our Good Business Journey INDUSTRY • To discuss and contribute • Membership and engagement with • Policy development • Pulse survey • Our Good Business Journey ORGANISATIONS to issues of mutual concern industry bodies • Retail sector-related issues (SUCH AS THE NBI, and optimise opportunities • Commentary and advice on THE CONSUMER • Key sustainability issues UNIONS • To engage on collective • Participation in CCMA, • Wages and conditions emerging issues GOODS FORUM, employment issues in Nedlac and other labour of employment PETCO, PLASTICS supply chain market institutions • Retail and textile-sector issues SA AND THE AUSTRALIAN OUR SUPPLIERS • To deliver consistent quality • Supplier conferences • Timely payment and PACKAGING and standards • Supplier visits and audits favourable terms COVENANT) • To support the development • Supplier and Enterprise • Product offering of small black-owned and innovation GOVERNMENT • To discuss issues of • Meetings and presentations • Policy development Development programme AND REGULATORS mutual concern and businesses • Infrastructure and • Drafting of submissions • Labour market issues optimise opportunities and legislation • To deliver socially logistical support • Engagement via industry and environmentally • To share our industry bodies • Food standards and safety • BBBEE expertise and contribute responsible and • Participation in government • Consumer credit and innovative products • Resource efficiency to policy formation forums protection issues • Key sustainability issues in the supply chain – ethical • Employment equity trade and transformation • Research, e.g. life cycle • Social development assessments, water footand education printing of key products • Sustainability priorities for South Africa and OUR BUSINESS • Support on issues • Joint projects • Strategy and Australia PARTNERS of common interest • Partner meetings and reviews product expansion • Create better • Key sustainability issues ACADEMIC • To contribute towards • Participation in postgraduate • Corporate sustainability sustainability solutions INSTITUTIONS research research and surveys • Reporting and governance • To share our industry • Experiential learning NGOs (SUCH AS • To share expertise, • Formal partnerships and • Driving sustainability expertise and case studies opportunities for students WWF, THE RED industry insights, local projects through our operations, • Presentations CROSS, BAPTIST knowledge, research • Participation in benchmarking products and supply chains WORLD AID, FOOD capabilities and networks • Participation in the Network for and surveys • Social development Business Sustainability (NBS) & TREES FOR AFRICA, CHILDSAFE • Ethical sourcing AND THE UNITED THE MEDIA • To influence stakeholder • Interviews and opinion pieces • Retail and consumer issues NATIONS perceptions, differentiate • Press releases • Product information GLOBAL COMPACT) the WHL Group company brands and market our • Publications • Key sustainability issues DEBT FUNDERS • To enable effective funding • Regular meetings held with • Financial performance and products • Television • Good Business Journey of Group expansion and funders through Group Treasury strategic focus areas of the • Raise the profile of key acquisitions function Group sustainability issues in South Africa and Australia WHL CARBON FOOTPRINT WHL EMISSIONS YEAR-ONYEAR INTENSITY FIGURES YEAR-ON-YEAR These figures show our progress per unit measure in emissions. SCOPE 1* 2015 (tCO2e) 2014 (tCO2e) Mobile fuel 1 761.86 1 509.09 INTENSITY FIGURES 2015 2014 TREND Stationary fuel 2 816.39 2 102.40 Emissions per full-time equivalent employee 17.68 17.99 (tCO2e/FTE) Air-conditioning and refrigerant gases 37 697.87 20 388.57 Emissions per square metre store/trading GLA SCOPE 2** 0.58 0.57 (tCO2e/m 2) Purchased electricity 442 672.50 436 867.24 Emissions per square metre GLA including non-trading area 0.47 0.46 (tCO2e/m 2) SCOPE 3*** Emissions per square metre of trading area Business travel – flights 12 320.27 8 693.19 0.81 0.80 (tCO2e/m 2) Business travel – car rental 111.36 113.88 Emissions per million turnover in rands 15.63 16.14 Business travel – accommodation 783.22 410.91 (tCO2e/turnover) Employee commuting 20 876.96 18 984.41 Emissions per million EBITDA in rands 148.92 124.37 (tCO2e/EBITDA) Contracted solid waste disposal 2 590.04 4 446.96 Third-party distribution 40 022.40 38 542.44 Water 597.15 532.85 Office paper 329.50 100.56 Cardboard packaging 8 878.50 8 619.90 Plastic bags 3 598.22 2 896.88 Fuel and energy-related activities 39 433.50 36 638.10 TOTAL SCOPE 1, 2 AND 3 Fugitive emissions (non-Kyoto) 43 475.55 40 285.35 TOTAL WHL 657 965.29 621 132.72 Total Woolworths SA 551 592.87 510 411.93 Total David Jones 95 854.72 97 329.21 Total Country Road Group 10 517.71 13 391.57 * Emissions from sources owned and controlled by WHL (generators, refrigeration and air-conditioning units). ** Emissions associated with the generation or consumption of electricity. *** Emissions from sources not directly owned by WHL, but relevant, excluding electricity. WHL 124 / 2016 GBJ REPORT 2016 GBJ REPORT / WHL 125 126/ INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT our limited assurance conclusion as set out in the summary of work obtained such external confirmations and management TO THE DIRECTORS OF WOOLWORTHS HOLDINGS LIMITED performed below. Our assessment of internal control was not representations as we considered necessary for the purpose of performed for the purpose of expressing an opinion or conclusion our engagement. We have completed our independent limited assurance engagement in respect of the Good Business Journey Report (“the Report”) for the on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal controls. • We performed analytical procedures and limited tests of detail year ended 26 June 2016 and in respect of selected key performance indicators identified below contained in the Report (“specified KPI’s”). We planned and performed our work to obtain the information responsive to our risk assessment and the level of assurance SCOPE OF OUR ENGAGEMENT DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY and explanations that we considered necessary to provide a basis required, including comparison of judgementally selected We performed our limited assurance engagement for the purpose The directors are responsible for implementing a stakeholder for our limited assurance conclusions set out below. information to the underlying source documentation from which of expressing our conclusions as to whether anything has come to engagement process to identify all relevant stakeholders, The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement the information has been derived. our attention that causes us to believe that: to identify key issues, to respond appropriately to key issues vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent than for, CONCLUSIONS a) the Report is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance identified, to determine those key performance indicators which a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, the level Based on the work performed described in this report, nothing has with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Guideline’s Principles may be relevant and material to the identified stakeholders, of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is come to our attention that causes us to believe that: of materiality, completeness and sustainability context, and and to design and apply appropriate sustainability reporting substantially lower than that which would have been obtained • The Report is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance policies. The directors are also responsible for the preparation had we performed a reasonable assurance engagement. b) the specified KPIs contained in the Report at the page references with the GRI G4 Guideline’s Principles of materiality, completeness and presentation of the Report, the information and assessments Accordingly we do not express a reasonable assurance opinion shown below, are not prepared, in all material respects, in and sustainability context; and contained in the Report and for such internal control as the either on the Report or on the specified KPIs that are the subject accordance with the basis of preparation described on the of this engagement. • The specified KPIs are not prepared, in all material respects, directors determine necessary to ensure that the information website (www.woolworthsholdings.co.za) for each of the in accordance with management’s sustainability criteria as and data reported meet the requirements of the relevant criteria, Our assurance report does not extend to any disclosures or specified KPIs (“management’s sustainability criteria”): described on the website (www.woolworthsholdings.co.za) contain all relevant disclosures that could materially affect any of assertions relating to future performance plans and/or strategies • Water usage (in kilolitres) at the head office buildings, for the the conclusions drawn, and otherwise as necessary to enable for the year ended 26 June 2016. disclosed in the Report, nor to KPIs included in the Report other twelve months ended 26 June 2016 as disclosed on page 95; preparation of the reported information and data free of material than the specified KPIs. OTHER MATTER • Water usage (in kilolitres) at the Maxmead, Montague Gardens, misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. The maintenance and integrity of the Woolworths Holdings SUMMARY OF WORK PERFORMED Racecourse Gardens and Midrand distribution centres for the OUR RESPONSIBILITY Limited’s website is the responsibility of Woolworths Holdings twelve months ended 26 June 2016 as disclosed on page 95; A summary of the assurance procedures we performed in relation Our responsibility is to express our limited assurance conclusions Limited management. Our procedures did not involve consideration to the Report and the specified KPIs that were included in the • Water usage (in kilolitres) for the South African corporate stores on the Report and on the specified KPIs indicated above based on of these matters and, accordingly we accept no responsibility scope of our limited assurance engagement is set out below. for the twelve months ended 26 June 2016 as disclosed on page our independent limited assurance engagement. Our engagement for any changes to either the information in the Report or our 95; and • We obtained an understanding of: assurance report that may have occurred since the initial date was performed in accordance with the International Auditing • Green stores rating as at 26 June 2016 as disclosed on page 104. and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB)’s International Standard • The entity and its environment; of presentation on the website of Woolworths Holdings Limited. on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised) Assurance • Entity-level controls; These specified KPIs are highlighted for identification purposes Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial • The stakeholder engagement process; in the Report by use of an asterisk “*”. Information. This standard requires us to comply with ethical Our responsibility in performing our independent limited requirements and to plan and perform our limited assurance • The selection and application of sustainability assurance engagement is to Woolworths Holdings Limited only, engagement so as to obtain sufficient, appropriate evidence reporting policies; under the terms of engagement (including the release letter dated to form our conclusions in relation to the Report and in relation • How management has applied the principle of materiality 29 August 2016) we have agreed with the Directors, and for no to the specified KPIs, as stated below. in preparing the Report and the specified KPIs; and other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not BASIS OF WORK AND LIMITATIONS • The significant reporting processes including how information accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than Woolworths Ernst & Young Inc. Our evaluation included performing such procedures as we is initiated, recorded, processed, reported and incorrect Holdings Limited for our work, for this report, or for the conclusions Director – Anthony Cadman considered necessary based on the purpose of our engagement information is corrected, as well as the policies and we have reached. Registered Auditor and our professional judgment, including our assessment of the procedures within the reporting processes. Woolworths Holdings Limited has elected to prepare the Report Chartered Accountant (SA) risks of material misstatement of the subject matter. In making these • We made such enquiries of management, employees and those Ernst & Young House in accordance with the Principles contained in the G4 Guidelines assessments, we considered internal control relevant to the entity’s responsible for the preparation of the Report and the specified 35 Lower Long Street published by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), a full copy of preparation and presentation of the Report and of the specified KPIs, as we considered necessary. Cape Town which can be obtained from the GRI website. KPIs contained therein, in order to design procedures appropriate • We inspected relevant supporting documentation and 29 August 2016 for gathering sufficient appropriate evidence to enable us to form WHL 126 / 2016 GBJ REPORT 2016 GBJ REPORT / WHL 127 TO FIND OUT MORE ABOUT WHAT WE’RE DOING, VISIT WWW.WOOLWORTHS.CO.ZA/GOODBUSINESSJOURNEY WWW.WOOLWORTHSHOLDINGS.CO.ZA WWW.DAVIDJONES.COM.AU/GBJ WWW.COUNTRYROAD.COM.AU/SUSTAINABILITY WWW.MYSCHOOL.CO.ZA FOLLOW US ON TWITTER @WOOLWORTHSGBJ We appreciate any feedback on our sustainability focus areas or reporting. Please contact the sustainability team at GoodBusinessJourney@woolworths.co.za www.woolworthsholdings.co.za
