ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 Integrated Report p2 Overview p17 Business Review p23 Advancing Medical Science p45 Improving Global Health p66 Strengthening Communities p72 Operating Responsibly p123 Global Reporting Initiative Index  United Nations Global Compact Index p134  Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Overview p3 Message from the CEO p5 About Lilly, About Elanco p6 Key Performance Indicators p8 C  elebrating 140 Years of Caring and Discovery p11 Our Approach to Integrated Reporting ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 2 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact MESSAGE FROM positive Phase III studies on baricitinib and strong Phase III data on ixekizumab; and in oncology, THE CEO Breakthrough Therapy Designation for olaratumab and abemaciclib, several important business development deals in immuno-oncology, and Dear Lilly Stakeholders: the approval of Portrazza™ for the treatment of metastatic squamous May 10, 2016, marks the 140th anninon-small cell lung cancer late in versary of the founding of Eli Lilly and the year. Company, a milestone that very few John C. Lechleiter, Ph.D., Lilly’s chairman, president, and chief executive officer, and Jan Lundberg, Ph.D., Our strong pipeline portends a lot of U.S. companies our size have ever president of Lilly Research Laboratories, join with employees of the Lilly Cambridge Innovation Center in good news for patients—the ultireached. We’ve done it by staying true Cambridge, Massachusetts, at the center’s opening. mate measure of our success. As of to our values—integrity, excellence, early 2016, we had nine molecules and respect for people—and to our mission of discovering and developing 2015 Business Results and totaling $1.17 per share. Reported in Phase III testing or regulatory earnings per share were $2.26. (For new medicines that make life better Pipeline Progress information on the items that were review, including potential medicines that hold the promise of significant for people around the world. In 2015, despite unprecedented and adjusted for purposes of non-GAAP advances in the treatment of imsubstantial currency headwinds financial measures, please see the In 2015, our commitment to innovation munological disorders, Alzheimer’s brought on by the strengthening U.S. 2015 Financial Highlights in the 2015 bore fruit in a truly extraordinary year disease, and various pain conditions. dollar, we returned to revenue growth, Annual Report.) for Lilly. Even as we turned the corner led by Cyramza® and Trulicity® Investors have taken note of how in our business results and began to This progress occurred in the face of following their strong launches, with we’ve performed and how we’ve kept grow again after a prolonged period some serious challenges, including significant contributions from our our promises despite the challenges. of patent expirations, we achieved a still-sluggish global economy, a sigenlarged Elanco animal health busiOur stock price was up 22 percent unprecedented progress across our nificant slowdown in China, and conness. Revenue increased 2 percent to for the year, leading to a 25 percent research and development efforts. tinued pricing pressures in the United $19.96 billion, as six of our products total shareholder return—once again Through it all, we honored our comStates and other established markets. and Elanco exceeded $1 billion in outperforming most of our peers. mitments to those who have a stake annual sales. in our business—including patients, In 2015, Lilly achieved significant The bottom line is pretty simple. customers, physicians, the communities At the same time, as a result of lower advances in our pipeline of molecules We have emerged from the so-called where we operate, our shareholders, expenses and higher other income, in clinical development. Highlights “YZ” years of patent expirations as a and our employees who make it earnings per share increased 13 include: in diabetes, positive cardiobetter, stronger company. And a very all possible. percent to $3.43 on a non-GAAP vascular outcomes data for promising future is unfolding by the day! basis, which excludes adjustments Jardiance®; in immunology, four ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 3 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Looking Ahead to More Our Ongoing Commitment to Over the past year, Lilly employees Faithful to Our Mission, have added to our strong track record Growth in 2016 Corporate Responsibility of volunteerism to strengthen comConfident in Our Future I could not be more excited about In 2015, we also demonstrated our munities. In the first five years of our Our company has been through some what lies ahead in 2016 as we look dedication to corporate responsibility— Connecting Hearts Abroad program, real challenges these past few years. forward to additional launches and a legacy dating back to our founder, 1,000 Lilly employees have worked a But we confronted them head on, some important pipeline milestones. Colonel Eli Lilly. combined 64,000 hours during twofigured out a strategy to handle what week assignments in impoverished we faced, and executed that strategy While recognizing the challenging Our greatest contribution to society communities across Africa, Asia, with grit and determination. We never environment ahead of us, we continue will always be making medicines that Eastern Europe, and Latin America. wavered. And in 2015, we got sure to believe that Lilly’s growth opportumake life better. In addition, our employees worldwide signs that it’s working. nities will depend largely on our own Yet we firmly believe that we have have volunteered 825,000 hours since performance. This includes realizing As we continue to honor Colonel a further role to play by collaborat2008 through our annual Global Day continued strong uptake of Cyramza, Lilly’s instruction to his son, to “take ing with select partners to address of Service. And in 2015, we built on Trulicity, and Jardiance, and good what you find here and make it better serious health challenges and to our legacy of support for United Way launches of Portrazza and the other and better,” I believe uncertainty will enhance access to high-quality care by initiating a partnership approach products, such as ixekizumab, that once again give way to confidence in for people around the world. In 2015, that includes pairing Lilly teams with we hope will emerge from our pipewhat an enterprise such as ours— we continued support of our two sigUnited Way agencies. line in the months ahead. dedicated for 140 years to making nature global health programs—the Lastly, we continue to demonstrate lives better for people all over the I’m confident that we’ve put the Lilly NCD Partnership and the Lilly a firm commitment to operating world—is able to accomplish. necessary investments behind these MDR-TB Partnership—focused on recent and upcoming launches. At the growing challenge of nonresponsibly in all areas of our busiI am honored to be a part of this work the same time, we will continue to communicable diseases, such as ness—from being recognized year and grateful to you for your support. depend on strong sales of Alimta®, diabetes, and the stubborn scourge after year around the world as a great place to work, to continually For the Board of Directors, Forteo®, Cialis®, and our insulins— of multidrug-resistant tuberculodespite the necessary shift of some sis. Elanco continued its important striving to reduce our environmental resources to the launch side. work to address the key link between footprint. This commitment extends nutrition and health through its to our support for the United Nations partnership with Heifer International Global Compact and its principles and through HATCH™ for Hunger, a related to human rights, labor, the John C. Lechleiter, Ph.D. community partnership to provide environment, and anti-corruption. Chairman, President, and Chief eggs to undernourished people in the Executive Officer Midwest. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 4 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact ABOUT LILLY Lilly is a global healthcare leader that unites caring with discovery to make life better for people around the world. We were founded more than a century ago by a man committed to creating high-quality medicines that meet real needs, and today we remain true to that mission in all our work. Across the globe, Lilly employees work to discover and bring lifeABOUT ELANCO changing medicines to those who need them, Elanco provides comprehensive products and knowledge services improve the understanding and management to improve animal health and food-animal production in more than 70 countries around the world. We value innovation, both in scientific of disease, and give back to communities research and daily operations, and strive to cultivate a collaborative work environment for more than 6,500 employees worldwide. Together through philanthropy and volunteerism. To learn with our customers, we are committed to raising awareness about global food security, and celebrating and supporting the human-animal more about Lilly, visit us at www.lilly.com and bond. Founded in 1954, Elanco is a division of Eli Lilly and Company. Our worldwide headquarters and research facilities are located in newsroom.lilly.com/social-channels. Greenfield, Indiana. Visit us at www.elanco.com. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 5 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Key Performance Indicators FINANCIAL WORKPLACE * PHILANTHROPY***,**** Worldwide Revenue ($ millions) Stock Price ($ at year end) Fleet Collision Rate** (% of fleet) Total Contributions ($ millions) 2015 $19,958.7 2015 $84.26 2015 $560 2014 $19,615.6 2014 $68.99 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2014 $590 2013 $23,113.1 2013 $51.00 2013 $750 22% 21% 19% 18% 16% 2012 $22,603.4 2012 $49.32 2012 $700 2011 $24,286.5 2011 $41.56 2011 $597 Recordable Injury Rate U.S. Revenue ($ millions) (per 100 employees) Product Donations ($ millions) Dividend ($ per share) 2015 $10,097.4 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015 $510 2015 $2.00 2014 $ 9,134.1 1.09 1.10 0.88 0.88 0.87 2014 $550 2014 $1.96 2013 $12,889.7 2013 $695 2013 $1.96 2012 $12,313.1 2012 $645 2012 $1.96 Lost-time Injury Rate 2011 $12,977.2 2011 $549 2011 $1.96 (per 100 employees) Europe Revenue ($ millions) Cash Contributions ($ millions) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015 $3,943.6 2015 $50 Research & Development ($ millions) 0.47 0.49 0.36 0.35 0.26 2014 $4,506.7 2014 $40 2013 $4,338.4 2015 $4,796.4 2013 $55 2012 $4,259.7 2014 $4,733.6 2012 $55 2011 $5,290.9 2013 $5,531.3 2011 $48 Other Foreign-Country Revenue ($ millions) 2012 $5,278.1 2015 $5,917.7 2011 $5,020.8 2014 $5,974.8 2013 $5,885.0 2012 $6,030.6 2011 $6,018.4 ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 6 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Key Performance Indicators (continued) ENVIRONMENT† Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 and 2) (metric tonnes C02e) Water Intake (billion liters) Waste Recycling Rate††† (%) Other Combustion Air Emissions (metric 2015 14.2 tonnes SO2, NOX, and particulate matter) 2015 1,540,000 2014 15.0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015 2,483 2014 1,540,000 2013 13.7 2014 2,753 2013 1,600,000 2012 13.4 47% 43% 53% 51% 2013 3,072 2012 1,550,000 2012 1,832 Total Waste Generation†† Waste to Landfill (metric tonnes) Greenhouse Gas Emissions Intensity (metric tonnes) 2015 29,100 Reportable Permit-Limit Exceedances†††† (related to goal) (metric tonnes 2015 252,000 2012 2013 2014 2015 C02e/1,000 square feet) 2014 12,000 2014 295,000 8 5 3 5 2012 2013 2014 2015 2013 22,600 2013 310,000 2012 20,700 57.1 58.3 57.7 55.1 2012 285,000 Energy Consumption (million BTUs) * Read the Health and Safety at Lilly section to learn more about † Following World Resources Institute guidance, energy use, green2015 11,000,000 our new safety goals for 2020. house gas emissions (except Scope 3), waste, and water use data 2014 11,200,000 ** In prior reports, we tracked the motor-vehicle collision rate are reported on an adjusted basis accounting for mergers, acqui(collisions per million miles driven). We now are tracking vehicle sitions, and divestitures, as appropriate, to ensure comparability, 2013 11,300,000 safety based on percent of fleet involved in a collision. Historical unless stated otherwise. Data are included beginning in 2012, as collision rates shown in this table have been restated. that is the baseline year for Lilly's 2020 environmental goals. 2012 10,800,000 *** Total charitable donations include funding from both Lilly and †† Total waste may vary as the result of non-routine waste such as The Eli Lilly and Company Foundation. waste from construction and demolition work. **** In 2014 and 2015, we saw a decrease in the number of people ††† The recycling rate of total waste that is not beneficially reused. Energy Intensity requesting assistance through our U.S. patient assistance programs †††† Lilly classifies an event as a reportable permit-limit following the implementation of the Affordable Care Act, which exceedance if it involves an exceedance of a numeric permit or (million BTUs/1,000 square feet) allows previously uninsured low-income Americans to obtain license limit that must be reported to the regulatory authority. The 2012 2013 2014 2015 healthcare coverage. As a result, fewer people were in need of reporting may be immediate (e.g., within 24 hours) or in a routine donations from Lilly. compliance report. These exceedances do not necessarily result in 450 466 470 446 harm to people or the environment. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 7 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Celebrating 140 Years of Caring and Discovery Throughout our company’s history, we’ve brought new and better medicines to people who need them—commercializing the first insulin, introducing important classes of antibiotics, revolutionizing the treatment of mental illness, making critical contributions in the treatment of cancer, and more. Today, we remain committed to pursuing medicines for maladies such as diabetes and Alzheimer’s disease. Our company vision also calls on us to give back to the world around us. Our founder, Colonel Lilly, took an active leadership role in efforts to improve life in Indianapolis, home to our global headquarters. Ever since, Lilly people have built upon and continued this legacy. We give of our financial resources, our time, and our expertise to make a meaningful, measurable, and sustainable difference in communities around the globe. Here is a snapshot of just some of our key moments of caring and discovery over the past 140 years. 1886 1906 1917 Lilly hires first chemist, Lilly sends freight car of Partnering with the American Ernest Eberhardt. emergency medical supplies Red Cross, Lilly sets up a to San Francisco following medical field hospital in France, earthquake. staffed by Indiana personnel, to treat wounded soldiers of all nationalities during World War I. 1870 1880 1890 1900 1910 1920 ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 8 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact 1876 Founding Eli Lilly founded his company on May 10, 1923 Insulin Our researchers collaborated with 1943 Penicillin-G Lilly was among the first companies 1955 Polio Vaccine From 1940 to the mid-1950s, polio 1876, in Indianapolis, Indiana. He was Frederick Banting and Charles Best to develop a method to mass-produce struck 400,000 American children among those first in the business to of the University of Toronto to isolate penicillin, the world’s first antibiotic, and millions more worldwide. In rely on pharmaceutical chemistry. and purify insulin for the treatment marking the beginning of a sustained 1954, Lilly was approached by the His purpose was to produce quality of diabetes, a fatal disease with no effort to fight infectious diseases. National Foundation for Infantile medicines to be given with a doctor’s effective treatment options at the Penicillin was especially critical Paralysis to produce a vaccine prescription—a new concept in a time. In 1923, their work resulted during World War II in helping to based on Dr. Jonas Salk’s method. time of untested elixirs and potions in Lilly’s introduction of the world’s reduce the number of deaths and Ultimately, more than half of all peddled by questionable characters. first commercially available insulin amputations caused by infected the Salk vaccine used in the United More than a century later, Lilly, the product. Lilly would go on to focus on battle wounds. Lilly’s antibiotics States bore the Lilly label. Today, company, remains recognized for innovations in diabetes treatment that work would continue in the coming polio is 99% eradicated around the its quality and values—integrity, continue to the present day. decades, including the launch of world, with only three countries reexcellence, and respect for people. a powerful antibiotic that today porting instances of the disease. remains the last line of defense against serious hospital infections. 1923 1958 1961 ILETIN ® VANCOCIN ® VELBAN ® Lilly Lilly introduces vancomycin hydrochloride, Lilly introduces introduces an antibiotic for infections associated with vinblastine sulfate, the animal-source certain types of resistant bacteria. company’s first oncology insulin, the drug, for treatment of world’s first several types of cancer. commercially 1928 1937 1957 available Lilly establishes first Lilly family creates the Lilly Lilly leaders become co-chair and insulin distribution branch outside Endowment, which has given honorary chair of the first United Fund product, for of the United States, in away more than $8.5 billion Drive, an antecedent to the modernthe treatment Shanghai. to charitable organizations day United Way of Central Indiana. of diabetes. since its founding. 1920 1930 1940 1950 1960 1970 ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 9 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Future 1988 Prozac ® With the introduction of Prozac in the Oncology We are committed to developing a broad portfolio of therapies, including those tailored to patients, and meaningful support solutions that accelerate the pace and progress of cancer care. United States, Lilly launched the first in a new class of drugs used to treat Pain clinical depression. Called selective It is estimated that nearly one in five adults suffers from chronic serotonin reuptake inhibitors, or pain. Lilly is developing molecules to treat cluster headaches, SSRIs, the medicines are thought to migraines, and chronic pain caused by osteoarthritis and cancer. affect the way that serotonin acts— Neurodegeneration and neural pathways operate—inside Neurodegeneration is a key therapeutic area for Lilly, given our the brain. strong legacy and expertise in neuroscience. Our discovery efforts are focused on the areas of Alzheimer’s disease, dementia, and schizophrenia. Diabetes Lilly is committed to meeting the needs of people with diabetes by offering a comprehensive and complementary portfolio of medicines. We help people with diabetes achieve their treatment goals. Immunology Significant unmet medical need exists for many prevalent 1979 1982 1996 immunologic and autoimmune diseases, such as rheumatoid CECLOR ® HUMULIN ® ZYPREXA ® arthritis, psoriasis, and lupus. Several molecules in our pipeline Lilly introduces Lilly introduces Lilly introduces olanzapine explore how to address these diseases. cefaclor, a human insulin (rDNA for the treatment of member of the origin), insulin schizophrenia. cephalosporin identical to that family, which produced by the GEMZAR ® 2003 2011 eventually human body, and the Lilly introduces Launch of the Lilly Lilly launches Connecting becomes the world’s first human gemcitabine MDR-TB Partnership, Hearts Abroad, an employee world’s tophealthcare product hydrochloride, a drug providing critically volunteer program that sends selling oral created using for the treatment of needed medicines for dozens of employees annually antibiotic. recombinant DNA pancreatic and non-small multidrug-resistant to countries in Africa, Asia, and technology. cell lung cancer. tuberculosis. Latin America. 1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 2020 ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 10 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Our Approach to Integrated Reporting This year, for the first time, Lilly is introducing an integrated report, combining two traditional publications: our annual report, covering our business and financial results, and our corporate responsibility report, focused on our broad-based social and environmental goals, activities, and impacts. This, our first integrated report, covers our performance in 2015. About this report Lilly endorses the principles of the United Nations Global Compact More information about the UNGC can be found at: In creating this report, we con(UNGC), a strategic policy initiative www.unglobalcompact.org. We are making this change to better sulted the International Integrated for businesses that are commitWe welcome feedback on this capture the ways that Lilly’s business Reporting Council (IIRC) guidelines, ted to aligning their operations report, as it will help us to improve and strategies with 10 universally performance and research progress, as well as the Global Reporting future reports. Initiative (GRI) G4 reporting guideaccepted principles in the areas coupled with our corporate responsibility of human rights, labor, the envilines. While this report is not Please contact: activities, create value for our ronment, and anti-corruption. This Robert Smith, Senior Director, being produced in accordance with stakeholders over time. We believe this G4, we have included an index, report describes our activities in Corporate Responsibility, and approach will streamline our reporting, showing which G4 indicators are these areas, and also serves as President, The Eli Lilly and while providing a richer picture of our covered in this report and other our annual Communication on Company Foundation Progress, as required for all comcompany and how we operate. public documents. More informaEmail: robsmith@lilly.com tion about the GRI can be found at panies that endorse the UNGC. An index to the UNGC indicators in this Phone: 317-276-2000 www.globalreporting.org. report can be found on page 134. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 11 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact How Lilly Creates Value Lilly's Circles of Value More and more, businesses are talking about different types of capital—not just financial, but social, natural, and human capital, among others. There is also an emerging shift away from a strict focus on short-term thinking to longer-term thinking. This conversation is really a discussion about value, both intrinsic and manufactured, received and created. As the world becomes increasingly crowded and medical challenges mount, so do the questions being asked of the pharmaceutical industry. How can we meet the Receive Create health needs of greater numbers of people? How can we accelerate the development of new medicines? How can Social Capital we ensure we have the right people, with the right skills, Natural Capital Manufactured working to find the next breakthrough therapies? How Intellectual Capital Capital Human Capital can we encourage collaboration to address serious health Financial Capital challenges and enhance access to high-quality care for people around the world? Among those asking these questions are people who have a stake in Lilly’s business—including patients, customers, physicians, our shareholders, the communities where we operate, and our employees who make our work possible. At Lilly, we believe that it’s essential to take the long-term view to these questions. This report paints a picture of how we think about our role in an interconnected world, As a global enterprise, Lilly is both a consumer and a creator of many forms of capital. Medicines play an important role in helping to and highlights key aspects of our commitment to operating make life better for people. By bringing medicines to those who need them, we create both economic and societal value. In turn, this with integrity, excellence, and respect for people. enables us to extend our reach and deepen the impact of our other activities. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 12 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Natural Capital: Social Capital: Our Promise Our World Our company is about caring for people. From the products we make to the communities and causes we support, we strive to ensure that the experiences people have with us are positive. Lilly relies on the use of valuable natural resources, Though we might differ in our individual perspectives, we are joined together by common values— such as energy, water, and raw materials, as well as test integrity, excellence, and respect for people—that have guided our collective actions for more animals and cellular cultures, to conduct research and than a century. Whenever we make a decision that affects others, we strive to do it in a way that manufacture medicines. is consistent with our values. VALUE TO LILLY VALUE CREATED FOR SOCIETY We recognize the benefits that we draw from the natural The role of medicines in making life better extends well beyond the people who use them directly. ecosystem, without which we could not operate our business. By helping people prevent and manage disease, medicines can reduce overall health spending, We understand the importance of maintaining the vitality enhance productivity, and improve public health and human well-being. Families, caregivers, the and abundance of these resources, not only for our own broader healthcare system, the global economy, and society all benefit. operations but also for the health of other people and comAround the world, Lilly makes investments and collaborates with others to support better munities that also rely upon these resources. and more sustainable access to quality health care and medicines, especially in places with constrained resources. Beyond providing medicines, we offer information, resources, and encouragement to people struggling with disease. These programs can help to improve health Human Capital: outcomes and make a measurable difference in the lives of patients and their families. Our People We also seek to positively influence quality of life beyond physical health. We work to strengthen civic and community networks, protect safety nets for those in need, promote diversity and inclusion, and champion volunteerism and philanthropy. We also advocate The people who work at Lilly make everything we do for stronger educational opportunities for disadvantaged children, as well as for science, possible—from the research, manufacture, and sale of our technology, math, and engineering (STEM) education. medicines, to the support of local communities and global health initiatives. VALUE TO LILLY VALUE TO LILLY The health of community life directly impacts the health of our business. The collective efforts of Lilly’s patient support programs, community engagement and philanthropic activities enhance and It takes people, committed to excellence and teamwork, to enrich the quality of life where we do business across the globe and in our home state of Indiana. achieve success in the competitive pharmaceutical indusOur reputation as a caring corporate citizen makes Lilly a welcoming partner for customers and try. Through their collective efforts, Lilly employees fulfill helps us attract and retain talent. Our focus on STEM education helps to build the pipeline of talent our company’s purpose to make life better. We draw on our we need to compete in our industry. Wherever in the world we operate, our focus on community employees’ strengths, talents, dedication, and commitparticipation helps us to better understand the needs of the patients we serve, the context of their lives, ment, to discover and develop new medicines, to improve and our role in collaborating with others—including academia, government, and the nonprofit sector— the understanding and management of disease, and to to enhance the quality of life and health for people. support people with serious illness and their families. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 13 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Intellectual Capital: Financial Capital: Our Expertise Our Profits As an enterprise that generates value from ideas, Lilly maintains and safeguards the critical information we gather through painstaking analysis during the drug Lilly brings economic value to shareholders, employees and communities. To development process. We also help to advance medical science more broadly shareholders, we deliver dividends and other returns; to employees, we offer by learning and sharing information about disease pathways and human biology jobs and benefits; and to communities, we provide a revenue base by remitting through our research publications. taxes and investing in infrastructure and research and development (R&D). VALUE CREATED FOR SOCIETY VALUE CREATED FOR SOCIETY The public is able to enjoy the benefits of our medicines only after extensive preThe profits that we make through the sales of our products enable us to reward clinical and clinical trials generate relevant data demonstrating safety, quality, and the work of our employees, to reinvest in R&D to address unmet medical needs, efficacy to the satisfaction of regulatory authorities and our own high standards. and to benefit people and communities. We employ more than 41,000 people, Lilly is legally required to produce this proprietary data, and we invest our time and mostly in highly skilled jobs, and support many thousands of additional jobs at considerable expense to ensure our products meet the high-quality standards our suppliers and business partners. We return over $2 billion in cash annually our customers expect of us. We’re committed to advancing the global body of through dividends and we strive to generate long-term growth in our share scientific knowledge, working within a strong framework of bioethics, with a comprice for our shareholders. Our profits allow us to fund many other efforts to mitment to patient safety and excellence. make life better, including our patient assistance programs, our global health initiatives, our efforts to stem the tide of counterfeit medicines, and our global VALUE TO LILLY philanthropy. We sponsor and support medical research for the purpose of answering scientific VALUE TO LILLY questions that are important to the development of new medicines and relevant to our customers. The profits that we make through the sales of our products enable us to hire qualified talent, manufacture and market our products, and reinvest in our business through R&D and capital expenditures. Manufactured Capital: VALUE CREATED FOR SOCIETY Our Products When used appropriately medicines can help people live longer and healthier lives, slow the progression of disease, improve management of chronic conditions, enhance quality At Lilly, the most important thing we do is discover of life, prevent or minimize complications and side effects of disease, or even eliminate and develop innovative medicines that make life the need for costly or painful hospitalizations and surgeries. When compared with other better for people around the world. healthcare interventions, medicines are by far one of the most cost effective. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 14 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Scope, Data Bureau Veritas provided independent, third-party verification of example, energy use, GHG emissions (except scope 3), and Stakeholder and Assurance greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions data for scopes 1, 2, and 3. Bureau water-use data are reported on an adjusted basis accounting for Engagement Data and other updates contained in Veritas also verified the percentmergers, acquisitions, and divesOur engagement with a wide range this report are focused on the 2015 age decrease from 2012 (when titures, as appropriate, to ensure of stakeholder groups provides calendar year and include global that is the goal baseline year) and comparability, unless stated othera basis for developing innovative operations, including wholly-owned from 2014 (in all cases) compared wise, per the GHG Protocol. Our medicines and enhances our subsidiaries, unless otherwise to 2015 for the following metrics: global health, safety, and environcollective ability to improve patient noted. We also discuss data and energy efficiency, waste to landfill, ment management system is ceroutcomes, both of which are trends from previous years, where waste efficiency, recycling rate, tified by an independent, accredited important to our business. Lilly relevant, and include some sigwater intake, and phosphorus auditor in accordance with the engages with a broad range of nificant events and initiatives that discharge. Otherwise, the content American Chemistry Council’s stakeholders on an ongoing basis, occurred in early 2016. This report and data in this report have not Responsible Care Management through both formal and informal does not include data on joint venbeen externally verified. System requirements. communication channels. Particitures, partially owned subsidiaries, To ensure appropriateness and pating in dialogue and partnerships or outsourced operations. accuracy, Lilly follows structured with groups beyond our own processes to collect, evaluate, and company allows us to understand Our consolidated financial statecalculate the data we report. In different viewpoints, explain our ments, which have been prepared deciding what data to collect positions, and address differences according to U.S. generally and report relating to corporate when they arise. accepted accounting principles (GAAP), are subject to our own responsibility matters, we consider We approach these discussions internal accounting systems and external guidelines such as those through several departments controls and have been audited by issued by the GHG Protocol, develwithin Lilly: investor relations; Ernst & Young LLP, an independent, oped by World Resources Institute public policy; government affairs; registered public accounting firm. (WRI) and World Business Council advocacy; health, safety, and (All dollar amounts given are in on Sustainable Development environment; and communications. U.S. dollars.) (WBCSD), and the GRI. For This integrated report and our company website are also part of that stakeholder dialogue. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 15 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Stakeholder Groups and Examples of Engagement Channels Investors Non-Governmental Organizations Daily interactions through our investor Partnerships to support patients Healthcare Professionals Patients relations function and families Online medical information resources Healthcare provider discussions Industry investor conferences Partnerships to raise awareness about Disease-state educational programs Educational materials and programs Meetings in Indianapolis and certain diseases major global cities Advisory board participation Advisory boards Product package inserts and medication guides Quarterly earnings communications Participation in annual conferences/ Sales force interactions Patient advocacy groups Annual meeting of shareholders exhibitions Direct-mail communications Annual report and other financial disclosures Company communications The Lilly Answers Center telephone line Patient support and assistance programs Periodic investment community update Memberships Medication guides and package inserts Online product resources The Lilly Answers Center telephone line meetings Government and Regulatory Online registries Corporate governance discussions facilitated Organizations Publications (manuscripts, posters, and Public and Private Healthcare by the corporate secretary’s office abstracts) Policy education materials Administrators Medical letters Suppliers Published policy research Account-manager interactions Patient support programs Green procurement program Responses to written requests for Disease-state educational programs Product stewardship standard information Lilly-sponsored symposia and scientific Advisory boards exchange meetings Supplier self-assessments and Oral and written testimony The Lilly Answers Center telephone line Medical and commercial booths at qualifications Written comments on proposed regulations Online medical information resources congresses Supplier audits that Lilly performs Policy discussions Interactions with Lilly physicians, Community Members Supplier risk-assessment process Advisory boards scientists, and medical liaisons Employee service on boards and Policy advocacy conversations with vendors Meetings and conferences Clinical trial investigation contracting committees of local organizations Employees1 Communication of studies Lilly-sponsored mobile applications that Participation in local volunteer Live “global town hall” meetings Lobbying activities provide physicians with easy-to-access opportunities research and clinical trial information Intranet social collaboration/networking Educational briefings Employee-directed philanthropy tools, including CEO blog Direct legislator and policy-maker Employee resource groups engagement Employee surveys 1 Approximately 41,000 employees as of With strong roots in minimizing risk, facilitating governance, and strengthening relationships, December 31, 2015. our Office of Alliance Management has been conducting “Voice of Alliance” surveys for the past Electronic newsletters 15 years. Data is regularly collected from Lilly and alliance partner employees to assess the Hotline for ethics, compliance, and privacy strategic, cultural, and operational fit of each partnership and determine how the collaborations questions/concerns can be improved. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 16 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Business Review ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 17 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact In January 2015, having successfully Grow revenue. Having weathered product. In addition, we achieved Expand margins. As a result of navigated through a multiyear period the brunt of the U.S. Cymbalta® growth in Humalog® and other lower expenses and higher other and Evista® patent expirations, established products, including income, earnings per share inof patent expirations on major Lilly and despite unprecedented curErbitux® following the transfer creased 13 percent to $3.43 on a products, we outlined our refined rency headwinds driven by the of commercialization rights in non-GAAP basis, which excludes strategic focus for a new era for continued strength of the U.S. North America. These worldwide adjustments totaling $1.17 per Eli Lilly and Company. dollar, in 2015, Lilly reported increases were partially offset by share. Reported earnings per share revenue growth of 2 percent to the residual impact of the loss of increased 1 percent to $2.26. (For We said that our objectives were to: $19.96 billion—driven primarily by exclusivity for Cymbalta and Evista. information on the items that were • Resume revenue growth; the acquisition of Novartis Animal adjusted for purposes of non-GAAP Going forward, we expect recent Health in January 2015. financial measures, please see the • Expand margins; and future product launches to sup2015 Financial Highlights in the We saw encouraging results port continued performance growth. • Sustain the flow of innovation; and 2015 Annual Report.) from newly launched products, Highlights in 2015 for our human • Deploy capital to create value, which including Cyramza®, Trulicity®, pharmaceuticals and animal Operating expenses—defined as includes returning excess cash to and—with our partner Boehringer the sum of research and develophealth businesses follow later in Ingelheim—Jardiance® and ment, and marketing, selling, and shareholders via both dividends and this section. Basaglar®, our insulin glargine administrative expenses—declined share repurchases. In 2015, we made good progress on PRODUCT REVENUE GROWTH REVENUE PER EMPLOYEE each of these objectives. (For our complete financial filings, $308.2 +6% ($ in millions represent growth in revenue) -8% +3% please see our 2015 Annual Report.) ($ thousands, percent growth) $238.5 -18% -3% $218.8 $218.7 $145.9 $130.7 $638 $590 $609 $501 $484 $89.2 $56.7 $19.7 $26.3 Cyramza Trulicity Humalog Cialis Forteo Other new 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 diabetes products* Excluding impact of exchange rates Including impact of exchange rates In 2015, revenue per employee decreased 3 percent Five products—Cyramza, Trulicity, Humalog, Cialis, and Forteo—together generated revenue growth of to $484,000, primarily due to the impact of exchange $1.1 billion excluding the impact of exchange rates, driven primarily by volume increases. In addition, the rates on revenue and a slight increase in the total acquisition of Novartis Animal Health on January 1, 2015, generated revenue growth of $1 billion. This workforce compared to the prior year. growth was offset in part by Cymbalta and Evista patent expirations. * Includes Trajenta, Jardiance, and Basaglar. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 18 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact through the first three quarters of 2015; much of the increase in Key events in 2015 fourth-quarter operating expenses was driven by charges associated Potential Phase III initiations: Potential regulatory submissions: with terminations of the evacetrapib Olaratumab for soft tissue sarcoma Ramucirumab for second-line metastatic colorectal cancer and basal insulin peglispro develRamucirumab for first-line gastric cancer (US/EU/Japan) opment programs. We remain on Ramucirumab for first-line EGFR mutation Ramucirumab for second-line NSCLC (Europe/Japan) track to achieve our goal of reducpositive non-small cell lung cancer Basal insulin peglispro for type 1 and type 2 diabetes (terminated) ing operating expenses to 50 perRamucirumab for second-line urothelial cancer Empagliflozin/linagliptin FDC for type 2 diabetes** (EU) cent or less of revenues in 2018. Ramucirumab for second-line hepatocelluar Ixekizumab for psoriasis (US/EU) cancer Ixekizumab for psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis (Japan) Sustain the flow of innovation. CGRP MAb for cluster headache Baricitinib for rheumatoid arthritis (occurred in early 2016) In 2015, we continued to make Tanezumab for pain * Olaratumab for soft tissue sarcoma (US) (rolling submission initiated) excellent progress advancing our pipeline. At the beginning of each Potential Phase III data internal readouts: Potential regulatory actions: year, we share with our investors Jardiance CV outcomes trial for type 2 diabetes** Ramucirumab for second-line gastric cancer (Japan) a list of key upcoming events— Ixekizumab for psoriatic arthritis Ramucirumab for second-line metastatic colorectal cancer (US) including potential Phase III1 Remaining trials of baricitinib in rheumatoid Necitumumab for first-line squamous NSCLC (US) starts, data readouts, regulatory arthritis submissions, and approvals—as Dulaglutide for type 2 diabetes (Japan) (BUILD – Feb; BEGIN – Sept; BEAM – Oct) a basis for monitoring our progEvacetrapib ACCELERATE trial (terminated) Humalog U-200 Kwikpen for type 1 and type 2 diabetes (US) ress. The list of key events for 2015 Empagliflozin/linagliptin FDC for type 2 diabetes** (US) can be found nearby. The number Potential Phase III data external disclosures: Empagliflozin/metformin IR FDC for type 2 diabetes** (US/EU) of green checkmarks on the list, Ramucirumab for second-line metastatic Basaglar (insulin glargine injection) for diabetes (US final approval) indicating positive outcomes or colorectal cancer achievements, underscores our Other: Basal insulin peglispro for type 1 and type 2 success during the year. diabetes Complete acquisition of Novartis Animal Health Jardiance CV outcomes trial for type 2 diabetes** Partial clinical hold resolution for tanezumab* Highlights include publication of Ixekizumab for psoriasis Rulings in ongoing Alimta® patent litigation: positive cardiovascular outcomes data on Jardiance, presentation of Ixekizumab for psoriatic arthritis European Patent Office (Nov) Baricitinib in rheumatoid arthritis U.S. Two-year data from the EXPEDITION-EXT Germany 1 Clinical trials are conducted in a series (extension) study of solanezumab in Alzheimer’s UK of steps, called phases, and each phase (I-IV) is designed to answer a separate disease Japan research question. To learn more, visit * In collaboration with Pfizer. www.nlm.nih.gov/services/ctphases.html. ** In collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 19 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact four positive studies on baricitinib in rheumatoid arthritis, the strong We also continued to make significant investments in our own “YZ” period of patent expirations, Lilly’s total shareholder return Human Pharmaceuticals: Phase III data and submission of ixekizumab in psoriasis, approval research and development footprint, including expanding our presence in has placed in the upper quartile of performance versus our major Progress Across Our of necitumumab in lung cancer, and a series of approvals in diabetes. leading U.S. research centers. competitors. Portfolio • In Cambridge, Massachusetts, The company’s progress toward Our clinical development pipeline Over the past year, Lilly has we opened our Innovation Center our goals in 2015 was achieved in can be found in the Advancing Medlaunched new medicines and for Delivery and Device R&D. the face of ongoing challenges in ical Science section of this report. sustained progress in the pipeline • In San Diego, an expansion of the business environment, includDeploy capital to create value. across our human pharmaceutiour Biotechnology Center, to be ing chronic weakness in the global In January 2015, we outlined our cals portfolio. completed later this year, will economy, a significant slowdown in priorities for deploying capital. almost double Lilly’s research China, and continued pricing presIn diabetes, since mid-2014, we’ve Our board and management team presence there. sures in the United States and other launched Trulicity, Humalog U200 remain committed to investing established markets. In addition, KwikPen®, and—with Boehringer appropriately to grow our busi• In New York City, we’re growing we continue to deal with important Ingelheim—Jardiance, Glyxambi®, ness—in our existing commercial our presence at the Alexandria policy issues—from healthcare Synjardy®, and Basaglar. In doing and pipeline opportunities, as well Center for Life Science, with reform, to intellectual-property so, we’ve effectively built out the as through external innovation— the expansion to include an protection, to taxation and trade— most complete portfolio of diabeand rewarding our shareholders immuno-oncology hub. in the United States and countries tes products in the industry, even by returning excess cash through • And in Indianapolis, we’re around the world. without basal insulin peglispro, for dividends and share repurchases. constructing a $70 million which we ceased development in Yet, despite these challenges, Lilly multidisciplinary lab building December 2015. In fact, according to In 2015, we engaged in a wide enters the post-YZ era in a position at our process and product IMS Health, as we entered 2016, Lilly range of licensing, collaboraof strength—with launches underdevelopment complex. was gaining market share in every tion, asset acquisition, and equity way and important science being transactions to access molecules, In each of the past two years, we diabetes product category in the done in our labs. We remain very as well as diagnostics and techhave increased our quarterly divUnited States, Europe, and Japan. optimistic about the opportunity nologies, across our therapeutic idend by 2 percent, and, in 2015, before us to improve patients’ lives Some recent highlights: categories and business areas. we repurchased approximately and create value for shareholders. $750 million in Lilly shares. Since • In October, we announced that December 2009, when we outLilly acquired worldwide rights lined our strategy for the so-called to Locemia Solutions’ nasal glucagon, a potential treatment ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 20 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact for severe hypoglycemia in people In oncology, we have the potential with diabetes treated with insulin, for four launches of new molecucurrently in Phase III. Phase III lar entities in the five–year period testing could also begin this year 2014–2018. In just over one year, for an ultra-rapid insulin. Cyramza gained U.S. approvals • As 2015 ended, we received for four indications in three of the approval from the U.S. Food and most common and deadly canDrug Administration (FDA) for cers, with approvals and launches Basaglar, with U.S. launch set for in a number of other global marDecember 2016, as well as FDA kets as well. Following FDA apapproval for the Humulin® proval in November, we launched R U-500 KwikPen. Portrazza™ (necitumumab) in the United States for first-line treat• In January 2016, along with ment of metastatic squamous Boehringer Ingelheim, we annon-small cell lung cancer (NSnounced that the FDA accepted CLC). In early 2016, the European the filing of data from a dediCommission approved Portrazza cated cardiovascular outcomes and Cyramza to treat advanced trial of Jardiance in patients with forms of NSCLC and additionally type 2 diabetes at high risk of approved Cyramza to treat metacardiovascular (CV) events. The static colorectal cancer. data have also been submitted to European regulators. In With regard to Alimta, we could see the trial, Jardiance significantly generic competition in Europe this reduced the risk of the combined year following negative rulings in endpoint of CV death, non-fatal Germany and the United Kingdom. heart attack, or non-fatal stroke We are engaged in ongoing Alimta by 14 percent when added to the patent litigation in the United standard of care. Importantly, the States, Europe, and Japan, and we will continue to vigorously defend we’ve initiated our application for Phase III trials in breast and lung risk of CV death was reduced by our intellectual property, which olaratumab in soft tissue sarcoma, cancer. And we have a number of 38 percent. Jardiance is the only we believe is valid and would be based on strong Phase II data. both large and small molecules in oral diabetes medication to show infringed by generic competitors. The FDA has granted Breakdevelopment, as well as a growing a significant reduction in both through Therapy Designation to array of partnerships in the area of cardiovascular risk and cardioLooking at the pipeline, followolaratumab and to abemaciclib, immuno-oncology. vascular death in a dedicated ing discussions with the FDA, our CDK4 and 6 inhibitor in outcomes study. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 21 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact In other therapeutic areas, we anticipate as many as five launches in baricitinib demonstrated superiority to both methotrexate and Elanco Animal Health: two years will help drive growth. Key recent approvals include five years—most of which could be first or best in class and some that adalimumab in improving signs and symptoms of RA. Positioned for Growth Imrestor™, a biotechnology product that helps manage mastitis—the modify the course of disease on top In January 2015, we completed most common and costly disease In addition to immunology, we of the standard of care. We were our acquisition of Novartis Animal in dairy cattle—as well as products also have a clear opportunity disappointed that evacetrapib failed Health, creating in the process a to protect against heartworm and to establish a strong position in to show efficacy in a Phase III trial new Elanco, now a top-tier player ear infection in dogs. Going forneurodegenerative diseases, for cardiovascular disease, but even in the global animal health busiward, we expect that Elanco will notably in Alzheimer’s disease. after discontinuing development of ness—a $23 billion market excontribute roughly 15–20 percent While our amyloid-beta antibody, that molecule, we retain a robust pected to grow to $30 billion by of our revenue, up from 5–6 persolanezumab, is furthest along portfolio of molecules in immunol2020. Today, Elanco enjoys unpreccent historically. in development, we have a robust ogy, neurodegeneration, and pain. edented global reach, with an exportfolio that goes well beyond In immunology, in early 2016, the solanezumab, with potential treatpanded presence in many internaFDA approved Taltz® (ixekizumab) ments that address both of the key tional markets, and a more diverse to treat psoriasis. In Phase III pathways thought to play a role in product portfolio. And, as part of trials, 87–90 percent of patients Alzheimer’s disease—amyloid-beta Lilly, Elanco is able to take full treated with ixekizumab saw at and tau protein. advantage of our R&D pipeline and least a 75 percent improvement in our global assets and capabilities. We’re also working to establish a their skin clearance at 12 weeks— While market headwinds deposition in the treatment of various and 35–40 percent saw 100 perpressed revenues in 2015, Elanco pain conditions. We currently have cent clearance at week 12. In is well positioned for growth. The two molecules in Phase III testing January 2016, we submitted Novartis integration is exceeding —tanezumab, in collaboration with baricitinib for review in the United expectations for savings, and Pfizer, and our CGRP monoclonal States and Europe for rheumatoid planned launches of seven key antibody. arthritis (RA). In Phase III trials, innovation projects in the next ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 22 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Advancing Medical Science p24 R&D Progress in 2015 p28 Looking Ahead in 2016 p28 Sustaining Innovation p31 Bioethics p34 Transforming Clinical Trials p40 Assuring Quality Medicines ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 23 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Our greatest contribution to society is making life better by making R&D Progress (ixekizumab) for psoriasis, as well as many other major approvals in markets around the world. COLLABORATION AT 249 MILES UP: LILLY IN SPACE medicines that help people live longer, healthier, more active lives. All along in 2015 We made a number of important regulatory submissions over In 2015, Lilly collaborated with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration the way, we advance medical science (NASA) and the Center for the Advancement by learning more about disease the past year. We submitted of Science in Space (CASIS) in an unprecolaratumab for soft tissue sarcoma edented move—sending Lilly-sponsored pathways and human biology. We 2015 was a year of extraordinary in Europe and initiated our subscientific experiments to the International support collaborations and external achievement in advancing medical mission to the U.S. Food and Drug Space Station. The idea initially took flight at partnerships to help us achieve our science at Lilly. Administration (FDA). The FDA has a Lilly event called Innovation Day (iDay)—a research and development (R&D) goals In January, we outlined Lilly’s R&D granted Breakthrough Therapy day dedicated to experimentation, free-flow and build a robust clinical development strategy, focusing our research Designation to olaratumab, as well thinking, and idea exploration created by the as to another one of our oncology Product Clinical Design, Development, and pipeline. We’re committed to advancing in human health on three core molecules—abemaciclib. We subDistribution (PCD3) team at Lilly. The PCD3 the global body of scientific knowledge, areas—diabetes, oncology, and mitted baricitinib for rheumatoid team had invited representatives from NASA neurodegeneration—along with working within a strong framework arthritis in the United States, and CASIS to Lilly’s iDay to discuss ideas and two emerging areas—immunology of bioethics, with a commitment to and pain—based on research Europe, and Japan. And, in collabthe feasibility of a research connection. patient safety and excellence. opportunities and clinical data. oration with Boehringer Ingelheim, Any experiments proposed were subject to In each of these areas, we have we submitted empagliflozin in three criteria: compelling assets and growing or combination with the extended release formulation of metformin • They must be of value to Lilly. already deep expertise. to U.S. regulators. • They must be of value to NASA. In the year that followed, Lilly • They must benefit humankind. made significant progress across The year was also marked by a series of positive data readouts: The experiments chosen cluster around the these areas—demonstrated by the general concepts of crystallization, freeze following highlights through the • Jardiance®, the SGLT-2 inhibdrying, and the mixing of solids, liquids, and first quarter of 2016. itor for type 2 diabetes in our gases. The results should provide insights into partnership with Boehringer the mass production of medical compounds and We received approval for Ingelheim, showed a significant how molecules in discovery and development Portrazza® (necitumumab) for reduction in both cardiovascular interact with their targets at a molecular level. first-line squamous non-small cell lung cancer and for Taltz® risk and cardiovascular death, ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 24 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact the only oral diabetes medication CONTINUOUS INNOVATION INDICATORS FOR CANCER to demonstrate these benefits in an outcome-focused clinical PACE (Patient Access to Cancer care Excellence) is a Lilly Oncology initiative and a global collaboration that engages key oncology stakeholders: pastudy. We have submitted this tients, advocates, payers, policymakers, providers, the public, researchers, and politicians. PACE exists to encourage public policies that speed the data to both U.S. and European development of new medicines, assure that cancer treatments respond to the needs and qualities of individual patients, and improve patient access regulators. to the most effective cancer medicines. • In a Phase Ib/II1 study in soft tisIn 2015, we launched the PACE Continuous Innovation Indicators™ (CII). CII is the first evidence-based, customizable online tool to review medical sue sarcoma, olaratumab, when progress made against cancer over time—initially covering 12 cancer types. The purpose of the tool is to inform public policy reforms and other combined with chemotherapy, efforts to accelerate continuous innovation against cancer by helping to paint a better understanding of the value of different cancer treatments. At significantly improved outcomes the heart of CII are thousands of pieces of evidence curated by trained analysts from authoritative, published sources such as clinical trial records when compared to treatment and meta-analyses, observational studies, and historical references. The tool generates summary graphs from which a user can access supporting with chemotherapy alone. The evidence and additional information. Phase Ib/II study results were “We have seen tremendous progress in cancer treatment and care during the past decades, and continuous innovation, with one discovery building the basis for our filings with the on another, is responsible for most of it,” said John C. Lechleiter, Ph.D., Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer of Eli Lilly and Company. FDA and European regulators. “To keep the momentum going, we need policies that support continuous innovation, but first we need a deeper understanding of the innovations that • Ixekizumab was statistically have occurred and where we need to be.” superior to placebo in patients To learn more about PACE, visit www.pacenetworkusa.com. To read about other support programs that Lilly Oncology offers, see Patient Programs. with active psoriatic arthritis in a Phase III trial. This follows Phase III trials in psoriasis in adalimumab in improving signs across three pain indications with We also ceased development of which ixekizumab was superior and symptoms of rheumatoid our partner Pfizer. In addition to basal insulin peglispro in order to etanercept on all measures of arthritis. these new molecules, we started to focus R&D resources on other skin clearance. We initiated Phase III studies for many important Phase III trials for potential treatments. olaratumab for soft tissue sarmolecules already approved or un• Baricitinib, the oral JAK1 and The Lilly pipeline currently incoma, our CGRP antibody for der regulatory approval, including JAK2 inhibitor we’re developing cludes nearly 50 new molecules in cluster headache and migraine new indications for ixekizumab and with Incyte, demonstrated supeclinical development. prevention, and our Tau imaging ramucirumab. riority to both methotrexate and agent for Alzheimer’s disease, We terminated development of 1 Clinical trials are conducted in a series while in-licensing nasal glucagon of steps, called phases, and each phase evacetrapib, which showed insuffi(I-IV) is designed to answer a separate for diabetes. We also started new cient efficacy in a Phase III study in research question. To learn more, visit Phase III studies for tanezumab high-risk cardiovascular disease. www.nlm.nih.gov/services/ctphases.html. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 25 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Pipeline of Molecules in Clinical Development Select NILEX (Phase II or later) New Chemical Entity Including Select New Indications and Line Extensions (NILEX) New Biological Entity Diagnostic Regulatory Review Empagliflozin* Linagliptin + Empagliflozin + Baricitinib The Lilly pipeline currently includes 48 new Ixekizumab Ixekizumab cardiovascular Metformin XR* Metformin XR* rheumatoid outcomes data diabetes psoriatic arthritis diabetes arthritis psoriasis molecules in clinical development including nine molecules in Phase III or regulatory review, 19 in Phase II and 20 in Phase I. Since our Phase III last annual report: eight molecules advanced Solanezumab Ramucirumab into Phase I testing, five advanced into Phase Tanezumab* Ramucirumab Ramucirumab II testing, and four molecules entered Phase Abemaciclib Empagliflozin* CGRP MAb Tanezumab* preclinical 2nd-line chronic lower 2nd-line bladder 1st-line gastric NSCLC Type 1 diabetes migraine back pain cancer pain Alzheimer’s cancer cancer hepatocellular III. These four are: olaratumab, our antibody disease cancer that blocks PDGF receptor-α being studied for Solanezumab the treatment of advanced sarcoma; our CGRP Ramucirumab Tau imaging agent Abemaciclib Nasal Glucagon CGRP MAb Tanezumab* Olaratumab 1st-line NSCLC Alzheimer’s disease breast cancer hypoglycemia cluster headache osteoarthritic pain Alzheimer’s sarcoma antibody being studied for cluster headache disease and migraine; the diagnostic Tau imaging agent; and nasal glucagon licensed from Locemia Phase II Solutions. Two molecules were submitted for regulatory approval: ixekizumab for psoriasis Baricitinib Florbenazine BACE AZD3293* PI3 kinase/mTOR and baricitinib for rheumatoid arthritis. And Baricitinib Abemaciclib Chk1 inhibitor Edivoxetine Galunisertib diabetic psoriasis squamous NSCLC Parkinson’s Alzheimer’s cancer CNS disorder cancer dual inhibitor one new molecule, Portrazza (necitumumab), nephropathy Disease Imaging disease mesothelioma was approved for marketing. We terminated FGF receptor development of 19 molecules, including two P70S6/AKT inhibitor in Phase III—basal insulin peglispro and Ralimetinib Merestinib IL-23 MAb BMP-6 MAb Myostatin MAb Ultra-Rapid Insulin Ferroportin MAb dual inhibitor cancer cancer cancer ulcerative colitis anemia disuse atrophy diabetes anemia evacetrapib. In addition, we are selectively cancer highlighting 17 molecules being studied for Oxyntomodulin PCSK9 MAb new indications or line extensions (NILEX) that peptide Emibetuzumab CXCR4 peptide cardiovascular inhibitor diabetes cancer disease have advanced to Phase II testing or later. cancer Additional information and updates are available Phase I on the Lilly Interactive Pipeline at www.lilly.com. In 2015, Elanco delivered 60 country-level BACE inhibitor Pomaglumetad Aß MAb Fab PEG VEGFR1 MAb D1 potentiator Pan-Raf inhibitor diabetes NOTCH inhibitor BTK inhibitor methionil approvals for 44 new products or projects. Three Alzheimer’s Alzheimer’s diabetic dementia cancer cancer immunology important approvals in 2015 include Imrestor, disease schizophrenia disease nephropathy for mastitis in dairy cattle; Interceptor Plus, a N3pG-Aß MAb MET/EGFR BAFF/IL-17 chewable treatment for heartworm in dogs; and Angio 2 MAb IL-21 MAb Blosozumab FGFR3-ADC CXCR1/2L MAb Alzheimer’s hypoglycemia bispecific antibody bispecific antibody Osurnia, a novel, more convenient formulation cancer immunology osteoporosis cancer immunology disease cancer immunology to treat otitis externa in dogs. As of December 2015, the Elanco development pipeline includes CSF1R MAb 39 molecules or unique formulations, including diabetes Information is current as of February 14, 2016. The search for new medicines is risky and uncertain, and there cancer 10 in the final phase of development, and 45 molare no guarantees. Remaining scientific, regulatory, or commercial hurdles may cause pipeline compounds to ecule expansion or line extension projects, 24 of be delayed or to fail to reach the market. which are in the final phase of development. * Commercial collaboration ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 26 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact A BROAD, DEEP ALZHEIMER'S RESEARCH PROGRAM Our Alzheimer’s research program focuses on known hallmarks of the disease—amyloid one of the most urgent medical needs of our plaques and tau tangles in the brain—with time. More than 100 years after it was first potential medicines or diagnostics in every described by the German psychiatrist and clinical phase of development. And we conneuropathologist Alois Alzheimer, there is no tinue to explore new targets and mechanisms treatment available to slow or stop the proas the science evolves. gression of this devastating—and ultimately fatal—disease. We recognize the significant Our monoclonal antibody solanezumab burden this illness causes for patients, careis in Phase III development. In 2012, Lilly givers, and our society, and we are commitannounced top-line results from two Phase ted to finding ways that we can change and III trials of solanezumab in patients with modify the course of the disease. mild-to-moderate Alzheimer’s disease. Primary endpoints, both cognitive and funcAlzheimer’s disease is the sixth-leading tional, were not met in either trial; however, cause of death in the United States. By 2050, in a pre-specified secondary analysis of the number of Americans aged 65 and older pooled data in patients with mild Alzheimer's living with Alzheimer’s disease is expected disease, Lilly found a statistically significant to nearly triple to 13.8 million, and its costs slowing of cognitive decline—a 34 percent began treatment at a later point, further sugIn Phase III is a tau imaging agent, which in the United States alone could surpass reduction in decline in the treated group comgesting a potential disease-modifying effect. represents the most advanced molecule in our $1 trillion a year, unless there are medical pared to those who received placebo. pipeline aimed at the potential role of tau in During the fourth quarter of 2016, we expect Alzheimer’s disease. breakthroughs to prevent or more effectively initial Phase III data from the EXPEDITION3 treat the disease. These are the first Phase III results for an anti-amyloid beta agent to show a slowing trial of solanezumab in patients with mild Our N3pG antibody is in Phase I. This antibody We believe Lilly is well positioned to lead the of cognitive decline in patients with mild Alzheimer’s disease. selectively targets only deposited plaque in way in the development of new agents to atAlzheimer’s disease. The results encouraged the brain and is thought to work by binding to In late 2014, Lilly and AstraZeneca announced the plaque and stimulating the body’s natural tack Alzheimer’s disease. Lilly has been comus to start a third, more enhanced study, an agreement to co-develop and commercialize mitted to Alzheimer’s disease research and EXPEDITION3, that is currently ongoing and clean-up cells, the microglia, to remove it. an oral beta secretase cleaving enzyme Three additional potential treatments for development for more than a quarter century. has become a standard for the field. (BACE) inhibitor, AZD3293. The BACE inhibitor Our programs are based on deep understanding Alzheimer’s disease and dementia, including At the Alzheimer’s Association International is thought to work by reducing the amount of another BACE inhibitor, are in Phase I. of the disease biology, along with expertise amyloid beta proteins produced, so plaque in conducting clinical trials. We’ve explored Conference in July 2015, we presented findings from the two-year extension study accumulation is slowed. This is in contrast In addition to these molecules in our pipeline, countless molecules as potential leads and to solanezumab, which binds to amyloid beta we’ve launched Amyvid in the United States, sponsored clinical trials worldwide involving following the original EXPEDITION and EXPEDITION2 trials of solanezumab. The after it is produced, allowing it to be cleared Japan, and Europe. Amyvid is the first radiothousands of patients. And we’ve made signifibefore it clumps together to form amyloid active diagnostic agent indicated for brain cant scientific advances over the years. analysis suggested that the treatment effect of solanezumab was preserved in patients plaques. AZD3293 is currently in Phase II imaging of amyloid plaques in patients with Today we have a strong pipeline of potential with mild Alzheimer’s disease who received development, and if an interim safety analysis cognitive impairment who are being evaluated medicines and diagnostics targeting the two solanezumab earlier compared to patients who in the second quarter of 2016 is positive, it for Alzheimer’s disease and other causes of will move into Phase III testing. cognitive decline. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 27 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Looking Ahead Sustaining Our progress in 2015 and our strong pipeline today reflect Lilly’s unwavering commitment to innopeople who need them. Some of the ways we’re working to accomplish this include the following: in 2016 Innovation vation during the so-called “YZ” period of patent expirations on key • Science-driven adaptive programs that use analytics and products, as we increased our R&D modeling, along with patient investment through the period. input, to design clinical studies Our work in 2015 will continue to A critical strategic objective for We’re maintaining our commitand make decisions; bear fruit in the year ahead in terms Lilly is to sustain the flow of innoment to R&D in 2016, with in• Patient-centric tools and of potential regulatory approvals, vation, to advance our pipeline of creased investment in discovery approaches that make it easier new submissions, data readouts, potential medicines that meet imand new and expanded R&D for people to find, enroll, and and movement in the pipeline. portant medical needs and to drive facilities in New York, Boston, San participate in clinical studies; continued growth as currently Diego, and Indianapolis. We’ve In addition to FDA approval of Taltz • Continual improvement in the marketed products lose patent continued to hire experts in key for psoriasis, we anticipate addiquality of our clinical study protection. therapeutic areas to further entional regulatory approvals for designs during a study, rather ixekizumab in 2016, for psoriasis in Lilly has more than 8,000 employees hance the caliber of our research team. And we’re pursuing more than simply evaluating the study Europe and for both psoriasis and devoted to R&D. Our scientists comdesign after the fact; and psoriatic arthritis in Japan. bine deep knowledge of human early-stage opportunities through biology, disease, chemistry, and business development. • Ongoing improvements to our Several important trials are on track chemistry, manufacturing, and genomics with computer models to report data in the coming year. control processes to ensure a During 2016, we expect initial Phase III data from the EXPEDITION3 trial and the insights we’ve gained from people affected by disease to idenDeveloping Medicines smooth and flexible development process. of solanezumab in patients with mild Alzheimer’s disease. We also tify new potential medicines. Once a molecule is identified, it goes More Quickly Speed in developing new medicines through rigorous tests in our labs, Our investment in R&D is guided is vitally important to the future anticipate Phase III data this year followed by clinical testing at sites by a strategic redirection of our of our company. We’ve already for our CGRP monoclonal antibody all over the world, to understand if research focus toward producing seen years trimmed from planned in patients with cluster headache. it could potentially be effective and candidates for clinical development development timelines for several And we are expecting Phase II data safe when used in humans. During that possess a higher likelihood to important programs, and we are for abemaciclib, our CDK4 and 6 the drug development process, become medicines that are valstriving to do even more. inhibitor, as a single agent in pawe might conduct 10,000 experiued by patients. In addition, we’re tients with advanced breast cancer. ments to find one compound that changing the way we discover and has the potential to become a new develop medicines in order to bring medicine. new treatments even faster to the ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 28 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Innovative Collaboration Keytruda across multiple tumor types. And in October, we announced FINDING ALTERNATIVES TO KEEP ANIMALS HEALTHY: THE SCOPE OF THE CHALLENGE Some of the best scientific breakan expansion of our strategic alIn the next few decades, demand for animal protein will climb 60 percent2 as population increases throughs happen through collaboliance with Innovent Biologics to and the global middle class expands by three billion people.3 These numbers are important, ration. Particularly in today’s cominclude immuno-oncology bispecific because we’re already overusing the Earth’s resources, consuming about 1.6 times the natural antibodies in China and globally. resources we should use in a year.4 Delivering safe, sufficient, affordable protein to feed the plex healthcare environment, we growing population has never been at greater risk. must be innovative not only in our science, but also in the ways we work with scientists outside our Promoting Responsible The welfare of animals we rely upon to provide protein is also at risk. Today, we have emerging diseases on every continent, including avian influenza in the United States. Beyond that, nearly 3 walls to complement our internal efforts in finding and developing Use of Antibiotics in in 4 cattle experience symptoms of respiratory disease5 at some point in their life, and 1 in 6 dairy cattle experience mastitis6 in their productive life. It is the responsibility of the animal health new medicines. A good example is Lilly’s Open Innovation Drug DisFood-producing Animals industry to keep animals healthy and treat the ones that get sick while safeguarding antibiotics for future generations through responsible use. covery program, which provides According to the Centers for DisWe believe that it is important that regulations or policies do not move faster than available external researchers with a point ease Control and Prevention (CDC), science, which could jeopardize animal health as well as food safety and food security. Setting of entry into Lilly’s drug discovery antibiotic-resistant infections timelines without solutions could be dangerous, compromising animal welfare. Policies that process. sicken at least 2 million people require complete elimination of all antibiotics in animal production aren’t right for the animal, every year, with the vast majority and they aren’t right for the consumer either. We must take a pragmatic approach that doesn’t put Across our therapeutic categories of cases occurring in healthcare animals at risk. and business areas, we’re also engaging in selected business developsettings. But increasingly, public ment efforts. Some recent examples health experts are concerned that Antibiotic resistance occurs natuhealth division, are used on farms are collaborations in the immuthe more antibiotics are used, the rally over time, as bacteria deto help control, prevent and treat no-oncology space. In late 2015, Lilly more likely bacteria will continue velop resistant genes that are then disease in food-producing animals. and Merck announced extension of to evolve and create resistance, passed on to other bacteria. This Elanco believes that it is our inan existing collaboration to evalucreating new “superbugs” that can natural process can be magnidustry's responsibility to keep anate the combination of Alimta® with be much harder to treat. fied by the misuse and overuse of imals healthy, treat the ones that Keytruda® in a pivotal Phase III study The concern over the reduced antibiotics. get sick, and safeguard antibiotics in lung cancer, as well as a collaboeffectiveness of antibiotics is for future generations through Antibiotics, including those manuration to evaluate abemaciclib with real and needs to be addressed. responsible use—creating healthy factured by Elanco, Lilly’s animal 2 Food & Agriculture Organization (FAO). Development Outlook. OECD Development 5 Wittum, T. E., N. E. Woolen, L. J. Perino, cattle.” J. Am. Vet. Med. Assoc. 209:814– “World Livestock 2011: Livestock in Food Center. Working Paper No. 285. January and E. T. Littledike. 1996. “Relationships 818.8756886. Security.” Rome, 2011. 2010. among treatment for respiratory tract 6 Ruegg, Pamela L. “New Perspectives in 3 Kharas, Homi. “The Emerging Middle 4 www.overshoot.org. Global Footprint disease, pulmonary lesions evident at Udder Health Management.” Vet Clin Food Class in Developing Countries.” Global Network. slaughter and rate of weight gain in feedlot Anim 28 (2012) 149–163. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 29 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact food, ensuring the health of peoIn response to the ongoing conELANCO’S EIGHT-POINT ANTIBIOTIC STEWARDSHIP PLAN ple, and protecting the planet, versations around responsible a concept we refer to as “One antibiotic use, Elanco announced Health.” We are committed to a new antibiotic stewardship plan 1 Act with responsibility globally—not just according to U.S. regulation—by working with food producers and retailers to provide training and encourage policies that reduce working together with the human, that promotes the responsible use shared-class antibiotic use and increase veterinarian oversight. animal, and environmental health of antibiotics, reduces sharedcommunities to develop effective, class antibiotic use, and replaces sustainable solutions to the probantibiotics with alternatives. This 2 Cease marketing of growth promotion uses for shared-class antibiotics and complete full regulatory change to end growth promotion use of shared-class antibiotics globally lem of antibiotic resistance. includes developing separate types by the end of 2016. of antibiotics for humans and for Of particular concern in the antianimals. Animal-only antibiotics biotic resistance issue are “shared class” antibiotics used in both do not create a resistance threat 3 Help customers eliminate continuous use of shared-class antibiotics for therapy purposes by providing an alternative. to human health because of their humans and animals. As a result, animal-only designation, mode of the industry, under guidance by the U.S. Food and Drug Adminisaction, and spectrum of activity. 4 Eliminate over-the-counter sales of shared-class antibiotics globally—including injectable products—where veterinarian oversight exists. tration, has voluntarily limited use In 2016, Elanco will host an animal of shared-class antibiotics to the health accountability summit to therapeutic purposes of treating, provide a progress report on our 5 Eliminate concurrent use of shared-class antibiotics to treat the same disease. controlling, and preventing diseffort to deliver antibiotic altereases in animals under the supervision of a veterinarian. natives. Along the way, we will collaborate with customers, aca6 Support veterinary oversight and responsible use, including helping build infrastructure globally. demics, and appropriate regulatory At Elanco, we share the conauthorities, which will include cern over ensuring a sufficient, establishing an expert advisory 7 Develop new animal-only antibiotics. No animal should ever be treated with a sharedclass antibiotic if an animal-only option exists. Animal-only antibiotics optimize animal healthy food supply. In June 2015, panel. Finally, Elanco will collabowelfare without compromising human-use antibiotics. Elanco President Jeff Simmons rate with our industry association participated at the White House and other companies to advance Forum on Antibiotic Stewardship. this effort as quickly as possible. 8 Create alternatives. Elanco commits to invest two-thirds of our food-animal research budget to quickly evaluate 25 candidates and deliver 10 viable non-antibiotic development projects that address diseases where there are few, or no, alternatives to shared-class antibiotics (e.g., respiratory disease and enteric disease in cattle, swine, and poultry, and mastitis in cattle). ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 30 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Bioethics bioethics committee to systematically identify, evaluate, and comLilly Bioethics These individuals serve as resources for the company and are responsimunicate bioethics issues, and, in 2008, we became one of the Structure and ble for the program’s development, deliverables, and oversight. Bioethics—which focuses on the first pharmaceutical companies to create a Bioethics Program with Management In addition to this full-time effort, ethics of health care, biomedical employees from across the comdedicated full-time staff. We emThe Lilly Bioethics Program is an research, and public policy in pany participate in key bioethics brace a comprehensive approach independent organizational unit rebiomedical fields—is becoming an program activities beyond their to bioethics and offer a variety of porting to the chief medical officer increasing area of attention for the regular work responsibilities. resources and educational offerand includes a senior leader and pharmaceutical industry. These “extracurricular” activities ings to help employees navigate full-time staff members with pharrange from senior leaders who enethical scenarios and empower maceutical industry expertise and More companies are engaging in gage in a Bioethics Advisory Comthem to apply bioethics principles specialized training in bioethics. bioethics deliberation and making mittee to a network of employees in their daily work. their positions on related issues publicly available—largely because Equally, we believe in contributing LILLY’S COMPANY MISSION, VISION, AND VALUES of increasing transparency in our to, and advocating for, a strong industry, but also because of a bioethics practice across the pharBioethics Framework for Human Biomedical Research greater appreciation for the fact that maceutical industry. To help foster true bioethics goes beyond legal this wider focus on bioethics, we Basic Bioethics Principles Essential Elements for Ethical Biomedical Research compliance. Bioethics is the founengage external stakeholders Respect for persons Scientific validity dation for many research and develthrough presentations at profesBeneficence Social value opment regulations, but regulations sional and academic conferences; Non-maleficence Equitable selection of countries/communities cannot address all bioethics issues. publish papers to advance the bioand participants Justice ethics conversation in the industry Relationships with investigators and study sites We believe that bioethics is an as a whole; post and communicate Reasonable benefit-risk profile integral component of corporate our own bioethics position stateIndependent ethics review integrity and pharmaceutical ments; and serve on industry, acIncentives for research participants research and development exademic, and government commitcellence. In 1999, Lilly became Informed consent tees that address bioethics issues one of the first pharmaceutical Fair treatment of research participants related to biomedical research and companies to establish a standing Protection of privacy and confidentiality drug development. Fair access to post-study benefits Public transparency Stakeholder engagement ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 31 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact throughout the company who work sits within the context of our comTHE LILLY BIOETHICS FRAMEWORK IN ACTION to continually build their knowlpany’s mission, vision, and values. edge and skills through bioethics The framework doesn’t aim to The primary way for patients to gain access to investigational drugs (prior to commercial activities and projects. Learn more disrupt or contradict established, availability) is through clinical trials. These studies help determine the safety and efficacy of on our Bioethics Program website. foundational concepts of bioethics. medications, and they are medically and ethically necessary to protect and benefit current and Rather, it provides an approach future patients. However, sometimes people who may benefit from a medication are not able to that specifies and compiles a access it. For instance, the drug may still be undergoing study, and the person in need is unable Bioethics Framework sponsor’s bioethical responsibilito participate in a clinical trial. If the person has already exhausted other medications available to him or her and cannot wait for commercial availability of a new drug, Lilly may consider making ties to multiple stakeholders into Protecting individuals who particthe drug available to that person, using what is called “expanded access.” one resource. ipate in clinical studies has long Our framework provides a bioThe stakes are high. Because of the significant impact on current patients, drug development, been a high priority for our indusand future patients, a pharmaceutical company’s decision to grant expanded access must be try to ensure that the benefits of ethical foundation to inform our based not only on regulatory criteria, but also on ethical considerations. Lilly has employed our the research are accomplished decisions and actions related to bioethics framework to proactively identify important factors that impact expanded access deciwith respect for, and minimal risk biomedical research and to inform sions and to develop our bioethics position statement regarding expanded access. For more about to, individual research particicompany positions on bioethical Lilly’s approach, see the Expanding Access to Investigational Medications section of this report. pants and with an overall sense of issues. The framework helps transfairness. However, most bioethics late ethical aspirations into action so that our biomedical research is guidance has traditionally focused on the responsibilities of clinical conducted in a manner that aligns Our Positions on All of Lilly’s bioethics position statements are available on our investigators (physicians who conduct clinical trials) and ethics rewith broadly accepted ethics principles and with Lilly’s core values. Current and Emerging Bioethics webpage, including the two most recent statements we view boards. There has been a lack of guidance to comprehensively In 2015, we published two papers related to our bioethics frameBioethics Issues published in 2015 regarding scientific publications and presentations. address the bioethical responsibilLilly uses our bioethics framework work: one that presents the ities of industry sponsors (such as Lilly). To fill this void, Lilly instituted a Bioethics Framework for Human framework and another that both explains how we developed and when conducting ethical analyses to answer questions for Lilly emEngaging Employees Biomedical Research in 2010. implemented the framework and discusses our four years of ployees and to develop bioethics positions on relevant and emerging in Bioethics The Lilly Bioethics Framework experience with it. By sharing topics. We have developed a numWe strive to address bioethics consists of four basic principles these publications with external ber of position statements related issues proactively and make bioand 13 essential elements for constakeholders, we hope to stimulate to bioethics issues such as stem ethics discussions more informed ducting ethical human biomedical discussion that benefits the multicell research, pediatric medicine, and commonplace throughout research. The entire framework ple parties involved in pharmaceuand multinational clinical trials, our company. As we involve more tical human biomedical research. among others. employees in bioethics training, we ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 32 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact create a network of specialists and development, but questions Bioethics Week 2015 Participants work through a curcapable of relating bioethical thinking may also touch on interrelated In 2015, Lilly’s Bioethics Program riculum, participate in bioethics and knowledge back to different aspects of clinical ethics, business and our Animal Research 3Rs program activities, and develop a functional areas across the company. ethics, and organizational ethics. Initiative co-hosted a companywide project to help them respond to Most importantly, we encourage our week of awards, lectures, presenbioethics issues related to their We have conducted more than 250 employees to adopt ethics-focused tations, and discussions related to functional role in the company and consultations since 2008, when thinking, which is based on values bioethics. Our goals for the week the pharmaceutical industry. This we started collecting metrics, and and principles, in addition to were to increase awareness of biois just one way we’re increasing the have seen rising interest over the compliance-focused thinking, ethics and its implications for the number of employees throughout past several years—starting with which is based in legal regulation. pharmaceutical industry and Lilly, Lilly who make bioethics considerfive requests per year in 2008 and This kind of ethics-focused recognize those who have made ations a part of their daily work. increasing to approximately one thinking helps guide employees contributions throughout Lilly in per week by 2013. Results from a when they are faced with a situathis area, provide employees with survey conducted by bioethics staff tion that is not explicitly covered indicate that the consultation seran opportunity to engage with exOngoing Employee Training by regulation, such as continued perts in bioethics, and position Lilly In 2014, we introduced computervice is well regarded and viewed as access to an investigational to proactively address emerging based training courses to provide approachable, helpful, and responmedicine, stem cell research, or bioethics issues. For more about an overview of the bioethics prosive. The service increases awareimplications of providing individual our approach to animal research, gram at Lilly and the resources ness about bioethics, empowers results to clinical trial patients. see the Animal Care and Use available to help our employees employees to raise bioethics section of this report or visit our effectively navigate bioethics issues. concerns, and helps them reason Animal Care and Use webpage. The training is mandatory for our through challenging issues. Bioethics Consultations medical directors and clinical Since 1999, the Bioethics Advisory For more information, read “A research physicians and scientists, Committee has offered a consultPharmaceutical Bioethics ConsulBioethics Leadership and we are in the process of ing service, providing a forum for tation Service: Six-Year Descriptive expanding the training to help Lilly employees to ask questions Characteristics and Results of a Academy (BELA) familiarize more employees with and seek advice regarding bioethEmployees who are selected to our overarching bioethics frameFeedback Survey”—an article about ics and research ethics issues. participate in BELA dedicate a work and how it applies to their work. our experience with consultations The primary focus of the consultaportion of their working time to and the benefits we’ve seen as a tions is pharmaceutical research bioethics training for nine months. result of our consultation service. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 33 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Transforming Lilly also considers how we can provide mutual value to others, either by sharing information, as Clinical Trials appropriate—for instance, with patients who can then return to their healthcare providers more informed and empowered by their Clinical trials are foundational to participation in a clinical trial—or our ability to get new medicines by supporting research models to patients. These studies not only that also aid healthcare organidetermine whether treatments are zations’ goals to reduce costs, safe and effective, but often genimprove clinical outcomes, and erate a wealth of information that increase patient satisfaction. can help to guide further research and potentially help identify future treatments. Of course, for clinical Creating Patient-Centric The Lilly TrialGuide website helps patients learn more about clinical trials and what participants can expect. trials to be successful, we need people to participate. Clinical Trials At Lilly, we want to do everything We’re also working to develop a Every medicine in use today went we can to connect with patients web-based platform that can be To encourage participation in through a series of clinical trials. who would be good candidates for customized for each clinical trial. trials, we’ve focused our efforts on For patients, clinical studies presone of our studies. Yet we know that When the platform is complete, understanding the biggest barriers ent an opportunity to play a more sometimes patients are confused potential participants will be able that prevent or deter people from active role in disease manageabout clinical trials or are simply to use the online interface to get taking part. We then use this critment and to contribute to scienunable to find a trial suitable to more in-depth information about a ical information to try to improve tific advancements for the benefit their situation. In response, in particular study to better underthe clinical trial experience— of future generations. Watch this 2015, we launched Lilly TrialGuide. stand their commitment before including making it easier for pavideo to see what the experience This website is devoted to helping agreeing to participate, including tients to find clinical studies, being was like for four volunteers who patients understand what clinical answers to questions such as these: transparent about trial outcomes, participated in a Lilly study and trials are, how they work, and what and increasing the diversity of par• What is the timeframe of their subsequent realization about to expect as a potential participant. ticipants across our studies. We the study? the importance of clinical research It includes a friendly search engine also look for ways to inspire study • How many visits will be required beyond their own needs. patients can use to find Lilly clinical participants to become advocates and how often? trials for their condition. for clinical research and encourage others to enroll in clinical trials. • What should I expect to happen during my visits? ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 34 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact We created an early version of this those who do participate have a We are working to deliver an PATIENT PARTICIPATION IN tool for our Duchenne muscular positive experience and would easy-to-understand summary of CLINICAL TRIALS dystrophy trial in 2014. We plan consider participating in another clinical trial results for Phase II–IV to roll out an automated platform research study. studies that have received that additional clinical trial teams approval as of October 2015 to Top perceived risks reported by the public Ironically, a majority of patients of joining a trial* can use in 2016. move forward with their intended also do not talk to others about plan of study. These summaries There are numerous reasons why their positive experience. One reaPossibility of side effects: will be written in patient-friendly people do—and do not—participate son might be that patients aren’t 43% language using simple, everyday in clinical trials. A general lack of armed with the right information. terms; be translated into local lanawareness among patients In fact, 90 percent of study particPossible risks to overall health: guages spoken where the studies regarding their ability to participate ipants say they would like to know 26% take place; and made available for in trials is a major issue. Once the results of the clinical trial they research sites and study particpatients are aware of a clinical took part in.7 However, 91 percent ipants on Lilly TrialGuide. This trial, several barriers may prevent never hear back from the study Factors most likely to influence a paresource is in addition to the more them from enrolling, including fear staff or sponsor.8 We’ve found that tient’s decision to participate in a trial** technical results that Lilly has of side effects, concerns that the patients who participate in clinical been posting on ClinicalTrials.gov new treatment won’t be as good as trials are often ready to become If I thought the drug/treatment for all of our studies since 2004. what they are currently receiving, great advocates for the process, would help me: Learn more about our committhe possibility of receiving a placebo but the industry has not enabled 86% ment to transparency of clinical treatment, and the extra burden of this. When participants do not trial results in the Ethics and study participation. receive information on a study’s If I thought a study drug might cure me: Transparency section. outcome, they may become disil84% People who volunteer for a clinical lusioned about future clinical trial Lilly is committed to providing trial and have a positive experience participation and fail to grasp the education and opening discusIf my doctor recommended it: are more likely to adhere to the role they can play to help advance sion on clinical trials to advance 83% study protocol, complete their medicine. Lilly hopes to activate innovation, raise awareness, and intended study participation, and their advocacy through transparencourage participation. Visit the potentially be more positive when * The Center for Information and Study ency with our own studies. Lilly Trials website to learn more on Clinical Research Participation. 2015 talking with others about their and join the conversation. Perceptions & Insights Study: “Report on clinical study experience, which Public Perceptions.” 7 Shalowitz and Miller. 2008. PLoS Medimay speed enrollment in future cine. 5:714-720. ** The Center for Information and Study on Getz et al. 2012. Expert Rev. Clin. PharmaClinical Research Participation. 2015 Perstudies. In fact, the majority of 8 col. 5(2):149-156. ceptions & Insights Study: “Report on the Decision to Participate.” ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 35 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Increasing Diversity This is why it’s critical for Lilly to have diverse representation in LILLY EMPLOYEES HELP BUILD DIVERSITY IN CLINICAL TRIALS in Clinical Trials clinical trials—to gain the insights necessary to make medicines that Many of Lilly’s employees participate in employee resource groups (ERGs). These groups provide for personal relationship building and professional networking and serve as a source The impact of disease isn’t the will be the most effective for all of camaraderie, celebration, and support. They also deepen understanding across Lilly that the same for everyone. Research people who use them. differences in heritage, life experience, and culture reflected in our employee base are strengths has shown that health disparities that make our company dynamic and that increasingly have direct ties to our business impact. Unfortunately, minority populaTwo of Lilly’s ERGs have recently played significant roles in programs that are helping to increase exist between different ethnic and tions have historically and consisthe diversity of our clinical trials. racial groups. In the United States, tently been underrepresented in members of minority groups often clinical trials. As a result, importsuffer a disproportionately higher ant information about how mediRebuilding Trust With incidence of certain diseases and cines work in minority populations Minority Communities health-related events, such as is not always available. stroke and diabetes, compared Lilly’s longest-standing ERG, the Lilly African with whites. For example, we know In response, Lilly has developed a American Network (AAN), boasts more than that African Americans are almost clinical trial diversity strategy to 800 members. Knowing the need that exists twice as likely to be diagnosed with better understand patient diffor greater diversity in clinical trials, but also diabetes as non-Hispanic whites, ferences that may affect clinical recognizing a lack of trust within the African and Hispanics are almost twice as outcomes and to help increase the American community around medical research, likely as non-Hispanic whites to be enrollment of racially and ethnithe AAN proposed a collaboration between diagnosed with diabetes.9 Gender cally diverse populations in U.S. Lilly and the National Center for Bioethics plays a role as well—rheumatoid clinical trials. The ultimate goal of in Research and Health Care at Tuskegee arthritis, osteoporosis, multiple our clinical trial diversity strategy University. The focus: to work together to build sclerosis, and certain cancers, is to improve health outcomes for a better understanding of the lack of diversity among other conditions, afflict individual patients. The strategy in clinical trials today and the need for greater women more often than men.10 includes the following actions: African American representation in the clinical trial population to help ensure that African Responses to medicines can vary • Translating patient materials into Americans benefit equitably from advances in depending on a number of factors, Spanish, health research. In late 2015, Lilly signed an including someone’s genetic back• Providing physician-education agreement with Tuskegee as a direct result ground, ethnicity, sex, and lifestyle. of AAN’s work. We are now working with materials that include backTuskegee to develop a comprehensive plan, ground on the different needs of 9 Diabetes data from The Office of Minority which will include research, education, and distinct patient groups, Health. Accessed January 2016. community engagement. 10 PhRMA, “Facts About Diseases/ • Partnering with advocacy organiConditions Affecting Women.” Accessed December 2015. zations to raise awareness about ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 36 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Expanding Clinical Trials in the Middle East health disparities and the need enrollment in clinical trials when a for diversity in clinical trials, lack of diversity among the physiRecognizing the important role of global representation in gathering clinical data about our • Actively recruiting investigators cians conducting the trials exists. medications from different regions of the world, our Lilly Africa, Middle East, and Central Asia to work with diverse patient popWhen there is less minority rep(Lilly AMECA) ERG worked in 2015 to establish key connections between our emerging markets ulations, and resentation among physicians in business area and our global clinical operations group. Late that year, our Global Clinical certain specialties, it makes it even Sourcing Committee endorsed elevating Saudi Arabia as a Tier 1 country for Lilly clinical trials, • Collaborating with researchers more difficult for us to increase which will result in an expansion of clinical research in the area through partnerships with local to find ways to improve trust the diversity of our investigators. investigators, medical schools, and healthcare centers. This policy ultimately will accelerate among minority populations (see the development of new medicines in general and result in bringing innovative medications more “Rebuilding Trust with Minority To help address this issue, Lilly quickly to Saudi Arabia. Communities”). partners with The Center for Drug Development and Clinical Trials The work our Lilly AMECA network did to shine light on this issue and build bridges between all at Roswell Park Cancer Institute the necessary parties played an important role in our decision to move forward, adding to the Training Minority Clinical to conduct workshops that train diversity of representation in our clinical trial portfolio and enriching the process of scientific inquiry. With the addition of Saudi Arabia, countries in the AMECA region now make up approxiTrial Investigators minority physicians to become One important variable in increasing clinical trial investigators. Our mately 25 percent of Lilly’s Tier 1 countries. the diversity of clinical trials is hope is that by increasing minority For more information about our ERGs, see the Workplace section of this report. increasing the diversity of the physicians’ participation, we will physicians who conduct the trials be able to increase the diversity (called “investigators”). Minority of clinical trial participants and physicians are more likely to care improve clinical research. for minority and non-English The workshops, titled “Reducing speaking patients. Unfortunately, Cancer Disparities through the the proportion of African American Training of a Diverse Workforce,” and Hispanic physicians has not are offered to oncologists across kept pace with population growth the country who hail from minority for these minority groups.11 Not groups. These training programs, only does this contribute to inthe first of their kind in the pharequalities in health and health maceutical industry, aspire to care overall, but it can also affect develop a broader base of diverse investigators who understand the 11 JAMA Internal Medicine, “Minority Phyprinciples of good clinical trial desicians’ Role in the Care of Underserved Patients: Diversifying the Physician Worksign and have the tools to conduct force May Be Key in Addressing Health trials that are relevant to underDisparities.” Published December 2013. represented populations. The Lilly AMECA Executive Team. Accessed January 2016. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 37 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Expert faculty help participants how we can replicate it in emergidentify the challenges of clinical ing markets to involve more local research, particularly in minority physicians in the studies taking and underserved populations, and place in those countries. As we provide advice and education for look to expand our clinical trials how to overcome these challenges more broadly in these regions, 95 Sites in the West 48 Sites in the Midwest 68 Sites in the Northeast through lectures, small breakout discussions, self-study, and one-on-one sessions. Participants we’re carefully considering important ethical questions related to post-trial care and availability receive ongoing mentorship from of medications before choosing workshop faculty long after the clinical trial sites. 50 Sites in the Southwest 141 Sites in the Southeast workshops end. In 2014 and 2015, we successfully trained a total of 39 minority physicians, and feedback from participants has been Expanding Access to very positive. We plan to continue Investigational offering the workshops, at a minimum, through 2019. Medications 7 29 Sites in Puerto Rico Beginning in 2016, participants in this program will benefit from hearing best practices from repPatients with life-threatening conditions sometimes seek access to medications not yet available Sites in Alaska and Hawaii resentatives of 20 clinical trial to the general public; an example sites we have identified as cenmight be a cancer patient who isn’t ters of excellence for their work responding to currently available DIVERSITY IN LILLY-SPONSORED CLINICAL TRIALS IN NORTH AMERICA (2015 SITES) in increasing diversity in clinical treatments and who is desperately studies. By gathering representasearching for something to combat To gain greater insight into the effectiveness of potential medications across a diverse poputives from these sites together, we his or her illness. These patients lation, Lilly works to increase minority participation in our clinical trials. Our goal is that every hope to advance the conversation have typically tried every approved study conducted with more than 25 clinical trial sites must select at least two sites meeting about how to improve the diversity treatment for their condition, but Lilly’s diversity criteria. of clinical trials across the United nothing has worked. States even further. A diverse clinical trial site means the patient population is greater than 25 percent non-CaucaWhenever possible, we encoursian. This map shows the number of sites in North America that meet this goal. Since we began Based on the success of the age patients seeking access to focusing on increasing minority participation in clinical trials, we have added more than 400 new U.S.-based investigator training investigational medications (medclinical trial sites with minority patient populations of more than 25 percent. program, we’re also considering ications still undergoing study) to ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 38 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact participate in clinical trials. These from external stakeholders, and the studies are the safest and best cumulative information we’ve gathopportunity for patients to access a ered from our oncology expanded medicine before it’s been approved access programs, which have profor broad use. In addition, robust vided us with important insight into data sets from clinical trials provide this issue. regulatory authorities with essential The decision to offer expanded information they need to evaluate a access is complex. We give careful new medicine and approve it to beconsideration to each request we come more widely available. In this receive—evaluating any alternative way, participation not only benefits therapies available and the benethe patients, but also contributes to fits and risks of using the investigreater scientific understanding of gational medication. In addition, we the disease and the specific mediwill only provide expanded access cation being studied. if the medicine is currently being However, sometimes people who studied in humans and if providing may benefit from a medication still the medicine for its requested use undergoing study don’t qualify for will not interfere with the initiation, a clinical trial and have already conduct, or completion of any curexhausted all other relevant medrent or upcoming clinical trials. ications available to treat them. In Lilly has a responsibility to ensure those cases, Lilly may consider prothat expanded access can be done viding an investigational medicine in a manner that upholds ethical outside of a clinical trial setting. We of expanded access program is an individual patient in response principles, such as fairness, procall this “expanded access.” developed in consultation with a to a physician’s request. This type moting good, and minimizing risk regulatory agency, such as the of expanded access is managed We have offered expanded acof harm for both current and fuU.S. Food and Drug Administraby the patient’s physician. cess to investigational oncology ture patients. If a specific situation drugs on a global scale since the meets all of our criteria, we offer tion (FDA). To learn more, visit our Expanded 1990s. However, in the last few two types of expanded access: • Individual Patient Expanded Access webpage and read Lilly’s years, we have been developing a Access: In rare cases, if a Cohort bioethics position statement on the • Cohort Expanded Access: Lilly Expanded Access of Investigational more formal position on expanded Expanded Access Program is not manages access for a group of Medicines. access due to our robust pipeline available, Lilly may still decide to patients who meet a specific set of medications, increased interest provide investigational medicine to of eligibility criteria. This type ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 39 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Assuring Quality The LQS is composed of an integrated system of standard business processes, as well as organiQUALITY ACROSS THE MEDICATION LIFE CYCLE Medicines We work tirelessly to make our medications safe and effective—from the early stages of design zational and governance controls and drug development through ongoing monitoring and understanding of the patient experience that are designed to assure once a medication is on the market. Attention to detail and rigorous quality control across many high-quality products across both interrelated areas of our company are necessary to ensure a high-quality product. our human health pharmaceutical Lilly was founded by Colonel Eli and animal health (Elanco) diviLilly in 1876 at a time when medsions. Our quality standards often icines were often ineffective and exceed regulatory requirements poorly manufactured. Lilly’s comfor our industry. At Lilly, we seek mitment to quality was ensured in ways to continuously improve our The Lilly Code, which served as the existing manufacturing processes company’s first mission statement and use these findings in the dein 1899. Today, our quality teams velopment of new medicines. work closely with groups across DESIGN DELIVER MONITOR the company to ensure our medicines are both safe and effective. Lilly Global Clinical Development Safety & Efficacy Data Safety Lilly’s Quality System Manufacturing Manufacturing & Product Development Product Complaints The mission of Lilly’s global Distribution At Lilly, we strive to make sound manufacturing team is to provide a reliable supply of high-quality Market Research Product Information Patient Experience quality decisions that are consistent with good science and current regmedicines. We are committed to ulatory and industry expectations manufacturing medicines that across all areas of our company. meet the following expectations: We do this within the framework Safety: We are committed to enof the Lilly Quality System (LQS). suring our medicines are manuThe LQS provides the foundational factured in an environment that quality requirements throughout is safe for our employees and the the product research, development, surrounding communities in which manufacturing, and commercialwe operate. ization life cycle (see graphic). ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 40 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Quality: We assure the quality of our medicines by developing them Approximately 10,400 individuals—about 25 percent of our Global Patient Safety using good science and manufacemployee base—compose Lilly’s global manufacturing Beginning with the discovery of a turing them within a regulatory potential new medicine, our goal framework that is consistent with organization. The group operates 30 company-owned sites on is to ensure that the benefits and high industry standards. four continents and manages relationships with more than risks of the medicines we market are continuously monitored and Value: Our global manufacturing organization consistently measures 200 contract manufacturing organizations in 45 countries. well-understood by regulators, performance and productivity healthcare providers, and patients against stringent standards and based on available information. LILLY’S WORK TO SECURE THE LEGITIMATE SUPPLY CHAIN 12 Lilly’s global patient safety organibest practices. We also continuously strive to improve our prodzation, consisting of more than 300 For many years, Lilly has used various types of anti-counterfeiting and tamper-evident technolophysicians, pharmacists, nurses, ucts using good science and Six gies as part of its overall strategy to protect patients. We are also putting applications in place Sigma methodology. and other professionals, is dedithat meet emerging pharmaceutical “track and trace” or “serialization” standards around the cated to the collection, monitoring, Environmental Stewardship: We globe. These applications are designed to help patients, pharmacists, and others determine if a evaluation, and reporting of safety given medicine is counterfeit or the authentic product. have transformed many of our information. manufacturing processes to imSerialization, which is the unique identification of individual packs of medications, is a particprove our environmental footprint ularly promising technology. As each batch of finished product is packaged, a globally unique in the areas of energy efficiency, serial number is assigned and physically marked on the product’s packaging in both a human Assessing the Benefits and waste minimization, and water readable form and as a two-dimensional barcode. To monitor the movement of individual packages reduction. Learn more about Lilly’s of medicine through the supply chain, these serial numbers can be recorded and electronically Risks of Medications linked to deliveries. These numbers can also be used by the pharmacy to verify that a serial number Well before a medicine is approved environmental stewardship. is valid prior to dispensing a given medicine to patients. by regulatory authorities, it is Our manufacturing employees rigorously assessed through caretake pride in their work, possess To help secure the legitimate supply chain for our products and meet these emerging global fully designed clinical trials to better a high level of technical skill, and requirements, Lilly has invested roughly $100 million to upgrade our packaging operations, distriunderstand its benefits (favorable bution centers, and information technology infrastructure around the world. Lilly is already supare deeply committed to supplying effects) and risks (unfavorable plying serialized product to multiple markets and will have full capability in late 2016 to supply high-quality medicines to people effects). The results of these studies to additional markets that require serialization. In addition, Lilly is working closely with industry around the world. are shared with regulators around groups, standards organizations, ministries of health, and other government functions to advocate for common serialization standards globally. In our view, these standardization efforts will help the world, such as the FDA in the doctors, pharmacists, and patients around the world trust the legitimacy of the medicines they United States, so they can conduct prescribe, dispense, and receive through this emerging technology. Watch a video to learn more. their own assessment before approving the drug for wider use. 12 The serialization efforts described here apply only to our human pharmaceutical business.  This activity is not required for our Elanco division due to the nature of the animal health business. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 41 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact When the regulatory agency apOn its own, however, all of this MANAGING AND MINIMIZING THE RISK OF TAKING MEDICATIONS proves a drug, it concludes that data does not predict whether an the drug’s benefits outweigh its individual patient will specifically The safety information of a medicine is communicated through the medication label, which risks for the conditions outlined benefit from a particular medihealthcare professionals use to understand the risks prior to prescribing drugs to patients. on the product label and that cine. Once patients begin using the Patients can also refer to the label, or to the less-technical medication guide provided with our there is a public health benefit medication, they are monitored by products, to understand the potential risks associated with taking a specific medication. from the medication. their healthcare professionals to In addition, Lilly develops risk management plans (RMPs) for our medications. The RMP outlines evaluate how the drug actually the specific plan to further understand the safety profile of that product. It also outlines, when In addition, we formally evaluperforms. Even as physicians applicable and in addition to information in the label, how Lilly plans to go about minimizing the ate the benefits and risks of our become experienced at identifying most severe known or potential risks that may be associated with the medication. For example, medicines on an ongoing basis individual patients who will more it may require training for physicians that will teach them what specific actions should be taken throughout their life cycles. Our likely benefit from a specific drug to lessen certain risks. After a drug receives approval and is made available to patients, the RMP benefit-risk assessments take into therapy, it is still not always poscontinues to be updated as additional information becomes available that impacts the safety account new or emerging safety, sible to predict whether the drug profile or benefit-risk balance of the product. Updates are submitted to regulatory authorities. efficacy, and effectiveness informawill have the expected therapeutic tion, together with existing product benefit or whether side effects will knowledge, to present a structured, critical analysis of the cumulative occur in an individual patient. Collecting Safety Information clinical trials, Lilly continues to carefully monitor for new safety benefit and risk information. Lilly collects, monitors, and evalThroughout the Life Cycle findings. In fact, the monitoring uates the benefits and risks of our of a Medication increases—through collection of medications and takes steps to Learning how individual patients information from post-marketing BALANCING BENEFITS & RISKS communicate and minimize those react to a medication is essential clinical studies, published scientific OF MEDICATION risks while maximizing benefits to for the ongoing development of articles, adverse event databases, the patients who use them. We play better treatment practices. Often, and spontaneous adverse event an essential role in making sure that side effects can only be observed reports voluntarily submitted by healthcare professionals have the BENEFITS RISKS after a medication has been aphealthcare professionals and pamost current safety information so proved and used across a large, tients who are using a medicine. In EFFICACY they can make decisions about how diverse patient population for an addition, we monitor the impact of and when a drug should be used extended period of time. our medications, including reports and how they should monitor paof the following: CONVENIENCE SAFETY For this reason, safety evaluation tients for potential adverse events. does not stop when a medication • Outcomes of use of a medicaLIFE EFFECTS TOLERABILITY reaches the market. After the tion during pregnancy (matercompletion of pre-marketing nal and paternal exposure) and breastfeeding ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 42 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact • Lack of drug effect • Off-label use • Overdose, abuse, and misuse • Medication error • Suspected transmission of infection agents • Potential adverse events associated with product complaints. Lilly collects adverse event reports from all over the world and enters the information into a common electronic database to further evaluate the safety and risks of our medications. New safety findings and emerging concerns are shared openly with regulators and healthcare providers to appropriately manage risks associated with the use of our medicines. We also work diligently to combat drug counterfeiting, which poses serious health threats to patients. RESPONSIBLE USE OF MEDICATIONS The Patient Safety section of Lilly’s website is available to educate key Prescription medications are potent products designed to fight illness and promote an improved quality of life. When properly used, prescription external stakeholders about the medications can effectively treat diseases and provide relief from chronic conditions—transforming health and saving lives. Unfortunately, nearly any role the pharmaceutical industry, prescription medication can be misused or abused. When people fail to use these products as prescribed, there is not only a risk of ineffective treatment regulators, physicians, and patients but also a significant potential for harm due to overdose. These safety concerns can be compounded if products are obtained without a prescription or play in ensuring medicines are safe outside of the secure, legitimate supply chain, where counterfeit or adulterated products might be introduced. and effective. Lilly collects and reports misuse and abuse of our products as part of our ongoing efforts to monitor our medications for patient safety. We review these cases on a regular basis and provide reports related to individual cases or in aggregate, depending on the situation, to regulatory authorities. We also partner with organizations, such as Indiana’s Prescription Drug Abuse Prevention Task Force, created by the Indiana Attorney General’s Office, to promote the safe use of prescription medications, and we work with government and non-government agencies to curb misuse and accessibility to counterfeit or other substandard medications. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 43 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact PHARMACOVIGILANCE: THE CONTINUOUS MONITORING OF PRODUCT SAFETY Lilly collects, monitors, and evaluates safety information throughout the life cycle of each medication. This system is designed to maintain and evaluate the product’s benefit/risk profile. When important safety issues arise, Lilly communicates them to doctors, patients, and regulatory agencies in various ways depending on the nature of the adverse event. Drug Discovery Pre-Approval Clinical Trials Post-Approval Clinical Trials and Real-World Use Safety Information gathered during Adverse event information Individual adverse event reports from the public, including Data toxicology studies/animal collected and reported patients, healthcare providers, and pharmacists research to Lilly throughout the Post-marketing clinical and non-clinical studies and course of the trials Published information epidemiological studies about drugs in the same Scientific and medical literature pharmacological class Lilly's Action Create an initial drug safety Update the drug Depending on the nature of the event: profile for use during safety profile Follow-up with doctors and patients to understand reported clinical trials Create summary of safety adverse events information for product Continuous monitoring of reported adverse events to find trends safety label and evaluate key safety issues Collaboration with regulators to share information Updates to product safety label Additional safety communications as necessary Additional post-marketing clinical trials and safety studies Notifications to regulators ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 44 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Improving Global Health p46 M  ore than Medicines: Lilly's Commitment to Global Health p48 Lilly Global Health Programs p54 A  ddressing Diabetes in China: Lilly Expanding Access for People (LEAP) p56 Hunger Relief p59 Product Donations p61 Patient Programs ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 45 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Our primary contribution to global health comes through the medicines that we discover, research, and bring to market. But despite the progress made in More than one of the non-communicable diseases (NCDs) now affecting hundreds of millions of people, medical science by Lilly and others over the past few decades, as well as the new medicines, diagnostic tools, and other technical advances that are now available, Medicines: Lilly's and the Lilly MDR-TB Partnership, begun 13 years ago, focuses on Commitment to we recognize that too many people still do not have access to quality health care. hard-to-treat multidrug-resistant tuberculosis. Through both At Lilly, we have long used traditional philanthropy to help people in immediate programs—working alongside need, and we will continue to do so. But these efforts, vital though they are, are simply no match for the scale of deeply rooted healthcare challenges that affect Global Health our partners—we research community-based models of people around the globe, especially in lowand middle-income countries. We health care, report data, and share recognize that different thinking and new solutions are needed. lessons learned with governments, Lilly product donations help experts, and other decisionmakers Accordingly, our work today in global health is broad and uses a variety of thousands of people each year to inform policymaking and to approaches—from product donations, to public-private partnerships, to a new around the world, especially in advocate for proven, cost-effective initiative based on the concept of shared value aimed at improving diabetes care times of disaster. Our patient in China. Our global health portfolio also includes the hunger relief efforts of assistance programs provide free our animal health division, Elanco. Elanco’s initiatives are closely tied with its or reduced-price medicines to those who cannot afford to pay. In business focus of contributing to a safer, more affordable, and more abundant food 2015, we donated more than $500 supply. Knowing that good nutrition is a key element of good health, Elanco has million in Lilly medicines. SHARED VALUE INITIATIVE chosen to focus on reducing the burden of hunger globally, as well as in our home But we recognize that our recity of Indianapolis. We are a member of the Shared Value Initiative, sponse must go beyond donating a global community of organizations, including In addition, we support a variety of patient programs around the globe, offering medicines alone—especially in companies, civil society, and government, information and support for those dealing with different disease states and areas where healthcare systems committed to driving the adoption and struggle to meet the demand implementation of strategies that create illnesses. Through these programs, Lilly works with our partners to make for services. Through two flagmeasurable business value by identifying and healthcare systems more accessible and effective and to educate the newly ship initiatives, we are working addressing social problems that intersect with diagnosed or those already receiving care, along with their caregivers and families, to address healthcare system business interests. The Lilly NCD Partnership to improve health outcomes. challenges in areas with limited and Lilly Expanding Access for People (LEAP) resources. Our Lilly NCD Partnerare two Lilly initiatives created through a ship currently focuses on diabetes, shared value lens. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 46 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact solutions to be adapted, replicated, passion—we can make far greater LILLY'S RESEARCH, REPORT, AND ADVOCATE APPROACH and scaled to benefit more peoprogress, even faster. ple. Our newest initiative in China, By using an evidence-driven approach—Research, Report, and Advocate—in the Lilly NCD PartTo guide our partners and us, we Lilly Expanding Access for People nership and the Lilly MDR-TB Partnership, we are working to amplify the richness, reach, and use an evidence-driven framework (LEAP), combines our diabetes eximpact of our efforts and to generate lasting value for people, societies, and our company. that we call Research, Report, and pertise with on-the-ground healthAdvocate. The goal of this approach We research new models of comprehensive health care, collect robust outcomes data, report care provider training to bring is to develop and demonstrate broadly what works and what doesn’t, and then advocate the replication and scale up of the best effective care for diabetes closer solutions to benefit people on a wider scale. We do this by sharing our results with governments sustainable models of care that to the communities where the maand the wider global health community, both globally and in our focus countries. improve outcomes for people and jority of affected people are living. strengthen healthcare systems. Research: pilot models of comprehensive health care with embedded data collection on Our programs collect valuable data health outcomes; Working in Partnership that is helping governments and other key stakeholders to make Report: share health outcomes data and lessons learned with governments, experts, and other better-informed healthcare decidecisionmakers to inform policy decision-making; Our global health programs are designed and managed in partsions and to replicate and scale Advocate: use outcomes data to inform decision-making and advocate with our partners for nership with experts and organiup proven approaches. Ultimately, broader use of proven, cost-effective solutions. zations in the communities where we seek to be a catalyst for ideas, In addition to sharing with governments and health experts, we post our project results online. we operate, each of whom brings solutions, action, and results. unique insights, capabilities, ideas, and passion. We are privileged to work side-by-side with them. ToLILLY GLOBAL HEALTH PROGRAMS: CREATING VALUE FOR PEOPLE, SOCIETIES, AND LILLY gether, we are working to improve access to care, strengthen healthcare systems, and support at-risk populations. Our primary goal is What Where How to develop fact-based solutions Developing community-based Working in Brazil, China, India, Using an evidence-driven approach— that improve health outcomes and create lasting value for people, healthcare models to improve health Mexico, Russia, and South Africa, Research, Report, and Advocate—to societies, and Lilly. outcomes, build capacity, and with nearly 50 well-respected global, inform policymakers and bring benefit enable access to quality care for national, and local partners, each conto as many people as possible Through strategic public-private partnerships—with each orgapeople with diabetes or MDR-TB in tributing its own expertise to collecnization applying its unique inresource-limited settings tively strengthen healthcare systems sights, capabilities, ideas, and ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 47 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Lilly Global NCD-related deaths—some 28 million a year—occur in lowand middle-income countries. IMPROVING ACCESS TO QUALITY CARE WHERE NEEDS ARE GREATEST Health Programs The impact of NCDs has emerged as a major challenge in settings where healthcare systems have historically been oriented toward Our global health programs—the care for other priority healthLilly NCD Partnership and the Lilly care needs, such as infectious MDR-TB Partnership—make life diseases and maternal and child better for people around the world health. Amid scarce resources by increasing sustainable access and competing healthcare systo quality care for people with tem demands, many people with diabetes or multidrug-resistant NCDs in these countries are tuberculosis (MDR-TB) in diagnosed late—if at all. And for Lilly NCD Partnerships Lilly MDR-TB Partnerships Both Partnerships resource-limited settings. Learn those who are diagnosed, care more by watching this video. can be highly variable. These disBrazil China India Mexico Russia South Africa eases not only take lives but also Diabetes 12M 69M 11M 3M NCDs—The Leading diminish opportunities—as they often affect adults in their prime MDR-TB * Number of cases as of 2014 51K 62K ** 36K M = million, K = thousand 26K Cause of Death income-earning years. All too often, families face lost income, Worldwide potentially catastrophic healthcare expenditures, and, ultimately, the these diseases. The WHO Global Action Plan for the Prevention Non-communicable diseases loss of loved ones while societies and Control of NCDs 2013–2020 (NCDs)—such as diabetes, carmust bear the costs of care and provides a road map and a menu diovascular disease, cancer, and lost productivity. of policy options for cross-sector chronic respiratory diseases— Following the United Nations collaboration aimed at a 25 perimpact individuals and societies High Level Meeting on NCDs in cent reduction in premature around the world. Accounting for 2011, global health organizations, deaths from NCDs by 2025. We 63 percent of all deaths worldwide, governments, the private sector, at Lilly, and many others, believe VIDEO Lilly Global Health Programs they have particularly devastating and other stakeholders have been that millions of lives can be spared effects in many poor countries. mobilizing to address the human, through meaningful and coordiIn fact, almost three-quarters of financial, and societal toll of nated action. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 48 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact The Lilly NCD South Africa—four countries with high rates of diabetes and where Partnership significant unmet needs for access to diabetes care exist. But each $30M Responding to the global NCD of these countries has unique challenge requires new ways of challenges in this area related $30 million commitment Focused on improving diabetes thinking and collaborations on an to the structure of its healthcare Launched in 2011 over 5 years (2012-2016) health outcomes unprecedented scale. Private secsystem and national priorities, so tor organizations, like Lilly, have a we worked with our partners to critical role to play in these efforts. design and implement programs After consulting with key global that address relevant gaps. health stakeholders at the interEach of our partners is highly national, national, and local levels, regarded at the local, national, Focusing on 4 countries with Lilly determined that we could proand/or international level and Leveraging Lilly's Research, high diabetes and NCD burdens: Partnering with 7 leading global vide the greatest contribution by foReport, and Advocate brings critical capabilities and Brazil, India, Mexico, health organizations cusing on diabetes. For more than framework expertise. Through our annual South Africa 90 years, Lilly has been a worldLilly NCD Partnership summit, wide leader in pioneering diabetes we actively share approaches, solutions. Given our history, deep OUR PARTNERS findings, and outcomes that allow expertise, and current product our partners and us to continually portfolio and pipeline, diabetes was learn from one another. a natural choice as the focus of the Lilly NCD Partnership. In 2011, we launched the Lilly NCD Partnership 2015 NCD Partnership Highlights with an initial five-year commit• Improved access to quality care for ment of $30 million. diabetes in Mexico: Use of insulin Today, we are partnering with increased by 30 percent or more Brazil India Mexico South Africa seven leading health organizain two states where the CASALUD Institute for Children Public Health Carlos Slim Donald Woods tions in Brazil, India, Mexico, and model was implemented by with Diabetes Foundation of India Foundation Foundation our partner the Carlos Slim Foundation, as healthcare providMedical Foundation Population Services Project HOPE ers developed better capacity to of Rio Grande do Sul International initiate and manage patients who Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul Project HOPE were previously poorly controlled on oral medicines. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 49 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact • Increased identification of diabetes and hypertension cases in India: The Lilly MDR-TB “In the early 1990s, it had basically been declared that MDR-TB couldn’t be treated in developing countries. Partners In Health Through the UDAY campaign, run by our partner the Public Health Partnership Foundation of India, with supbegan treating patients in the slums of Peru, and we were able Tuberculosis (TB), often mistaken port from Population Services as a disease of the past, continues to show that you can treat it. And then we realized that one of International and Project HOPE, to plague millions of people around more than 50,000 people have the world. While preventable and the problems was high drug prices. So we went to Eli Lilly and been screened for diabetes and hypertension, 13,500 of whom curable, TB ranks alongside HIV as Company, and those guys were incredible. They actually helped the leading cause of death from an were referred for treatment. infectious cause worldwide, with us lower the price of the drugs for drug-resistant TB from about A detailed mapping has been completed in the two commu1.5 million deaths in 2014. When left untreated or under-treated, $30,000 a year to about $1,000 a year. And we actually convinced nities where UDAY is based—a TB can spread rapidly and evolve the world to lift this death sentence and treat drug-resistant TB.” first-ever achievement increasinto drug-resistant forms. In ing understanding of how envi– Dr. Jim Yong Kim, M.D., Ph.D., President, The World Bank Group, formerly with Partners In Health 2014, the World Health Organironmental factors (e.g., access to zation (WHO) reported 480,000 open space, the location of health new cases of multidrug-resistant facilities and pharmacies, as well TB (MDR-TB)—which is harder to as the location of fast-food outdiagnose and treat than druglets and tobacco outlets) impact sensitive TB and which has signifithe well-being of populations at cantly poorer cure rates. Adding to risk for diabetes. the problem, each year an esti• Scaling up type 1 diabetes care mated 3 million people with TB are in Brazil: The juvenile diabetes “missed” by healthcare systems education course developed in that fail to accurately diagnose our partnership with the Institute and treat them. for Children with Diabetes is Lilly has been actively working poised for national scale up to to stem the tide of MDR-TB for reach thousands more children with diabetes. Plans for the next phase of the Lilly NCD Partnership will be announced in late 2016. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 50 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact more than a decade. Partnering of the first companies to mass LILLY MDR-TB PARTNERSHIP PHASES with global, national, and local TB produce penicillin. Throughout stakeholders around the world, we the 20th century, Lilly launched Phase I (2003–2007): Launched in 2003 with an initial commitment of $70 million, the Lilly have targeted our efforts, including a number of antibiotics, including MDR-TB Partnership sought to reduce the burden of MDR-TB by transferring the technology these, for the greatest impact: two TB antibiotics, capreomycin needed to manufacture medicines and by elevating awareness of MDR-TB on the global stage. and cycloserine. As TB cases • Healthcare provider training Phase II (2007–2011): In 2007, Lilly expanded the duration and scope for the Lilly MDR-TB Partwaned in the late 1980s and early and healthcare systems nership by committing an additional $50 million to the collaboration to complete the technology 1990s, demand dwindled for many strengthening; transfer and to further strengthen awareness, prevention, and care. We also committed another TB medicines. $20 million for early drug discovery efforts. • Improved access to safe, effective TB medicines; and By the late 1990s, however, MDR-TB Phase I & II key accomplishments: arose as a significant global health • TB medicine discovery. issue with few therapy options. • Transferred Lilly antibiotic manufacturing technology to seven companies to increase availIn close collaboration with govAfter independent researchers ability of MDR-TB medicines and improve standards of care ernment and healthcare organizafound that capreomycin and • Launched the Lilly TB Drug Discovery Initiative tions, the Lilly MDR-TB Partnership cycloserine were effective as part • Provided $20 million in funding for TB drug discovery focuses on countries with the of a broader “cocktail” of medicines • Strengthened the capacity of more than 100,000 healthcare professionals to better highest MDR-TB burdens: China, in treating multidrug-resistant recognize, diagnose, and treat MDR-TB and to provide care and support to people with India, Russia, and South Africa. TB, Lilly doubled production and MDR-TB and their families While our programs are primarily subsidized prices of the medicines. • Distributed guidelines and toolkits to more than 45,000 hospitals and clinics based in these four countries, our Nevertheless, with global demand • Educated, trained, and partnered with more than 350 journalists to increase and improve Research, Report, and Advocate projected to quickly outpace media coverage of TB and MDR-TB approach enables us to share manufacturing capacity, Lilly findings with governments and sought a longer-term solution for Phase III (2012–2016): The Eli Lilly and Company Foundation provided an additional $30 million experts in other countries facing people needing these medicines. for the third phase of the partnership. During this phase, the partnership is targeting four of the similar MDR-TB challenges. highest-burden MDR-TB countries—China, India, Russia, and South Africa. In 2003, after close consultation with global TB experts, Lilly Three key areas of focus: embarked on an ambitious apThe Evolution of the Lilly proach: transferring our manufac• Healthcare provider training and healthcare systems strengthening • Improved access to safe, effective medicines MDR-TB Partnership turing technology and know-how Our MDR-TB Partnership was • TB medicine discovery for capreomycin and cycloserine initiated in 2003 and is closely free-of-charge to seven manufacPhase IV: Plans for this next phase of the Lilly MDR-TB Partnership will be announced in late 2016. tied to Lilly’s pioneering legacy in turers located closer to the people addressing infectious diseases. needing these medicines. UltiIn the 1940s, we became one mately, this turned out to be more ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 51 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact INTERNATIONAL RECOGNITION ensure access to qualitythe voice of civil society in TB assured medicines; and support efforts, and collaboration with The work of the Lilly MDR-TB Partnership has been recognized at the international, national, and drug discovery efforts. the WHO to strengthen private local levels. Over the years, the Lilly MDR-TB Partnership has received awards or commendations sector engagement in TB care from several organizations and governments including the Clinton Global Initiative, International and control and to disseminate Chamber of Commerce, Global Business Coalition on Health, China Medical Association Tuberculosis The Lilly MDR-TB Partnership— best practices; Society, Russian Ministry of Health, Government of the Republic of Karelia, International Council of Nurses, and others. International Efforts • Playing a leading role in enIn addition to working in four suring a reliable supply of “MDR-TB hotspot” countries quality-assured second-line than a decade-long initiative. We MDR-TB. Given Lilly’s anti-infective during the third phase of the Lilly MDR-TB medicines, including have documented Lilly’s experience heritage and technical capabiliMDR-TB Partnership, we are support for the development and insights from this initiative in a ties, we believed we could make a working with leading international of a “data dictionary” that crewhite paper titled Seeking Solutions meaningful difference by working organizations and partners to adated common standards and to a Global Health Challenge. with leading global health experts vance global TB efforts, including definitions to improve access to find new long-term solutions. these activities: to quality-assured medicines We also produced a video discussing through better drug forecasting the experience. With the technology transfer already • Serving on several boards and and improved global drug supply; underway, we formally launched committees dedicated to reducing the global TB burden, including • Helping to raise awareness of the Lilly MDR-TB Partnership—our the WHO Public-Private Mix group, TB by supporting a global conlargest-ever philanthropic effort—in the WHO Europe Regional Collabcert organized by our partner 2003 with a $170 million commitorating Committee on TB Control TOPOLO for the past several ment. Using our Research, Report, and Care, the Stop TB Partnership years on World TB Day. and Advocate approach, we continue to develop and evaluate new eviPrivate Sector Delegation, and the VIDEO Lilly MDR-TB Technology Transfer dence-based models of care that can be adapted, replicated, and Global Fund Private Sector Delegation Advisory Group; TB Drug Discovery Efforts scaled to improve outcomes, reduce • Partnering at the global level Along with the work we do with Establishing a sustainable global costs, and help turn the tide against with the International Federation partners in the field, we are supsupply of these medicines was an MDR-TB around the world. of Red Cross and Red Crescent porting early-stage research for important first step. However, it Societies to provide on-thegreatly needed, new TB medicines was increasingly clear that more Throughout this effort, we have ground community solutions as an integral part of our MDR-TB comprehensive, long-term apworked with nearly 45 partners to in eight countries, the InternaPartnership. Most TB medicines in proaches were needed to address elevate TB on the global stage; intional Council of Nurses to train use today are at least 50 years old, the complex social, economic, and crease awareness, prevention, dinurses in 10 countries, the Stop take too long to work, and have medical issues associated with agnosis, and treatment outcomes; TB Partnership to strengthen potentially debilitating side effects. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 52 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact WHY CHINA? DIABETES GROWTH CREATES AN URGENT NEED FOR QUALITY CARE TB Drug Accelerator (TBDA): Lilly 2015 Lilly MDR-TB Partnership is a part of this ground-breaking collaboration launched in 2012 Highlights China Prevalence in China with an investment of $20 million • Improved access to MDR-TB diag(30%) 11.6% from the Bill and Melinda Gates nosis and care in India by working 9.7% Foundation. TBDA includes eight with pharmacists: Following TB training for 3,000 pharmacists, 422 million pharmaceutical companies and seven research organizations. TB case detection rates inglobal cases of 5.5% TBDA’s focus is to develop new creased by 7–12 percent in prodiabetes* TB drug candidates with novel gram geographies. 2.5% 1% mechanisms of action that could • Decreased incidence of TB in lead to a breakthrough TB drug Russia: TB incidence in Voronezh 1980 1994 2000 2007 2010 dropped to 33/100,000 compared regimen that cures patients in just 422 million people live with diabetes globally, and Best diabetes care and diabetes-trained healthcare one month. Although the primary to the national incidence of China already accounts for about 30% of global cases. providers are largely concentrated in large city objective is to shorten treatment 60/100,000, and TB mortality in Global cases are set to grow to 642 million by 2040.** and county hospitals, leaving millions living in duration, this work will also adVoronezh is now half the national smaller communities and rural areas in need. dress the issue of antimicrobial average. * Global Report on Diabetes 2015, World Health Organization ** International Diabetes Federation. IDF Diabetes Atlas, 7 ed. Brussels, Belgium: International Diabetes Federation, 2015 resistance. The partnership is • Improved access to MDR-TB care unique because it breaks from in South Africa: Our partnership is traditional research and develcredited with helping the national opment practices. The members department of health enact a Our efforts to find new cures for which is headquartered in Seatwork together to develop the best policy of decentralization to make TB include the Lilly TB Drug Distle. Lilly provided startup fundprospects, regardless of where the treatment available closer to pacovery Initiative and participation ing andhelped establish IDRI’s drug originated. The structures of tients’ homes. in the TB Drug Accelerator (TBDA). high-throughput screening and lead compounds identified through chemistry laboratories as well as the program will ultimately be • Implementation of electronic tools Lilly TB Drug Discovery Initiative: to manage MDR-TB drug supply: access to more than 800,000 moplaced in the public domain. This nonprofit, public-private The partnership is addressing lecular entities from our compapartnership was launched in the problem of poor drug foreny’s compound library. In addition, 2007 to accelerate early-stage casting and inventory manageseveral Lilly scientists volunteer drug discovery. Lilly’s lead ment to ensure that patients their time to assist IDRI in its dispartner is the Infectious Dishave access to uninterrupted covery efforts. ease Research Institute (IDRI), treatment. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 53 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Addressing unmanaged, diabetes can have devastating physical and eco“One of the biggest challenges we face is how to help nomic impacts on individuals, more people on this planet gain access to quality Diabetes in China: their families, communities, and governments. health care. Today our medicines are within reach for Lilly Expanding In China, diabetes has grown very quickly in recent years and already about two billion people. How might we reach the Access for People accounts for about 30 percent of other five billion?” global cases of the disease. While John Lechleiter, Ph.D., Lilly Chairman, President, and CEO (LEAP) large central hospitals typically provide high-quality diabetes care, capacity constraints at these larger hospitals result in people increasLEAP'S OBJECTIVE: SUSTAINABLY EXPAND EFFECTIVE ACCESS USING NEW COMMERCIAL MODEL ingly visiting smaller clinics located Diabetes is a major public health in communities and townships New patient segment Sustainable strategy problem that is sweeping the where the capacity to provide good Small county hospitals, community health Creating shared and lasting value for people, diabetes care is often lacking. To centers, township health centers communities, and Lilly world. According to the International Diabetes Federation, today address diabetes and other chronic more than 400 million people conditions, the Chinese governworldwide live with the disease, ment is focused on increasing the but this number is expected to quality of care for diabetes in the exceed 600 million by 2040. Left country’s community or township health clinics—and Lilly is as well. Lilly’s approach with LEAP is further explained in this video. LILLY'S LEAP INITIATIVE Innovative model Collaborative approach An integrated healthcare provider-patient Leading to real, replicable solutions What: An integrated framework of practical system aiding initiation, driving adherence healthcare provider training, comprehensive Healthcare system assistance for people with diabetes, and access to effective care including medicines. Provider administrators How: Address a critical gap: limited Patient Expert high-quality diabetes care in community and township health centers in China. VIDEO Lilly Launches New LEAP Project in China Lilly partners ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 54 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact With a rich heritage of developing A COLLABORATIVE APPROACH innovative diabetes medicines and solutions, Lilly has aligned with the Working with local partners to ensure long-term success Chinese government’s efforts to help more people with chronic ailments like diabetes and their communities through a new initiative called Lilly Expanding Access for People (LEAP). LEAP is being implemented across China, and, as of early 2016, is active in 13 provinces. LEAP is designed to create shared and lasting value for individuals, their families, and communities, as well as for Lilly. Focused on small community and township health centers without high-quality diabetes care services, LEAP offers a Promoting Effective Access the healthcare system to lessen to treating diabetes. The initiative new and sustainable approach to inthese barriers. assists healthcare professionals in creasing effective access to quality to Diabetes Care their care of these patients: Through LEAP, we are working LEAP offers more than access to care, including Lilly’s products, by with governmental departments medicines in the traditional sense. • Newly diagnosed people operating where unmet diabetes and others to approach the chalIn China, insulin is usually readily requiring insulin (initiation), needs are high and providing more lenges of access to effective care available and reimbursed, but it • People already on insulin who focused and practical support. in an integrated fashion. There are is not always used when and as are referred from large teaching By tying business objectives to significant barriers to effective needed. In this context, effective hospitals (management), social outcomes, LEAP is poised diabetes care in China including access means increasing the skills to enhance Lilly’s competitiveness and confidence of primary care • People needing support in conlow public understanding of the in China while simultaneously physicians who are treating those sistent use of insulin (adherence). disease in some areas, treatments improving local health outcomes that are perceived as complex and with diabetes, and increasing paLEAP is structured to improve effecand community well-being through difficult to manage, and low confitients’ understanding of diabetes. In tive access to care so people can get specialized training, support, and dence among some primary care many community-based centers in the right care in the right place at partnership. physicians in prescribing insulin, China, there is often a low degree of the right time, and enjoy the benefits to name a few. LEAP works across confidence and skills when it comes of improved health outcomes. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 55 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Hunger Relief in efforts to reduce hunger and improve access to food globally. Elanco develops tools and techWe have pledged to “break the cycle of hunger” in 100 communities around the world by 2020.1 nologies that protect animals Breaking the cycle in a comfrom infectious diseases, enhance munity means making at least Population growth is skyrocketing, animal well-being, and eradicate 100 people more food secure with the total number of people on the planet expected to soar past 9 food-borne illnesses. These tools and technologies, in turn, enable than they are today for at least one year. By the end of 2015, Sustainable Development billion by 2050. At the same time, farmers and producers to provide we had made food more secure We will be a global leader in we are seeing incredible growth of greater amounts of food—safely in 62 communities—more than sustainable food-security initiatives. the global middle class. and sustainably. 650,000 households—around the world through philanthropic An increase in income typically Through global partnerships partnerships, company-sponsored leads to an increase in a family’s and volunteer efforts in our own donation programs, and volunteer intake of meat, milk, and eggs, backyard, we support community initiatives that deliver food, dollars, improving overall nutrition. Yet, programs and initiatives that and Elanco capabilities to those based on today’s production provide food to those who need it who need them most. trends, the world might not have and promote awareness of hunger enough resources to meet the and the related problem of food Employee Engagement growing demand for these products. There remain 795 million insecurity. Food insecurity refers to having inadequate, or uncertain, Partnership with We are personally invested in the hunger case. hungry people in the world each day. We believe that every person access to enough nutritious food to feed oneself and one’s family. Heifer International on earth deserves a minimum of a Over time, food insecurity can lead Elanco has had a strategic relaglass of milk and an egg a day—a to people going hungry if they are tionship with the nonprofit Heifer modest, but achievable, goal. not able to get the food they need International since 2007, part of to thrive. Our commitment focuses an ongoing program to lift 100,000 Because Elanco, Lilly's animal on three areas: employee engagefamilies out of hunger. We have health division, is dedicated to ment, community and customer committed a $1.5 million matching improving animal health—including the health of animals raised engagement, and sustainable Community & Customer development, with a unified goal of for food—we have a direct connection to helping feed people nutritious food that is accessible 1 We have defined a community as one that includes 100 or more people. We previously Engagement and affordable to all. announced our intent to meet this goal by We will break the cycle all over the world. We engage 2017. However, we have revised the goal to align with Elanco’s current strategic focus. of hunger in our communities ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 56 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact challenge to the organization’s East Africa Dairy Development (EADD) project, which aims to improve the livelihoods of more than 1 million people in Uganda, Tanzania, and Kenya by 2018. Funding for the matching challenge was provided by the Eli Lilly and Company Foundation. Overall, Elanco has contributed more than $4 million to Heifer projects that include contributions of animals and training for families in various countries, including China, India, Indonesia, and Zambia. Launched in 2008, EADD focuses on empowering small dairy producers to move beyond subsistence toward sustainable livelihoods. Farmers receive extensive training on dairy husbandry, business practices and operations, and marketing of dairy products. The second phase of the project employs new technologies and practices around feed “Heifer International helps families and communities lift themselves out of hunger production, alternative energy and poverty through gifts of livestock and extensive training. We are grateful for sources, and milk transport systems. The project’s goal is to reach Elanco’s support of our EADD project. Creating sustainable dairy markets in East 136,000 smallholder dairy farmers, giving them—and their families— Africa increases food security and helps farmers get closer to the living income opportunities to achieve financial independence. The program will they need to meet their immediate needs and beyond. So, the partnership between also give more people in the region better access to dairy products and Heifer and Elanco enables us both to help make the world more food secure.” will support women in their — Pierre Ferrari, Heifer International President and CEO ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 57 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact efforts to become entrepreneurs enough protein and other nutrients already do on a regular basis— activity, and 50 percent participated and leaders in the dairy business. to meet his or her body’s needs. purchase eggs at a grocery store. in a company-sponsored companion Eggs are one of the most comConsumers can participate either animal or other community service Elanco’s commitment includes monly requested products at food by donating money to the initiative activity. In 2015, Elanco employees financial support and the talents of banks, and yet eggs are typically in or by purchasing HATCH-labeled committed approximately 30,000 Elanco employees to provide on-site short supply. In 2015, Elanco parteggs. Each purchase of a dozen hours of volunteer time; by 2020, training in cow health through 2018. nered with local grocery stores, eggs triggers an automatic donawe expect that Elanco employees farmers, and area food banks to tion of one egg to a local food bank. will have volunteered 200,000 hours HATCH Initiative pilot the HATCH™ philanthropic program, an initiative that makes During the first nine months of the over a period of seven years. pilot HATCH program, more than a All Elanco employees receive a In the United States, one in five it easy for individuals to make a half-million eggs were donated to half-day per quarter of paid time off people does not have access to difference through something they local food banks in the midwestern to volunteer with local hungeror United States, benefiting more other cause-related organizations. than 43,000 families. Elanco plans We want our employees to connect to expand the HATCH program to on a personal level to the problems bring food security to other locaof world hunger so that they can tions in the United States and addicontribute to solutions. We have a tional countries. team of approximately 75 “hunger ambassadors” who help to coordinate on-the-ground volunteer Employee Engagement activities with their Elanco peers in 30 different countries. Programs Our goal is to reach an employee range from providing backpacks engagement level of 80 percent in filled with food for children facing our Elanco division by encouraging food insecurity at home to stocking our employees to connect with the shelves at local food pantries hunger cause.2 In 2015, 60 percent to supporting orphanages and of our Elanco employees participated schools for child refugees. In 2015, in a company-sponsored hunger more than 2,500 employees participated in our Global Day of Service 2 We previously announced an aspirational goal to engage 100 percent of our workand contributed more than 10,000 force in this cause. We have updated the volunteer hours at 125 locations in goal to 80 percent to align with our cur30 different countries. rent strategic focus and intend to measure progress through our employee survey. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 58 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Product Insulin Partnership Donations with Life For a Child The International Diabetes Federation’s Life for a Child program provides support to 15,000 chilWhile creating programs that dren and youths with diabetes in focus on shared value is an 46 of the world’s poorest counemerging strategy in our corporate tries. To date, Lilly has donated responsibility efforts, there will more than 800,000 vials of insulin always be a place for philanthropy to the program—our largest at Lilly. single-product donation—and in 2015, we extended our commitWe believe that finding the right ment to cover an additional 780,000 mix of approaches leads to the vials over the next three years. greatest impact. Shared value, when paired with other actions, including results-oriented philanthropy, can maximize our contribuHelping to Treat Mental tion to society. Health, Diabetes, and In addition to our contributions to organizations working to supCancer in Africa port global health initiatives, Lilly For more than 10 years, Lilly has donates medicines in a variety of partnered with Indiana University settings, including through partnerand the Moi Teaching and Referral ships with aid organizations, nonHospital, based in Eldoret, Kenya, profits, and governmental bodies. through the AMPATH (Academic Model Providing Access to Healthcare) program. One of Lilly’s oldest philanthropic partners, AMPATH is making an incredible difference in the lives of patients who are in desperate need. As part of the ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 59 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Disaster Relief patients in need who lack access to their prescribed Lilly medicines. In When disasters strike, Lilly re2015, Lilly Cares Foundation PAPs sponds with cash and product supported 165,000 patients, and Lilly contributions to help people in donated $500 million in products. desperate situations. We partner Lilly retired its Lilly TruAssist with relief organizations to deterumbrella program at the end of mine how Lilly can uniquely meet 2015. Now Lilly donates product to needs on the ground and best the Lilly Cares Foundation, which serve those who are impacted. operates a simpler and more susIn 2015, Lilly gave approximately tainable PAP offering that main$2.3 million in cash and product tains its focus on customer needs. donations in the wake of natural Moving forward, all PAP support disasters. In response to the will be offered through the new Nepal earthquake, we donated program, Lilly Cares, which is de$1.5 million in products and prosigned to serve uninsured, undervided funding to three organizainsured, and certain Medicare Part tions providing relief in the region: D patients who are unable to afford World Vision, Americares, and their prescribed Lilly medications. International Medical Corps. Our Lilly also partners with Direct AMPATH collaboration, Lilly proschizophrenia. As part of Lilly’s employees also donated funds Relief International—an organizavides donations and medicines collaboration with AMPATH, these through the Lilly Global Giving tion that provides and replenishes to treat mental illness, diabetes, mental health medications help to program, which was matched by medications at no cost for eligible and cancer, supporting Indiana treat approximately 500,000 people. the Lilly Foundation for a total of patients through an efficient proUniversity and Moi staff that colIn early 2015, the Lilly Foundation $120,000. cess that is integrated directly laborate to improve outcomes for provided a $1 million grant to suppatients who otherwise couldn’t port AMPATH’s Oncology Institute into existing clinic pharmacy and access quality care. efforts to screen, treat, and provide palliative care to people living in Patient Assistance dispensary systems. Since 2013, Lilly has supported 5,856 patients Since 2002, Lilly has donated about $80 million in medicines, including low-income communities who are fighting cancer. That same year, Lilly Programs with donations of $13 million in prescription medications through antidepressants and antipsychotic this organization. Our entire mendonated nearly $20 million in prodThe strategic intent of the Lilly medications, among others, used tal health portfolio of products is ucts for people afflicted with mental Cares Foundation Patient Assisto treat unipolar depressive disoravailable free of charge to patients illness, cancer, and diabetes. tance Programs (PAPs) is to help der, bipolar affective disorder, and who are enrolled in the program. improve health outcomes for ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 60 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Patient Interactions (a nonprofit focused on connections between patients and their healthcare providers). FOR ONE WEEK EACH YEAR, I’M NOT THE ONLY ONE: A CAMPER’S EXPERIENCE I first heard about Camp Kudzu outside Atlanta, Georgia, when I was diagnosed with diabetes at Programs This program features Conversation Map™ education tools, which age seven. The following summer, my parents packed my bags, and the next thing I knew, I was there. That first year you could easily find me singing and dancing, competing for the “Golden use a visual approach to facilitate Syringe,” which is awarded to campers who try something new related to their diabetes care, and interactive group discussion to on the final day, refusing to pack my bags. At Lilly, we want to do what we can empower people with diabetes to Little has changed in my passion for diabetes camp. I haven’t missed a single summer in 15 years, to better support patients who are become more active in managing and most of my closest friends—well, family—come from camp. I learned about diabetes mandealing with acute or chronic contheir disease. The tools are built agement and life in general from the people around me. I keep in touch with many friends I made ditions that map to our therapeutic on a foundation of evidence-based my first year, including my two counselors and a clinician. portfolio. An important part of this education principles and clinical guidelines that include the InterIn addition to what camp gave me, it also gave my parents a week to sleep. Every year, it was an work is helping patients and their easy sell when camp registration came around since they checked on me nightly while I was in family members understand the national Standards for Diabetes bed, especially in those early years. disease that they are dealing with Education published by the Interand providing them with the infornational Diabetes Federation. Attending camp taught me it’s more than just “okay” to be yourself. I realized early on that if it mation, resources, and encourSince 2008, these educational weren’t for camp, I’d have barely interacted, let alone become best friends, with the people in my agement they need to effectively tools, available in 38 languages, life who simply “get it.” My experiences at camp also influenced my decision to get involved with have been launched in more than my chapter of the College Diabetes Network at the University of Georgia because chapter involvelive with, or potentially combat, 121 countries. ment was like camp all year. their illness. Diabetes camp is a powerful and empowering experience. For one week every year, I’m not the only With patients and their family one. Camp is family. Camp is always there for me. Camp changes lives, including mine. members in mind, we support Diabetes Camps many programs globally, which A three-year survey by the are implemented at the local level, American Diabetes Association Mindy Bartleson including the following examples. (ADA) shows that attending sumProgram Assistant, College Diabetes Network mer camp can do much more than Diabetes Programs lift the spirits of children with type 1 diabetes (T1D). Surveys conducted with caregivers before and Diabetes Conversations after their child attended an ADA Lilly sponsors the Diabetes camp found the experience can Conversations program, increase some children’s diabewhich was created by Healthy tes knowledge, self-confidence, ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 61 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact diabetes management, and emoType 1 Diabetes: Lilly’s endocrinologist and other healthsupport services for those with tional well-being while enjoying care provider offices—in a total Alzheimer’s disease. traditional camp activities.3 Collaboration with Disney of 50 countries and 30 languages A child’s diagnosis of type 1 diaSince its inception, 12 cities across around the world. In the United Lilly employees often volunteer at betes (T1D) can be overwhelming, the United States have participated States, our collaboration also diabetes camps, and we facilitate and caregivers often question if in the program. In each city, the offers these resources online, visits from special guests. We are they will ever be able to get their conversations have led to concrete along with other unique content also one of the largest providers of families back into any kind of daily action steps to improve Alzheithat provides advice and pracinsulin and glucagon, educational routine. Both parents and the child mer’s care and awareness. For tical tips, recipes, and activities materials, and scholarships to diamay feel the diagnosis is the end instance, organizations involved for families affected by T1D at betes camps through the compreof their future hopes and dreams. in the program have conducted T1EverydayMagic.com. hensive Lilly Camp Care Package. This understanding forms the dementia-education training for In 2015, we provided $4.3 million in foundation for Lilly Diabetes and hospital emergency rooms; have insulin and 23,000 educational book packs and caregiver kits to ADA our collaboration with one of the most recognizable brands in the Alzheimer’s Programs improved physician outreach and provider education on detection, camps around the United States. world: Disney. Lilly pairs its deep diagnosis, and patient resources; expertise in diabetes care along Community Conversations and have reached out to clinicians To date, Lilly has donated $31 milwith Disney’s experience in magThe Community Conversations to encourage annual wellness vislion in insulin and 174,000 educaical storytelling to encourage and program enables information its and to pilot a rapid referral systional book packs with materials inspire families coping with a diagsharing with the goal of improvtem. This is only a small sample of on diabetes management. Since nosis of T1D for a child. ing resources and outcomes for the kinds of activities this program 2008, we’ve contributed $716,000 people with Alzheimer’s disease has generated. Efforts will conin camp scholarships, and, in early Launched in 2011, the Lilly Diabeand those who care for them. The tinue in 2016 to collaborate with 2016, we made a commitment to tes and Disney collaboration offers program’s collaborative approach organizations in even more cities. donate another $93,000 to ADA healthcare providers and families engages local advocacy organizafor camp scholarships—$1,000 for a variety of fun and educational tions and brings together a wide each year Lilly has helped those living with diabetes since we introprinted resources, including a range of community stakeholders Training Program to Support book series for younger children duced the world’s first commerfeaturing Coco, the first Dis(e.g., social services, healthcare Dementia Patients providers, government, community Lilly has been engaged in research cial insulin in 1923. ney character with T1D. Most of agencies, and law enforcement) to to develop better treatments to the books, including the newest learn from each other and develop book, Go, Team Coco!, are now help dementia patients and their 3 American Diabetes Association. “Camps action plans that help improve families for more than 25 years. Make a Difference.” Accessed on January available through many pediatric detection, diagnosis, care, and 26, 2016. Dementia is a significant issue ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 62 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact in Japan, with cases expected to that they understand the benefits rise from 4.6 million to 7 million of early diagnosis and to ensure by 2025. In 2015, Lilly Japan held that they can connect individuals a training program attended by diagnosed with dementia with more than 100 employees who relevant support services. In 2015, wanted to learn how to better supthe Alzheimer’s Society distributed port those with dementia in their more than 1.8 million leaflets to community. The training covered healthcare professionals and memgeneral information about dementia bers of the public, generating more (including symptoms and underthan 100,000 visits to the campaign lying illnesses), prevention, the website. In addition, Alzheimer’s importance of early detection, and Society staff supports 25 distinct tips for interacting with dementia health organizations to promote lopatients. Following this successful cal awareness of the campaign and event, we plan to continue offering the benefits of early diagnosis. the training in the future. Oncology Programs “Worried About Your Memory?” Campaign Oncology on Canvas® Lilly UK has supported the AlzheiLilly Oncology on Canvas is a thousands of people have inspired cancer is the second leading cause mer’s Society’s “Worried About program that uses creativity to others. Their art and narratives of cancer death in men and the Your Memory?” campaign since provide a vibrant spectrum of are a testament to the power of fourth in women. Each year, nearly 2011. The campaign forms part of emotional support for people with affirmation, inspiration, and the 930,000 people worldwide are the Alzheimer’s Society’s ongoing cancer and for those who care for human spirit. diagnosed with this form of cancer, commitment to encourage early them. In partnership with the and approximately 700,000 die of diagnosis. Working with members National Coalition for Cancer the disease. There is very little of the public who have concerns Survivorship—a nonprofit cancer Resources for Stomach reliable information available about about their own memory, or that of organization founded by and for Cancer Patients stomach cancer—and very few a friend or relative, the Society encancer survivors—we give people In 2015, with financial support survivors who have “been there.” courages individuals to see their affected by cancer an opportunity from Lilly Oncology, Debbie’s PREP offers support services and physicians to discuss concerns to share their stories through art Dream Foundation launched a materials at no charge that provide about memory problems. and narrative. Since the founding first of its kind Patient Education patients, families, and caregivers of Oncology on Canvas in 2004, Resource Program (PREP) for with the most current informaThe Society also works closely with tion to help them make informed healthcare professionals to ensure the art and narratives shared by stomach cancer patients. Stomach ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 63 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact decisions about patient care and lifestyle choices, including inforhelp them access and comprehend information about their own health The Institute of Medicine defines health literacy as mation about the disease, treatment options, specialists, clinical histories and conditions, engage their healthcare providers openly, “… the degree to which individuals have the capacity trials, support groups, diet and nuunderstand and recall informato obtain, process, and understand basic health intrition guidance, and much more. tion, and make decisions regarding treatment options. Some patients formation and services needed to make appropriate Sirius XM Satellite Radio Show must also maintain complex behaviors over time to manage health decisions.” Lilly Oncology sponsors Sirius a chronic disease or condition in XM Doctor Radio on Channel 110. order to achieve the best outcome instructions.4 This misinterpretacommunications and to better conThe monthly oncology-themed for their health. tion impacts the safety and effecnect with the people who take our program is a thought-provoking, tiveness of the medication and medicines in ways that are meanIn this landscape, health literacy educational hour with guests who can contribute to reduced health ingful to them. Our goal is not to plays a major role. Health literacy include cancer care experts, survioutcomes over the long term. The oversimplify patient resources, relates to an individual’s ability vors, and advocates. It focuses on impact of the public’s low health but rather to communicate in plain to interact with the healthcare concerns that patients, caregivers, literacy in adherence to using “living room” language so people system to receive and understand and healthcare providers deal with medication as prescribed is so can understand medical informathe information needed to manage on a daily basis, and experts ansignificant that the National Council tion to make informed decisions one’s health. If people lack clear swer phone calls and emails live on Patient Information and Educaabout their health. and readily available informato provide relevant information to tion has identified this problem as tion, in a language that is underWe partner with nationally recoghelp patients with their care. one of 10 national priorities in the standable to them, they may be nized health literacy experts to help less likely to make fully informed United States. us write, assess, and user-test writEfforts to Improve decisions and take the actions that will best protect and promote their Lilly believes that clear health communications are a vital comten materials using evidence-based health communication practices. Health Literacy health and well-being. ponent of the healthcare delivery system in which we and other We are also emphasizing these principles in the verbal commuOne powerful example of the Patients are facing an increasingly pharmaceutical companies play an nication skills training for our call importance of health literacy is complex healthcare system where important role. We have made a center and customer support adherence to using medication they are expected to become more strong commitment to improve our program agents. as prescribed. A person with low active participants in managing health literacy is twice as likely to In 2015, health literacy played a their health. More than ever, misinterpret medication Davis, et al. 2006. Ann Intern Med. strong role in the strategy and patients must develop skills that 4 ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 64 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact development of several initiatives Brief Summaries to accompany across the company, including the advertisements for drugs that following: appear in print (e.g., in magazines). These summaries are typically one Clinical Trial Consent Documents or two pages of black-and-white Participants in clinical trials are print following a full-color adverrequired to sign a document inditisement to disclose risk informacating their consent to take part in tion about the medication. Some the study. This document includes studies suggest that few people important information about the understand or attempt to read the trial, including its purpose, the summaries because they can be treatment procedures and scheddifficult to comprehend. We are ule, potential risks and benefits, conducting research on the readalternative treatments, and an ability of the content and format of explanation of the participant’s our Consumer Brief Summaries rights. Using health literacy prinwith the goal of improving patient ciples, we improved the readability outcomes through better compreof the document and transitioned hension of product information. it into an electronic format, which allowed us to tier the content Support for Healthcare and make it easier to access the Professionals information. This new eConsent Facilitated by Lilly’s Health Educadocument continues to improve tion Consultants, “Health Literacy participant comprehension, re& Clear Communication” is an inLilly’s Ongoing Efforts industry, government, foundations To further build on our momentum and associations, and representention, and overall consent and teractive, educational program that in the area of health literacy, we tatives of patient and consumer clinical trial experience. Market provides healthcare professionals established a leadership position groups that have an interest in research testing with clinical trial with practical and useful stratein early 2016 to unite our business improving overall health literacy. participants was so favorable that gies for clear communication and in this area and promote health By participating on the Roundtable, we are moving forward with broad patient engagement. The program literacy as an organizational value we have an opportunity to continue implementation across many cliniincludes small-group practice that we infuse into all aspects of to make a difference at the national cal trials in 2016. activities, video case studies, and patient communications. Lilly is level and to directly support the opportunities for participants to apImproving Comprehension of also a member of the Institute of National Action Plan to Improve ply their knowledge and techniques Product Information Medicine’s Roundtable on Health Health Literacy as outlined by the to patient and caregiver situations. The U.S. Food and Drug AdminisLiteracy. The Roundtable brings U.S. Department of Health and tration (FDA) requires Consumer together leaders from academia, Human Services. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 65 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Strengthening Communities p67 Giving at Lilly p68 Volunteerism at Lilly p70 Education Initiatives ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 66 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact At Lilly, we believe that by uniting caring with discovery we can make life Giving at Lilly we’ve deepened our relationship with United Way—moving from largely a fundraising role to that To encourage our employees to give to the organizations that matter most to them, Lilly matches better for people around the world. We of a strategic partner. We believe employees’ donations to nonprofits. do this by finding and developing new United Way is uniquely positioned We also promote opportunities to medicines that improve the lives of Our commitments to helping to help address some of the most give to specific organizations (such patients globally. But we feel we can those in need started with our complex challenges facing our as the United Way) and disaster do even more, which is why we use founder, who aided the poor and communities and that through relief efforts throughout the year unemployed in Indianapolis, IN. In partnership we can make progress with pledge drives. our financial resources, our time, and 1937, the Lilly family established even faster. our expertise to make a meaningful, the Lilly Endowment, which has measurable, and sustainable since grown to become one of the difference in the communities where largest and most important founCHARITABLE DONATIONS* we operate. dations in the country. The family members were also major donors Over the last couple of years, we have seen a decrease in the number of people requesting assistance Each year, Lilly donates substantial to the Community Fund, which through our U.S. patient assistance programs following the implementation of the Affordable Care amounts of products and cash—more eventually became the United Way. Act, which allows previously uninsured low-income Americans to obtain healthcare coverage. As a than $560 million in total in 2015—and Our CEO, John Lechleiter, Ph.D., result, fewer people were in need of donations from Lilly. our employees volunteer their skills at has been involved with United Way throughout most of his career at home and around the world. Many of Product Cash and In-kind Total Lilly and now serves as chairman our donations, including those provided Donations Contributions Contributions for United Way Worldwide. through The Eli Lilly and Company Throughout our history, the comFoundation, focus on improving patient outcomes and enhancing quality of life. pany and our employees have given more than $250 million to United 2013 $695M + $55M = $750M Way, and in 2015, Lilly presented a gift of $13.2 million to the nonprofit—our company’s largest-ever 2014 $550M + $40M = $590M United Way contribution. Over the last several years, United Way has transformed how it oper2015 $510M + $50M = $560M ates, with a focus on measurable community impact. In response, • Total charitable donations include funding from Lilly and the Lilly Foundation. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 67 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact In addition to traditional philanthropy, we extend our impact by tapping our business expertise to Volunteerism create new partnerships and make significant strides in several key at Lilly focus areas, including improving health for people in lowand middle-income countries and Our robust tradition of volunteerstrengthening the communities ism is often cited as a reason why where we work and live, especially people come to work for our comthrough improvements to educapany. We encourage our employtion. We’re partnering with leading ees to give back to their comhealth organizations and governmunities and support nonprofits ments to explore new approaches to globally through volunteerism, and complex global health challenges, we provide a number of programs discussed in more detail in the to help them do so. Once an Improving Global Health section of employee has recorded 30 hours this report, and our Elanco animal of volunteer service, he or she health division supports initiatives receives a $250 grant, which that to break the cycle of hunger in person can donate to the nonprofit communities around the world. organization of his or her choice. A HISTORY OF SERVICE IN INDIANAPOLIS LILLY ONCOLOGY EMPLOYEES REACHING OUT TO CANCER PATIENTS Established in 2008, our annual Global Day of Service is among the largest single-day volunteer initiatives of any U.S. company. In Indianapolis, where our company is headquartered, this event During our 2015 Global Day of Service, Lilly Oncology employees in cities across the United States has had a profound effect that extends beyond our own employees. Over the years, it has gained worked to make life better for people impacted by cancer. The employees volunteered with oncolmomentum and has transformed into “Indy Do Day”—an annual, citywide volunteer event. ogy patient advocacy groups to work on projects that benefit patients and caregivers, including making blankets, preparing meals, assembling patient-education kits, facilitating awareness and “Lilly’s Day of Service has changed Indianapolis forever. Lilly’s decision to dedicate its 8,000 local prevention education stations with children, and hand writing notes of encouragement. employees to a day of service has improved Indy through several projects, but it has effected exponentially more change by serving (once again) as a leading company to emulate. As a result, Lilly Oncology also partners annually with the American Cancer Society to host a Relay for Life other organizations across our city have adopted this same spirit of focused volunteerism to do event on our corporate center campus. At Relay For Life events, communities across the globe even more as part of Indy Do Day.” come together to honor cancer survivors, remember loved ones lost, and fight back against a disease that has already taken too many. In 2015, approximately 500 Lilly employees participated, – Chris Cotterill, Executive Vice President and General Counsel of the Indiana Economic raising over $125,000 to help make life better for those impacted by cancer. Development Corporation ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 68 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Employees who serve on boards Watch a video to see our emat Home, is a partnership with Latin America. Since we began can also apply for volunteer grants ployees in action during the 2015 the United Way that allows us the program in 2011, nearly 1,000 regardless of how many hours they GDOS, and visit our website to to extend our engagement with employees, representing our dedicate to their board service. read their stories. various community programs that operations in about 60 countries we typically only work with once and from all job levels and roles In October 2015, we held our eighth a year during our GDOS. With this at our company, have participated annual Global Day of Service (GDOS). new program, our employees can in what many have described as a Easily identified in their signavolunteer throughout the year and life-changing experience. ture red Lilly T-shirts, 24,000 Lilly build a deeper, ongoing relationemployees in 70 countries volWorking alongside local partners, ship of service. unteered 100,000 hours in their employees participating in CHA communities. Working in food Connecting Hearts Abroad (CHA), have the opportunity to step pantries, participating in outdoor VIDEO Lilly Global Day of Service 2015 another flagship volunteer program outside their day-to-day roles at beautification projects, installing at Lilly, takes employees out of Lilly and view the world through smoke detectors in homes, and In 2015, we introduced a new their local environment. With this a different lens, applying their creating care packages for cancer opportunity for Lilly employees program, we send our employees energies and passions toward patients—these are just a few of based in central Indiana to give on two-week assignments to serving those living in lowand the activities our employees took back close to home. The proimpoverished communities across middle-income countries. The part in during our GDOS. gram, called Connecting Hearts Africa, Asia, Eastern Europe, and employees selected for the THE LASTING IMPACT OF CONNECTING HEARTS ABROAD For many employees, their experience with Connecting Hearts Abroad ignites a lifelong passion for service and inspires innovative ways to make a meaningful difference in the lives of others. Here is just one of those stories. When Michael Clark, a senior sales representative with Lilly Diabetes, returned from his service trip to Peru, he carried with him a conviction to continue making a difference. Michael started Small Sacrifice. This grassroots movement encourages people to give up something small—a day’s lunch or cup of coffee—to help support the work of charitable organizations. Since 2013, Small Sacrifice has raised funds to provide 25,000 meals for children, more than 30 cleft palate surgeries for kids in Ethiopia, and clean water for life for 20 families in Africa. In 2015, Michael was recognized by Fortune magazine as one of 55 “Heroes of the Fortune 500” for his work with Small Sacrifice. Of his Connecting Hearts Abroad experience, Michael says, “A two-week service trip might not seem like a lot, but it is a lot because of what we carry back from that experience.” Find out more about Michael’s story. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 69 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact program get to see firsthand The process of generating a helps public school teachers (kinwe must recruit and retain some the day-to-day challenges that hypothesis to ultimately delivdergarten through eighth grade) of the best talent in the world, we confront people living in poverty. ering a medicine to a patient in effectively integrate inquiry-based know we must play a role in helpThey come back with insights need requires that we employ learning curricula into their classing to address this issue. While this and inspiration that make us and collaborate with thousands of rooms. The Lilly Foundation provided is a complex problem, we believe a better—and more globally STEM professionals in disciplines $1.5 million in funding to support that access to high-quality educaaware—company. such as biology, chemistry, biothe program and extend its reach. tion is critical to breaking the cycle statistics, information technology, More than 150 schools, 2,300 of poverty. We have a number of In 2015, Lilly volunteers worked on engineering, and pharmacology, to teachers, and 53,000 students will efforts, including impact-oriented assignments in Brazil, Guatemala, name just a few. Ensuring that we participate in ISI through 2017. In philanthropy, high-profile advocacy, India, Peru, South Africa, Tanzahave access to a broad and deep addition to the funding from the and skills-based volunteerism, to nia, and Thailand. Brazil is now our pool of this STEM talent is a fundaLilly Foundation, Lilly employees help improve educational opportufourth skills-based CHA program mental component of our success. also volunteer as coaches, getting nities and outcomes. Two primary associated with the Lilly NCD This is one of the primary reasons children excited about science and efforts involve expanding access Partnership, increasing the intewe have an abiding commitment math. A study of 107 ISI schools to high-quality early education and gration and collective impact of our to STEM education. Our goal is to showed that ISI students perform supporting new, innovative models corporate responsibility programs. inform, inspire, and educate more significantly better on standardin K–12. students about the wonders and ized tests in science, mathematics, Education possibilities of STEM. We do this through a wide variety of efforts and English language arts when the ISI teachers are well-trained in Indianapolis Preschool Initiatives that seek to engage students, teachers, and educational organizations along a student’s learning the curricula than their peers do in non-ISI schools. Scholarship Program In 2014 and early 2015, Lilly, along Lilly is committed to helping In addition to STEM, we are fowith our strategic partner, United journey from kindergarten through Way of Central Indiana, led a children gain access to great cused on improving educational undergraduate and graduate private-sector coalition to encoureducational opportunities. We are outcomes for children, especially programs. We also help students age the local legislative body to focused on making a difference in those in poverty, in our home city transition to the workforce and pass a bold plan to provide access science, technology, engineering, of Indianapolis. In Indianapolis/ build careers through mentorships to high-quality pre-K education for and math (STEM) education and Marion County, more than 20 and other programs. low-income families. As part of dramatically improving the educapercent of people live below the tional attainment of children living One of the programs we support poverty line, including nearly one our work, Lilly pledged to raise $10 in our home city of Indianapolis. in our home state is the Indiana in three children. As we think million from the business commuScience Initiative (ISI). This initiative about the future of the city to which nity, including $2 million from the ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 70 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Lilly Foundation, to invest in prefamilies who reported income at The Mind Trust autonomy. Most recently, we have school programs, if the legislature or below 127 percent of the fedWhile high-quality early education helped support The Mind Trust’s acted. We are pleased that they eral poverty level. More than 1,600 is necessary, it cannot be the end Innovation School Fellowship. The passed a comprehensive plan that threeand four-year-olds were of the story. We have to ensure Fellowship is a partnership with will leverage not only these private enrolled in a qualified scholarthat every child has access to a the Indianapolis Public Schools dollars we are raising, but also ship program for the 2015 school great school, regardless of where (IPS) and the City of Indianapolis money from the state of Indiana. year. Given the preponderance of the child lives. Over the last five to help IPS create high-quality In total, Indianapolis is set to indata on the long-term benefits of years, Lilly has committed more “Innovation Network Schools” vest $50 million over the next five investing in vulnerable children than $6 million in philanthropic within the school system. These years to help children gain access earlier, we believe this program donations to improve the educaschools are autonomous public to high-quality early educational is going to dramatically improve tional landscape in Indianapolis. schools that will operate under opportunities. the lives of many of these children Our primary partner in this work a contract with IPS, but will be and, by extension, strengthen the has been The Mind Trust, an Infree from many regulations and During the fall of 2015, the initiafabric of our home city. dianapolis-based nonprofit. We bureaucratic burdens, giving printive’s first year, the Indianapolis have worked together to attract cipals and teachers the autonomy Preschool Scholarship Program, more great leaders and teachers and accountability that are halladministered by United Way of to local schools and to encourage marks of high-performing schools. Central Indiana, received 5,000 applications—nearly 4,500 were from more innovation and school-level ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 71 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Operating Responsibly p73 Ethics and Transparency p82 Supply Chain p86 Counterfeit Medicines p88 Animal Care and Use p91 Workplace p104 Environmental Stewardship ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 72 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact We recognize that how we operate our business today has an impact Ethics and Transparency and In the United States, Lilly complies with disclosure requirements at on tomorrow. And while we might Transparency Disclosure At Lilly both the state and federal levels. Outside the United States, Lilly differ in our individual perspectives, participates in voluntary disclosure Transparency has challenged, and we are joined together by common continues to challenge, us to view codes under the European Federvalues—integrity, excellence, and our business practices through the ation of Pharmaceutical Industries respect for people—that have guided At Lilly, integrity comes first belens of external stakeholders. By and Associations (EFPIA), impacting our collective actions for more than a cause honest and ethical behavior listening to stakeholders’ con33 European countries, Russia, cerns, we strive to continuously Ukraine, and Turkey, as well as century. Whenever we make a decision is the foundation of all good relationships. We have a deep sense of examine and improve the way we legislated requirements within and that affects others, we strive to do it outside of Europe. Lilly views our responsibility to those we serve— do business. in a way that’s consistent with these transparency as an opportunity to from patients and physicians to Lilly values. our suppliers to the communities Disclosure of Lilly’s financial inassure that patients, HCPs, HCOs, teractions with healthcare proand business partners feel confiOperating in a responsible manner in which we operate. fessionals (HCPs) and healthcare dent when engaging with Lilly. includes our efforts in, and approaches We earn our reputation for excelorganizations (HCOs) helps to build trust with patients, caregivers, and In 2007, Lilly voluntarily made a to, promoting ethics and transparency, lence every day through the actions of thousands of Lilly employees other key stakeholders. Collabregistry of grants and charitable instilling responsible supply chain contributions given by the company giving their best and being open to oration and partnerships among management, tackling counterfeit publicly available. In 2009, as a dialogue and constant improvement. pharmaceutical companies, HCPs, medicines, ensuring the ethical and HCOs continue to be important requirement of our five-year care and use of animals in research, We work to build trust in our comand essential for the development Corporate Integrity Agreement pany and our industry by protect(see detail under Marketing Pracpromoting an inspiring and inclusive of new treatments and lifesaving ing the privacy of patients and by innovations. For some, however, tices section in this chapter), Lilly workplace, and fostering environmental being transparent about our busithese partnerships have raised began to disclose payments, reimstewardship. ness practices, including clinical bursed expenses, and all transfers concerns regarding potential contrial results, pricing models, and of value to U.S.-based physicians Eli Lilly, the grandson of our firm’s flicts of interest where an HCP’s political contributions. Our comjudgment or actions regarding a on the Lilly Physician Payment founder, summed it up well. “Values,” mitment to ethical behavior extends patient may be influenced by relaRegistry located on www.lilly.com. he said, “are really at the heart of to marketing our products in a Lilly also publicly reports our comtionships with industry. As a result, the matter. They tell us who we are, responsible manner and working the need for greater and more depany’s U.S. political contributions how we should behave, and where we to provide patients and caregivers tailed transparency about industry and its financial support to patient should be going.” with quality, relevant informarelationships with HCPs and HCOs organizations based in Europe. tion to help them make informed has grown over the past decade. healthcare decisions. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 73 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact These experiences helped Lilly 2004, we began to voluntarily disHOW DOES LILLY PRICE ITS MEDICINES? prepare to meet the newer obligaclose results—even the unfavorable tions under the U.S. Open Payments ones—from these clinical trials Lilly believes that the prices of our medicines reflect the value they provide to patients, providers, regulations (implementing the U.S. online. We also submit results from and society as a whole. In bringing a new medicine to market, we do not default to a standard Sunshine Act) and are also preparing all Phase III clinical trials and any pricing strategy. Instead, we consider a drug’s price in the context of the patients who need it and Lilly to meet similar obligations clinical trial results of significant the healthcare system that will deliver it. A price that is so high that few can afford our product under the EFPIA transparency inimedical importance for publication. is not ideal, nor is a price that is too low to repay our investment and allow Lilly to research and tiative. In addition, Lilly engages In addition, we are working to develop future medicines. in dialogue directly with HCPs and deliver summaries of clinical trial In other words, we try to strike a balance between getting a reward for the investment risk we’ve other stakeholders about transresults for phase II–IV studies taken while also being fully responsive to patients who need our medicines. parency questions through our that are written in patient-friendly EthicsPoint hotline (1-877-237-8197) language and made available on Clearly, biopharmaceutical innovation requires an extraordinary level of investment. But our or the Lilly EthicsPoint website. Lilly TrialGuide. (Learn more in the investment costs are just one of many factors that determine a medicine’s value. We also ask: Transforming Clinical Trials section How will the product be used? How great is the need? What do our clinical trials show? What are the competing products? What do patients, healthcare professionals, and payers think the price of this report.) should be? Transparency of Clinical Trial Outcomes When market forces are allowed to work, Lilly and other pharmaceutical companies compete on To benefit patients and healthcare Drug Pricing price and effectiveness, while insurers—public and private—negotiate for the best prices. When patents expire, generic medicines deliver savings through lower prices. All of these factors— professionals, we share clinical We live in an amazing era for medcompetition among patented medicines, price negotiations with payers, and lower-cost generics— research, clinical trial outcomes, icines. In the past two decades, drive advances in new medicines and reduce the cost of medicines over time. and safety information. We also the pharmaceutical industry has work to protect individual patient discovered life-changing treatprivacy and our intellectual ments for some of our deadliest that the cost of treatment and For example, many of the new property, including commercially diseases, including AIDS, cancer, medications may be an obstacle insurance options include highconfidential information and conand diabetes. These discoveries for patients trying to get the treatcost deductible plans that require tract rights, which support our have saved or improved the lives ments they need, especially for the patients to pay thousands of dolcontinued innovation. of hundreds of millions of people— underor uninsured. lars before coverage is triggered, Transparency into trial outcomes and continue to do so. making it difficult for patients to In the United States, where the provides important public health bendetermine what they will need to But we also know that health care healthcare system is especially efits. We register all Lilly-sponsored pay for their prescribed medication of all kinds, including medicines, complex, consumers continue to Phase II–IV clinical studies, conat the pharmacy. can be expensive. face challenges affording their ducted anywhere in the world, that medicines—even after implemenAt Lilly, we have programs that were initiated on or after October As overall healthcare costs contation of the Affordable Care Act. help people who cannot afford 15, 2002, on ClinicalTrials.gov. In tinue to rise globally, we recognize ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 74 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact their medicines. But collectively— measures to support improveWe also work with governments of cash and products for patient as an industry and as a society— ments in patient outcomes and imaround the world to offer our prodassistance programs, international we need to do more. For starters, prove integration of care. Payment ucts at sustainable prices that are humanitarian causes, and other better education about how the methods and programs, such as affordable for local populations. charitable endeavors, as well as many insurance programs work value-based benefit designs, that Pricing based on the ability to pay public-private partnerships. would help consumers understand reward improvement in patient within a market is just one way which plan is right for them. outcomes and healthcare system pharmaceutical companies can We could be on the verge of redeprocesses, rather than the quanenhance access to medicines for Privacy tity of services provided, will help people everywhere. We advocate fining what it means to live with At Lilly, we are committed to compromote access to high-value for policies that support differential some of the world’s most debiliplying with privacy laws in all parts care. Desired outcomes may be, pricing (the charging of different tating diseases. But we must also of the world and to acting ethically but are not limited to, reduced prices based on a purchaser’s abilwork to ensure people who could in our privacy practices. We work mortality and increased longevity ity to pay). Such policies can help benefit from our medicines are hard to meet our objectives of of life, adherence to appropriate balance the desire to offer lower able to afford them. operating with transparency and clinical best practice standards, medication prices to low-income respecting the privacy rights of all and improvements in care, such populations while still rewardwith whom we interact. Our global as reduction in hospital stays or ing innovation. We also support Shaping Public Policy improved quality of life. efforts to decrease the final price privacy office and chief privacy ofAddressing the rising cost of ficer oversee a global privacy proof medicines to patients, such as health care is the responsibility of Globally, the complexities of gram that is designed to protect minimizing taxes of all types and all stakeholders, including compahealthcare challenges require the privacy rights of patients, conlimiting markups applied in the nies like Lilly. In the United States, collaboration among private comsumers, healthcare professionals, supply chain. we are working collaboratively to panies, governments, non-governour workforce, medical research shape public policy at the federal mental groups, donors, academia, subjects, and others. As a part of and state levels to preserve a and providers. That’s why we, this global program, we have adalong with 12 other major healthWhat Is Lilly Doing to Help with competitive insurance marketopted a comprehensive policy and place, protect patients, optimize care companies, signed on to the the Cost of Medicines? related procedures that govern the clinical outcomes, and encourage Guiding Principles on Access to At Lilly, we have a variety of collection of personal information. innovative treatments. Healthcare during the United Naprograms that help people who Our goal is to always deliver on the tions General Assembly in Sepcannot afford their medicines. promises we make to individuals Lilly supports exploration of innoInternationally, Lilly partners with tember 2013. These industry-led whose personal information we vative payment models that involve governments to identify appropriprinciples offer a common framecollect and use. broad stakeholder engagement in ate solutions to improve access work to help shape the partnerthe development and implemento medicines in developing and For more information about our ships that will expand access to tation processes, assessment less-developed countries. These privacy policies, see www.lilly. quality health care. of impact, and development of solutions might include donations com/Pages/privacy.aspx. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 75 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact THE IMPORTANCE OF SAFE HARBOR TO OUR BUSINESS approved internally (before use) for Direct-to-Consumer compliance with company poliAlthough the United States and European Union both share the goal of protecting the privacy of cies and applicable legal requireCommunications individuals, their approaches to privacy protection are different. The U.S.-EU Safe Harbor program ments; in some jurisdictions, they Patients routinely seek out inwas created in 2000 to bridge the gap between varying regulations and to allow U.S. organizations are also submitted to regulatory formation about diseases and to comply with the European Commission’s Directive on Data Protection. authorities. We are committed to treatments as they prepare to following leading trade associaconsult with their physicians In October 2015, the European Union Court of Justice ruled that the European Commission’s about their healthcare needs. decision to recognize the U.S.-EU Safe Harbor Framework for data privacy was invalid. This ruling tion codes of conduct regarding appropriate sales and marketing Direct-to-consumer (DTC) has the potential to be disruptive for businesses—including Lilly—that rely upon the safe harbor disease-state communications to transfer data, such as clinical trial data, employee information, transparency data, and the practices and interactions with healthcare professionals. These help to raise awareness of dislike, across international borders. Lilly’s Global Privacy Office and affiliates around the world are include international, regional, eases and conditions that are often closely monitoring the situation and implementing alternative methods to transfer information in and country-specific codes such undiagnosed, untreated, or underorder to limit the impact to Lilly’s processes. We are confident that regardless of the outcome, we will be able to limit any operational interruptions and that any impact will be temporary and as the International Federation of treated, and we are committed financially immaterial to our business. Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & to providing consumer-focused Associations (IFPMA), the European communications that are truthful, Federation of Pharmaceutical Inaccurate, and balanced. Marketing Practices product information to our customers in several ways, including dustries and Associations (EFPIA) (for Europe), and the PharmaceuFor similar reasons, we engage in DTC product advertising in the Our commitments to ethical busithe following: tical Research and Manufacturers United States, where we adhere ness practices are reflected in • Direct interaction between of America (PhRMA) code (for the to PhRMA’s Guiding Principles on how we market our products. We our sales representatives and United States) (see www.phrma.org/ Direct to Consumer Advertiseintroduce a medicine to the market prescribers, as well as account code-on-interactions-with-healthments about Prescription Medionly if we believe it has the potenmanagers and public and private care-professionals). cines and additional internal Lilly tial to improve the lives of patients. healthcare administrators; Once a product is approved for • Information provided to patients use, we communicate its benefits ADDRESSING PARENTS’ ADVERTISING CONCERNS and physicians through package and risks, market it in compliance labels and inserts; and with company policies and applicaSince October 2010, we have participated in an initiative in the United States with the Parents ble legal requirements, and moni• Product websites and directTelevision Council (PTC) to alert parents to broadcast television programs that will contain tor it for safety concerns. Providing to-consumer communications in advertisements for erectile dysfunction drugs. Lilly sends the PTC weekly broadcast schedules of trusted, timely, and accurate some markets (see below). Cialis® advertisements. The PTC publishes advertising schedules for erectile dysfunction drugs information about our products All communications about our on the PTC’s website here: w2.parentstv.org/Main/Toolkit/Ed_Sched.aspx. is a vital part of our engagement products are reviewed and with customers. We communicate ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 76 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact principles on DTC communicaWe have invested significant reOur chief executive officer routions. See the Efforts to Improve sources in our ethics and comtinely sets “the tone from the top” Health Literacy section of this pliance programs, among them by speaking directly to employees report to learn more about our programs that focus on privacy, about ethics and compliance issues efforts to increase the effectiveanti-corruption, and appropriate through his blog, through audio ness of communications so that product promotion. The elements and video messages, and through patients can effectively interact of each program include deliberate global town hall meetings. The with the healthcare system and assessment of risks, training, and global ethics and compliance orgaunderstand the information they communications designed to prenization is charged with providing need to manage their health. vent issues from arising, as well as support for and assessment of comreporting, auditing, and monitoring pliance with global company polito detect potential compliance gaps. cies that apply cross-functionally. Ethics, Compliance, We also have a robust investigation process and develop corrective and The organization is headed by the senior vice president of enterprise THE LILLY CODE and Governance preventive action plans to address risk management, who is also issues that are identified. Lilly’s chief ethics and compliance The Lilly Code, established in 1899 and illusOur commitment to ethics and officer. This position reports to the trated in this 1932 version of the Code, served compliance is born of our comCEO and has direct access to the as the company’s first mission statement and mitment to integrity. Our policies, Ethics and Compliance board of directors’ Public Policy and code of conduct. The Code established three our Code of Business Conduct areas of focus that endure to this day. (which we call The Red Book), our Program Oversight Compliance Committee. compliance management systems, Responsibility for ethics and compliance at Lilly starts at the very and our training programs reintop of the company and cascades Code of Conduct, Policies, 24 languages, this document and force ethical behavior. We have associated training emphasize the implemented programs designed to all levels of the organization. Standards, and Procedures company’s values and the importo promote ethical conduct and Our board of directors’ Public Our ethics and compliance tance of ethical decision-making, instill a culture of integrity, which Policy and Compliance Commitprograms include policies, summarize key principles from we continue to refine and improve. tee, consisting of five indepenstandards, and procedures. global company policies, and proWe train all of our employees in dent director members, exercises We communicate our key vide examples for employees to ethical business practices and direct oversight of Lilly’s Global compliance-related expectations practice applying these principles have systems in place to detect Ethics and Compliance Program. through the following vehicles: to their decisions and actions. The potential violations of the law and The board’s Audit Committee has Red Book is designed to provide The Red Book company policies and to correct direct oversight of financial matfoundational guiding principles to We regularly update and dissemprocesses so that errors do not ters and some compliance-related help our employees navigate an inate our Code of Business Conoccur going forward. audit matters. increasingly complex global busiduct, The Red Book. Available in ness environment. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 77 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Policies, Standards, Procedures, Internal Reporting training and communication is visand Related Materials Lilly employees are required to The program has been standardible through many of our activities, The information summarized in report to the company any known ized to include a global monitoring including the following: The Red Book is amplified by polior suspected violations of the law, strategy, a risk assessment and monitoring plan with standard • Each year, all Lilly employees cies and other materials accessiThe Red Book, company policies, or tools, and a process for reporting (and certain company contracble to employees on the company’s official orders or decrees applimetrics to business leaders and tors) must complete training on intranet. These documents govern cable to our business. Employees key company stakeholders. The Red Book and certify that Lilly’s actions with respect to speare also encouraged to report any they have received, read, uncific areas, including our ethical other ethical concerns or issues. Corporate Auditing derstand, and will abide by its foundation, preventing corruption, Our toll-free Ethics and ComOur internal corporate auditing requirements. respecting privacy, communicating pliance Hotline is staffed by an function conducts both financial honestly, speaking up, protectindependent firm, 24 hours a day, • Employees receive targeted and nonfinancial audits of all ing information assets, and many seven days a week. Due to differethics and compliance trainLilly affiliates globally to evaluate other topics. We have launched ences in local law, local reporting ing related to their specific job compliance with various coma revised and simplified policy processes can vary. responsibilities. pany policies and procedures. architecture to enable employees These audits include reviews of • New employees in the ethics and Monitoring to better understand how to meet our anti-corruption program and compliance group participate in Lilly maintains an ethics and comcompany and customer expectaour policies that govern ethical a training and education curricupliance monitoring program. Its tions. We also have functional polinteractions. Other groups at Lilly lum that focuses on understandpurpose is to evaluate whether the icies, standards, and procedures routinely audit additional regulated ing and implementing the elefollowing have occurred: that apply specifically to particular functions (e.g., manufacturing, ments of an effective compliance areas of our business. • Ethics and compliance policies environment, and safety), as deprogram globally. and procedures have been scribed elsewhere in this report. • Our leaders communicate reguimplemented, larly with employees to reinforce Reporting, Monitoring, • Employees have been trained on that everyone is responsible to and Auditing these policies and procedures, and Training and Communications conduct company business in an To detect possible compliance All employees play a role in the ethical and compliant manner, • Management is providing violations, we maintain an internal success of our ethics and commaking decisions and taking sufficient oversight of business disclosure system that includes a pliance program. Therefore, we actions in line with the company’s processes and related results mechanism for anonymous review training as a necessary part values of integrity, excellence, to support compliance with porting. We also review business of promoting ethical behavior and respect for people. company policies, standards, actions through a system of monithroughout our business practices. and government laws and toring and audits. The company’s commitment to regulations. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 78 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact ANTI-COUNTERFEITING MEASURES Engaging with Patient • Build awareness about various disease states, treatment To ensure patients have access to trusted medicines, a secure supply chain is a necessity. The global problem of counterfeit medicines requires a sustained, long-term commitment. Despite the and Consumer options, and the importance of adherence to treatment ongoing efforts of law enforcement and health authorities throughout the world, as well as the efforts of the pharmaceutical industry to increase the integrity of the supply chain and support Advocacy Organizations recommendations; • Provide educational information, transnational law enforcement cases, the rate of counterfeiting continues to increase significantly. We interact with advocacy organitools, and resources; Collaboration and cooperation are critical to stop this dangerous trend. Lilly is committed to zations to address global healthworking with a wide range of public and private partners to reduce the threat to patients. To learn • Improve medical standards of care challenges and to help shape more, see Counterfeit Medicines. care and foster productive comthe healthcare environment in munication between patients and ways that support patients. We their healthcare providers; and believe that our role within this enInvestigations and Anti-Corruption Due Diligence vironment is discovering and devel• Serve varied populations and Corrective Actions Lilly uses anti-corruption due dilioping breakthrough medicines, as provide educational materials We take all reports of known or gence processes to assess the apwell as providing information about that are culturally appropriate suspected violations of company propriateness of interactions with these medicines and the diseases and that respect the diversity of policies, standards, and procecertain external parties, including they treat to healthcare professionpatients and caregivers. dures seriously, and we approthe following: als, patients, and their caregivers. priately investigate all claims of potential wrongdoing that are • External parties whom Lilly may authorize to interact with governOur principles for interacting with third-party patient and consumer Advancing Public Policy brought to our attention. We seek ment officials on the company’s advocacy groups are built upon As a biopharmaceutical company to address inappropriate conduct behalf, compliance with legal requirethat treats serious diseases, we as early as possible and to prevent ments, open and honest communiplay an important role in public • Prospective recipients of grants future recurrences. To accomplish cations, transparency, and funding health and related public policy and donations, and this, an investigation process is in a diversity of recipients. We seek debates. We believe it is important place globally to conduct timely, • Prospective business developto establish collaborative partnerfor our company to participate in thorough, and professional ment partners. ships that achieve the following: global policy discussions and to investigations. All investigators are Lilly also uses an institutional notiform partnerships with stakehold• Engage stakeholders on matters trained to understand and follow fication process to mitigate risk reers to find innovative solutions to involving public policy, improvthis process and to meet local prolating to healthcare providers whom global healthcare challenges. Our ing patient access to treatment cedural and privacy requirements. Lilly pays for services, including engagement in the public policy options, and supporting marketclinical trial research, or to whom oriented solutions to the healtharena focuses on issues that will Lilly provides other items of value, care issues we all face; help increase access to medisuch as educational opportunities. cines. As such, we develop policy ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 79 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact positions with the needs of patients foremost in our minds. Political Engagement outlined in our written Code of Business Conduct, The Red Book. needs of patients. When reviewing U.S. candidates for support, we When engaging in lobbying efforts consider a number of factors, Our public policy efforts center on Our annual report of Political or making political contributions, including these examples: areas that we feel are critical for Financial Support provides details sustainable innovation, including we comply with the laws that of our company’s U.S. political • Has the candidate historically intellectual property protection, govern such activities. All financontributions; our memberships in voted or announced positions sound healthcare delivery, pricing cial support and lobbying activity organizations that report lobbying on issues of importance to Lilly, and reimbursement issues, a faare overseen at the board level by activity to the U.S. government and such as pharmaceutical innovavorable regulatory system, and sethe Public Policy and Compliance to which we contribute $50,000 a tion and health care? curing the legitimate supply chain. Committee, which is composed year or more; and the activities of • Has the candidate demonstrated We focus on conducting policy entirely of outside directors. All our Political Action Committee, the leadership on key committees of research, taking positions on key decisions are made without regard Lilly PAC, which is funded solely by importance to our business? issues, and improving stakeholder for the private, personal preferU.S. employee contributions. dialogue around topics important ences of the company’s officers • Does the candidate demonstrate and executives. All of our emIn the United States, we are potential for legislative leadership? to our company, our industry, and ployees must also comply with committed to backing candidates the people we serve. More detailed • Is the candidate dedicated to imour global policies, core values, of any party who support public information on key issues is availproving the relationship between and legal obligations, which are policies that contribute to pharmaable at www.lilly.com. business and government? ceutical innovation and the health FINANCIAL SUPPORT AND LOBBYING ACTIVITY In 2015, Lilly spent the following amounts on $1,432,775 in political financial support (United States) $6,995,000 on federal lobbying activities direct political activity: $340,300 to state candidates in corporate contributions in the United States This information is reported to the U.S. $1,092,475 through the Lilly Political Action Committee (Lilly PAC). Congress in accordance with the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 80 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact • Does the candidate represent a state or district where Lilly Memberships MEMBERSHIPS IN 2015 operates a facility or has a large In addition to direct political conBoard seat Non-Board seat concentration of employees or tributions, Lilly maintains memretirees? berships in organizations that • American Feed • Healthcare • Business • Would Lilly support have an imreport lobbying activity to the U.S. Industry Association Leadership Council Roundtable pact on his or her campaign? government. We support organizaEligible Lilly employees in the tions that champion public policies • Animal • Indiana Chamber • Indiana that contribute to pharmaceutical Health Institute of Commerce Competes United States may choose to make voluntary contributions to the Lilly innovation, healthy patients, and PAC. Lilly PAC donations, which are a healthy business climate. Our • Biotechnology Industry • National Association • U.S. Chamber annual report of Political Financial Organization of Manufacturers of Commerce made in accordance with its budget, are determined annually by the Support also notes our memberships in trade associations that • Greater Indianapolis • Pharmaceutical Research and Lilly PAC governing board, which is report lobbying activity to the Chamber of Commerce Manufacturers of America composed of 13 U.S.-based employees from various groups within U.S. government and to which the company. Support is divided we contribute $50,000 per year between the federal and state levels or more. What follows is a list of In 2015, Lilly also contributed approximately $700,000 to specific non-candidate and allocated among various candiU.S.-based organizations that conorganizations including the following: dates according to specific recomduct lobbying activities to which mendations from Lilly’s government Lilly contributes a minimum of • American Legislative • National Lieutenant affairs department and employee $50,000 a year. Organizations with Exchange Council Governors Association PAC members. Lilly PAC meets all which Lilly holds a board seat are noted to reflect our greater degree • Democratic Attorneys • Republican disclosure requirements and is auGeneral Association Governors Association dited annually by Ernst & Young. of involvement in setting priorities for these organizations. • Democratic • Republican State Governors Association Leadership Committee • Democratic Legislative • Senate Campaign Committee Presidents' Forum • GOPAC ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 81 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Supply Chain of a diverse supply base, and promotion of sustainability efforts to minimize our environmental HOW LILLY MANAGES SUPPLY RISK Supply risk is the risk associated with Lilly’s dependence on a third party for services or materials impact. To learn more about our that are critical to the operation of our business. This risk is monitored on an annual basis, and environmental impacts and how mitigation plans are implemented and monitored to minimize it. As part of Lilly’s ongoing supply Ensuring our products are availwe work to mitigate them, see chain risk management, key Lilly suppliers are subject to an annual review process that considers able wherever and whenever Environmental Stewardship. historical vendor performance; financial health; geographic location; business concentration; patients need them is one of our quality and compliance management; health, safety and environment (HSE) performance; top priorities. As worldwide attenmanagement policies around protection of intellectual property; and physical site security. tion has increasingly focused on the need to monitor global supply Maintaining and Additionally, suppliers that are integral to the business complete a supplier self-assessment chains to ensure reliability and safety, we at Lilly have continued Monitoring Quality, questionnaire aligned with the Pharmaceutical Industry Principles for Responsible Supply Chain Management (also known as Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative [PSCI] principles) and must to refine our efforts in this area. Safety, and Security be available for audits, at Lilly’s discretion. All supplier contracts contain language indicating the supplier supports the PSCI principles, as well as our Supplier Code of Conduct. For suppliers that Through better integration of Lilly-owned facilities and external of Supply are not under a contract, we expect adherence to applicable laws and regulations. suppliers, we have been able Our ability to manufacture quality to provide a steady flow of medicines for the people we Because Lilly manufactures UPHOLDING HUMAN RIGHTS THROUGHOUT materials—including active pharserve depends on the quality and medicines that people rely upon THE SUPPLY CHAIN maceutical ingredients (APIs); availability of the materials used and that can be critical for health, delivery mechanisms, such as in the manufacturing process. we have a responsibility to safeLilly maintains a long-standing practice of capsules, injection cartridges, In 2015, our API manufacturing guard both the materials needed complying with local minimum-age laws and and the like; as well as product relied heavily on Lilly-owned and to manufacture these medicines requirements and does not employ child labor, packaging—so that we can manLilly partner facilities located in or forced or compulsory labor, in any of our and the supply chain logistics that ufacture our medicines in a more the United States, Puerto Rico, facilities globally. In 2011, Lilly revised our help to ensure their availability. consistent and reliable manner. and Europe. Finishing operations, global standards and procedures to include Before they enter the Lilly system, We view our supply chain as an including labeling and packaging, specific language about human rights, includour raw material and component extension of our operations, and occur at various Lilly-owned and ing our expectation that vendors to Lilly abide suppliers are evaluated for techniwe strive to instill our company’s Lilly-partner facilities, as well as by Lilly’s human rights standards as one piece cal competence, as well as patient, operating principles within our several third-party sites globally. of our Supplier Code of Conduct. View the commercial, and HSE impacts. supplier network. These include Distribution and warehousing current Lilly Supplier Code of Conduct. For those suppliers deemed to our support of the United Nations activities are strategically located have a higher risk in any of these Global Compact principles, adherto serve their specific markets. areas, additional evaluations are ence to labor laws, development ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 82 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact LILLY’S SUPPLY CHAIN AT A GLANCE conducted. These evaluations are security of our supply chains and separate from, and in addition to, our extended distribution netIn 2015, Lilly used the services of approximately evaluations of suppliers from a work remains a key focal point for 10,325 suppliers of materials and services. supply risk perspective. Lilly. We have chosen to integrate To help identify the potential impact to Lilly’s high standards to help safeguard business from any disruption of services or Our Manufacturing Policy Comour products during transport, materials, we categorize all of our suppliers mittee oversees the maintenance integrating what are known as using a supply risk lens. Suppliers in of Lilly’s inventory of essential raw Transported Asset Protection Supplier data does not include Elanco, our 2015 by type* materials. Inventory levels of these Association, or TAPA, standards materials are monitored weekly to animal health division, and those suppliers that into our security framework. We allow for proactive intervention, as do not supply goods or services under a purchase actively monitor our supply chain needed, to avoid any interruptions order or contract. using TAPA standards to ensure a of supply. To supplement these inhigh level of performance for our ventory action plans, we also have transportation carriers and wareTier A (~5,967) Tier B (~4,108) Tier C (~250) additional mitigation plans in place house and distribution centers. for our drug product components, Includes suppliers deemed Includes suppliers deemed Includes suppliers deemed to pose a lower risk for to pose a medium risk to pose the greatest risk for including materials critical to supply chain interruptions. These include vendors profor supply chain interruptions. Suppliers in this tier supply chain interruptions. Suppliers provide active manufacturing finished drug products. For these components, we Pharmaceutical viding goods and services across general business provide raw materials and other common commodipharmaceutical ingredients, including specialty chemhave identified secondary sources and maintain additional inventory Industry Principles for functions, including marketing and sales, general ties used for primary and secondary packaging, icals. Suppliers in this tier include contract manuin our supply chain. This analysis has permitted us to further refine Responsible Supply research and development activities, travel services, as well as logistics and manufacturing operations. facturers and analytical services for research and our overall risk strategy. Chain Management information technology (IT) These include packaging development. Shipping pharmaceutical prodequipment, catering, and materials, waste disposal The Pharmaceutical Supply Chain ucts requires extra precautions Initiative (PSCI) is an industry body other routine services. services, and energy. that typical freight shipping does formed by the pharmaceutical sec* In 2015, Lilly used the services of approximately 10,325 key suppliers of materials and not, including precise temperature tor whose members share a vision services to support our pharmaceutical business operations. Due to changes in our supplier controls. Shipments of medicines to establish and promote responclassification system, this number excludes suppliers that did not provide goods or services can also be subject to tampering under a purchase order or contract (non-purchase order suppliers) and also excludes our sible practices that will continuElanco animal health division, including those suppliers that supported operations related and interference from drug counously improve the sustainability of to the acquisition of Lohmann SE (Lohmann Animal Health) and Novartis Animal Health. For terfeiters, leading to very serious supply chains serving the sector— comparison purposes, our 2014 report featured a much larger total number of suppliers beconsequences. Therefore, the including social, health, safety, and cause it included non-purchase order suppliers and suppliers to Elanco. The 2014 figure did not include suppliers associated with both Lohmann SE and Novartis Animal Health. We have recategorized the way we present these numbers because non-purchase order suppliers are not actively managed as part of Lilly’s supply chain processes. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 83 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact environmental outcomes. PSCI’s Lilly’s participation in PSCI has supplement our own supplier asto help pharmaceutical suppliers mission is to provide members provided a much appreciated sessment process. Through this better understand and improve with a forum to establish industry opportunity to engage with our process, we have been able to help social and environmental practices principles that guide ethics, labor, PSCI colleagues around supply our suppliers improve their interacross their own supply chains. health and safety, environmental chain management, and we have nal capabilities by identifying areas For example, PSCI held a supsustainability, and management found much common ground in our for improvement. plier conference—“Business with systems practices to support concollective support for the values that Balance”—in Mumbai, India, in Vendor trainings for knowledge tinuous improvements of suppliPSCI advocates. Our involvement September 2015, bringing together and capability building – Lilly has ers’ capabilities. Lilly joined PSCI with PSCI has helped us to sharpen more than 200 colleagues, repalso participated in webinars and in 2009 and remains an active our supply chain management pracresenting 70 manufacturing, API, workshops, facilitated by PSCI, member, aligned to the goals of tices and delivered business value the organization. through enhanced understanding of the environments in which our PROTECTING THOSE WHO TAKE OUR MEDICINES BY SECURING OUR SUPPLY CHAIN As part of PSCI, Lilly is committed vendors operate. PSCI has also proto following the Pharmaceutical vided Lilly with some valuable tools, Taking the right medication at the right time is a critical piece of a person’s overall health. With Industry Principles for Responsible including the following: a complex supply chain and an increasing threat from counterfeit medicines, the pharmaceutical Supply Chain Management, which industry has a great responsibility to make sure that all medications are manufactured, packaged, PSCI created together with its Common auditing practices – As and distributed in a precise, controlled manner—ensuring that the medications people take are of member companies. These prinour industry increasingly adopts the highest purity and quality. When someone receives a medication with the Lilly name on it, we ciples were established to provide the standardized PSCI questionwant that person to be confident it is a legitimate product that contains the medicine prescribed for the pharmaceutical industry with naires, our suppliers can more him or her. a consistent standard of measureeasily anticipate questions we ment for vendors in the areas of might have about their practices To help protect Lilly’s medicines from being tampered with and to respond to increasing interest ethics, labor, health and safety, the and learn to manage their operin, and requirements around, the traceability of pharmaceutical products, Lilly has invested in environment, and related manations with the rigor required by serialization technology. Serialization is the use of globally unique codes that are assigned to, and agement systems, and they were Lilly and other major manufacturers. physically marked on, individual packs (cartons or bottles) of medications. Serialization technology can help automate the checking of expiration dates, link batch numbers of specific medicines designed to be consistent with the These questionnaires cover adherin a patient’s electronic medical records, and help secure the pharmaceutical supply chain against United Nations Global Compact. ence to high standards of HSE percounterfeit medicines by establishing a chain of custody for the medications or allowing verificaThe principles themselves and reformance, labor practices, human tion prior to dispensing to a patient. lated information can be found at rights, and ethics. As part of this the PSCI website. work, Lilly is using shared audits We are investing tens of millions of dollars in our packaging operations, distribution centers, and performed by PSCI members to IT infrastructure to support serialization—including new technology deployments on more than 30 packaging lines around the world. See Assuring Quality Medicines to read more about our efforts around product serialization and traceability. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 84 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact SUPPLIER DIVERSITY and purchasing decisions as they Lilly’s expectation is that our relate to the minerals at issue. suppliers will source their materiLilly aspires to broaden the participation of small and diverse businesses in our supplier network. als responsibly and abstain from In 2014 and 2015, Lilly filed annual Engaging with diverse suppliers delivers value and creates a competitive advantage for Lilly by procuring materials from areas reports with the U.S. Securities linking the external capabilities of ethnically diverse, women-owned, and small businesses to or sources that might promote Lilly’s internal business needs, helping to spur innovation and creativity. In so doing, we are betand Exchange Commission (SEC) conflict in the DRC and that our ter able to understand and connect with those we serve. To learn more about Lilly’s approach, see relating to the conflict minerals suppliers conduct their own due our supplier diversity discussion in the Workplace section of this report. rule, under which companies diligence regarding the source of describe whether products any materials they provide to us in that they manufacture or have order to ensure those materials and chemical suppliers. Over a Conflict Minerals contracted to manufacture contain are conflict-free. We filed our three-day period, the suppliers certain defined minerals and Lilly is concerned with the variety of latest Conflict Minerals disclosure addressed labor and ethics issues, whether those materials may have human rights violations that occur documents with the SEC in May as well as environmental health come from sources in the DRC throughout the world. We are 2015. The company will file our and safety topics, such as indusregion. As a part of that reporting aware that the ongoing conflict in next conflict minerals disclosure trial hygiene, pharmaceuticals in process, we examine the raw the Democratic Republic of Congo documents in late May 2016. the environment, wastewater manmaterial content of all of our global (DRC) and the surrounding counagement, hazardous waste discommercial products and seek to Lilly is committed to continue to tries is understood to be financed, posal, and process safety. Further identify the origin and source of understand the origin of these in part, by the mining and trade of workshops in other global locathese raw materials. Our goal is to materials and will take appropricertain minerals, including tungtions are planned for 2016 to cover develop a better understanding of ate action to avoid the inadvertent sten, tantalum, tin, and gold. We topics of interest in both global and the supply chain and to avoid the support of businesses associated are committed to making every regional environments. inadvertent support of businesses with human rights violations. effort to ensure we understand associated with human rights our supply chain and the potential violations. upstream impacts of our supply ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 85 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Counterfeit TRACKING LILLY’S MEDICINES THROUGH THE SUPPLY CHAIN Medicines Lilly is working closely with other organizations to advocate for common serialization standards in the United States and around the world. These standardization efforts will help doctors, pharmacists, and patients trust the legitimacy Counterfeit medicines, often proof the medicines they prescribe, dispense, and duced and distributed by global receive. See Assuring Quality Medicines to criminal networks, are an increaslearn more about Lilly’s use of serialization. ing threat to patient safety, and today they constitute a multi-billion dollar industry. Counterfeit medicines have been Working to Deter found in all therapeutic areas in every region of the world. Their across borders using conventional made a sustained, long-term comCounterfeiters Online impact is wide-reaching and potentially deadly, both due to toxic and unconventional trade routes and shipping methods that change mitment to address this problem. Our anti-counterfeiting strategy is and In the Field substances sometimes found in frequently in response to regulacomposed of three key objectives: After reviewing 11,000 Internet the counterfeit medicines and betory and law enforcement actions. drug outlets, the National Asso• Securing the integrity of Lilly ciation of Boards of Pharmacy cause they undermine a patient’s Products are often made in one medicines through the legitimate (NABP) found that 96 percent confidence in legitimate medicines country, trafficked through other supply channels; of them were not in compliance and the credibility of healthcare countries, and ultimately sold to providers. Lilly employs a variety consumers in yet another country. • Deterring major counterfeiters with federal and state laws or the of anti-counterfeiting tactics for of Lilly medicines through NABP’s safety and best practice Ensuring that patients can contargeted investigations, Internet standards.1 And yet the U.S. Food our medicines and is actively entinue to benefit from safe medmonitoring, and legal actions; and and Drug Administration (FDA) gaged in efforts to combat counicines requires innovative apnotes that nearly 1 in 4 Internet terfeiting to protect patients and • Partnering with governments, proaches to expose and outwit users has purchased prescription the Lilly brand. non-governmental organizacounterfeiters—and a broad, Historically, counterfeiting has afcoordinated effort among many tions, and trade associations 1 National Association of Boards of Pharfected many developing countries. stakeholders to give patients conto raise awareness and to macy. “Internet Drug Outlet Identification Increasingly, it is a global problem. fidence in the safety and efficacy of strengthen, enact, and enforce Program Progress Report for State and Federal Regulators.” Last accessed DeCounterfeit medicines are exported the medicines they take. Lilly has anti-counterfeiting laws. cember 13, 2015. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 86 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact medication online.2 The vast mapatients through legitimate EU jority of pharmacy websites do supply chain channels. In addition, not require a valid prescription to we support prosecutors and other sell a medicine; others issue an law enforcement personnel in the on-the-spot “prescription” after a criminal prosecution of countervisitor completes an online quesfeiters around the world by gathtionnaire. This setting provides the ering evidence, testing samples, perfect haven for counterfeiters to testifying in court, and filing civil sell counterfeit and illegal mediactions. Lilly also participates in cines. We are deeply engaged in the World Customs Organization’s efforts to close off such illegitiInterface Public-Members (IPM) mate channels on the Internet. database, a secure online tool serving as an interface between Lilly collaborates with various front-line customs officers and stakeholders to educate patients the private sector. IPM is used by on the dangers of counterfeit customs agents globally to help medicines, to raise awareness identify counterfeit products that broadly, and to encourage policy cross national borders. makers to address this issue. We the global response to pharmafake medicines. The campaign also work collaboratively with ceutical crime, and build partnergives a voice to those who have European stakeholders (pharmacists, wholesalers, and parallel Partnering With Global ships across sectors to fight the been impacted personally by counthreat of counterfeit medicines. terfeit drugs and shares the stodistributors) to implement the European Union (EU) Falsified Stakeholders One significant operation aided by ries of those working to put a stop this initiative in 2015 involved 236 to this threat to public health. It Medicines Directive. The Directive In 2013, Lilly joined with INTERPOL law enforcement agencies and 115 seeks to build a global movement regulates pharmaceutical supand 28 of the world’s leading countries. It resulted in more than of organizations and individuals ply chains and monitors activity pharmaceutical companies to 156 arrests globally and confiswho will shine light on the negative to help prevent counterfeit medlaunch a landmark agreement to cation of potentially dangerous impact of counterfeit medicines icines from being dispensed to combat counterfeit medicines. The medicines with a value of nearly and serves as a resource for those three-year initiative was funded by $81 million (USD). looking to support the effort. 2 U.S. Food and Drug Administration. “FDA a combined investment of nearly Campaign Aims to Protect Consumers $5.9 million from the companies from the Risks of Fake Online Pharmacies: Lilly also endorses the Fight the Survey Data Shows Lack of Confidence in involved. It helped INTERPOL to Fakes campaign (www.fightthePurchasing Drugs over the Internet.” Press disrupt criminal networks, provide fakes.org), which aims to raise Release. September 28, 2012. Last accessed December 13, 2015. training to agencies involved in awareness about the dangers of ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 87 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Animal Care Lilly’s Approach to Animal Testing whole blood assays that can reduce or replace the traditional use of whole animals in research. For We also believe it’s important to engage with others to advance our own understanding of, and to and Use Lilly embraces the industry standard for the ethical treatment of instance, we use primary intestinal cultures to screen potential diabepromote the ethical treatment of, animals in research. Nationally, we animals known as the 3Rs. This tes compounds rather than relying participate in the 3Rs Leadership approach prioritizes strategies solely upon testing in rodents. Our Group at the Innovation and Quality for the reduction, refinement, and researchers have also developed Consortium. We also participate in Animal studies are a critical comreplacement of animal use within ponent in the discovery and devela non-animal, chemical-based or collaborate with the American biomedical studies conducted on assay using whole blood as a Association of Laboratory Animal opment of innovative medicines behalf of Lilly. for both humans and animals. In replacement for routine testing Science, the American Society human biomedical research, aniWe continually work to integrate in animals. In addition, significant of Laboratory Animal Practimals have significantly contributed the 3Rs into the processes and efforts are underway in our Elanco tioners, the American College of to the development of lifesaving practices used by Lilly and third division to use non-animal assays Laboratory Animal Medicine, and treatments in the areas of canparties on our behalf. Since we rather than live animals to test the American Veterinary Medicer, diabetes, vaccines, high blood established a formal 3Rs initiative certain vaccines. cal Association, among others. pressure, and neurological disorin 2012, we have seen advances in ders, to name just a few. Similarly, several areas. Using the 3Rs prinin the world of animal medicine, ciples, Lilly scientists are working WHY DO WE CONDUCT STUDIES ON ANIMALS? animal studies have been instruto improve the predictive value of mental in developing effective computer models to reduce the Regulations govern the approval of all new medicines. These regulations dictate that all potenand safe products that help asnumber of animals needed. For tial treatments be evaluated in research animals prior to testing in humans or in the animals sure animal welfare, further the instance, in neuroscience, we can for which they are ultimately intended. The reason for this lies in the complexity of the living human-animal bond, and ensure use PET-like methodologies (simorganism. The interface between physiology, biochemistry, and immunology cannot be generated ilar to clinical PET-imaging techartificially. Human and animal biology is so complex that current non-animal research models healthy animals that are raised simply cannot tell us all we need to know about how a potential new treatment will function in a for food (such as fish, poultry, and nology for people) with rodents living organism. Therefore, without some animal experiments to understand the safety and effilivestock). We believe we have a during the discovery process to cacy of potential medicines, it would not be possible to bring these new medicines to the people moral, ethical, and scientific redetermine if the target in the brain and animals that need them. sponsibility to ensure the welfare is being engaged. If there is no of animals used in research, and effect, we know that it is unnecAll animal studies at Lilly—including those conducted for Lilly by third-party facilities—are we have strong principles and polessary to test that chemical or carefully evaluated as to whether they are needed, the number of animals used, and the species icies in place to ensure that animal biological entity further. used, in addition to the comfort of the animals before, during, and after the study. We have estabresearch at Lilly is conducted in lished company guidelines for the use of non-human primates. Lilly has not used chimpanzees in Lilly scientists have also estabresearch since the late 1980s, and careful consideration to alternative approaches is given prior line with our values. lished primary tissue cultures or to initiating studies using other non-human primate species. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 88 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Internationally, Lilly has associqualified. Members on the overscientific knowledge, Accreditations and Inspections ations and supporting roles with sight committees undergo intense • Selecting only animals All Lilly-owned animal testing several organizations, including training, and include unaffiliated, appropriate for that study, facilities for human drug developthe European Federation of Pharmembers of the public. ment are accredited by AAALAC, maceutical Industries and Associ• Using the minimum number of animals required to obtain an organization that has set the ates, the Federation of European internationally accepted, indepenLaboratory Animal Science AssoLilly Animal Care and Use valid results, dent standard that helps confirm ciations, and the National Center Policies and Principles • Using alternative methods appropriate animal care and use. for 3Rs, among others. All personnel conducting studies for instead of live animals where Company-owned animal testing Lilly must adhere to the following appropriate, and facilities focused on testing for our Lilly sites that conduct animal research worldwide have ethical principles, which provide the founda• Avoiding or minimizing discomElanco division have also adopted oversight committees and stay tion for our care and use of animals: fort and distress to the animals. the high standards used by AAAclosely aligned with local reguIn addition, personnel must comply LAC. Lilly also uses the services of Living conditions for research third-party facilities located at varlatory requirements to approve animals must be appropriate for with our global policy on animal all animal care and use activities care and use, which covers comious sites around the world. These their species and contribute to third parties include contract reand to ensure that people worktheir health and well-being. pliance, design and conduct of ing with animals are appropriately animal studies, care of animals, search organizations or third-party Personnel who care for animals training of personnel, reporting operations that conduct research or who conduct animal studies concerns, and contracts with on behalf of Lilly, supply animals ENGAGING EMPLOYEES must be appropriately qualified for to Lilly, or supply feedstuffs to anianimal suppliers and research the proper care and use of animals service providers. Personnel must mals at Lilly. In 2015, Lilly’s Bioethics Program and our Aniin research. also follow other related animal All animal facilities are subject to mal Research 3Rs Initiative co-hosted a comStudies involving animals must be research policies that apply to external review and inspection. panywide week of awards, lectures, presentations, and discussions related to both human designed and conducted in accortheir particular area of expertise. In the United States, our facilities and animal bioethics. The sessions related to dance with applicable country and Our policies and standards are are subject to unannounced site the ethical care and use of research animals local regulatory guidance and the based upon the U.S. Government inspections by the U.S. Departwas a great opportunity for us to engage emfollowing widely recognized princiPrinciples for the Utilization and ment of Agriculture. In Europe and ployees who don’t work with animals every day ples of animal care and use: Australia, local and national Care of Vertebrate Animals Used and to spur thinking and discussions about this authorities regularly inspect • With due consideration of the study in Testing, Research, and Training. important issue. For more about Bioethics Week animal facilities. In addition, we and our approach to bioethics more broadly, see relevance to human or animal self-inspect regularly, including the Bioethics section of this report. health and the advancement of semiannual program review and ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 89 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact facility reviews. In situations where we have recently acquired another company, we work closely with that group to ensure that animal welfare standards align with our policy and principles. We also maintain a global oversight program of all animal research and supply companies that we do business with, including visits by trained specialists to conduct animal welfare program and facility audits. Lilly requires all employees and all third parties involved in our research to adhere to all applicable country and local laws, regulations, and standards regarding the care and use of animals. Moreover, we require Lilly researchers and contractors to adhere to the Lilly Animal Care and Use Principles, even if these principles are more stringent than applicable local laws. Lilly also encourages animal research and animal supply companies globally to obtain and maintain accreditation from AAALAC. More information about our commitment and activities in this area is available on our Animal Care and Use webpage. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 90 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Workplace lifelong learning, prizes inclusion of diverse experiences and perWhile our company’s programs vary around the world, we take a EMPLOYEES (AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2015) spectives, and offers compensation and benefits that reward their holistic approach to our employee benefits. These may include flex10,840 Indianapolis dedication and hard work. ible work arrangements; on-site 1,214 In 1882, when his son, J.K. Lilly, Sr., conveniences, such as cafes, Indiana first became the superintendent fitness centers, and child care; (excluding Indianapolis) of the laboratories, our founder, Colonel Eli Lilly, charged him A Culture of Well-Being competitive time-off programs; retirement benefits; and health to “Take what you find here and make it better and better.” Those Our work environment encourages employees to strive for greater and disability programs that are available for employees when they 5,603 United States (excluding Indiana) words have had a significant personal well-being to enable need support. In some locations, impact on our company for its 140-year history and continue to them to contribute to the health and productivity of Lilly—and to certain benefits are extended to family members. 23,292 Outside United States motivate us today—driving our the patients we serve. We want 41,000 employees to search for innovation each day. Whether this our company to be a place where our employees enjoy meaningful A Coaching Culture 40,949 Worldwide Total takes the form of discovering medwork, build successful careers, icines, finding new ways to support patients, or aiding our communiand make important contributions to society. Lilly is poised for growth. To support that growth, our employees need 8,627 Employees Engaged in Lilly R&D Activities ties, we, too, strive to make things the work environment, coaching, (including scientists We recruit through professional better and better. and skills to be successful in the and additional staff) networks, career forums, eduyears to come. There are many unmet medical cational institutions, and digital needs—among them, Alzheimer’s media channels to find candidates We are committed to creating a These efforts directly support the disease and many types of canwho are passionate about pursucoaching culture—one that emmajor shift made in 2014 to simplify cer. We don’t know who is going ing a purposeful career that helps phasizes ongoing, quality converour performance management to discover the next great medical improve lives around the world. sations between supervisors and process and provide a framework breakthrough, and we need all the employees—to help employees that supports and encourages our For our employees, we support a best minds possible to help find learn, grow, and make progress in mindset of “helping people doing culture of well-being by providing solutions to these complex diseases. their work. In 2015, we completed good work get even better,” in the competitive pay, comprehensive That’s why we focus so intently a global coaching initiative where words of our CEO, John Lechleiter. employee benefit programs, trainon attracting a diverse, talented supervisors dedicated 25,000 This simplified approach encouring and development resources, workforce and then providing our hours to building their coaching ages our employees to prioritize and opportunities for them to serve employees with an environment skills through online learning and and focus their efforts to align with in their communities and around that fosters innovation, encourages in-person skill-practice workshops. our goals for the business overall. the world. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 91 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Learning and These employees are provided development opportunities in their In addition to our annual survey, we also rely on external benchsmall group of employees, now has 29,100 active users. Available Development organizations to grow in their leadership capability. We also conduct marking data and other internal surveys and focus groups to to all employees, the online forum has helped our employees find exTo further support our employees, leadership retreats globally for inform our decision-making. For perts within the company, expand we strive for a culture of lifelong employees who represent diverse example, we have recently coninternal professional networks, learning, encouraging employees talents and backgrounds. ducted an extensive study involving and make new friends. to seek ongoing education and our female employees to better Many of our employees have inunderstand the progression of growth as a strategic element of their career at Lilly. Listening to Our their careers. This information will dicated they value working for a company that devotes significant help determine and influence the We recently launched Lilly U, an online professional development Employees factors that impact their careers time, dollars, and resources to community programs and volunat important decision points. With portal for all employees. This onWe are a scientific company—and teerism. Connecting Hearts Abroad this knowledge, we hope to adline portal is always open, making data is at the core of our business. is an example. Since the launch of vance the career progression of it easier for employees to pursue Data also is essential as we develop this program in 2011, nearly 1,000 women at Lilly. professional development on their programs and make decisions about Lilly employees have served as own time and at their own pace. our work environment. One way we Connecting Hearts Abroad ambasIn addition to training classes, employees can use Lilly U to find gather information is through an annual all-employee survey. Employee Engagement sadors, volunteering on company time for two weeks in some of the reading recommendations, refEffective employee collaboration world’s most impoverished comWe ask our employees questions erence materials (such as white is critical to Lilly’s success, and munities. Many of the participants related to their work environment, papers, presentations, and internal we use a variety of programs and describe their experiences as “life including their feelings about their websites), videos, and practical tools to engage our employees and changing” and feel they return as work, their group, management ideas for ways to extend what they to foster and promote teamwork. better, more connected employees overall, and customer focus and learn into real-life situations. and stronger leaders. service. In addition, the survey asks One popular tool is The Loop, Our succession-management our employees to provide their peran internal social networking Another area we’re particularly process identifies individuals who ception of the leadership behavior of site that offers our employees a proud of is our work supporting we believe have the ability to lead their direct supervisor and includes platform for collaborating across science, technology, engineering, at higher levels. Supervisors from questions related to our leadership teams, functions, and geograand mathematics (STEM) educaeach division assess employees principles of connecting with peophies. Through it, our workforce tion initiatives. As a company built in their organization to determine ple, being determined, and driving can tap into each other’s expertise, on scientific discovery, we recogwhich individuals have the potencontinuous improvement. insights, and creativity. The Loop, nize the important role that early tial to take on more senior roles. piloted in the fall of 2010 with a education programs in STEM play ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 92 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact in preparing children for scientific FOSTERING INNOVATION BY CREATING A CULTURE OF INCLUSION DIVERSITY AT LILLY careers. We provide funding and volunteers for a number of school At Lilly, we encourage leaders to engage their teams and to create an environment where employees programs in our home state of are motivated and empowered to contribute to innovative solutions. We train leaders in key Indiana. In addition to aiding in the principles that emphasize connection, determination, and continuous improvement to help them education of young people, our fuel creativity and incubate leading-edge ideas. efforts are also helping to develop a future pipeline of potential talent for our own company. Diversity and inclusion are key pieces of this puzzle. First we must establish teams with a diverse representation of backgrounds, training, and experiences, and then we must move beyond that 2015 U.S. diversity to true inclusion—creating a workplace where employees feel comfortable bringing their Workforce See the Strengthening Communities “whole selves” to work and where their unique perspectives contribute to Lilly’s success. Watch section of this report for more a video to hear our employees talk about the importance of their voices being heard. about our volunteer efforts, including Connecting Hearts Abroad, our Leaders clearly play a critical role. Well-managed, diverse workgroups are more effective than those with little diversity.3 We emphasize inclusive leadership among our supervisors—pushing them to Global Day of Service, and addicreate an inclusive culture by seeking out, developing, and leveraging the diverse perspectives of 21% Minority Employees tional examples of our STEM work. their teams to enhance the impact those teams have on our business. Because inclusive leadership is becoming such an important focus area for us, we are including the Diversity and Inclusion principles in leadership training, conferences, and diversity and inclusion training across our operations. As a global company in the 21st century, we believe diversity and opportunity, whether hiring interstarts with robust projects that 8% Asian inclusion are critical elements nally or externally. We track and address complex business chalthat enable success. An inclusive culture helps to drive the scientific, regularly review our progress. lenges. For Indianapolis-based interns, there are numerous 7% African American clinical, and customer insights that Our recruiting initiatives include opportunities to learn about Lilly, fuel innovation. maintaining a presence at top colexplore the city, participate in A focus on diversity is built into our leges and universities and working with a wide range of diverse prosocial activities, and interact with 4% Latino people at all levels within the comtalent-management processes, fessional associations. We also pany. Globally, we offer an extenfrom recruiting, to staffing, to attract top diverse talent through learning and development, to sucthe Lilly internship program, which sive MBA internship program in 20 2% Two or more races Lilly locations around the world, cession management. Supervisors with an emphasis in the United are encouraged to consider di3 Catalyst Information Center. “Why States, China, and Japan. <1% Native American verse candidates for every staffing Diversity Matters.” 2013. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 93 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Hiring a diverse workforce is the first, important step. But moving To hear from Lilly women beyond diversity to focus on an infrom around the world, please clusive culture is equally important. see the blogs and videos at At Lilly, we work hard to foster this lillypad.lilly.com/women.php. culture through these actions: • Stressing the importance of inclusive leadership with our one of DiversityInc’s Top 50 Compasupervisors, nies for Diversity. We were also honored that year as a top company • Supporting our Employee Refor lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transsource Groups and empowering gender (LGBT) employees; women; them to make contributions vital and current and former military. (For to our company’s success, and a full list of awards, see page 99.) • Providing opportunities for employees to openly discuss and examine topics of diversity Global Diversity Initiatives (e.g., at our European Diversity We understand that the concept Summit and the discussion panel our African American Network of diversity means different things around the globe. Our leadership “We don’t have a person or a talent to waste. A culture hosted titled “Can We Talk? Navigating Hot Topics in the teams across the world formulate their diversity strategies by conof inclusion is about making sure every person who Workplace”). sidering our corporate perspective and then customizing their own works at Lilly feels comfortable, valued, and respected. As a company whose culture is built on improving the lives of othplans based on local demographics That’s when people give you their best. Do we have that ers, being recognized for our work and culture. to promote diversity and inclusion Many of those programs focus on culture today? If you ask me … we’ve come a long way, in our workforce is an honor we value highly. Year after year, Lilly the hiring, retention, and career development of women. Some of our but we still have work to do.” has been recognized as one of the — John Lechleiter, Ph.D., Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer results have led the industry. We top companies in the United States were honored to be named as one for our commitment to diversity of the 50 Leading Companies for and inclusion. In 2015, for the fifth Women in the Asia-Pacific Economic consecutive year, we were named ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 94 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Cooperation region and beyond for GENDER DIVERSITY AT LILLY 2015 IN THEIR WORDS our efforts to increase women’s leadership roles in the workplace. Attendees at our European Diversity Summit told us what diversity at Lilly means to them. For example, in Japan in 2004, we introduced the first phase of a “females in leadership” diversity There are four strategy. Since then, we have refined this strategy to include the estabwomen on the board of directors—about 29% When you think about our need to innovate, better lishment of a diversity council and the introduction of new programs The average for decision-making comes down to understanding the key to develop female leaders. Culture change takes time. Progress has Fortune 500 companies is just under 20% * principles around diversity and inclusion. been slow, yet steady, as Lilly Japan – Jackie Hardwick, Associate Director of Marketing Lilly also has four Toronto, Canada 29% works to increase the number of women in leadership roles. Lilly women on its executive Japan implemented a number of committee—also new programs, including childcare Leadership positions I’d really like to encourage people Let’s have a conversation about our support and expanded work-fromto get on board, ask the questions, differences. Not to necessarily end up home programs, among others, to make our company more attractive for 63% 37%** and find out what people in our on one side or the other, but to make men women organizations need to feel included. a friendlier environment. women. Since we began this initiative, Lilly Japan has made the “Best – Leanne Marran, Region HR Head, Elanco – Karolina Patocki, New Product Planning Global workforce Companies to Work For” list. Basel, Switzerland Manager, Alcobendas, Spain In addition to a focus on women, 53% 47% our affiliates tailor their plans men women based on other demographics. For U.S. workforce example, some build plans related to provincial, generational, and Diversity is more important than ever in a rapidly changing disability diversity. In 2015, our 53% 47% and very diverse world. It attracts people. It helps us to affiliates in Europe and Canada men women made significant efforts to accelmake better decisions and have better discussions. erate their progress in diversity * 2020 Women on Boards. 2015 Gender Diversity Index. – Sigrid Grundmann, Legal Director and inclusion efforts by organizing ** Percentage of women who supervise Bad Homburg, Germany a two-day European Diversity others or hold high-level strategic roles. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 95 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Summit in the United Kingdom, • Increasing education about • Establishing a European diversity their members and help our comwhich was attended by individuals diversity and inclusion, including and inclusion council; pany develop talented individuals representing 14 countries. a focus on personal biases • Increasing affiliate-level initiafor future leadership roles at Lilly. and how they can affect our tives, such as training sessions, Participants took new ideas and In recent years, they have been decision-making; adding diversity and inclusion to initiatives that originated at the expanding their grassroots activisummit back to their local offices, • Increasing partnerships with meeting agendas and business ties into areas that will have more including the following: external organizations to deepen updates, hosting external speakdirect business impact, becoming corporate knowledge of diversity ers, and evaluating policies to even more vital to our company’s • Strengthening the EuroPRIDE and inclusion (e.g., we became assess inclusiveness; and success. For example, our ERGs organization and creating a global partner of Stonewall to • Creating a quiet room for prayer, participate in recruiting events resource groups focusing on learn more about LGBT workmeditation, reflection, and related with colleagues in human regender inclusion and people with force issues around the world); activities at two Lilly locations in sources to help attract interns and disabilities in Europe and Canada; the United Kingdom. new employees from universities and career fairs. They frequently consult on marketing and workSCIENCE HATES BIAS Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) place programs and help to serve Our ERGs support a richer, more as language interpreters during inclusive workplace culture and company meetings. They also “In science, bias is dangerous. Even if unintentional, scientific bias alters conclusions and can partner with the business to help assist with corporate executive negatively impact the direction of future scientific approaches, assumptions, and thinking. At us better serve customers. They training programs on topics such best, it takes us off-course and wastes time. And bias when dealing with other people can be offer strong support networks for as cultural bias and inclusion. In damaging and hurtful. Bias in many forms will always be with us. But when we shine a light on diversity, bias retreats into the shadows. Working with people from diverse backgrounds is one of the parts of my job FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION that I love the most. As many scientists will tell you, the best scientific discovery is never a straight line. Instead, it’s multi-branched and requires diverse inputs, creative problem-solving, Lilly recognizes the importance of freedom of association in the workplace and respects the right and a healthy amount of skepticism and debate along the way. of our employees to join associations of their own choosing. We interact with works councils and unions in several countries outside the United States; we support these bodies and work proDiversity in science and research is not just a “nice to have” thing. It is essential to opening our ductively with them. The vast majority of our workers globally are not covered under traditional eyes and our hearts to bold solutions, without bias. Let’s encourage diversity of all kinds, particucollective-bargaining agreements. In some countries where we operate, governments mandate larly when we need major breakthroughs for urgent medical needs.” working conditions, such as salary increases, minimum wages, bonuses, number of weekly working hours, vacation time, and overtime rates. These vary by country, and we follow these — Farhana Merzoug, Ph.D., is a principal research scientist at mandates wherever they are required. Several of our affiliates have employee councils that meet Lilly whose work focuses on preclinical oncology tailoring. monthly with management to discuss workforce-related issues that directly impact them, such as company policies and organizational changes. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 96 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact ADDRESSING THE NEEDS OF MILLENNIALS ERG and already boasts more than connect with colleagues at all EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS 2015 650 members in the United States. levels of the company on a daily As we build the workforce that will take us The group fosters professional basis. Other companies are repliEmployee resource groups are critical into the future, we are listening and responddevelopment for employees who cating the panel. in driving our diversity and inclusion ing to the needs and interests of millennials. are early in their careers and proMaintaining a global outlook, the strategy across our company. In 2015, we assembled a cross-functional vides opportunities to reach out to group of millennials to identify opportunities Lilly Chinese Culture Network the community through social and for us to do more to attract, develop, and stays abreast of our job openings service-based activities. retain their peers. Members used work groups, surveys, focus The African American Network in China to help recruit qualified Chinese American employees or 10 Employee Resource Groups is Lilly’s longest-standing ERG. It their friends and family members groups, and benchmarking to assess and hosts an annual African American who already live in China. The netdefine the values, experiences, and career Forum attended by 800 employees, work also offers cultural awaredevelopment aspects that are most important coordinates activities for our emness training classes for U.S. Lilly to their generation. In 2016, we will begin acting on those recommendations. See below ployees during Black History Month each year, builds relationships with employees who are preparing for work assignments in China or 12,500 Members to learn more about our new Early Career Professionals ERG. historically black colleges and uniworking closely with colleagues versities to encourage recruitment there. The Lilly India Network of African Americans for positions offers similar training, in addition addition, they provide employees at Lilly, and helps to promote diversity in Lilly’s clinical trials. to community cultural programs. 60 Satellite Groups Globally preparing for global assignments The Organization of Latinos at Lilly with a better understanding of the In 2015, the Network partnered (OLA) ERG is very active in local language and culture of the counwith John Gates, Ph.D., a diversity communities, building Lilly’s reputries in which they will work. About 12,500 Lilly employees are consultant and writer, to moderate a discussion titled “Can We tation among the Hispanic population in Indianapolis where Lilly is 13,000 Internal Volunteer Hours members of at least one of our 10 Talk? Navigating Hot Topics in the headquartered and getting inERGs, which feature more than Workplace.” This event featured volved with organizations that align 60 chapters located at Lilly offices a respectful discourse on the with Lilly’s commitment to STEM 8,000 around the world. The following controversial police shootings in education. One of OLA’s key partExternal are just a few highlights from the Ferguson, MO, New York, NY, and nerships is with Project Stepping Volunteer Hours past year. other cities. The honest conversaStone, which provides opportunition was a breakthrough for many ties for young students to see that Formed in 2015, the Early Career employees about what it means to a college education is achievable Professionals group is our newest be authentic at work and to better even when sometimes it seems ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 97 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact out of reach. Every year, OLA In response to RFRA, Lilly led a WHAT AN EVOLUTION works with Project Stepping Stone coalition of businesses to encourto organize an event at Lilly where age elected officials to add lan“When I moved to Indianapolis almost 16 years ago, I was a nervous, excited 23-year-old in a Latino students partner with Lilly guage to the legislation to ensure new city with no family and no friends—just a new job. I remember, vividly, the energy it took professionals to help improve their it could not be used to discrimto start this new chapter in my life, especially doing nothing that would jeopardize my career understanding of business and the inate against LGBT individuals. at a big, new company. At the time, that included making sure that no one knew that I was importance of higher education. The so-called “RFRA fix,” which gay. That was June of 2000. also protected local human rights It took me almost a year-and-a-half before I verbally came out to anyone about my sexual Lilly AMECA (Africa, Middle East, ordinances in Indiana cities, such orientation at work, which I felt comfortable doing in large part because of the group that Central Asia) also is working to inas Indianapolis, Bloomington, eventually became the PRIDE ERG. Through the years, although the level of my involvement in crease access to clinical trials in the Lafayette, and South Bend, was the ERG has varied, one thing has been consistent: Our lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transMiddle East and conducts an annual ultimately passed. The “RFRA gendered colleagues have supported each other at Lilly. They were all building careers here symposium to educate employees fix” helped Indiana avoid further just like I was, and they did it by bringing their whole selves to work every day. This network about working in those regions. damage to its reputation. provided support to those where they may not have gotten it any place else. I started, a little at a time, to be more open at work. Over time, those colleagues became mentors that molded This controversy also illuminated me into the professional I am today and, ultimately, became friends that I still value. Supporting LGBT Civil Rights the fact that Indiana, along with The passage of the Religious about 30 other states in the nation, In April 2015, I attended the Human Rights Campaign (HRC) awards ceremony in New York Freedom Restoration Act (RFRA) has no statewide civil rights protecCity, where Lilly was recognized along with other companies that received a 100 percent by the Indiana Legislature in 2015 tions for LGBT individuals. Lilly and rating on HRC’s Corporate Equality Index. It was the eighth time Lilly received this recogsparked unwanted international other businesses in Indiana will nition, but this year held special meaning. As I accepted the award on behalf of Lilly, the advocate that these protections Religious Freedom Restoration Act had passed and was signed into law in Indiana. I watched attention about civil rights proas Indianapolis business leaders, including our own CEO, joined to convey that discrimination tections for LGBT individuals in be adopted by the Indiana General in any form will not be tolerated. Indiana. This attention eroded the Assembly. For example, Lilly has reputation of Indiana as the welbeen a leader in the formation of I’m proud to work at a place where diversity and inclusion of all employees are celebrated coming place we know it to be. “Indiana Competes,” a statewide and valued. It makes Indianapolis a great place to work and a great place to live. Fifteen Among other things, this places an coalition of more than 400 Hoosier years ago, I moved to Indianapolis as a shy, introverted young man with a new degree at a unwanted and completely unnecbusinesses, to encourage legislabig company. Today, I’m a mentor and a leader. Indianapolis is proudly my home, and Lilly is essary burden on companies like tive action on making this change proudly my company.” Lilly seeking to recruit and reto the state’s civil rights law. — Ganesh Ram Sharma is the consultant for analysis, clinical tain great talent from Indiana and development, information and optimization, and chair of around the world. the LillyPRIDE Employee Resource Group. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 98 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Supplier Diversity Administration Small Business Size WORKPLACE AWARDS, 2014-2015 We believe that doing business Standards. We actively seek to exwith a diverse set of suppliers pand relationships with these types delivers value to the company and of suppliers, which we view as an Top Companies for Executive Women Top Global Companies for Leaders creates a competitive advantage often untapped source of talent. National Association of Aon Hewitt for us by linking the fresh perFemale Executives Since 2005, the U.S. Small Busispectives and nimble thinking of ness Administration has recogethnically diverse, women-owned, nized us as “outstanding” in our and small businesses to our interCorporate Equality Index efforts to promote and maintain Top 25 Most People-Centric Company nal business needs. (perfect score) supplier diversity. In 2015, we spent Enterprise Engagement Alliance Human Rights Campaign Foundation Diverse suppliers are defined more than $573.4 million with 575 as those with at least 51 percent suppliers classified as diverse, ownership and control by an ethnic woman-, and/or LGBT-owned Top 50 Companies for Diversity and a minority, a woman, or someone businesses, as well as more than LATINO 100 Top 10 Company for LGBT Employees who is LGBT. Small suppliers are $566.8 million with 1,532 suppliers LATINO magazine classified as small businesses. DiversityInc. defined as per U.S. Small Business 2020 Women on Boards Best Adoption Friendly Workplaces Winning Company “Supplier diversity is really actively including small Corporate Champion Dave Thomas Foundation and diverse businesses throughout the entire sourcing process, ensuring that we are understanding Top 50 Leading Companies for Women Most Valuable Employers for Military the market, understanding what small and diverse Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation CivilianJobs.com suppliers are out there, and then actively ensuring 100 Best Companies Outstanding Rating for they are involved in our entire sourcing process.” for Working Mothers Working Mother magazine Supplier Diversity Initiatives U.S. Small Business Administration – Elizabeth G. O’Farrell, Chief Procurement Officer (21 consecutive years) For a more comprehensive list of awards, visit www.lilly.com. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 99 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Employee Health and or even office areas. We work to mitigate potential risks as much as RECORDABLE INJURY AND LOST TIME INJURY INTERIM GOALS MOTOR VEHICLE COLLISION INTERIM GOALS Safety, and Wellness possible through a combination of behavioral-based, technical, and RECORDABLE LOST TIME YEAR MOTOR VEHICLE COLLISION RATE INTERIM GOAL* As a leading developer of mediprocess enhancements reaching INJURY RATE INJURY RATE each area throughout Lilly. For YEAR INTERIM GOAL INTERIM GOAL 2014 N/A cines, we aim to make lives better, including those of our 41,000 example, in 2015, we updated 2015 17% 2014 0.85 0.30 global employees. Keeping our our health and safety standard to 2015–2016 0.80 0.30 2016 16% people safe and healthy—whether reduce the risk of serious injuries at home or at work—is one of and fatalities, broadened the scope 2017–2018 0.75 0.25 2017 15% our highest priorities and aligns of our employee safety culture 2019–2020 0.70 0.25 2018 14% directly with our company values survey, and placed an increased focus on the importance of office 2019 13% of integrity, excellence, and respect for people. Our philosophy is ergonomics. 2020 12% rate.4 These goals were developed that no employee should be hurt In 2015, our global health, safety, to reduce our injury rates across a while doing his or her job at Lilly and environment (HSE) team was seven-year period: 2014–2020. or Elanco. Since we introduced our actively involved in integrating that is involved in a collision. This global safety metrics in 2007, our manufacturing and research sites We also established a new goal for measure includes collisions that injury rate has declined by nearly from Novartis Animal Health and measuring motor vehicle collisions result in occupational injuries, as 40 percent, resulting in the preLohmann SE, both of which Elanco in 2015. Previously, our measure well as those that do not, such as vention of hundreds of injuries to recently acquired. Injury data from had been collisions per million slow-moving collisions that occur Lilly employees across the globe. each of these new sites have been miles (CPMM); however, we found in parking areas. We realize that the journey toward factored into Lilly’s data. that this measure was not easily safety excellence never ends, and understood and was difficult to we are constantly evaluating aptrack on a global level. For these Promoting a Health and proaches to improve our programs Safety Progress and reasons, we shifted to the more Safety Culture and to integrate injury prevention meaningful measure of percent into everyday work. Performance collisions, which simply demonTo achieve our goals, Lilly works In 2013, we established new hard to integrate our safety sysstrates the percent of our fleet tems and culture into all areas Our employees face potential interim goals for the three occurisk of injury in their work envipational safety metrics we track: of our business. In 2015, we ronment—be it in motor vehicles, 4 Lilly uses definitions for these terms as integrated our health and safety recordable injuries, lost time indefined by the U.S. Occupational Safety and research labs, manufacturing, juries, and motor vehicle collision Health Administration Part 1904, Recording systems and approach into newly and Reporting Occupational Injuries and Illness. acquired sites, placed increased ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 100 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact focus on integrating ergonomics are significantly enhanced by our evaluations. Lilly has placed a TOTAL RECORDABLE INJURY RATE into our research laboratories, employees’ willingness to be part significant emphasis on serious heightened emphasis on emof the solution. Employees in all injury and fatality (SIF) prevention 1.44 0.90 0.87 0.70 ployee safety in office areas, and areas and functions within the since 2012, and the effort has been increased our use of behavioral company, including laboratory, successful. We ask employees 2007 2014 2015 2020 Goal safety tools to help record and manufacturing, office, and sales to report “near misses”—events monitor employee observations positions, have the opportunity that could have—but thankfully did LOST-TIME INJURY RATE around safety. to participate in ergonomic asnot—result in an injury. We use sessments and get assistance in this data to take action and im0.60 Across Lilly as a whole, we be0.36 identifying unsafe behaviors and prove our performance. For exam0.26 0.25 lieve that achieving and sustaining conditions. In 2015 alone, Lilly ple, near-miss reporting caused world-class safety performance 2007 2014 2015 2020 Goal employees participated in nearly us to put additional emphasis on requires commitment in three key 8,400 ergonomic assessments, disconnection of power sources MOTOR VEHICLE COLLISION RATE* categories: leadership, employee including manufacturing areas, during equipment maintenance. In participation, and flawless execulaboratories, office workspaces, 2015, our operational sites part25% tion of programs. Here are some 18% 16% and sales vehicles. nered with subject matter experts 12% highlights of our safety programs to conduct on-site assessments, across these three areas: All employees are encouraged to 2007 2014 2015 2020 Goal in an effort to standardize best speak up when they see potentially Leadership. Effective senior leadpractices for energy control during * See earlier discussion of motor vehicle unsafe conditions. In 2015, we exers model safe behaviors at work. servicing and maintenance. collisions for a description of our new system panded our use of BSafe, a global for measuring and recording this metric. When it comes to displaying safe system for recording, reporting, behaviors, no action is too small— and analyzing safety observations. using the handrail while on the The data collected is now being Health and Safety Performance ergonomics has caused us to redestairs, avoiding distractions while In 2015, recordable injuries and fine our internal processes around used to help us predict and elimdriving, and adjusting office workillnesses caused by ergonomic prevention, early intervention, inate precursors to potentially spaces to promote healthy, neutral hazards—musculoskeletal proband case management. serious injuries and fatalities. postures during desk work. Senior lems caused by desk and work leaders set high expectations for Flawless Execution of Programs. site configurations that are not Injuries and illnesses caused by their teams around safety and At Lilly, we are constantly evaluatoptimized for the user—increased other major accident categories encourage the use of preventive ing the effectiveness of our safety approximately 24 percent over all improved when compared with safety tools that help eliminate our programs, with an ultimate goal 2014 and accounted for 47 perour 2014 performance. In particmost common injuries. of flawless execution. This is done cent of all recordable injuries ular, our focus on motor vehicle through corporate auditing, local and illnesses. This increase in safety has resulted in a 37 percent Employee Participation. Lilly’s injuries and illnesses related to improvement since 2009. self-assessment, and targeted safety culture and performance ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 101 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Overall, as of year-end 2014 compared to • Improving energy conservation year-end 2015, we are pleased with the progthrough eco-driving behaviors. ress in the number of total lost time injuries, Our hseDIRECTIONS investment 11% 12% which decreased by nearly 30 percent, and has resulted in a decrease in mothe corresponding number of lost work days caused by lost time injuries, which detor vehicle collisions, and, concreased by almost 45 percent. These are two sequently, a significant reduction 18% in motor vehicle-related injuries. Total Recordable important indicators that show the severity of injuries that occurred at Lilly in 2015 was The program places emphasis Injuries by Accident greatly reduced compared to 2014. on behind-the-wheel, defensive Category 2015 driving techniques. In 2015, tragically, one of our employees was 12% 47% At Lilly, sales and marketing killed in a motor vehicle accident. employees represent about 30 Our employee was a passenger percent of our global workforce. on a bus that struck another truck Their jobs require them to spend while in transit in Bangladesh. For large amounts of time driving. more than two years, no employee Struck by / Against / Caught between* Ergonomic Risk** Motor Vehicle Collisions Motor vehicle accidents pose risks has been involved in a fatal acciSlip / Trip / Fall Other that are often out of our employees’ dent while driving. control. In 2010, we launched a Following an analysis of motor vemotor vehicle safety program, 6% hicle collisions and related injuries called hseDIRECTIONS, designed 20% between 2008 and 2013, we added specifically for the thousands of requirements for all of our new Lilly employees who are on the fleet vehicles in the United States road every day, visiting physiLost-Time Injuries cians, hospitals, clinics, and other and Europe to be equipped with 36% collision-avoidance technologies. by Accident 16% customers. We expect these technologies to Category 2015 The program focuses on four result in a significant reduction key areas: in rear-end collisions—the most common type of accident leading • Motor vehicle safety, collision, 22% to employee injuries. and injury prevention; • Ergonomic risk reduction; We have also focused our fleet safety program on ergonomic * Refers to non-motor vehicle injuries resulting in result in abrasion, contusion, and laceration • Personal safety and security; and ** Refers to ergonomic risks (posture and/or force, repetition, duration of tasks) which training, for example, aligning the increase the likelihood of a sprain or strain ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 102 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact car seat correctly and reducing the The mission of the wellness and amount of time spent in the same productivity team mirrors the Lilly position while driving. We added Promise—uniting caring with disnew makes and models of vehicovery to make life better, including cles to our fleet choices to provide for our own employees and their greater varieties of seating options families. When people hear the and ergonomically-friendly techterm “wellness,” they often think nologies, such as hands-free trunk about the physical aspects of health lifting that reduces the risk of back and fitness. To fulfill our promise to injuries while inserting heavy conemployees, we have a broadened tainers into vehicles. view of wellness designed to create a culture of well-being across five Energy conservation is another dimensions: physical, financial, area where we can have an imsocial, community, and sense of pact. We encourage eco-driving services (such as annual physicals who commute to work by bicycle. purpose. Our Fit for Life benefit behaviors and have expanded the and cancer screenings) that go We have also made all U.S. sites program offers a set of tools and choices of fleet vehicles with lower well beyond the requirements essmoke-free. resources to help employees not emissions. To learn more about tablished under federal healthcare only better manage their health but Other U.S. efforts to support our the environmental performance of reform. Outside the United States, also to identify those things that employees’ physical and emotional Lilly’s fleet, see the Environmental we deliver competitive benefit can contribute to a healthier and health include access to a dietitian, Stewardship section of this report. packages and health coverage that more active life. Fit for Life benquarterly fitness challenges, supefit offerings include free annual varies depending upon location. port for new mothers, and a compreventive health screenings, In many countries, our employSupporting Employee Wellness well-being assessments and plans, ees receive government-provided prehensive employee-assistance program, including consultation at Lilly fitness trackers, health and clinical medical benefits. with on-site psychologists. We Our company’s wellness and procoaching, tobacco cessation, weight At our Indianapolis headquarters, also promote financial well-being ductivity team has direct responsimanagement, and access to a netwe have several on-site fitness through a variety of online financial bility for our U.S. wellness stratwork of nearly 9,000 fitness centers centers for individual and group tools and financial advisory proegy, work-life balance programs, nationwide. fitness activities. We partner with grams. Many of the benefit offerand employee activities around In the United States, Lilly offers our food service vendors to provide ings also are available to spouses, healthy living, as well as medical health plan coverage to employees a wide range of healthier dining domestic partners, and qualified and disability leaves. There are and their eligible dependents. Lilly choices and snacks—some of dependents to promote well-being similar teams at several of our also provides U.S. employees with which are subsidized. We provide for the entire family, not just the international affiliates. coverage for preventive health showers and bike racks for more person directly employed by Lilly. than 150 Indianapolis employees ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 103 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Environmental This section covers the broad range of our environmental activities, from our approach and LILLY'S 2020 ENVIRONMENTAL GOALS* Stewardship To motivate Lilly to continually decrease our environmental impacts, we drive progress toward management systems, to our work our 2020 goals. The baseline for our goals is 2012, with the exception of our phosphorus emisaddressing environmental issues sions reduction goal, which has a 2014 baseline. across our value chain, to performance data and examples demon20% Reduction in greenhouse gas emissions intensity**,*** Progress through 2015: 4% reduction Making medicines that help people strating progress. live longer, healthier, more active 20% Improvement in energy efficiency** Progress through 2015: 1% improvement lives requires the use of valuable resources, such as energy, water, Our Commitment and raw materials. We take a and Approach 15% Reduction of phosphorus emissions in wastewater (with a baseline of 2014)**** Progress through 2015: 5% increase broad approach to understanding and managing our environmental impacts across the product life A Lifecycle Focus 20% Improvement in waste efficiency † while increasing recycling rate above 70% and decreasing waste to landfill below 10% of total waste cycle, and we look for opportuniEach stage of the pharmaceutical Progress through 2015: 56% decrease in efficiency ties to improve our performance. product life cycle includes distinct * Following World Resources Institute guidance, progress toward environmental goals is reported on We’re committed to conducting environmental, health, and safety an adjusted basis accounting for mergers, acquisitions, and divestitures, as appropriate, to ensure comparability, unless stated otherwise. our business in a patient-centered impacts and opportunities for ** Per square foot of site space. manner and to continually reducing improvement. The graphic on the *** This goal covers Lilly’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions related to site-purchased energy (e.g., electricity, steam, chilled water) and on-site fuel combustion. our environmental footprint. next page provides an overview of **** In absolute terms. † Per unit of production or site-relevant index. Lilly’s waste goals do not include materials that our work to reduce the potential are deemed “reused” without extensive processing. Examples include coal ash reused for mine impacts from our operations. reclamation or road base, and mycelia and urea reused for fertilizer. SCOPE OF HEALTH, SAFETY, AND ENVIRONMENT DATA IN THIS SECTION • Data in this section cover Lilly’s global operations, including wholly-owned subsidiaries, • Bureau Veritas provided independent, third-party verification of GHG unless stated otherwise. emissions data for Scopes 1, 2, and 3 included in the Environmental • Data may be revised compared to prior reports due to changes in calculation methodology Performance Indicators section of this report on page 120. In addition, and other factors. Bureau Veritas verified the percentage decrease from 2012 (when that is the goal baseline year) and from 2014 (in all cases) compared to 2015 • Following World Resources Institute guidance, energy use, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions for the following metrics: energy efficiency, waste to landfill, waste (except Scope 3), and water-use data are reported on an adjusted basis accounting for mergers, efficiency, recycling rate, water intake, and phosphorus discharge. acquisitions, and divestitures, as appropriate, to ensure comparability, unless stated otherwise. • Years are calendar years, unless stated otherwise. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 104 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact MANAGING ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ACROSS THE PRODUCT LIFE CYCLE Materials, water, and energy, HSE management system and standards Research and Development Materials and Natural Resources Manufacturing We consider environmental factors from Our stakeholders, including customers, Our Elanco and Pharmaceutical manuthe earliest stages of design and developgovernments, and suppliers worldwide, facturing health, safety, and environment ment. We use the 12 principles of green are increasingly focused on the materials (HSE) committees oversee sustainability chemistry, environmental risk assessand chemicals used to make products. performance and compliance with applicaments, packaging manufacturing reviews, We have a chemical management proble HSE regulations, policies, procedures, and an Environmental Development gram and work to reduce our use of and standards while ensuring we continReview process to evaluate potential envimaterials, water, and other natural ually measure, report, and reduce Lilly’s ronmental impacts during the scale-up of resources when possible. environmental impacts associated with human health pharmaceutical production For more information, see page 110. our own as well as contract manufacturing to manufacturing levels. organizations. For more information, see page 108. For more information, see page 113. Sales and Marketing Product Transport and Packaging Product Use Product End of Life At many Lilly sales and marketing offices Lilly tracks the GHG emissions of our prodLilly is committed to understanding the Due to patient safety considerations and worldwide, we manage projects to imuct transportation and distribution venpotential effects of pharmaceutical prodmedicine regulations, reuse and recycling prove environmental performance while dors, and we collaborate to reduce those ucts in the environment. We support using are not applicable to our products. We increasing employee awareness and impacts while ensuring product integrity. science-based evaluations to assess and are working with stakeholders to ensure action. Lilly continually works to improve We consider many factors in selecting reduce the environmental risks of our cost-effective approaches are available for the fuel efficiency of our sales force fleet product packaging, including sustainability pharmaceutical products. Through collabproduct end-of-life disposal that balance through vehicle choice and optimization of dimensions such as materials use and reorations with industry partners, academic environmental protection, patient privacy, driving and work practices. These efforts cyclability. We require packaging vendors researchers, and regulatory agencies, we legal compliance, and security. also reduce associated greenhouse gas in China, Europe, and the United States to continually work to further understand and For more information, see page 112. (GHG) emissions. certify that they source all paper and cardproactively address any potential impacts For more information, see page 114. board used to package our products from from our products. sustainable forests. For more information, see page 110. For more information, see page 110. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 105 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact How We Manage requirements to ensure compliOur Global HSE Committee— administrative functions, manage ance with Lilly health, safety, and which includes senior executives governance for HSE in those areas. Environmental Issues environment (HSE) standards; from key areas of the business— Policies and Standards Management Systems applicable regulatory requireensures proper oversight and plays Several policies and standards Lilly sites and business areas have ments; and other external HSE a central role in monitoring corpodefine our commitments and guide HSE management systems aligned standards to which we subscribe. rate performance and continuous our efforts: with our Management System • Our Global Engineering Stanimprovement. The vice president Standard, which is consistent • Our Protecting People, the Envidards govern many environmenresponsible for global HSE works with third-party standards such ronment, and Our Assets Policy tal aspects of our operations, closely with the Global HSE Comas International Organization for sets environmental expectasuch as energy use and greenmittee to approve appropriate metStandardization (ISO) 14001, Occutions related to compliance and house (GHG) emissions. rics and goals, assess company pational Health and Safety Assessenvironmental protection for our performance, and oversee com• Our Product Stewardship Stanment Series (OHSAS) 18001, and people and operations. pliance with all HSE regulations, dard provides a systematic way the American Chemistry Council’s policies, procedures, and stan• Our Environmental Standard to manage product and process Responsible Care Management dards globally. The manufacturing provides more detailed requirerisks throughout the product life System (RCMS®). Our global HSE HSE committees support these ments and establishes the core cycle, from discovery to product management system is also cerefforts and drive ongoing improvegovernance requirements to manend of life. tified to RCMS, and almost half of ment throughout manufacturing. age environmental and energyour manufacturing locations are HSE Governance Executives and lead teams in each related aspects of our operations. certified to one or more external Lilly’s formal HSE governance of our business groups and manu• Our Management System Stanstandards including ISO 14001, structure (see graphic) integrates facturing, as well as Lilly Research dard and Verification and CorOHSAS 18001, Voluntary Protection HSE management companywide. Laboratories and general and rective Action Standard define Programs, and RCMS. LILLY HEALTH, SAFETY, AND ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE LILLY’S POLICY ON PROTECTING PEOPLE, THE ENVIRONMENT, AND OUR ASSETS * Our Elanco and pharmaceutical We strive to maintain a secure workplace and to protect people and the communities in which BO A R D O F D I R E C T O R S operations have separate but we operate and serve. We are focused on continuously improving our health and safety practices aligned HSE governance structo promote the well-being of our people. We are committed to conducting business in a respontures for manufacturing, research EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE and development, and general sible and environmentally sustainable manner. We are committed to a robust security culture to and administrative functions. The protect our people and brand from harm, and our assets from loss, theft, or damage. Each of us is Elanco and pharmaceutical govresponsible for implementing our security practices and applying them in our daily activities. G LO B A L H S E C O M M I T T E E ernance structures share common Lilly policies, standards, and ELANCO* PHARMACEUTICALS * assurance systems and establish their own as appropriate. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 106 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Audits Each year, we audit approximately billion British thermal units (BTU) of energy, avoid about 107,000 Sustainable Culture at Lilly Our employees play a key role in Product Stewardship 30 percent of our sites globally, metric tonnes carbon dioxide the ongoing success of our enLilly takes a broad approach to unfollowing the protocols outlined for equivalent (CO2e) of GHG emisvironmental efforts. Hundreds derstanding and managing possible each of our Global HSE Standards. sions, and save almost $20 million. of employees, passionate about HSE issues across the product life Our five-year audit plan, updated In 2015, funded projects included sustainability, make up dozens of cycle (see page 105). This imannually, determines which sites the following: “green teams” globally. With the proves our own performance and to audit based on risk. External support of HSE representatives demonstrates our values, while • Installation of energy monitoring and internal auditors participate in and management, these teams also meeting the increasing exequipment and LED lighting in each audit conducted. work to reduce environmental pectations of customers and other Kinsale, Ireland; impacts at Lilly sites and in their stakeholders. Energy, Waste, Water, • LED lighting installation in communities. The green teams and Natural Resource Use Carolina, Puerto Rico; Lilly’s Product Stewardship Stanalso engage internal and exterReduction Fund dard defines the requirements for • Expansion of an existing heat nal experts to provide insight and To facilitate capital investments in addressing HSE throughout our pump system in Fegersheim, inspire action through presentatechnology and physical plant opvalue chain and integrates our apFrance; tions and educational materials erations that improve environmenproach throughout Lilly’s business on environmental issues. These tal performance, we established • Solar photovoltaic array (page 108). Numerous Lilly busiteams implement projects such as and manage an Energy, Waste, installation in Erl Wood, United ness areas and functional groups employee carpooling programs, Water, and Natural Resource Use Kingdom; contribute to implementing this energy-efficiency initiatives, and Reduction Fund. The fund helps • Laboratory hood personnel destandard across our value chain. beverage container and cardboard pay for capital projects each year tection and variable exhaust flow The scope covers both internal recycling. The green teams present at our facilities globally and protechnology to safely reduce laboand external value chain elements ideas for management approval. motes the development of environratory air flow and save energy in globally. Projects must be cost-effective and mentally superior, efficient techErl Wood, United Kingdom; and have clear environmental benefits. We focus on the following areas: nologies and best-practice sharing across our facilities. • Purchase of precise dispensing We also encourage employees to technology in research labora• Using green chemistry and act as better environmental stewengineering to reduce the use Since 2006, we have approved a tories in Indianapolis, Indiana, ards outside of work and provide of energy, water, and hazardous total of more than $37.5 million for to reduce waste generation by them with information and rematerials in our development investment in over 140 projects. approximately 4.5 metric tonnes sources on topics such as increasand manufacturing processes; This is in addition to the amounts per year. ing composting and recycling in spent by those facilities indepen• Reviewing materials used in drug their homes, upgrading to more dent of the global fund. On an delivery devices, such as insulin efficient lighting, and using public annual basis, these projects injection pens, to reduce their transportation when feasible. collectively save more than 865 environmental footprint; ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 107 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact • Developing more sustainable Our product development objecLILLY'S PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP STANDARD packaging materials and practices; tives for our human health prod• Using science-based environucts include the use of green Reflecting the breadth of product-related sustainability issues, our Product Stewardship Standard mental risk assessments to evalchemistry, along with criteria such covers the following areas: uate the potential impact of our as quality and cost. Development • Emerging issues: Identifying, analyzing, and managing new and emerging issues; products on the environment; and teams are accountable for process efficiency and safety from • Procurement: Considering environmental factors in purchasing decisions; • Supporting responsible product when they select candidate mole• Product discovery: Reviewing internal and external research operations to foster high HSE disposal at end of life. cules through the development of standards; a manufacturing process, and we • Product development: Using inherently safer design principles, such as green chemistry, as well monitor progress at major mileas engineering innovations, to identify and reduce HSE hazards from new production processes Design for Environment stones. We outsource a significant where possible; The majority of the environmental • Product packaging: Reducing the amount of packaging and using environmentally preferable amount of product development, impacts of pharmaceutical prodmaterials, when possible, while satisfying regulatory and customer requirements, meeting so we share guidelines with our uct manufacturing are determined marketing objectives, and preserving product integrity; partners to ensure consistent obduring the research and develop• Distribution: Ensuring safe product transport and warehousing while reducing associated envijectives, processes, and outcomes. ment stage of our value chain, so ronmental impacts; at that point we consider the mateLilly’s approach to green • Marketing and sales: Working with customers to enhance the patient experience related to rials and processes we will use to chemistry in our human health product environmental performance; make products and their packagpharmaceuticals is twofold: • Suppliers, contract operations, and alliances: Evaluating and influencing the HSE performance ing and work to identify opportuniof suppliers, contract operations, and alliances (see page 82 for more information about ties to improve their environmental • We seek improvements by resupplier management); and performance. ducing the amount of hazardous material used to make a prod• Supply chain management: Establishing plans to ensure business continuity and appropriate emergency response, if needed. uct, increasing overall material Innovations in Green Chemistry efficiency, evaluating chemical alternatives, and avoiding use of Green chemistry works to reduce To support these efforts, we have the process we use to develop and the most hazardous substances. or avoid hazardous materials use, established guidelines for the type assess the suitability of new mandecreasing or eliminating the need • We strive to advance the underand quantity of materials needed ufacturing processes. We evaluate for related protection, controls, and lying chemistry and engineering to synthesize new products. These success in implementing these treatment. Lilly has many years of technologies used to make medalso restrict the use of materials standards and share feedback with experience with green chemistry icines through innovation, both that could significantly increase development teams (see Environinitiatives that engage both internal internally and through external process environmental and safety mental Development Review on and external stakeholders. partnerships. risks. These guidelines, along with page 109). other design criteria, are a part of ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 108 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact We have developed several inno4 million kilowatt hours (kWh), and approach uses environmentally Environmental vative approaches that improve generation of a hazardous waste friendly solvents and is considered environmental performance and stream by 25,000 liters. The removal nearly carbon neutral, resulting in Development Review enhance process safety by reducof unneeded equipment also gena decrease of solvent-related GHG Lilly uses an Environmental Deing the scale of the most hazarderated 27 metric tonnes of scrap emissions from the process by 69 velopment Review (EDR) process ous manufacturing steps by more metal for recycling. In addition, as percent. Learn more. in our human health pharmaceuthan one hundredfold. We measure these changes are implemented, tical business to evaluate potential Lilly has been a leader in the environmental issues and opporprogress in green chemistry at we will eliminate the road and rail American Chemical Society’s (ACS) tunities during the scale-up of critical steps in the human health transportation needed to deliver Green Chemistry Institute (GCI) medicine production to manufacproduct development process with the hazardous materials to the site, Pharmaceutical Roundtable since turing levels. This process helps material use efficiency metrics further improving our risk profile. it co-founded the Roundtable in us identify and address potential including process mass intensity Lilly also focuses on the use of 2004. In 2015, we contributed to impacts of manufacturing and (PMI), a ratio of the total mass of greener and safer solvents. We the rollout of reagent guides and waste treatment, suggest process raw materials (including water) have replaced several hazardous tools to encourage scientists to improvements, and share learning used for every kilogram of drug solvents with safer alternatives choose more environmentally as new medicines transition into produced. We set PMI targets over the years, and, in 2014, we friendly reaction conditions and manufacturing. Find more inforbased on molecular complexity and completed a Six Sigma project fosupported development of an mation about our environmental predicted product demand, helping cused on replacing several addiinformational video (see below) performance in manufacturing on us to identify the highest return tional solvents. Following this initiaabout green chemistry in the page 113. opportunities for waste reduction. tive, we issued new internal solvent pharmaceutical industry. We also In 2015, we improved the process selection and solvent replacement supported the continued funding to manufacture an active pharmaguides. The latter includes case of external research grants—the Global Chemical Management ceutical ingredient at our Indianapstudies on successful replacement three grants issued in 2015 totaled Governments around the world olis facilities. The primary purpose of solvents to meet requirements approximately $2 million. and across many of the regions of the project was elimination of of the European Union’s Registrawhere we operate have developed hazardous chemicals, but other tion, Evaluation, Authorisation and chemical management legislation, significant environmental improveRestriction of Chemicals (REACH) such as the European Union (EU) ments were made in alignment regulations. We have also made REACH regulation, which rewith our sustainability goals. As significant efforts to limit the use of quires some companies to collect a result of the process improvedichloromethane (a hazardous air and register information about ments, we project we will annually pollutant), including the developthe chemicals they manufacture reduce air emissions by 60 percent, ment of an amino acid-based proor use. These regulations may VIDEO ACS GCI Pharmaceutical Roundtable wastewater generation by 10 milcess to produce a key pharmaceuCelebrates 10 Years also require replacing the most lion liters, energy consumption by tical intermediate. The innovative hazardous chemicals with safer ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 109 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact alternatives, when available. We is also a source of cost and waste. Pharmaceuticals in products or through pharmaceutical continue to assess the impact of Through our sustainable packagmanufacturing discharges. these regulations on substances ing efforts, we continually seek the Environment Pharmaceuticals are designed to Advanced analytical testing techwe manufacture and on our raw to improve packaging design to cure or treat disease and to help nologies enable scientists to meamaterials use. We are commitreduce the amount of packaging people live healthier lives. Howsure trace residues of pharmaceuted to ensuring our facilities and used; use lower environmental ever, like many foods and nutritical products in the environment supply chain remain in compliance impact materials, such as recycled tional supplements, they are not that were previously undetectable. with chemical management laws. content; enhance recyclability; always completely absorbed or These residues are widespread and reuse or recycle packaging broken down by the body. Residues and have been found in streams, throughout the supply chain. rivers, and other water bodies. Materials Use Our Product Stewardship Standard of a pharmaceutical or its byReported concentrations are exproducts may be excreted as part Lilly assembles injection devices helps set expectations for these efof normal biological processes. tremely low—in some cases, less that patients use to administer forts. We established requirements Sewage treatment systems are than one part per trillion (equivsome of our medicines—products for packaging suppliers in China, not always able to completely realent to about one grain of sugar that demand the highest standards Europe, and the United States to move these substances, and these dissolved in an Olympic-sized of quality, sterility, and reliability provide certification that their paresidues may pass through treatswimming pool). Despite these to ensure patient safety. Meeting per stock is sourced from sustainment facilities and enter rivers, very low concentrations, the these high standards is our top able forests. Acceptable certificastreams, or lakes. To a lesser presence and biological potency priority. Although our environmentions include those provided by the extent, pharmaceutical products of pharmaceuticals raise questal design and materials selection Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) may also enter the environment tions about how to best evaluate efforts extend to this area, we use for folding cartons, leaflets, labels, from improper disposal of unused potential associated human and only virgin raw materials in manand combination products, and the ufacturing to meet the standards Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI) for these devices and minimize the for fiber sourcing, chain of custody, possibility of any impurities. and product labels. In 2015, we developed a new packPackaging aging metrics dashboard to collect Pharmaceutical packaging is data on packaging materials and highly regulated and must fulfill quantities. Beginning in 2016, these many functions, including ensuring metrics will help us identify improduct integrity during transit provement opportunities—for examand storage, providing information, ple, through comparisons between resisting counterfeiting, and proproduct categories and business tecting contents from tampering units—and document progress. Waterfowl enjoy the wetlands area at our Clinton, Indiana, site, which is open to the public. or access by children. Packaging ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 110 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact environmental risks. Published attention and resources of water and recommend resources for (EPA) and EU Water Framework studies to date, including the often suppliers and regulators from related internal and external iniDirective methodologies). In addicited World Health Organization’s other water quality priorities. tiatives. Our manufacturing govtion, we have processes in place (WHO’s) 2011 Technical Report on ernance committees also review to ensure that our manufacturing Governance Pharmaceuticals in Drinking Water, internal and external PIE issues, discharges do not create condiDue to the importance of this issue indicate these trace amounts of as those groups have ultimate tions that could promote strains to Lilly, the environment, and our pharmaceuticals are unlikely to accountability for environmental of bacteria resistant to antibiotics, stakeholders, we have established impact human health at the levels issues in operations. which might present risks to peoa Governance Committee for Phardetected. WHO has cautioned ple and wildlife. maceuticals in the Environment Operations interested parties to not let conto set strategic direction, support We test and assess our medicines To study the overall impact of our cerns over pharmaceuticals in effective internal collaborations, for potential impacts on the envioperations on local habitats, our the environment (PIE) divert the ronment to ensure that we meet site in Kinsale, Ireland, has been regulatory requirements and engaged in a continuous evaluinternal standards before introation of aquatic habitat quality IMPROVED METHODOLOGIES FOR ASSESSING ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS ducing our products to markets. since 1978. Update reports are We regularly update our testing regularly issued and results show The goals of the Intelligence-led Assessment of Pharmaceuticals in the Environment project protocols for new and existing no evidence of an adverse impact (iPiE project)—a collaboration among Lilly and other pharmaceutical companies, universities, pharmaceuticals as knowledge and of the Lilly wastewater discharge research organizations, public bodies, and nonprofit groups—are to develop frameworks to testing methods improve. We make point on any aspect of habitat support the environmental testing of new pharmaceuticals and to help prioritize testing of active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) approved for use prior to 2006 and still marketed. The information on the environmental quality in the study area. This long frameworks will draw on information such as existing data on the environmental impact of APIs, hazards and impacts of our pharterm effort has supported studies toxicological studies, computer models, and studies of how medicines work. maceutical products readily availpublished in peer-reviewed sciable through safety data sheets. entific publications and continues Project focus areas include the following: to support academic research for Lilly is committed to using • Identifying existing methods for conducting pharmaceutical environmental risk assessments; undergraduates. science-based approaches for • Compiling a database with information on both APIs and test organisms; identifying and minimizing any External Collaboration • Developing new models for estimating exposure to APIs that will consider factors such as how significant risks from residues of We continue to partner with indusmuch of an ingredient is released into the environment, how fast it is broken down, and how our products in the environment. try, academia, and governments to extensively it accumulates; and We create predicted no-effect improve both our understanding • Devising methods to predict the effects of APIs on different organisms in terrestrial and aquatic concentration (PNEC) values for of, and our response to, PIE. environments. our medicines through recognized Beginning in 2015, Lilly has supThese activities will inform the development of an exposure assessment tool that can be used scientific processes (primarily U.S. ported collaborative research on to screen APIs under development and prioritize existing APIs for enhanced testing. All models Environmental Protection Agency PIE with the Innovative Medicines developed by the project will be validated experimentally. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 111 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact better understand and ensure an We also engage with other induseffective approach to product endtry stakeholders in the European of-life issues. Union (EFPIA), Canada (HPSA), and other countries. We promote science-based policy decisions regarding the disposal of In the U.S., Lilly believes that unused medicines, and we support recommendations to dispose of educating patients and caregivers most unused medicines in houseon proper disposal. See Lilly’s hold trash are well-supported by Position on the Disposal of Unused current and ongoing research as Medicines in the United States. We environmentally safe, effective, also support the proper disposal and easy for consumers to underof syringes, needles, and other stand. When in-home disposal is sharps used in home settings to not preferred, we support voluntary A crab in Kinsale Harbor, Ireland, where our site has engaged in an ongoing evaluation of aquatic habitat quality for mitigate potential public health industrywide, cost-effective disposal nearly 40 years. and safety risks. Based on feedsolutions for unused medicines that back from patients and healthcare are safe and easy for patients; Initiative (IMI), jointly undertaken by pharmaceutical residues in water providers, we believe that educaprevent misuse of prescription the European Union, various uniwith the U.S. National Academies tion offers the greatest opportunity drugs; and ensure environmental versities, and the European FederNational Research Council, the to improve disposal practices for protection. For example, in 2015, ation of Pharmaceutical Industries EPA, and the Society of Environsharps. We are working to more Lilly provided a grant to Yellow and Associations. Using input from mental Toxicology and Chemistry. effectively communicate this inforJug Old Drugs, a program under industrial and academic experts, mation to patients through product the Great Lakes Clean Water/U.S. participants in the IMI project are user manuals, patient education Clean Water organization that developing a predictive frameProduct End of Life programs, improved sales force provides prescription drug disposal work to identify potential risks in Medicines are intended to be used awareness, and updated informaservices to pharmacies, enabling this area. We plan to support this in their entirety by patients. Even tion at The Lilly Answers Center. the public to turn in unused initiative through 2018. when this does not occur, regulamedications for safe disposal and We are actively involved in the tions prohibit the use of recovered avert potential misuse. This conOur scientists and engineers have Pharmaceutical Product Stewardmaterials in our products. As a retribution will increase from 29 to published articles and presented ship Work Group, a U.S. membersult, ecologically beneficial models 100 the number of prescription at conferences and workshops. ship association of manufacturers of consumer take-back, reuse, and drug collection and disposal sites They have also provided peerof prescription and over-therecycling programs do not apply to delivered through the program review services for scientific counter medicines formed to supour products. We continue to work across Indiana. See a map of journals and have participated port compliance with U.S. housewith customers and partners to participating locations. in meetings about the safety of hold disposal regulations. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 112 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Environmental PROGRESS TOWARD GOAL—GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Improving site energy efficiency by Performance Scope 1 2 90 20% and reducing greenhouse gas Scope 2 80 emissions intensity by the same We are committed to continually 0.486 Metric Tonnes CO2e/1,000 square feet GHG emissions 0.436 0.460 0.472 70 amount by 2020* will cumulatively: improving environmental perfor1.5 intensity Million Metric Tonnes CO2e mance across Lilly’s operations. 57.1 58.3 57.7 55.1 60 We prioritize our most significant 50 areas of environmental impact— 1 1.12 1.11 1.08 1.07 2020 Goal energy use, GHG emissions, water, 40 and waste. In addition, we are ded30 Decrease CO2e, the icated to maintaining compliance .5 equivalent of planting 20 with applicable legal standards, advancing green procurement, 10 20 million trees** reducing non-GHG air emissions, 0 0 and supporting biodiversity. Fun2012 2013 2014 2015 damental to our approach, we establish, work toward, and share cost for our research, manufacturWe achieved this result even though progress against HSE perforing, and distribution activities (see production increases at some of mance goals (see page 104). Save more than page 114). Recognizing the interour larger manufacturing sites connections between GHG emissions and water use, we have also raised energy usage (see page 114 for more detail). GHG emissions $160 million** Greenhouse Gas Emissions evaluated water-stressed areas will remain a key focus for the comClimate change is compelling govwhere we operate (see page 116). pany, and we are further expanding ernments, companies, and citizens efforts to reduce energy use as worldwide to act, as demonstrated Lilly’s 2020 goal is to reduce needed to meet our goal. in December 2015 at COP21, the Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emisglobal climate conference in Paris, sions related to site-purchased This year, we again reported France. At Lilly, we set and drive energy (e.g., electricity, steam, several categories of Scope 3 Avoid the use of progress toward aggressive targets chilled water) and on-site fuel GHG emissions, as included in energy equaling about for improved energy efficiency and reduced GHG emissions. This imcombustion by 20 percent per square foot of site space, comthe Environmental Performance Indicators table on page 120. We 78 million** proves our environmental perforpared to our 2012 baseline. In are committed to continually exgallons of gasoline mance and decreases energy use, 2015, we decreased emissions panding the scope and quality of Compared to 2012. * which is a substantial operational intensity by 4 percent since 2012. our disclosure in this area and are Source: EPA.gov. ** ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 113 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact evolving our strategy for gathering performance based on our fiveEnergy Use using photovoltaic (PV) arrays. A environmental footprint data from tier system (Beginner, Follower, Energy assessments, used to iden9.95-megawatt (MW) PV solar sysour suppliers. Good Citizen, Leader, and Best in tify and help prioritize energy contem, completed in 2014, adjacent Class), about 40 percent achieved servation measures, are central to to our subsidiary in Branchburg, In 2015, Lilly achieved a CDP (for“Leader” or “Best in Class. our approach. Since 2006, we have New Jersey, covers more than merly Carbon Disclosure Project) conducted assessments at 10 of 40 acres and is one of the bigclimate change disclosure score of During 2015, we achieved a 25 our most energy-intensive sites. gest of its kind for an East Coast 89, compared to the average score percent reduction in fleet GHG In 2015, assessments were connon-utility company. The sysof 82 in the healthcare sector and emissions at our four largest ducted at Lilly sites in Fegersheim, tem generated 13.2 million kWh our company’s score of 85 in 2014. European affiliates (Germany, Italy, France; Kinsale, Ireland; Carolina, of electrical energy in 2015 and Our performance band was C. See Spain, and the United Kingdom) Puerto Rico; Branchburg, New provided 31 percent of the power Lilly’s recent CDP climate change through vehicle replacements, submission for additional detail while Lilly Japan replaced more Jersey; and Clinton, Indiana. about the company’s approach and than half of its 2,000-vehicle fleet Additionally, Lilly has implemented ENERGY PROGRAM performance in this area, including with fuel-efficient hybrid vehicles. several global strategic initiatives climate change-related risks and During 2016, we will finish upto support these efforts, such as We are committed to using energy in an opportunities. grading the fleets in an additional energy sub-metering to enable efficient, cost-effective, and environmentally 10 European affiliates (Austria, monitoring and benchmarking of responsible manner. To do so, we establish Decreasing Environmental energy-efficiency goals and implement energy Czech Republic, Denmark, facilities and utility equipment, use Impacts in Sales and Marketing management practices globally. Our approach Finland, Hungary, Norway, Poland, of the Laboratory Energy Efficiency All Lilly commercial sales affiliates includes the following elements: Romania, Slovakia, and Sweden). Profiler assessment tool, and around the world are required to Lilly now centrally manages vehiretrocommissioning5 of laboratory • Design for energy efficiency in new or develop goals and implement imcle selection across the European and administrative facilities. updated processes and facilities; provement strategies as part of our Union, which improves efficiency • Operate our facilities and equipment Green Directions Program, which We continue to use renewable enwhile enabling us to implement efficiently; focuses on fleet fuel economy/ ergy to diversify our energy sources strong safety and environmental • Monitor and report energy consumption GHG emissions, office energy and decrease GHG emissions, standards. and resulting GHG emissions; conservation, and waste reducusing direct generation as well tion. Each year, these affiliates look Since 2014, approximately 30 per• Conduct energy assessments and as direct and indirect purchases for opportunities to enhance their cent of affiliate offices in emerging implement initiatives to enhance of renewable energy from local energy efficiency; environmental performance by markets have completed renovautilities. At five facilities worldidentifying and implementing new tions that include features such • Utilize alternative energy sources, new wide, we generate electric power technologies, and best practices; and projects and setting targets across as increased natural lighting, more than 40 dimensions. We use energy-efficient lighting, and recy5 Retrocommissioning” refers to a struc• Participate in local, regional, and/or a scorecard to assess progress in cling centers. We will continue to tured process for identifying suboptimal national forums to influence responsible these areas. In 2014 and 2015, of build upon these and other perforperformance in an organization’s lighting, and cost-effective decision-making and heating, cooling, and other systems and policy development relative to energy. the 46 affiliates that assessed their mance improvement projects. making adjustments as needed. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 114 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact needs of the overall site. That is Other energy-related initiatives enough energy to power 1,600 include the following: homes, while avoiding roughly • Energy-focused webinars and 3,720 metric tonnes of CO2e emiscollaboration sites for Lilly energy sions annually. managers to share best practices Cogeneration, which involves using and make suggestions; and a combustion source to generate • Global Energy Week, an annual electricity on-site while also employee event that includes recovering usable heat from the poster presentations, videos, process, is another important part contests, guest speakers, and of our approach. During 2015, our energy-focused informational site in Kinsale, Ireland, finished booths to promote awareness of, construction on a new cogeneand progress toward, Lilly’s comration facility that commenced panywide energy-efficiency goal. operation during 2016. This unit will generate 4.4 MW of electricity In 2015, Lilly’s energy use toAt five facilities worldwide, we generate electric power using photovoltaic (PV) arrays. This is Lilly’s solar installation and supply the site with 3.9 MW taled 11,000,000 million BTUs, a in Branchburg, New Jersey. of steam and hot water thermal 1 percent decrease from 2014 and energy. It will reduce operating a 2 percent increase since 2012 PROGRESS TOWARD GOAL ENERGY USE expenses by nearly $800,000 per (see graph). Our energy efficiency, year and decrease GHG emissions per square foot of site space, imby 3,600 tonnes CO2e per year. proved by 5 percent since 2014 and Direct 12.5 700 Consumption 4.40 4.24 4.30 We also have three other sites by 1 percent from 2012 through 4.05 600 with 10-MW, 4.3-MW, and 2.7-MW 2015. Increases in production at Indirect 10.0 some of our larger manufacturing Million BTUs/1,000 square feet Consumption 466 470 cogeneration units in operation. 450 446 500 sites, including those associated Energy Intensity In 2015, we held a Global Energy with our animal health business, 7.5 Trillion BTUs 400 Workshop, bringing regional and may challenge our ability to meet 6.76 6.89 6.93 6.72 2020 Goal 300 functional leaders from our top our goal of a 20 percent improve5.0 10 energy-consuming sites to ment by 2020. Although energy use 200 Indianapolis. The 2015 workshop per square foot has risen at some 2.5 provided a robust, proactive roadsites, changes in manufacturing 100 map for achieving a 20 percent processes that increase capacity 0.0 0 improvement in the company's have improved energy efficiency 2012 2013 2014 2015 energy efficiency. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 115 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact per unit of production and delayed Fegersheim, France, made progJersey, the 2014 Energy Project that produce injectable products the need to build additional, or ress on its strategic roadmap of the Year award. The project require exceptionally high-quality expand existing, energy-intensive to implement energy reduction implemented a variety of energy water, while our utility operafacilities. We will continue looking initiatives related to facilities, efficiency and energy infrastructions use water for cooling and for improvement opportunities. utilities, and process equipment. ture improvements including to support steam boilers. Some Some of the main opportunities high-efficiency lighting upgrades, sites have updated to waterless Using Energy Audits to Identify identified include optimizing HVAC building envelope improvements, cooling systems, and others reImprovement Opportunities equipment for existing and new boiler control upgrades, and the claim water for this purpose. To a in Kinsale, Ireland projects, reducing water-related installation of a new high-efficiency lesser extent, we consume water During 2015, our Kinsale, Ireland, energy use by fine-tuning purified chiller. Annual energy savings for domestic uses in our offices site completed internal energy aswater consumption, and installing associated with the project were (such as cafeterias, bathrooms, sessments to identify conservation heat pumps that capitalize on estimated at $700,000, with an and landscaping). Our Engineering measures to reduce power consources of cold water available in estimated energy use reduction Technical Center helps our sites sumption in internal energy operthe local water table. of 4.5 million kWh and an annual identify water-saving technologies, ations (e.g., HVAC, purified water natural-gas use reduction of more and sites can apply for project generation, and steam generation) Initiatives implemented in 2015 than 56,000 therms. capital funding through Lilly’s when production facilities were and planned for 2016 and 2017 will Energy, Waste, Water, and Natural not in operation. The assessments achieve 60 percent of the site’s Resource Use Reduction Fund. resulted in electricity and natural long-term energy goals. Overall, gas reductions of more than 3,000 reflecting commitment from all Water Use Water is a key input to our prodmegawatt hours (MWh) and approxof the site’s functions, the site WATER INTAKE ucts and manufacturing processes imately $260,000 in savings in 2015. completed 16 initiatives in 2014 and and is essential to our business. The site also gradually reduced the 2015 that will save 6.3 million kWh Predicted future regional water 15 exhaust temperature on one of its of energy annually, representing scarcity, increased costs, and 15.0 air pollution control devices, de7 percent of the location’s overall 14.2 climatic changes have further 12 13.4 13.7 creasing the amount of steam used consumption. This will also reduce strengthened our commitment to in the unit. This enhancement saved GHG emissions by more than use this resource wisely. In 2015, more than 4,000 MWh in natural 840 metric tonnes CO2e and save 9 Billion Liters our water management efforts gas usage and over $160,000 on an $340,000. received a B rating from the CDP’s annual basis. 6 Saving Energy in Branchburg, water program, well above the Improving Energy Efficiency New Jersey industry sector average. in Fegersheim, France In 2015, the New Jersey Associa3 Manufacturing operations acBased on a detailed energy maption of Energy Engineers awarded count for the majority of the water 0 ping, during 2014, our site in Lilly’s site in Branchburg, New consumed by Lilly. Our operations 2012 2013 2014 2015 ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 116 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact In 2014 and 2015, Lilly worked In 2015, Lilly’s water intake6 Waste • Send waste to landfill only when with the University of California, equaled 14.2 billion liters, 5 percent Lilly uses the following hierarchy the options above are not feasible. Santa Barbara (UCSB), and Kaiser less than 2014 and a 6 percent to manage waste: In 2013, we introduced a goal to Permanente to develop a water risk increase since 2012 (see graph on achieve a 20 percent improvement analysis framework for the supply page 116). This increase was pri• Eliminate or reduce the amount in waste efficiency7 by 2020, comchain of commodities (specialty marily due to production increases. of waste produced, pared to 2012, while increasing our chemicals, packaging, etc.) we We will continue to seek opportuni• Reuse materials when possible recycling rate above 70 percent purchase for two of our major diaties to decrease water usage. (often multiple times), and decreasing waste to landfill betes products for the U.S. market. below 10 percent of total waste. In 2013, we introduced a goal • Recycle used materials to make UCSB used the World Resources to reduce absolute phosphorus new products, During 2015, Lilly generated Institute Aqueduct tool to identify emissions in wastewater discharge • Recover energy from waste, 252,000 metric tonnes of total first-tier suppliers located in waby 15 percent by 2020, compared waste, 15 percent less than in 2014 ter-stressed areas and developed • Treat waste to reduce toxicity to 2014. This goal addresses an and 12 percent less than in 2012. a system to evaluate commodities and volume, and issue that is increasingly importproduced in areas of relatively ant to communities, regulators, high water risk. The insight gained and investors. In 2015, while still in into water-related risk associTOTAL WASTE GENERATION* our planning phase to achieve this ated with suppliers can better goal, total phosphorus emissions inform future sourcing decisions. to wastewater equaled 133 metric Hazardous 350 We are now using the informaWaste Generation 24 tonnes, a 5 percent increase from 26 24 tion to assess if current supplier 2014. Significant source reduc280 Thousand Metric Tonnes risk-management practices are Non-Hazardous 286 25 tion will require phasing out and Waste Generation 259 271 adequate and to determine if addi210 replacing cleaning agents with 226 tional data are needed to support non-phosphorus based alternasound risk-management decisions. 140 tives. Technical teams at Lilly are We are also evaluating how we evaluating existing cleaning promight apply a similar framework to 70 cesses and will apply findings to * Total waste may vary as the other products. Learn more in this result of non-routine waste such key sites worldwide. as waste from construction and 0 project summary. demolition work. 2012 2013 2014 2015 6 “Water intake” is the total amount of such as irrigation. The term does not extracted from wells solely for the purpose materials that are deemed “reused” without water coming into a site, including water include groundwater pumped solely for of lowering the groundwater table(s) to extensive processing. Examples include pumped from bodies of surface water and treatment to satisfy regulatory actions or maintain the physical and structural integcoal ash reused for mine reclamation or groundwater, as well as water provided by requirements (e.g., remediation activities rity of building foundations. road base, and mycelia and urea reused for a utility. It includes water used in processwhere the water is not used for another 7 Per unit of production or site-relevant fertilizer. es, utilities, and other ancillary operations, purpose). Values do not include the water index. Lilly’s waste goals do not include ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 117 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact We improved our recycling rate to this site reduced the amount of offer online purchasing tools globDECREASING ENVIRONMENTAL 51 percent in 2015, up from 47 perthe solvent acetic acid required to ally that inform employees who IMPACTS IN PRODUCTION cent in 2012, and sent 26 percent purify a product and made it possiorder these goods if items with of waste to landfill, compared to 28 ble to recycle the liquid instead of recycled content are available. We In 2014, after performing a detailed environpercent in 2012 (these calculations incinerating it as in the past. These have also expanded our green promental assessment, we launched a streamdo not include waste that was benchanges reduced fresh acetic acid curement program to cover areas lined process for manufacturing the active eficially reused). During the year, use by 16 percent, enabled the such as product transport, manupharmaceutical ingredient in our insulin 25 of 52 Lilly sites globally reported site to recycle 62 percent of used facturing, and research. product in Indianapolis. The new process sig“zero-landfill” status (indicating acetic acid, and decreased waste nificantly increased manufacturing capacity that they send less than 0.5 perliquid by 35 percent. to meet projected demand for this lifesaving cent of generated waste to landfill). Other Air Emissions drug. These changes reduced both purified water use and process waste generation by Lilly tracks emissions of comFrom 2012 through 2015, our 30 percent per unit of production, without waste efficiency decreased by 56 Supply Chain Sustainability pounds that can affect air quality. increasing per unit solvent and urea waste In our contracts with key suppliers, The company’s most significant air percent, based on temporary cirvolumes. These improvements avoid the need we outline the HSE principles that emissions, other than GHGs, infor additional capacity and corresponding cumstances at a few of our sites. we ask our contract manufacturing clude volatile organic compounds energy use and GHG emissions. In 2015, we One main factor impacting waste operations (CMOs) to follow. They (VOCs), as well as sulfur dioxide implemented a similar conversion at our plant efficiency was a temporary waste require the completion of an initial (SO2) and nitrogen oxides (NOX) in Puerto Rico, further reducing Lilly’s global processing change at our Clinton, HSE assessment and subsequent from the combustion of natural environmental footprint. Indiana, animal health site in 2014, updates every two years, the degas, oil, and coal. requiring more waste to be sent velopment and implementation of for incineration and to landfill. We protective HSE procedures, and, also expanded our insulin manuif requested, action and ongoing OTHER AIR EMISSIONS facturing process at our Carolina, dialogue with Lilly on HSE perPuerto Rico, site, which increased formance improvement. Lilly has the amount of byproduct produced SO2 2,000 1,844 used qualified HSE professionals 1,694 beyond the amount that could be 1,585 to assess performance at our NOX reused as a fertilizer ingredient, 1,500 CMOs for more than a decade. Volatile Organic resulting in some of this mateMetric Tonnes Compounds 975 1,060 rial being landfilled. We continue Lilly continues to expand our pro1,000 883 to seek opportunities to increase curement efforts to decrease the Particulate Matter 744 730 waste efficiency. company’s environmental im534 561 500 608 529 pacts and to support markets for Improving Process Efficiency and 113 167 176 168 greener products. Office supplies Reducing Waste in Wusi, China 0 remain an area of focus, and we 2012 2013 2014 2015 Through use of enhanced filtration, ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 118 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact In 2015, emissions to air of these species from 10 acres of land, 94-mile corridor of the Wabash Lilly experienced five reportable compounds decreased by nine and spreading more than 1,000 River and Sugar Creek to conpermit-limit exceedances in 2015, percent from 2014. cubic yards of mulch. Work conserve fish and wildlife, promote up from three in 2014 but down tinued on our multiyear project to outdoor recreation, and improve from eight in 2012 and a decrease educate our employees and the the overall health of the Wabash of approximately 90 percent during Biodiversity communities where we operate River ecosystem. the last decade. The exceedances Lilly has a long history of colabout local water resources— in 2015 had to do with storm water laborating to protect habitat and part of a larger citywide collaband wastewater-related permits. reduce the impact of our operaoration called “Reconnecting to Environmental Compliance These exceedances were detertions on ecosystems. We pursue a Our Waterways.” Learn more Lilly’s Health, Safety, and Environmined to have no material impact tailored approach, recognizing that about Lilly’s focused, highly colment Policy requires compliance on the environment, and we did not biodiversity challenges and opporlaborative approach to restoring with applicable regulations wherreceive any related agency findings tunities vary based on location, and biodiversity progress in the ever we do business, and we apply or penalties. See the Environmental we engage in conservation projIndianapolis area. our high standards even when Performance Indicators table on ects and habitat enhancements existing laws and regulations are page 120 for details. • Clinton, Indiana – As a partner at many sites worldwide. We also inadequate. (For more information in the Wabash River Wildlife support conservation efforts in the about our HSE policies, standards, Corridor Project, our Clinton communities where our facilities and management systems, see TOTAL REPORTABLE Labs site planted additional are located. page 106.) If it is determined that PERMIT-LIMIT EXCEEDANCES acreage with native grasses and we are out of compliance, we work Examples include the following: riparian vegetation to enhance to remedy the situation as quickly the existing 100-acre wildlife 8 • Indianapolis, Indiana – As a part as possible and to continuously 8 corridor on Lilly-owned land of Lilly’s annual Global Day of improve our performance. along the Wabash River. The 6 Service, in 2015, we continued work was part of the Healthy Using statistics-based environour work enhancing biodiversity Rivers Initiative, the largest mental capability assessments, 5 5 and promoting a healthy urban conservation initiative in Indiana 4 we routinely review more than 50 ecology in the community of our history. The project involves a environmental compliance-related corporate headquarters. Lilly 3 partnership of agencies and processes across Lilly. We use 2 volunteers logged more than organizations working together the results to continually improve 13,600 hours, planting more with willing landowners to perthese processes and maintain than 1,000 trees and nearly 9,900 0 manently protect 43,000 acres compliance. 2012 2013 2014 2015 plants, removing invasive plant of floodplain habitat along a ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 119 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Environmental Performance Indicators 8,9 2012 2013 2014 2015 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2) (metric tonnes CO2e) 1,550,000 1,600,000 1,540,000 1,540,000 Scope 1 436,000 486,000 460,000 472,000 Scope 2 1,120,000 1,110,000 1,080,000 1,070,000 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Intensity (metric tonnes CO2e/1,000 square feet) 64.7 66.0 64.9 62.4 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Intensity (related to goal) 57.1 58.3 57.7 55.1 (metric tonnes CO2e/1,000 square feet) Greenhouse Gas Emissions Intensity (metric tonnes CO2e/million $ revenue) 68.8 69.2 78.6 77.2 Scope 3 Emissions (not included in metrics above)10 Employee Business Travel (personal car, taxi, rental car, rail, and air travel) 99,000 94,000 68,000 90,000 (metric tonnes CO2e) Employee Commuting (metric tonnes CO2e) 72,000 71,000 72,000 75,000 Product Transportation and Distribution (contracted) (metric tonnes CO2e) 45,000 30,000 18,000 16,000 Waste Generated in Operations (metric tonnes CO2e) 75,000 89,000 104,000 114,000 Non-Kyoto Compound Emissions (refrigerants, VOCs, etc.) (metric tonnes CO2e) 15,000 17,000 28,000 9,000 Energy Use Energy Consumption (million BTUs) 10,800,000 11,300,000 11,200,000 11,000,000 Energy Intensity (million BTUs/1,000 square feet) 450 466 470 446 Energy Intensity (million BTUs/million $ revenue) 478 489 570 552 Direct Energy Consumption (million BTUs) 4,050,000 4,400,000 4,240,000 4,300,000 Coal (million BTUs) 690,000 1,340,000 1,300,000 1,300,000 Natural Gas (million BTUs) 2,840,000 2,530,000 2,410,000 2,490,000 Fuel Oil (million BTUs) 476,000 482,000 465,000 348,000 ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 120 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact 2012 2013 2014 2015 Liquid Propane (million BTUs) 40,400 42,400 49,600 152,000 Gasoline (million BTUs) 4,720 4,680 3,810 7,710 Indirect Energy Consumption (million BTUs) 6,760,000 6,890,000 6,930,000 6,720,000 Purchased Electricity (million BTUs) 4,550,000 4,520,000 4,420,000 4,420,000 Purchased Steam (million BTUs) 2,200,000 2,360,000 2,510,000 2,300,000 Purchased Chilled Water (million BTUs) 3,370 13,800 5,380 8,370 Water Use Water Intake (billion liters)11 13.4 13.7 15.0 14.2 Municipal (billion liters) 6.2 6.9 7.1 7.5 Surface (billion liters) 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Groundwater (billion liters) 7.2 6.8 7.8 6.6 Water Intensity (million liters/million $ revenue) 0.594 0.593 0.762 0.713 Phosphorus emissions to wastewater (metric tonnes) --127 133 Waste Total Waste Generation (metric tonnes) 285,000 310,000 295,000 252,000 Hazardous Waste Generation (metric tonnes) 26,000 24,000 24,000 25,000 Non-Hazardous Waste Generation (metric tonnes) 259,000 286,000 271,000 226,000 Total Waste Generation not Including Reuse (for recycling goal) (metric tonnes)12 74,000 75,000 89,000 113,000 Waste Disposition Beneficially Reused (metric tonnes) 211,000 235,000 206,000 139,000 Recycled (includes combustion with energy recovery) (metric tonnes) 34,300 32,500 46,700 56,800 Treated (includes combustion without energy recovery) (metric tonnes) 18,700 19,900 30,100 26,500 Landfilled (metric tonnes) 20,700 22,600 12,000 29,100 Waste Recycling Rate 47% 43% 53% 51% ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 121 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact 2012 2013 2014 2015 Other Air Emissions Volatile Organic Compound Emissions (metric tonnes) 608 534 561 529 Particulate Matter (metric tonnes) 113 167 176 168 SO2 Emissions (metric tonnes) 975 1,844 1,694 1,585 NOx Emissions (metric tonnes) 744 1,060 883 730 Ozone Depletion Potential (kg CFC-11 equivalent) 7,595 8,669 14,787 6,494 Environmental Compliance Reportable Permit-Limit Exceedances13 8 5 3 5 Number of Significant Spills14 0 0 0 0 Environmental Fines Paid ($) $732 $0 $0 $0 Energy, Waste, Water, and Natural Resource Use Reduction Fund Expenditures ($ millions) $1.1 $1.8 $1.6 $1.7 8 Data may be revised compared to prior reports due to changes in calculation methodology 12 Lilly’s waste goals do not include materials that are deemed “reused” without extensive and other factors. Some segments do not add up to totals due to rounding. processing. Examples include coal ash reused for mine reclamation or road base, and myce9 In 2015, adjustments were made to data for all years to reflect the acquisition of animal lia and urea reused for fertilizer. health operations from Lohmann (closed April 30, 2014) and Novartis (closed January 15, 13 Lilly classifies an event as a reportable permit-limit exceedance if it involves an exceed2015). ance of a numeric permit or license limit that must be reported to the regulatory authority. 10 These data do not include sales force travel using company vehicles, use of Lilly aircraft, The reporting may be immediate (e.g., within 24 hours) or in a routine compliance report. or product distribution with Lilly vehicles. Those items are Scope 1 and included in the These exceedances do not necessarily result in harm to people or the environment. data above. 14 “Significant spill” in this report refers to any unexpected, unintended, abnormal, or 11 “Water intake” is the total amount of water coming into a site, including water pumped unapproved dumping, leakage, drainage, seepage, discharge, or other loss of a substance from bodies of surface water and groundwater, as well as water provided by a utility. It inthat resulted in damage to the environment (i.e., human health, aquatic life, or wildlife) or a cludes water used in processes, utilities, and other ancillary operations, such as irrigation. material event requiring reporting to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Damage The term does not include groundwater pumped solely for treatment to satisfy regulatory means the actual or imminent alteration of the environment so as to render the environment actions or requirements (e.g., remediation activities where the water is not used for another harmful, detrimental, or injurious. purpose). Values do not include the water extracted from wells solely for the purpose of lowering the groundwater table(s) to maintain the physical and structural integrity of building foundations. Totals include a small amount of rainwater intake not included in other water intake subcategories. ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 122 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact Global Reporting Initiative Index Lilly recognizes the value that common reporting standards, such as the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines, provide for stakeholders and for companies seeking to transparently report on their corporate responsibility activities. While we are not declaring an accordance level with GRI guidelines for this report, we have prepared a GRI G4 index to aid readers looking for specific information. This index shows which G4 indicators are covered in this report and other public documents and provides a reference readers can follow to find the related information. General Standard Disclosures INDICATOR SUMMARY REPORT REFERENCE OR DIRECT ANSWER Strategy and Analysis G4-1 CEO statement on sustainability CEO Letter G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities Business Review 2015 Form 10-K Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization About Lilly, About Elanco G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services About Lilly, About Elanco G4-5 Location of organization's headquarters Indianapolis, IN G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates, and countries with major operations or 2015 Form 10-K relevant to sustainability issues G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 2015 Form 10-K G4-8 Markets served About Lilly, About Elanco, Stakeholder Engagement G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization 2015 Form 10-K G4-10 Employees by employment contract and gender Workplace G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Workplace G4-12 Description of supply chain Supply Chain ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 123 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact INDICATOR SUMMARY REPORT REFERENCE OR DIRECT ANSWER G4-13 Significant changes to size, structure, or ownership 2015 Form 10-K G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed Product Stewardship G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or initiatives About this Report, Efforts to Improve Health Literacy, Ethics the organization subscribes or endorses and Transparency, Supply Chain, Animal Care and Use, Environmental Stewardship G4-16 Association memberships Memberships Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 Entities included in consolidated financial statements and if any are not in report About this Report G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting period About this Report Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Stakeholder Engagement G4-25 How stakeholders are identified and selected Stakeholder Engagement G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by Stakeholder Engagement stakeholder group G4-27 Key concerns raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization responded Promoting Responsible Use of Antibiotics in Food-producing Animals, Transforming Clinical Trials Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period About this Report G4-29 Most recent report May 2015 G4-30 Reporting cycle Annually G4-31 Contact for sustainability report About this Report G4-32 Table with Standard Disclosure locations GRI Index G4-33 External assurance statement About this Report, Scope of Health, Safety, and Environment Data ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 124 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact INDICATOR SUMMARY REPORT REFERENCE OR DIRECT ANSWER Governance G4-34 Governance structure 2015 Proxy Statement G4-37 Consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on sustainability issues Shareholders can communicate with the board of directors in writing via the corporate secretary’s office. In general, formal mechanisms are not in place for employees to make recommendations directly to the board; however, the leadership team encourages employees to provide feedback to management through a variety of communication channels, including a compliance hotline, internal town hall style meetings, and on the CEO’s blog. In addition, under the company’s processes for reporting suspected ethics or compliance breaches, under certain circumstances designated employees are allowed or required to report the suspected breach directly to the relevant committee of the board of directors. G4-38 Details on composition of organization's highest governance body and its committees 2015 Proxy Statement G4-39 Whether Chair of highest governance body is also an executive officer 2015 Proxy Statement G4-40 Processes nominating and selecting highest governance body and its committees 2015 Proxy Statement G4-41 Highest governance body process for avoiding and disclosing conflicts of interest Ethics, Compliance, and Governance, 2015 Proxy Statement G4-43 Process for enhancing highest governance body's competencies on economic, environmental, 2015 Proxy Statement and social issues G4-44 Process for evaluating highest governance body's performance on economic, environmental, 2015 Proxy Statement and social topics G4-45 Highest governance body's role in risk management 2015 Proxy Statement G4-46 Highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, 2015 Proxy Statement environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities G4-47 Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social 2015 Proxy Statement impacts, risks, and opportunities G4-49 Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body See note for G4-37 ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 125 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact INDICATOR SUMMARY REPORT REFERENCE OR DIRECT ANSWER G4-51 Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives 2015 Proxy Statement G4-52 Process for determining remuneration 2015 Proxy Statement G4-53 How stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration 2015 Proxy Statement Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct Ethics and Transparency and codes of ethics G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and Bioethics , Ethics, Compliance, and Governance organizational integrity G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior Ethics, Compliance, and Governance Specific Standard Disclosures INDICATOR SUMMARY REPORT REFERENCE OR DIRECT ANSWER Economic Economic Performance DMA Disclosure on management approach Business Review, 2015 Form 10-K G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Business Review, 2015 Form 10-K G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change Greenhouse Gas Emissions G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations 2015 Form 10-K Indirect Economic Impacts DMA Disclosure on management approach Improving Global Health, Strengthening Communities G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported Strengthening Communities G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts Improving Global Health, Hunger Relief ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 126 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact INDICATOR SUMMARY REPORT REFERENCE OR DIRECT ANSWER Environmental Materials DMA Disclosure on management approach A Lifecycle Focus, How We Manage Environmental Issues, Product Stewardship G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Materials Use Energy DMA Disclosure on management approach A Lifecycle Focus, How We Manage Environmental Issues, Product Stewardship, Energy Use G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organizations Energy Use, Environmental Performance Indicators G4-EN5 Energy intensity Energy Use, Environmental Performance Indicators G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Energy Use Water DMA Disclosure on management approach A Lifecycle Focus, How We Manage Environmental Issues, Product Stewardship, Water Use G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Water Use, Environmental Performance Indicators Biodiversity DMA Disclosure on management approach How We Manage Environmental Issues, Pharmaceuticals in the Environment, Biodiversity G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored Biodiversity Emissions DMA Disclosure on management approach A Lifecycle Focus, How We Manage Environmental Issues, Product Stewardship, Greenhouse Gas Emissions, Energy Use, Other Air Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Greenhouse Gas Emissions, Environmental Performance Indicators ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 127 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact INDICATOR SUMMARY REPORT REFERENCE OR DIRECT ANSWER G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Greenhouse Gas Emissions, Environmental Performance Indicators G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) Environmental Performance Indicators G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Greenhouse Gas Emissions, Environmental Performance Indicators G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Greenhouse Gas Emissions G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Environmental Performance Indicators G4-EN21 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions Other Air Emissions, Environmental Performance Indicators Effluents and Waste DMA Disclosure on management approach A Lifecycle Focus, How We Manage Environmental Issues, Product Stewardship, Water Use, Waste G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Waste, Environmental Performance Indicators G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills Environmental Performance Indicators G4-EN25 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the Waste, Environmental Performance Indicators terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally Products and Services DMA Disclosure on management approach A Lifecycle Focus, How We Manage Environmental Issues, Product Stewardship G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services Innovations in Green Chemistry, Decreasing Environmental Impacts in Production G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category Product End of Life Compliance DMA Disclosure on management approach How We Manage Environmental Issues, Environmental Compliance G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for nonEnvironmental Compliance, Environmental Performance compliance with environmental laws and regulations Indicators ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 128 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact INDICATOR SUMMARY REPORT REFERENCE OR DIRECT ANSWER Transport DMA Disclosure on management approach A Lifecycle Focus, Product Stewardship, Decreasing Environmental Impacts in Sales and Marketing G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for Decreasing Environmental Impacts in Sales and Marketing, the organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce Environmental Performance Indicators Overall DMA Disclosure on management approach Energy Use, Water Use, Waste, Energy, Waste, Water, and Natural Resource Use Reduction Fund G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Energy Use, Water Use, Waste, Energy, Waste, Water, and Natural Resource Use Reduction Fund Supplier Environmental Assessment DMA Disclosure on management approach How Lilly Manages Supply Risk, Pharmaceutical Industry Principles for Responsible Supply Chain Management, Product Stewardship, Water Use, Supply Chain Sustainability G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Supply Chain Sustainability, Maintaining and Monitoring Quality, Safety, and Security of Supply G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions Maintaining and Monitoring Quality, Safety, and Security of taken Supply, Water Use, Supply Chain Sustainability Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Employment DMA Disclosure on management approach Workplace G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time A Culture of Well-Being employees, by significant locations of operation Occupational Health and Safety DMA Disclosure on management approach Employee Health and Safety, and Wellness ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 129 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact INDICATOR SUMMARY REPORT REFERENCE OR DIRECT ANSWER G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and Lilly does not formally measure the percentage of our total safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs workforce represented in joint management-worker health and safety committees. An estimated 80 percent of our global workforce members utilize health and safety committees to assist in the management of local occupational health and safety programs. G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total Health and Safety Data number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Workplace Training and Education DMA Disclosure on management approach Bioethics, Ethics, Compliance, and Governance, Animal Care and Use, Workplace G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category Engaging Employees in Bioethics, Ethics, Compliance, and Governance, Animal Care and Use, A Coaching Culture, Learning and Development G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability A Coaching Culture, Learning and Development of employees and assist them in managing career endings G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by A Coaching Culture gender and by employee category Diversity and Equal Opportunity DMA Disclosure on management approach Diversity and Inclusion G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category Diversity and Inclusion according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Supplier Assessment for Labor Practice DMA Disclosure on management approach How Lilly Manages Supply Risk, Pharmaceutical Industry Principles for Responsible Supply Chain Management G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria How Lilly Manages Supply Risk, Maintaining and Monitoring Quality, Safety, and Security of Supply ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 130 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact INDICATOR SUMMARY REPORT REFERENCE OR DIRECT ANSWER G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and How Lilly Manages Supply Risk actions taken Social: Human Rights Investment DMA Disclosure on management approach How Lilly Manages Supply Risk G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of Every year, Lilly employees spend approximately 41,000 human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained hours—a minimum of one hour per person—undergoing mandatory training on our code of conduct. The Red Book covers a broad spectrum of basic human-rights issues. Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining DMA Disclosure on management approach Workplace Child Labor DMA Disclosure on management approach Upholding Human Rights Throughout the Supply Chain G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and Upholding Human Rights Throughout the Supply Chain measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor Forced or Compulsory Labor DMA Disclosure on management approach Upholding Human Rights Throughout the Supply Chain G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or Upholding Human Rights Throughout the Supply Chain compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Supplier Human Rights Assessment DMA Disclosure on management approach Upholding Human Rights Throughout the Supply Chain, Pharmaceutical Industry Principles for Responsible Supply Chain Management, Conflict Minerals ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 131 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact INDICATOR SUMMARY REPORT REFERENCE OR DIRECT ANSWER G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria None of Lilly’s suppliers and contractors have undergone a formal screening on human rights. Globally, we set strict expectations for our suppliers and vendors relating to human rights. Lilly’s Supplier Code of Business Conduct, a publicly available document, sets an expectation that: “We conduct our business activities with respect for people and a commitment to diversity, equal opportunity, and freedom from exposure to improper conduct and discrimination.” For more information, see Upholding Human Rights Throughout the Supply Chain Social: Society Local Communities DMA Disclosure on management approach Improving Global Health, Hunger Relief, Strengthening Communities G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact Improving Global Health, Hunger Relief, Strengthening assessments, and development programs Communities Anti-Corruption DMA Disclosure on management approach Ethics, Compliance, and Governance G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the Anti-Corruption Due Diligence significant risks identified G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures Ethics, Compliance, and Governance Public Policy DMA Disclosure on management approach Advancing Public Policy, Political Engagement G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary Political Engagement ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 132 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact INDICATOR SUMMARY REPORT REFERENCE OR DIRECT ANSWER Compliance DMA Disclosure on management approach Ethics and Transparency Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society DMA Disclosure on management approach How Lilly Manages Supply Risk, Pharmaceutical Industry Principles for Responsible Supply Chain Management G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society How Lilly Manages Supply Risk, Pharmaceutical Industry Principles for Responsible Supply Chain Management Social: Product Responsibility Customer Health and Safety DMA Disclosure on management approach Global Patient Safety, Counterfeit Medicines G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts Lilly's Quality System, Global Patient Safety, Counterfeit are assessed for improvement Medicines Product and Service Labeling DMA Disclosure on management approach Global Patient Safety, Efforts to Improve Health Literacy G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organization's procedures for product Global Patient Safety, Efforts to Improve Health Literacy and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements Marketing Communications DMA Disclosure on management approach Marketing Practices Customer Privacy DMA Disclosure on management approach Privacy ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 133 Overview Business Review Advancing Medical Science Improving Global Health Strengthening Communities Operating Responsibly Global Reporting Initiative U.N. Global Compact United Nations Global Compact Index Eli Lilly and Company is proud to voice our continued support for the UNGC principles. Our website, www.lilly.com, contains detailed information about our company policies, procedures, and programs that are related to the UNGC, including information on our workplace policies, ethics, and transparency, as well as our environmental impacts and programs. UNGC PRINCIPLE INFORMATION IN REPORT 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Supply Chain human rights. 2 Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Supply Chain, Workplace 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective Workplace bargaining. 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Supply Chain 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Supply Chain 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Workplace 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Environmental Stewardship 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Environmental Stewardship 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Environmental Stewardship 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Ethics and Transparency ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2015 INTEGRATED REPORT 134
