LWI LiveWell Initiative LIVEWELL INITIATIVE LWI UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS COP REPORT (NOV 3, 2015 – NOV 2, 2016) STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE LWI LiveWell Initiative CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER WE SUPPORT: THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT TEN PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS • Principle 1 • Principle 6 Businesses should support and respect the The elimination of discrimination in respect protection of internationally-proclaimed human of employment and occupation. rights • Principle 2 ENVIRONMENT Make sure that they are not complicit in • Principle 7 human rights abuses. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; LABOUR • Principle 8 • Principle 3 Undertake initiatives to promote greater Businesses should uphold the freedom of environmental responsibility; and association and the effective recognition of the • Principle 9 right to collective bargaining Encourage the development and diffusion • Principle 4 of environmentally-friendly technologies. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; ANTI-CORRUPTION • Principle 5 • Principle 10 The effective abolition of child labour; and Businesses should work against all forms bribery of corruption, including extortion and LWI LiveWell Initiative To our Stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that LiveWell Initiative LWI reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. It is the policy of the organisation that there should be no discrimination in considering applications for employment including those from the female gender and disabled persons. All employees are given equal opportunities for self-development. As at 2nd November, 2016, one (1) disabled (visually impaired) person was in the employment of the organization. In the area of environment, the organization has collaborated with Corona School Gbagada and engaged in Tree Planting. In its pursuit of the SDGs 1,3,4,5,6, and 17 the organization has collaborated with government, private sector, educational institutions, developmental partners and communities. This has earned the organisation awards at the national and international levels, and a ‘worthy mention’ on the floor of the UN Global Summit, New York (June 22 -23, 2016). In this annual Communication on Progress, we provide an indepth description of our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our Multisectoral Stakeholders and Communities, using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, . . . promoting wellness Bisi Bright . . . Preventing ill health www.livewellng.org 1st Vice Chairman / CEO, LWI LWI LiveWell Initiative 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights Labor: • At LWI we ensure that workers are provided safe, LWI ensures that the company does not • suitable and sanitary work facilities participate in any form of forced or bonded • We protect workers from workplace harassment, labour • abuse or threats We comply with standard remunerations for a voluntary organisation, with • LWI is an equal opportunity employer incentivization • We take measure to eliminate ingredients, designs, Ensure that employment-related defects or side-effects that could harm or threaten decisions are based on relevant and human life and health during manufacturing, usage objective criteria or disposal of products Environment: Anti-Corruption: LWI supports the environment through Tree Planting and in •Assess the risk of corruption when doing Partnership with Corona School Agbara Nigeria business •We avoid environmental damage by ensuring proper •LWI has zero tolerance to grease payments disposal of biological wastes, sharps and nonbiodegradable •All gifts received by staffers must be openly materials declared. Under no circumstances shall a gift •Ensure emergency procedures to prevent and address worth above $100 be accepted accidents affecting the environment and human health •With a reverse reporting benchmark period of •Minimize the use and ensure safe handling and storage of one(1) week for all donations in cash or in kind, chemical and other dangerous substances at LWI, we adhere strictly to our accounting procedure which embraces due diligence. 10/21/2016 www.livewellng.org LWI MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES: LiveWell Initiative LWI has impacted over 200 Corporates and over 1.8 million REPRESENTATIVENESS: Nigerians including over 450 Disabled  LWI, a self funded Nonprofit Social Enterprise, people has grown its number of Volunteers from 3 at inception, to over 350 Volunteers within a 9-year growth curve, due to its friendly Employee Policy, Incentivization, and promotion of Human Rights and dignity, with full employment status for at least one visually impaired member and a balanced 1:1 male-female numeric representation CREATING SHARED VALUE:  LWI Volunteer members are from all 6  LWI has creates shared value across Geopolitical zones in Nigeria. In addition, the The MultiSectors, and has over the past organisation has Volunteer Members from 8 years impacted corporates through Ghana, Zimbabwe, Cameroon, Uganda, the their Corporate Social Responsibility USA, UK and Europee; as well as Faculty Programmes.  LWI has, through its LWI BAY reduced Members from Europe, Switzerland, USA, UK occupational disease, injury and and has representatives from at least 4 absenteeism at Guaranty Trust Bank continents Plc over the past 2 years, with measurable impact on employee morale, productivity and organisational bottomline 10/21/2016 www.livewellng.org LWI EXCEPTIONAL TALENT LiveWell Initiative • LWI boasts of at least 9 first class degree holders, at least 28 Masters degree holders and 10 full alumni of the prestigious Lagos Business School, among others. • With over 50 medical doctors, over 50 pharmacists, over 60 public health practitioners, over 40 nurses and over 30 social scientists; LWI is a ‘bank’ of human resources. • This unique Strength has been utilised to harness inter-corporate, cross-cutting and multisectoral relationships, and to build collaborations. • Thus, LWI has a very broad base of corporate partners, through its Shared Value Initiatives. • The year 2017 ahead promises to build on these past successes, to further promote the Sustainable Development Goals SDGs 1,3,4,5,6 and 17 10/21/2016 www.livewellng.org LWI LiveWell Initiative LWI and SDGs LiveWell Initiative LWI pursues SDGs 1,3, 4, 5, 6, and 17. LWI PROGRAMME SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOAL SDG 1. LWI IPAP (Illness Poverty Alleviation End Poverty in All its forms Everywhere Programme) 3. LWI IPAP, EHES, BAY, GREEN, easyhealth, Ensure Healthy Lives and Promote Wellbeing for All at All Ages NCDs, Health Fairs, Home Healthcare, HomeHospital 4. LWI Schools’ Programmes. LWI Academy Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all 5. LWI GENDER HEALTH, MNCH Achieve Gender Equality and Empower All Women and Girls 6. LWI Personal Hygiene Handwashing & Ensure Availability and Sustainable management of Water and Etiquette, Aseptic Technique, Ebola Sanitation for all people Awareness 17. LWI ACADEMY, GHB Grand Health Bazaar Strengthening the means of Implementation and Revitalize the (Multisectoral, Crosscutting) Global Partnership for Sustainable Development LWI Improving Productivity, Reducing LiveWell Absenteeism, Initiative and Promoting Gender Health October 2016, at GTBank Plc, Breast Cancer Awareness & Screening Programme at the Healthbay SDGs 3 & 5 10/21/2016 www.livewellng.org LWI At the Multisectoral Grand Health Bazaar LiveWell Initiative #GHB2016 , April 26th – 28th 2016 ghb.livewellng.org SDG17 10/21/2016 www.livewellng.org LWI LiveWell Initiative LWI shall reinvigorate its pursuit of the SDGs and, looking into 2017 and beyond, the organisation seeks out partners in its globalisation agenda, as its ‘Shared Value’ programmes are Sustainable, Replicable and Scalable, in line with the UN Global Compact Objectives and SDGs. Thank You 10/21/2016 www.livewellng.org
