Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs Hewlett Packard Enterprise 2 Contents Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs Letter from Meg Whitman  3 Introduction4 Reporting on our material issues 7 ENVIRONMENTAL HUMAN ECONOMIC Accelerating Accelerating Accelerating Efficiency Fairness Opportunity Goals and progress  9 Human rights  29 Social application of ICT and access  63 to technology  IT as an efficiency enabler  10 Ethical behavior and business partnerships  31 Network resilience  66 Energy use and greenhouse gas emissions  13 Data security  34 in our operations and value chain  Privacy and freedom of expression  36 Water in our operations and value chain  19 Diversity and inclusion  38 Waste and hazardous materials in our  21 operations and value chain  Employee development and engagement  41 Substances of concern in products  23 Employee health, safety, and well-being  44 Product lifecycle management  25 Ethical sourcing practices in the supply chain  47 Human trafficking in the supply chain  51 Corporate governance  53 Transparency, accountability, and reporting  56 Intellectual property protection  58 Public policy engagement  60 This report  68 Defining our material issues 69 Acronyms and definitions 71 Resources72 Hewlett Packard Enterprise 3 Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs Welcome to Hewlett Packard Enterprise’s Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs, an essential component of our new reporting platform—designed to ensure that our sustainability efforts are more impactful, interactive, and accessible to our many stakeholders. The mission of Living Progress is to help solve the world’s how powerful our technology, it is our people, customers, Meg Whitman toughest challenges. It’s the way we integrate sustainability and partners who drive our success and determine our President and Chief Executive Officer into our business strategy, building on a commitment we future. Their work is reflected in this annual summary of first articulated in our company objectives in 1957, and have accomplishments. reaffirmed every year since. From the beginning, our founders, I hope you enjoy this report and continue to follow our Bill Hewlett and Dave Packard, believed their company should progress as we work to unite people, ideas, and technology create great products and help make the world a better place. to solve the world’s most challenging issues. That commitment lives on at Hewlett Packard Enterprise. Regards, Our newest initiative, the Living Progress Challenge, boldly aspires to improve the lives of 1 million people by 2020 by using technology to accelerate opportunity. The global community has responded enthusiastically to the Challenge, and I can’t wait to see the most innovative ideas transformed Meg Whitman into real-world solutions. We are living in a time when technology blurs the lines between the physical, digital, and biological. This dramatically accelerates the pace of business, creating both pressures and opportunities as we speed into the future. But no matter Hewlett Packard Enterprise 4 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs Introduction With the industry’s most comprehensive technology and service portfolio, Hewlett Packard Enterprise (HPE) enables customers to go further, faster, while accelerating solutions that help improve lives, drive economies, and use resources efficiently. We’re delighted to present the first Living Progress report since Hewlett Packard Enterprise was formed, following the separation of the iconic Hewlett-Packard Company into two new entities. With our new company comes a new way of reporting. While we have retained our awardwinning Living Progress framework, we have redesigned the format of the report itself to make it more easily accessible to our many stakeholders. Instead of one single report, this year we are producing three distinct documents. HPE Living Progress Positions, Policies, and HPE Living Progress 2015 Data Summary: Living Progress 2015 GRI Index: Programs: A forward-looking document that A summary of Hewlett-Packard Company’s A summary of our performance against sets out HPE’s approach to the issues of most Living Progress performance data in 2015. material aspects of the Global Reporting significance to our business and the ethical This document captures the key metrics of Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting and environmental challenges we face. To the historical business before the separation Guidelines. identify the topics covered, we used a robust in November 2015 and continues Hewlettmateriality assessment process. Packard Company’s tradition of external Download the report here. reporting. Next year, we will report on HPE data only. Download the report here. Hewlett Packard Enterprise 5 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs Living Progress: our ENVIRONMENTAL HUMAN ECONOMIC framework explained At Hewlett Packard Enterprise, we work hard Accelerating Accelerating Accelerating to ensure that sustainability is top of mind. The Living Progress framework is used by HPE to refer broadly to everything we do Efficiency Fairness Opportunity as a company. It is our vision for integrating environmental, human, and economic sustainability seamlessly into our corporate strategy, delivered through three themes Sustainably meeting the Advancing human progress Empowering people to which connect the triple bottom line directly data needs of the future through the way we work drive economic progress to our business: l Accelerating Efficiency—sustainably meeting the data needs of the future HPE business model graphic l Accelerating Fairness—advancing human progress through the way we work HPE Living Progress Supply chain Operations Products and solutions l Accelerating Opportunity—empowering people to drive economic progress Stakeholders Suppliers and their workers Our employees Enterprise, government, and communities To us, Living Progress means uniting people, ideas, and technology to help solve the Extracting, manufacturing, Facilities, transportaiton fleet, world’s toughest challenges. Enterprise Group transportation R&D centers, data centers Products Solutions Servers, Networking, Storage, Software Transform to a Software Facilities, R&D centers hybrid infrastructure, Protect your digital enterpirse, Empower the dataEnterprise Services Facilities, data centers Services driven organization, Support, IT Outsourcing, Applications, Enable workplace Technology consulting, productivity Financing, Leasing, Financial Services Facilities Asset management Hewlett Packard Enterprise 6 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs Environmental: Accelerating Efficiency Human: Accelerating Fairness Economic: Accelerating Opportunity We’re building the information architecture People are the heart of every business. Technology turns ideas into solutions that of tomorrow. With fast-growing populations Across the entire value chain, from our global transform entire industries. The tools enabling and an expanding middle class in emerging suppliers and employees to customers, this disruption, like cloud computing, mobile economies, data generation is accelerating— partners, and the communities served by HPE, technology, and big data analytics, are also growth which requires more and more energy we’re working to enrich lives and advance sparking social change at an unprecedented and resources. human progress around the world. pace and scale. To solve this challenge, we’re Accelerating Accelerating Fairness is our approach to Accelerating Opportunity means opening up Efficiency to deliver increasingly environmentally social responsibility. It’s about applying ethical economic progress to all, acting swiftly to close sustainable IT. Our products and services principles everywhere—from the ways in which the gap for those excluded from technology. create radical improvements in data processing we support workers in our supply chain to the It’s about increasing access to information and storage. We’re reducing waste, increasing conduct of our employees at all levels, and and markets, along with financial and social processing power per watt, conserving water, even to how our products and services are services, education, and employment. limiting the use of hazardous substances, and used. Solving complex problems demands diverse actively managing products at all stages of Our supply chain programs include those perspectives. One way we do this is through their lifecycle. that both protect and elevate workers, such the Living Progress Challenge, an exciting Highlights include our game-changing server as our investments in financial inclusion and new initiative with a big goal: to improve the architecture Moonshot, which uses 65% less combating human trafficking. We were the first lives of 1 million people by 2020. Through power, 90% less space, and 98% less cabling IT company to require our suppliers to hold a global, crowd-sourced call to action, than a traditional system. direct employment contracts with foreign participants will help pick the strongest ideas migrant workers, alongside prohibiting to become real-world solutions, enabled by the Our revolutionary research project, The worker-paid recruitment fees. technology and expertise of HPE. Machine, is a multi-year, multi-faceted program which aims to reinvent computer architecture, We’re also working to enhance data security, Read more here. enabling a quantum leap in performance and protect privacy, and ensure that individuals efficiency while lowering costs and improving and communities feel free to express their stability. views without fear. Read more here. And by creating a diverse and inclusive environment for our employees and suppliers, we increase our ability to understand and respond to customer needs, while enriching our capacity for innovation. We invest in developing and supporting a strong pipeline of female talent through initiatives such as our sponsorship of the National Center for Women and Information Technology (NCWIT) Aspirations in Computing program. Read more here. Hewlett Packard Enterprise 7 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs Reporting on our material issues We have structured this Positions, Policies, Some notable changes to the list of top 2016 HPE materiality map and Programs document around a list of 20 issues, for alignment with HPE’s new the 20 issues most critical to our business business offering, are: and sustainable development. We focus Medium High l The addition of “Network resilience,” on the areas where we can deliver the reflecting an increased focus on nE  nergy use and greenhouse gas n IT as an efficiency enabler most positive outcomes for people and cloud computing and data servers, emissions in our operations and the environment. n Data security underscored by mobile technologies. value chain Our materiality assessment conforms to nE  thical behavior and business l Changing the title “IT as a sustainability n Product lifecycle management best practice guidelines from reporting partnerships solution” to “IT as an efficiency enabler,” nS  ubstances of concern in Relative importance to Sustainable Development organizations such as the Global Reporting nP  rivacy and freedom of responding to the inclusion of customer products Initiative (GRI) and the Sustainability offerings that have sustainability expression Accounting Standards Board (SASB). nW  aste and hazardous materials in benefits, and solutions that make our operations and value chain High ecosystems sustainable. nE  thical sourcing practices in the How we created the 2016 We have grouped the 20 issues under each supply chain HPE materiality map of the Living Progress Accelerating themes. nH  uman trafficking in the supply This map is a refined version of an Some of the issues, such as Diversity and chain assessment conducted in 2014 by Business Inclusion, could have been placed under more than one heading. We will continue to nS  ocial application of ICT and for Social Responsibility (BSR) for access to technology Hewlett-Packard Company. After the review the list as the company matures. incorporation of HPE, the Living Progress We have included two additional issues team engaged HPE’s newly formed Living in this report that are fundamental to the nW  ater in our operations and n Diversity and inclusion Progress Strategy Council (LPSC) and value chain operation of any business: Employee nE  mployee development and Medium other internal stakeholders to reflect on health, safety, and well-being and Human n Corporate governance engagement the changing business focus of the new rights. These both appear under the n Intellectual property protection n IT products and services and company. Accelerating Fairness theme. human rights1 n Public policy engagement We also consulted leading sustainability nT  ransparency, accountability, practitioners and technology sector n Network resilience and reporting companies. The Living Progress team then refined the list after an intense process of Relative importance to HPE’s Business Success consultation. 1 IT products and services and human rights is  Key n Accelerating Efficiency n Accelerating Fairness n Accelerating Opportunity discussed in the report as a program in Human rights. ENVIRONMENTAL Accelerating Efficiency Goals and progress  9 IT as an efficiency enabler  10 Energy use and greenhouse gas emissions  13 in our operations and value chain  Water in our operations and value chain  19 Waste and hazardous materials in our  21 operations and value chain  Substances of concern in products  23 Product lifecycle management  25 Sustainably meeting the data needs of the future Hewlett Packard Enterprise 9 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs Goals and progress Key: l Goal met or exceeded l On target The following data relate to historical Hewlett-Packard Company performance.2 In future years, we will report stand-alone Hewlett Packard Enterprise data. l Goal missed Supply chain Operations Products and solutions 20% 20% 20% 40% 3.5bn Supply Chain GHG Operations GHG Water Product Use Phase Recycling 2020 Goal 2020 Goal 2020 Goal 2020 Goal 2015 Goal Decrease first-tier manufacturing Reduce total GHG emissions Reduce freshwater consumption Reduce the emissions intensity Recycle 3.5 billion pounds and product transportation-related from our operation (per employee) at of our product portfolio (1.6 million tonnes) of electronic GHG emissions intensity in our (Scope 1 and Scope 2) Hewlett-Packard Company by 40%3 products and supplies by the supply chain by 20%3 by 20%3 office sites by 20%3 end of 20155 2015 Progress 2015 Progress 2015 Progress 2015 Progress 2015 Progress 20% 29% 26% 26% 3.4bn 2m 20% 10% 40m Supplier Support GHG Fleet GHG Fleet GHG Intensity Reuse 2020 Goal 2020 Goal 2015 Goal 2015 Goal Assist our suppliers in preventing 2 million Reduce Hewlett-Packard CompanyReduce GHG emissions from Reuse 40 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) owned and leased auto fleet total HP’s U.S. auto fleet by 10% electronic products and of GHG emissions through specific supplier GHG emissions by 20%3 on a per unit basis3 accessory units. environmental improvement projects by 20%4 2015 Progress 2015 Progress 2015 Progress 2015 Progress 2 For further detail, including 0.8m 20% 10% 44m all relevant footnotes, see 3 Goal measured against a 2010 baseline. 4 Cumulatively between 2010 and 2020. 5 Goal measured against a 1987 baseline. Hewlett Packard Enterprise 10 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs IT as an efficiency enabler Our position Programs We are committed to offering our customers innovative, Product energy efficiency Solutions and tools for sustainable effective business solutions that reduce impacts on the Servers, storage, networking, and business choices environment. Our groundbreaking products and services software Harnessing the cloud help our customers achieve their objectives faster, while Data centers for the modern The Machine saving them money through increased efficiency and enterprise optimized use of resources. The Internet of Things We harness the power of the cloud and big data analytics to deliver new insights into complex global challenges. And through our research organization, Hewlett Packard Labs, we accelerate the development of revolutionary new ICT technologies such as The Machine. This new “Memory-Driven Computing” architecture will enable huge leaps in processing capacity alongside significant reductions in energy and materials use. Hewlett Packard Enterprise 11 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs > IT as an efficiency enabler Product energy efficiency Servers, storage, networking, and software We help our customers move further, faster. We’ve already created game-changing HPE servers, storage, networking, and software solutions are the building blocks of efficient l HPE ProLiant G9 servers match processing power to workload, reducing energy use by 40% technology and solutions to increase efficiency computing. Over the last five years, our up to 20%.8 By combining these servers with and decrease power consumption. Now we’re high-volume servers have reduced the CO2e HPE StoreVirtual software, customers can 2020 Goal13 Reduce the emissions intensity going further, designing and building radical emissions per unit of performance by 68%.6 achieve a 60% saving on energy costs and of our product portfolio by new information technology architectures to use 50% less space.9 40% compared to 2010 levels We combine these elements into fully help businesses and communities succeed in integrated systems that reduce energy use, l HPE Moonshot offers game-changing a data-rich but resource-constrained world. as well as saving space and money: server architecture. By sharing management, Building efficiency into our products starts power, cooling, networking, and storage, l HPE Integrated Lights-Out (iLO) provides with design. Product carbon footprinting the Moonshot solution uses up to 65% less the automated intelligence to maintain increasingly helps us to understand impacts power than traditional servers, reducing complete server control, including the ability and informs this process. energy consumption and associated carbon to monitor server utilization and maximize emissions.10 Our range of servers, storage, networking, and energy efficiency through advanced power software provides the foundation for efficient and heat control. l HPE OneView offers centralized visibility computing. From new approaches to cloud and control of every aspect of server l HPE Synergy is the world’s first platform computing to new, more compact data centers, management, including power consumption for “Composable Infrastructure,” built from which are faster and more energy efficient and component-level heating and cooling the ground up to bridge traditional and new than ever before, we’re catalyzing progress. management. 6 As measured by the industry standard SPECpower_ IT with the agility, speed, and continuous ssj2008 benchmark. By optimizing performance and use of space, delivery needed for today’s applications. l HPE 3PAR StoreServ Storage reduces 7 HPE internal estimate comparing HPE Apollo 8000 we’re enabling our customers to cut their This technology combines computing space, power, and cooling needs by up to to an air-cooled data center with 3 megawatts of IT. energy use and associated carbon emissions. A standard sustainability formula was used to derive power, storage, and infrastructure into 7x11 compared with equivalent products. CO2e savings in tons using the KW-hr savings based We spend time with our customers helping a single flexible platform, eliminating on real-world data center analysis. l HPE Aruba offers efficient and secure them to maximize performance and energy unnecessary costs and resources. 8 HPE internal lab testing conducted July 2014. wireless networking, typically using efficiency from our products. We work with 9 Based on HPE internal comparative analysis of publicly l The HPE Apollo 8000 System is the 43% less power than wired networks.12 available data from major competitors, June 2013. them to: world’s first warm-water liquid cooling 10 HPE  internal testing, compared to a traditional 2U/2P l Optimize the utilization of computing supercomputer, using 28% less energy rack server. Numbers vary by Moonshot server resources than traditional air-cooled systems and cartridges and customer configuration based on HPE internal analysis. For example, the HPE Moonshot for eliminating up to 3,800 tons of carbon NoSQL Databases and for Hadoop applications would l Configure systems for maximum efficiency utilize up to 90% less power, use 97% less space, and dioxide emissions per year.7 cost 78% less than a traditional server environment. l Minimize the support resources necessary 11  Based  on caparison of 12 PB usable 100% SSD array. 48 x Pure FA450 Dual controller (24 racks) verse 1 3PAR StoreServ 208x0 (3 racks). 12 “The  Tipping Point Is Here—All-Wireless Workplaces Show Benefit over Traditional Wired Technology” Document #251606 © 2014 IDC. www.idc.com 13  For  further detail, including all relevant footnotes, see Hewlett Packard Enterprise 12 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs > IT as an efficiency enabler Data centers for the modern HPE demonstrates the efficiency and Solutions and tools for To help address this, we partnered with Conservation International, Wildlife enterprise environmental improvements possible by sustainable business choices Conservation Society, and the Smithsonian using these technologies ourselves. Read more about our efforts to reduce greenhouse gas We share our knowledge and insights to help Institute to develop Wildlife Management and Traditional data centers can struggle to keep emissions from HPE data centers. our customers manage their businesses more Analytics (WMA), a new cloud-based solution up with the power and cooling demands of efficiently and make sustainable choices: building on learning from the HPE Earth big data and cloud computing. HPE innovates Insights system. Wildlife Insights is the first in the design and efficient operation of data The Internet of Things l HPE Power Advisor is an easy-to-use implementation of WMA. It collates information centers for customers. Our next-generation tool that estimates data center power Imagine a city where streetlights save energy from multiple sources, including environmental designs optimize building and equipment requirements for server and storage by automatically matching illumination levels organizations, camera traps, and weather configurations for efficiency and flexibility. combinations. It’s available as an online tool to the amount of traffic and ambient light. sensors, and utilizes HPE HAVEn technologies We offer services including energy analysis, or a downloadable application. Where the lights order their own repairs and for efficient analysis of these vast and varied lifecycle costing, dynamics modeling, and on-street Wi-Fi enables citizens to control l HPE Sustainable IT Purchasing Guide is a data sets. building specifications, helping customers achieve external energy performance homes from their cars. free resource we provide to our customers HPE’s WMA solution is contributing to a certifications such as LEED and ENERGY to help them make efficient IT purchasing more accurate and comprehensive picture of Welcome to the emerging smart city, made STAR®. decisions. It includes guidance on operating the current state of biodiversity, and we look possible by the accelerating growth of the requirements, global energy efficiency forward to this flexible platform being adapted Our new powerful data center solutions Internet of Things (IoT)—a proliferation of standards, and resource and packaging to meet other complex challenges in the future. are equipped to handle evolving processing connected devices that collect and exchange minimization. requirements, while lowering costs and impacts data to improve accuracy, efficiency, and on the environment: insight in our fast-moving, swelling urban l HPE Managed Print Services equips areas. The potential of smart cities and IoT customers with centralized monitoring and l Our modular data center approach offers programs is limitless. management of their printer fleet, reducing computing power in repeatable, scalable power consumption and paper waste. blocks—customers use as many modules HPE IoT Platform enables customers to tap as they need, saving space, energy, and into that potential. We’ve partnered with hardware. DS Virgin Racing to accelerate the efficiency Harnessing the cloud of their Formula E electric racing cars. HPE IoT l The HPE POD 240a goes a step further. solutions deliver real-time analysis of driver, With the capacity to store and process huge This revolutionary self-contained modular car, and track data, offering new insights and amounts of information from anywhere in the data center uses up to 95% less energy14 improving the performance of these zeroworld, the cloud is revolutionizing computing. than a traditional brick-and-mortar emission cars. Processing power is provided by This flexible, modular approach offers powerful alternative, and costs up to 75% less our energy, space, and materials-efficient HPE solutions for increasingly complex data to build.15 Moonshot servers—ensuring that we conserve challenges. 14  l Through HPE Facility as a Service, resources while meeting the data needs of this For example, HPE cloud-based solutions are Based on internal HPE testing. customers lease data center space on a exciting new industry. making a difference in the measurement and 15 The brick-and-mortar data center  construction per-watt cost estimate is pay-as-you-go basis. We match space and analysis of global biodiversity loss. Current based on Uptime Institute’s “Cost Model, energy requirements to needs, saving on data on wildlife and ecosystem health is dollars per kW plus dollars per square foot of computer floor,” Turner & Brill, 2010. Data the cost and environmental impact of space, complex and difficult to turn into meaningful is compared with an estimated per-watt insights quickly, making it challenging to cost estimate for HPE POD 240a, including power, and cooling. UPS and Generators (configured as 2N for take action. power and N+1 for cooling) and installation. Hewlett Packard Enterprise 13 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs Energy use and greenhouse gas emissions in our operations and value chain Our position Codes and policies Programs Climate change can only be tackled through collective action HPE Environmental, Health, and Safety Energy and greenhouse gas emissions across all sectors. We understand our climate impacts and (EHS) Policy in our operations take action to minimize them. Hewlett-Packard Company was HPE Supplier Code of Conduct Energy and greenhouse gas emissions the first IT company to publish its complete global carbon in our supply chain HPE Supply Chain Social and footprint, and at HPE we will continue that commitment. Environmental Responsibility Policyy Transport Policy Product energy efficiency Environmental, Health, and Safety (EHS) management systems We constantly work to reduce our impact on climate change. At our facilities, we focus on sourcing and generating renewable energy, making our buildings and behaviors more efficient, and innovating cutting-edge data centers. We partner with our suppliers to reduce their emissions as part of our broader Supply Chain Responsibility (SCR) program. Hewlett Packard Enterprise 14 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs > Energy use and greenhouse gas emissions in our operations and value chain Our global carbon footprint Most of the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions To promote the transition to a low-carbon our new goals and report against these in in our value chain occur as a result of materials economy, we joined the call to action future HPE Living Progress reports. extraction and manufacturing, and energy championed by the We Mean Business consumed during the use of HPE products. Coalition. As part of our participation in this Emissions from our own operations mainly initiative, in December 2015 we committed come from energy used to power our data to setting a science-based GHG emissions centers and lab and demo space. reduction target. We will provide details of 0.3m Upstream energy production 16.6m Materials extraction through manufacturing 0.1m Transportation fleet 24.1m Product use De minimis Product end 0.2m of life Commercial 0.4m air travel Capital goods De minimis Buildings leased 0.9m to others Employee commuting 1.5m De minimis Investments Transport 1.3m Facilities Supply chain 41% 6% Products and solutions 53% Operations Figures expressed as millions of tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e). For further detail, including Total emissions in 2015 were 45, 432, 100 tonnes CO2e. all relevant footnotes, see The unrounded value for the “Facilities” category is 1, 321, 200 tonnes CO2e. Calculations based on the HPE 2015 The unrounded value for the “Transportation fleet” category is 110, 900 tonnes CO2e. Carbon Accounting Manual. Hewlett Packard Enterprise 15 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs > Energy use and greenhouse gas emissions in our operations and value chain Energy and greenhouse gas emissions in our operations We work to reduce energy use and related Data centers. HPE’s modular data center Data Center Transformation Project of GHG emissions from our facilities, focusing on design strategy matches space and energy the Year in the 2016 U.S. and Canada four key areas: requirements to customer needs. This Datacenter Dynamics Awards. enables customers to store, process, and l Improved power usage effectiveness (PUE) Renewable energy. Using and producing distribute huge amounts of data without using in our global client data centers by 20%.20 energy from renewable sources reduces the unnecessary resources. carbon intensity of our operations. On-site Our new Neogarage solution allows We actively engage in international efforts solar photovoltaics at 11 of our sites avoid an modules to be tailored to diverse computing to improve data center environmental estimated 4,138 tonnes of CO2e16 emissions requirements. The system combines fast build performance, and we are a founding member annually.17 time,18 rapid return on investment,19 up-toof The Green Grid, a nonprofit consortium that In 2015, we signed a 12-year power purchase date security features, and optimized energy aims to improve the resource efficiency of data agreement for 112 megawatts of wind power— and cooling management, without sacrificing centers. Seven HPE data centers in Europe, enough to power our Texas-based data center performance. the Middle East, and Africa are accredited to operations and avoid more than 340,000 the European Code of Conduct for Energy We constantly evaluate new opportunities to tonnes of CO2e emissions annually. Efficiency in Data Centres, and six of our data reduce the climate impacts of our data centers, centers have environmental management We want to add more green energy to the including through targeted energy efficiency systems certified to ISO 14001. grid where possible, and we’re committed to programs. developing more solar and wind-generated Between 2010 and 2015, we: energy capacity. l Closed 101 older data centers, consolidating We promote the global expansion of renewable them into highly efficient state-of-theenergy generation and collaborated with other art facilities. This transformation has leading companies to issue the Renewable reduced our physical data center footprint Energy Buyers’ Principles—the result of by more than 55,000 square meters and 16 CO2e refers to “carbon dioxide equivalent”.  discussions between participating companies avoids 151,000 tonnes of CO2e emissions A tonne of CO2e means one tonne of carbon convened by WWF and the World Resources annually—equivalent to removing more dioxide or an amount of any of the other greenhouse gases with an equivalent global Institute (WRI). We are a cofounder of BSR’s than 32,000 passenger vehicles from warming potential. Future of Internet Power—a collaborative the road for a year. In recognition of our 17 For  further detail on historic initiative focused on increasing the use of consolidation program, we were awarded emissions metrics, including all relevant footnotes, see renewable energy to power data centers. 18 8–12  week increments for each capacity increase, compared with 9–24 months for a traditional data center build. 19 2–5  years depending on specific utilization, compared with 5–10 years typically for a traditional data center. 20 Power  usage effectiveness is the industry accepted measure of data center energy efficiency. Hewlett Packard Enterprise 16 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs > Energy use and greenhouse gas emissions in our operations and value chain Sustainable buildings. Our buildings should Energy efficiency initiatives. Using less be as smart as our technology. We invest in using our existing buildings more efficiently and design sustainability features into new energy is the most effective way to reduce operational GHG emissions. We track energy consumption at all our facilities and perform 20% or renovated facilities. Features such as: regular audits of our data center facilities. We 2020 Goal24 efficient lighting, smart monitoring, heating, are constantly looking for new opportunities to Reduce total GHG emissions and cooling optimization, all help us to do reduce demand and to be more efficient. This from our operations more with less energy. In 2015, installation of includes energy retrofit projects such as LED (Scope 1 and 2) LED lighting fixtures in Georgia, U.S., reduced lighting upgrades and building management by 20% against a energy use from lighting by more than 82%. system improvements. We expect efficiency 2010 baseline Smart building fault detection and diagnostics improvements at HPE facilities in 2015 to avoid systems at our main campus in Houston, an estimated 22,000 tonnes of CO2e emissions U.S., avoid approximately 4,300 tonnes CO2e per year. emissions annually, and retro-commissioning We disclose our GHG emissions and projects at three of our sites21 avoid more than management approach via the CDP climate 9,000 tonnes CO2e emissions each year.22 We Scope 1 emissions arise directly change program.23 In 2015, Hewlett-Packard from sources that are owned adhere to sustainable building standards, such or controlled by HPE. Scope 2 Company received the highest possible CDP as LEED®, wherever possible. Our construction emissions are from purchased carbon disclosure score—100 points and an electricity consumed by HPE. guidelines and operating standards include A rating—on carbon-reduction performance. requirements on energy efficiency. Read more about our external awards and accolades. 21 Aguadilla in Puerto Rico, and Andover and  Plano in the U.S. 22 Based on International Energy Agency  conversion factors. 23 CDP  (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) is an international nongovernmental organization (NGO) with the world’s largest database of primary corporate climate change information. 24 For  further detail, including all relevant footnotes, see Hewlett Packard Enterprise 17 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs > Energy use and greenhouse gas emissions in our operations and value chain Energy and greenhouse gas emissions in our supply chain 20% We collaborate with suppliers to reduce climate impacts as part of our broader Supply Production suppliers. The suppliers that provide materials and components and 2m Chain Responsibility (SCR) program. We’re manufacture and assemble our products are 2020 Goal25 2020 Goal25 Decrease first-tier assessing our footprint across the value chain the largest source of GHG emissions in our Assist our suppliers in manufacturing and product and will continue to create targeted programs supply chain. We work with these suppliers preventing 2 million tonnes transportation-related to reduce GHG emissions, including: through our Energy Efficiency Program CO2e of GHG emissions GHG emissions intensity in (EEP)26 to implement energy-saving initiatives (measured cumulatively our supply chain by 20% l Incentivizing our suppliers to set and between 2010 and 2020) and incentivize them to set emissions targets against a 2010 baseline. achieve GHG emissions-reduction goals through our SER scorecard. through our social and environmentally responsible (SER) scorecard Nonproduction suppliers. Suppliers 20% First-tier suppliers l Building capability through our existing supplier energy efficiency programs of important services such as staffing, telecommunications, and travel contribute a account for 20% l Deploying efficiency initiatives for small amount to our overall carbon footprint. of total supply They’re not included in our supply chain transportation suppliers Assist suppliers through chain emissions specific supplier environmental emissions intensity goal, but we work with improvement projects. l Providing suppliers with support tools and them to improve data reporting and to reduce guidance on GHG emissions reduction environmental impacts. In 2013, we introduced our industry’s first 50% First-tier transportation supply chain GHG emissions-reduction goal, and we include suppliers in our global carbon Product transportation suppliers. See Transport. suppliers account for 50% of footprint. By understanding where climate transport-related emissions We partner with CDP as a supply chain impacts occur in our supply chain, we can work member. We ask our suppliers (representing effectively with our suppliers for maximum 95% of our direct spend) to report their GHG effect. emissions and approach to climate change through the CDP system. And we do the same We work with different supplier types to First-tier suppliers are those for HPE operations, so that together with suppliers that ​provide improve efficiency and reduce GHG emissions: HPE directly with ​parts, ​ our suppliers we can drive down the climate materials, or services. impact of our value chain. 25 For  further detail, including all relevant footnotes, see 26 An  HPE program to help suppliers implement energy-saving initiatives and incentivize them to set emissions targets. Hewlett Packard Enterprise 18 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs > Energy use and greenhouse gas emissions in our operations and value chain Transport Product transportation. Where practical, we manufacture and distribute HPE products To facilitate the use of electric cars we provide charging stations in some of our larger sites. 20% within rather than between regions, enabling 2020 Goal27 We collaborate with fleet-management us to utilize efficient land-based transportation Reduce total GHG emissions suppliers to deliver our Auto Fleet rather than air or ocean freight. from our global fleet by 20% transformation program. It aims to: against a 2010 baseline When we use air freight, such as for the l Reduce fleet fuel consumption transportation of component parts, we systematically consolidate shipments to avoid l Improve the efficiency of our vehicles, the use of unnecessary air transportation. for example by switching to more fuelefficient cars Employee travel. Smart travel saves money l Reduce the total cost of ownership 10% and reduces GHG emissions. We work with employees and transport providers to promote To increase the accuracy and transparency sustainable travel practices. Where possible, of our performance reporting, we focus on we promote the use of virtual collaboration improving business travel data collection. tools and videoconferencing. This avoids Consolidating fuel suppliers enables us to track and analyze fuel use, so that we can 2015 Goal27 unnecessary travel, is more efficient for us, Reduce GHG emissions and is better for the environment. monitor progress effectively. from our U.S. auto fleet on a per-unit basis by 10% against a 2010 baseline 27 For  further detail, including all relevant footnotes, see Hewlett Packard Enterprise 19 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs Water in our operations and value chain Our position Codes and policies Programs With increasing pressure on global freshwater reserves, HPE Environmental, Health, and Responsible water usage in our we strive to use less of this valuable resource throughout Safety (EHS) Policy operations our operations and supply chain, particularly in waterHPE Supplier Code of Conduct Responsible water usage in our supply scarce regions. chain HPE Supply Chain Social and Environmental Responsibility Policy Supply Chain Responsibility (SCR) Program ty Policy Environmental, Health, and Safety (EHS) management systems Most of our value chain water consumption is indirect—water used in the production of electricity to power the manufacture and use of our products. We design our energy-efficient products and innovative data centers to minimize the use of water. The water we use directly is primarily for cooling in data centers. We measure and report our total water footprint to understand and reduce our impact on water resources. Hewlett Packard Enterprise 20 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs > Water in our operations and value chain Responsible water usage in our operations Responsible water usage in our supply chain We use relatively little water in our operations. l S mart metering. Leak detection systems in We encourage suppliers to use water l CDP supply chain membership—asking But we share global concerns about Israel and automated meter readers in the UK sparingly as part of our broader Supply Chain our suppliers (representing 95% of diminishing sources of freshwater and we work Responsibility (SCR) program. We use a our direct spend) to report their water l Irrigation improvements. Moisture sensors to reduce our use in our operations wherever range of tools to help suppliers improve their management and stewardship practices to and reduced volume of irrigation water in we can, with a particular focus on water-scarce water stewardship and management, as well us through the CDP system the U.S. regions such as India, Israel, and Singapore. as encouraging responsible withdrawal and To track progress and identify areas for l Alternative sources. Rainwater harvesting discharge: We identify HPE sites in water-scarce areas improvement, we encourage our suppliers in Singapore and India, recycled water usage using a combination of the WBCSD Global l G  lobal Social Compliance Programme to report water usage transparently, set in Singapore and the U.S., utilization of Water Tool and a list of additional sites we (GSCP) Environmental Reference goals, and improve the accuracy of their treated wastewater for landscaping in India, know to be suffering drought. We work to Tools—sharing best water stewardship water accounting. Our production suppliers and use of NEWater (high-grade reclaimed reduce consumption and increase water practices and promoting the use of robust (materials, components, and assembly water) in Singapore recycling through a range of measures, management systems providers) are working hard to manage and including: We transparently disclose our water report their water usage, which we fully support. l  BCSD Global Water Tool—assessing risks W management approach and performance by to local communities and environments, and We work to increase awareness among our participating in the CDP water program. identifying key water-scarce areas in which nonproduction suppliers—including staffing, to focus our efforts telecommunications, and travel providers— and to improve data reporting. 20% Our global water footprint28 Millions of cubic meters of water. Total consumption in 2015 was 296,140,000 m3. Calculations based on the HPE 2015 Water Accounting Manual. 2020 Goal28 Reduce freshwater consumption (per employee) at Hewlett-Packard 21.7 57.0 7.2 15.0 46.8 148.5 Company office sites by 20% compared to Direct Indirect Electricity for 2010 baseline consumption consumption Paper use product use Direct consumption Indirect consumption Supply chain Operations Products and solutions 27% 7% 66% 28 For  further detail, including all relevant footnotes, see Hewlett Packard Enterprise 21 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs Waste and hazardous materials in our operations and value chain Our position Programs We aim to reduce waste by planning the efficient use of Reducing waste and hazardous materials in our operations materials. We reuse or recycle where possible, and use disposal Reducing waste and hazardous materials in our supply chain as a last resort. Supply Chain Responsibility (SCR) Program We encourage employees, suppliers, and business partners to Environmental, Health, and Safety (EHS) management systems do the same, and we provide reuse and recycling options to customers to promote responsible waste management. Codes, policies and standards HPE Environmental, Health, and Safety (EHS) Policy HPE General Specification for the Environment HPE Supply Chain Social and Environmental Responsibility Policy HPE Supplier Code of Conduct HPE Vendor Requirements for Hardware Recycling Standard HPE Vendor Requirements for Hardware Reuse Standard Hewlett Packard Enterprise 22 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs > Waste and hazardous materials in our operations and value chain Reducing waste and Reducing waste and Many of our suppliers support our efforts with targeted waste programs, such as reducing hazardous materials in our hazardous materials in our operations supply chain packaging volume and collecting old packing materials for recycling or reuse. For example: 1% Even though our facilities and offices create We work with our suppliers to reduce waste l In multiple regions29 —provision of 100% of very little waste, we still work to reduce the as part of our broader Supply Chain thermoformed packaging parts made from 2015 Highlight30 recycled resin Total waste generation from amount as much as possible. We take a Responsibility (SCR) program. This improves Hewlett-Packard Company consistent approach to waste management their environmental footprints and, indirectly, l In the U.S.—use of HPE and supplier’s own operations equaled 70,020 across all of our operations: those of our products. We also require our foam waste to make new foam packaging tonnes—a 1% increase internal operations and suppliers to comply from 2014. l Reducing the amount of waste materials cushions with HPE’s General Specification for the l Reusing equipment where appropriate Environment (GSE) Manufacturing Process l In Singapore—an award-winning initiative Substances Requirements, to reduce the to collect, separate, and recycle electrostatic l Recycling where possible environmental, health, and safety risks from discharge bags l Using disposal only as a last resort manufacturing process substances used to We track and report our suppliers’ waste Most of the waste we produce is nonmake our products. reduction goals and performance, and work hazardous solid waste, including paper, We monitor conformance with our Supplier to improve the quality of reporting and packaging, pallets, and universal waste. The Code of Conduct and other relevant engagement. This drives awareness and action relatively small amount of hazardous waste we requirements through audits, including across our supply chain so that together we create largely consists of lead-acid batteries provisions related to environmental permits can improve resource efficiency and minimize from our data centers. We reuse or recycle and reporting, pollution prevention and waste. electronic equipment through the same resource reduction, hazardous substances, programs we offer customers, and we use wastewater and solid waste, and air emissions. battery recycling facilities. We use the Global Social Compliance Read more about our approach to the Programme (GSCP) Environmental responsible management and disposal of Reference Tools to set expectations on waste electronic waste. minimization and provide clear, consistent HPE employees play a big part in waste guidelines for our suppliers. reduction. We engage them in our efforts and equip many of our buildings with recycling points for the responsible disposal of paper, plastics, and batteries. Many of our employees organize and lead local initiatives such as packaging reduction, furniture recovery initiatives, and recycling drives. 29 Including  locations in China, Czech Republic, Mexico, Singapore, and the U.S. 30 For  further detail, including all relevant footnotes, see Hewlett Packard Enterprise 23 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs Substances of concern in products Our position Codes and policies Programs The materials we choose at the product design stage influence HPE Supplier Code of Conduct Supply Chain Responsibility (SCR) the function, form, and lifecycle impacts of everything we make. HPE Supply Chain Social and Program Hewlett Packard Enterprise selects materials that are fit for Environmental Responsibility Policy Evaluating substances of concern purpose, with the aim of minimizing potential harm to people HPE General Specifications for the Collaboration and engagement on and the environment. Environment substances of concern Using sound scientific methods, we evaluate both substances of concern in our products and those used in manufacturing. If we have concerns, we look for better alternatives. We require our suppliers to maintain rigorous management systems, which eliminate exposures where possible. We also ask them to educate workers using chemicals in manufacturing processes about potential risks and how to protect against exposure. We collaborate with a range of partners and suppliers to improve industry standards and capabilities. HPE supports forward-looking legislation that allows the electronics industry to effectively phase out the most harmful environmental materials. Hewlett Packard Enterprise 24 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs > Substances of concern in products Evaluating substances of concern Collaboration and engagement on substances of concern We carefully consider the use of specific Read more about our REACH and RoHS While we meet or exceed laws on the use of In addition to our efforts around chemical materials during the design of new products, disclosures, ECO Declarations, and Material materials, as a leading global company we substitution, we endorse and participate in and evaluate substances that may pose a Safety Data Sheets. have a responsibility to go beyond compliance. the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition significant risk to people or the environment. We work with peers, governments, and (EICC) chemical management task force. The How our products are made is as important In some cases, we restrict a substance as a nonprofits to promote high standards in the task force focuses on: as what they are made from. We provide clear precautionary measure. We use the following responsible use of materials in IT products requirements to our suppliers in our General l Helping facilities develop programs to to inform our decisions: and the substances used in the manufacturing Specification for the Environment, which eliminate and manage worker exposure to process. l Published lists of substances of concern includes lists of substances restricted in our harmful chemicals products and manufacturing processes.31 We actively engage in materials regulation l Current and future legal requirements l Ensuring that workers know about potential Our science-based assessments have led advocacy efforts with industry trade chemical hazards and how to protect l Best available scientific analysis us to restrict the use of particular high-risk associations, and partner with others to themselves from exposure We also track external expectations and substances across our manufacturing supply progress standards for materials assessments chain, including benzene and n-hexane. Where and alternatives. We use Clean Production l Evaluating current standards and customer preferences. If a substance raises we restrict substances in products, we work Action’s GreenScreen® for Safer Chemicals monitoring criteria for supplier conformance concerns, we look for viable alternatives with our suppliers to ensure that suitable framework to identify environmentally with chemical standards with lower potential impacts for people and the environment. We share the findings of alternatives are used. preferable materials. our assessments with suppliers and provide In addition to restricting specific substances, guidance on suitable alternatives. we work to ensure the appropriate and safe We’re working to phase out phthalates and use of other chemicals and materials utilized in halogen-containing materials—including manufacturing. Our HPE Supplier Code of brominated flame retardants (BFRs), Conduct and supplier audit and assessment chlorinated flame retardants (CFRs), and program require suppliers to have robust polyvinyl chloride (PVC)—where technically environment, health, and safety management feasible. We support and always comply systems and controls in place. We ask with relevant legislation on substances of suppliers to evaluate substances, eliminate concern, including the European Union or minimize risks of exposure, and—for risks Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) that cannot be eliminated—to protect workers Directive, Registration, Authorization, and the through training and the provision of personal Restriction of Chemical Substances (REACH), protective equipment. and similar legislation around the world. We have supported the inclusion of additional substances, including BFRs, PVC, and phthalates, in future RoHS legislation. 31 Manufacturing  process substances are used in manufacturing but not included in our products. Hewlett Packard Enterprise 25 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs Product lifecycle management Our position Codes and policies Programs We seek positive impacts for people and the environment at HPE Export of Electronic Waste to A lifecycle approach to design each lifecycle stage of HPE products: design, production of raw Developing Countries Policy Supply Chain Responsibility (SCR) materials, manufacturing, distribution, use, and end-of-life options. HPE Supplier Code of Conduct program From our Supply Chain Responsibility (SCR) program to our HPE Vendor Requirements for Extending product life Hardware Recycling Standard range of reuse and recycling initiatives, we manage every step Responsible management and disposal HPE Vendor Requirements for of electronic waste with a focus on efficiency and transparency. Hardware Reuse Standard HPE General Specification for the Environment We’re committed to helping our customers recycle responsibly, and we collect used products for resale and recycling in 73 countries. Multiple product takeback options enable us to contribute to the circular economy, where hardware is given a new lease of life and the environmental impacts of disposal are avoided. If products are not suitable for reuse, we recover recyclable material to manufacture into new products. For recycling services, visit www.hpe.com/recycle. Hewlett Packard Enterprise 26 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs > Product lifecycle management A lifecycle approach to design Extending product life Knowing the extent of impacts across a the smallest networking products to entire As a global IT company, we have a strong l HPE Trade-In Program—When buying new product lifecycle allows us to make positive data centers. Our DfE program has three history and continuing focus on electronics HPE hardware, customers can trade in their changes. Product carbon footprinting priorities: reuse and recycling. old equipment. increasingly helps us to understand impacts 1. E  nergy efficiency—reduce the energy To process, resell, and recycle returned l  PE Asset Recovery—We manage the H and informs the design process. needed to manufacture and use our products products, we use a global network of vendors complex process of retiring and remarketing Most of our environmental footprint occurs providing customer recycling capabilities used data center and workplace equipment 2. M aterial innovation—decrease the in our supply chain, and when customers in 73 countries. They all conform to our in a secure and compliant manner. This amount of materials used in our products, use our products and solutions. Product stringent global reuse and recycling standards, global service includes collection, transport, and use materials with lower environmental design plays a crucial role in improving our preventing the irresponsible disposal of used auditing, data cleansing, and resale. impact overall environmental performance. Energy electronic equipment. l Hardware recycling processes—We consumption and associated water usage are 3. D  esign for recyclability—design In the U.S., our entire approved network of maintain active relationships with a network the main impacts during the use phase of our equipment that has more value at end-ofrecyclers for electronic hardware is certified of recyclers that serves 73 countries. They products’ lives. life and that is easier to upgrade and/or to either R2 or eStewards standards. And we utilize a combination of manual and highrecycle We focus on specific environmental impacts have made significant progress in expanding tech dismantling, shredding, and material through our Design for Environment (DfE) We design many of our products to meet our certification efforts to other countries. separation methods. We work with recyclers program. This initiative applies an engineering voluntary third-party eco-label standards such who demonstrate a history of compliance We offer businesses a range of options to perspective to optimizing the environmental as ENERGY STAR®. and good practice. We offer targeted promote extended use, reuse, and recycling of performance of each product, process, or Read more about how we avoid substances of recycling initiatives in a range of locations, products. These include: 32 facility. concern and design energy efficiency into our including the Americas, Brazil, EMEA, Asia l H  PE Renew—We offer an extensive Pacific, and Japan. Together, HPE’s product stewards and product products. portfolio of remanufactured HPE products, designers consider environmental impact in providing as-new reliability and performance the design of every product and solution, from at a minimum 15% discount. 32 Available services differ between countries and  regions. Hewlett Packard Enterprise 27 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs > Product lifecycle management Responsible management and disposal of electronic waste We carefully audit our electronic hardware recyclers, and track materials downstream to final use or disposal. Our industry-leading We support efforts to prevent the unacceptable and unauthorized dumping of electronic waste (e-waste) and we are 73.5% recycling vendor standards prohibit landfilling committed to meeting the requirements of 2015 Highlight34 of processed electronics wherever alternatives the Basel Convention in control of hazardous In 2015, Hewlett-Packard exist, and we encourage customers to take the wastes and their disposal. Since 2004, Company recovered 155,200 same approach. our global corporate policy bans exports tonnes of computer hardware and of nonworking electronics e-waste33 from supplies, of which 73.5% We believe that the solution to responsible was recycled and 26.5% developed countries (OECD and EU) to management of electronic waste requires was reused. developing countries (non-OECD outside the cooperation and collaboration. And we EU) either directly or through intermediaries. apply this principle in our engagement with governments and other stakeholders. Read more about our approach to waste and hazardous materials. 33 HPE  defines e-waste as nonworking parts or devices. This does not include: materials defined as nonhazardous under the Basel Convention; working equipment and parts that are not intended for disposal or recycling, but are for donation, reuse, or resale; components being returned to the original equipment manufacturer that are under warranty; and materials to be used in manufacturing that do not require further processing or preparation. 34 For  further detail, including all relevant footnotes, see HUMAN Accelerating Fairness Human rights  29 Ethical behavior and business partnerships  31 Data security  34 Privacy and freedom of expression  36 Diversity and inclusion  38 Employee development and engagement  41 Employee health, safety, and well-being  44 Ethical sourcing practices in the supply chain  47 Human trafficking in the supply chain  51 Corporate governance  53 Transparency, accountability, and reporting  56 Intellectual property protection  58 Public policy engagement  60 Advancing human progress through the way we work Hewlett Packard Enterprise 29 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs Human rights Our position Codes, policies, and standards Programs Respect for human rights is a core value at HPE and integral to HPE Global Human Rights Policy HPE Student and Dispatch Worker the way we do business. We work together with our employees, HPE Standards of Business Conduct Standard for Supplier Facilities in the People’s Republic of China (PRC) suppliers, customers, and partners to ensure that they share our HPE Partner Code of Conduct commitment to respecting human rights. HPE Global Master Privacy Policy HPE Supplier Code of Conduct HPE Environmental, Health, and Safety We engage our suppliers through the HPE Supply Chain HPE Supply Chain Social and (EHS) Policy Responsibility (SCR) program. We focus on protecting workers Environmental Responsibility Policy HPE Harassment-Free Work and improving labor standards, paying particular attention to HPE Foreign Migrant Worker Standard Environment Policy vulnerable groups such as foreign migrant workers. HPE Nondiscrimination Policy Our commitment to a diverse and inclusive culture is shared by our Programs employees, and we have zero tolerance for harassment or discrimination. Protecting human rights across our value chain We deliver products and services that enable a more connected world, and seek to protect the right to personal privacy. We perform ongoing due IT products and services and human rights diligence to guard against potential adverse human rights impacts associated Collaboration to advance human rights with misuse of our products and services. Privacy and freedom of expression The HPE Global Human Rights Policy is the foundation for our approach. It is rooted in the expectations set out by the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Hewlett Packard Enterprise 30 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs > Human rights Protecting human rights IT products and services and Collaboration to advance across our value chain human rights human rights Our aim is always to safeguard human rights— IT has the power to address societal Our commitment to human rights goes the fundamental freedoms and standards of challenges and enhance people’s lives beyond our business. We present our views treatment to which all people are entitled. worldwide. But it can also be utilized for and approach in public forums, advocating unintended purposes, with potentially for global progress on human rights and The HPE Office of the General Counsel detrimental human rights outcomes. Our sharing our leadership on key issues such as oversees our approach to prevent, mitigate, human rights program seeks to reduce the protecting foreign migrant workers. and remediate, human rights impacts potential for our leading-edge products associated with our supply chain, direct We want to help embed respect for and services to be used by companies, operations, and customers. Our human rights human rights in the IT industry and organizations, individuals, or regimes to program management office works across beyond. Collaboration with a wide range of infringe on people’s human rights. business units and global functions to address stakeholders increases the effectiveness of issues including employee health and safety, Guided by the HPE Global Human Rights our efforts. We contribute to several external global trade, labor relations, privacy, sales Policy, we’re constantly evaluating both initiatives, including: operations, and supply chain management. long-term and near-term risks connected with l Global Business Initiative on Business and potential and existing customers or partners. We take a risk-based approach to assessing Human Rights (GBI) We strive to conduct due diligence on business business activities for their potential to impact activities where our products and services l Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition human rights and focusing our resources have the potential to impact human rights, and (EICC) accordingly. Anyone with a concern can use a we abide by all relevant sanctions, restrictions,  usiness for Social Responsibility (BSR) B range of reporting mechanisms to share these l and embargoes in our business operations Human Rights Working Group with us. We investigate any concerns swiftly, worldwide. take action to resolve problems, and provide l Leadership Group for Responsible access to rights holders to file and seek Hewlett-Packard Company received inquiries Recruitment resolutions to grievances. Reporting externally in 2015 alleging that it was linked to human ensures that we hold ourselves and our rights impacts as a consequence of its partners accountable to the highest standards. business relationship with the Government of Israel. Based on investigations and the scope of technology and services provided, Hewlett-Packard Company believed its actions were consistent with its policies. Moving forward, HPE’s business operations in Israel are regularly monitored by our Ethics and Compliance Office to ensure that we continue to act in concert with our human rights policies. Hewlett Packard Enterprise 31 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs Ethical behavior and business partnerships Our position Codes and policies Programs Strong ethics are core to our company. We set clear expectations HPE Standards of Business Conduct Anti-corruption program for our employees and business partners to keep us strong and HPE Supplier Code of Conduct Ethics and compliance program grounded. Together, we take responsibility for our actions and HPE Partner Code of Conduct Training, communication, and hold one another to the highest ethical standards. HPE Contingent Worker Code of Conduct recognition Reporting concerns HPE Supply Chain Social and Environmental Responsibility Policy HPE Anti-corruption Policy HPE Global Business Amenities Policy We value honesty, respect, and integrity. We build relationships with partners and suppliers who hold the same values as HPE, and we expect them to share our approach to business ethics and accountability. We never tolerate corruption, by anyone or at any time. We believe in accelerating business the right way, by building partnerships based on mutual trust and with a shared sense of integrity and ethical commitment. Hewlett Packard Enterprise 32 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs > Ethical behavior and business partnerships Anti-corruption program Ethics and compliance governance structure Our Anti-corruption program reinforces our law-abiding culture. Supported by attorneys and other legal professionals, the program Audit Committee Board of Directors Independent Directors provides guidelines and principles for all HPE employees so that, together, we win the right way. We benchmark our efforts against those Chief Executive Officer of other companies to help us identify improvements and to make sure we remain alert to probable risks. We identify Ethics and Compliance Committee countries with high potential for corruption, Office of General Counsel (Chaired by CECO) using a combination of internal data and Transparency International’s Corruption Perceptions Index. Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer (Head of Ethics and Compliance Officer) If issues arise, we tackle them quickly and with transparency. In 2014, Hewlett-Packard Company reached a settlement with the U.S. Department of Justice and the Securities Compliance Councils & Boards Ethics & Compliance Office and Exchange Commission over the isolated actions of a small number of employees at Hewlett-Packard Company subsidiaries in Russia, Poland, and Mexico. Following Hewlett-Packard Company’s full cooperation We provide anti-corruption tools and initiatives with U.S. enforcement authorities, our Ethics to help employees identify and avoid potential and Compliance team took action to prevent issues. For example, to ensure that providing future corrupt conduct. HPE continues to or receiving business amenities—including provide the enforcement authorities with an gifts, travel, and entertainment—is permissible, annual report on anti-corruption processes, employees rely on HPE’s Global Business programs, and risks. Amenities Policy guidelines and use our Amenities Approval Tool where required. Hewlett Packard Enterprise 33 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs > Ethical behavior and business partnerships Ethics and compliance program Training, communication, and recognition Our business is based on the promise of confidential and are submitted anonymously Everyone at HPE shares responsibility for Our internal ethics and compliance social integrity. We hold our employees, leaders, where allowed by local law. We review every upholding our ethical standards. We expect media platform—part of our internal social business partners, and suppliers to the highest concern raised and respond promptly. If an individuals to be accountable for their own network ConnectNow—enables our employees ethical standards, and work to meet their investigation is required, we make sure the actions and we offer support through a to ask questions, download resources, and expectations in return. right people are involved, while respecting the program of training and communications. All participate in debates about ethics and antineed for confidentiality. We take all alleged employees know what’s expected of them and corruption issues. We require full compliance with the law and violations of company policy seriously, carrying why. our own Standards of Business Conduct Celebrating achievement in ethical conduct out disciplinary or remedial action when (SBC), which sit alongside additional codes Board members must take Standards of reinforces our values and creates a shared needed. of conduct for suppliers, partners, and Business Conduct training every two years. sense of ownership over the way we do contingent workers. The HPE Board of Our global case management system is a New hires complete a comprehensive SBC business. Each year, we recognize individuals Directors holds ultimate responsibility for central record of all allegations of ethical training course, including anti-corruption or teams that demonstrate ethical leadership ethics and compliance, supported by the violations. We use it to spot trends and identify content, within 30 days of joining HPE. through our Ethics Champions Recognition Audit Committee and Ethics and Compliance any additional training or controls in particular Every year, all employees must complete the Program. Committee. Read more about our governance regions or risk categories. SBC refresher course, covering key policies, processes. procedures, and high-risk issues. Our range of training and communications initiatives (see opposite) keeps everyone at HPE up to date with requirements, and To be effective, training must be relevant, timely and engaging. We pay special attention to likely challenges faced by different 99.97% we celebrate individuals or teams that employees and tailor our training accordingly, 2015 Highlight35 demonstrate strong ethical performance. In 2016, we’ll be running an Ethics Road Show, 1,208 enabling each person to work through real-life scenarios appropriate to their job role. 99.97% of active Hewlett-Packard Company employees participated in providing senior members of the Ethics and annual SBC training. Compliance Office the opportunity to meet 2015 Highlight35 key business leaders across the company in Hewlett-Packard Company different regions. They will discuss the critical employees and third parties reported 1,208 items to role managers play in establishing a tone of the Global SBC team ethical conduct within their organizations. We or other compliance expect to expand the road show to further functions senior audiences in 2017. If something does not seem right, we want to know about it. We encourage anyone with a concern or question about ethics or business conduct to speak up without fear of retaliation, and provide multiple reporting channels to make it easy to get in touch. All reports are 35 For  further detail, including all relevant footnotes, see Hewlett Packard Enterprise 34 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs Data security Our position Codes and standards Programs Keeping data safe is critical to our customers’ and HPE Standards of Business Conduct Anticipating evolving threats our own success. HPE U.S. Public Sector Code of Conduct Helping our customers stay secure As technology accelerates, so does the potential for HPE Supplier Code of Conduct cyber threats. We stay ahead of the curve. Rather than one-time fixes, we offer our customers complete security solutions. We help them anticipate threats and reduce the time and costs associated with attempted data breaches. Protecting data is everyone’s job, so we invest in maintaining a security-conscious workforce through regular training, security awareness campaigns, and behavioral change exercises. Hewlett Packard Enterprise 35 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs > Data security Anticipating evolving threats Helping our customers stay secure We live and transact in a complex world whose We know how to anticipate threats because We help our customers anticipate threats reputational and financial damage by constant changes have profound implications we understand how they’re created. where they are most likely to occur, and to responding, containing, and eradicating for cybersecurity. The cloud and big data Our market-leading research predicts act beforehand. HPE Security Solutions cybersecurity incidents. Our Security offer new opportunities to connect, share, vulnerabilities and provides security offers a systematic end-to-end approach to Consulting and Data Center Transformation and rapidly analyze information. Networks intelligence, helping modern enterprises cybersecurity management, including: Services put the right controls, principles, are no longer contained within historical stay ahead of emerging risks. architecture, and testing in place, enabling organizational boundaries. Security Management. Our advanced security enterprises of any size to manage security By taking a proactive approach to security, analytics enable customers to identify and proactively. In this shifting context, to remain safe, we need we protect data—from personal information to be pragmatic and innovative. We work to to intellectual property—and keep it out of manage risks, while HPE ArcSight software Protecting data relies on individual awareness keep ahead of potential security vulnerabilities, the wrong hands. The HPE Privacy and Data provides real-time threat prioritization and and vigilance as much as tools and systems. monitoring 23 billion security events each Protection Board oversees our efforts by early remediation. Encryption solutions such as To help HPE and our customers stay safe, month and managing more than 1.5 million assessing risks annually, designing, and HPE Enterprise Secure Key Manager secure we invest in training and behavioral change security devices through our 10 Security leading mitigation strategies. servers, storage, and cloud-based activities exercises for all employees. Activities such as Operations Centers worldwide. against losses, mishandling, and administrative phishing simulations and gamification courses and operational attacks. keep our people alert to the latest threats. Our Cybersecurity Central site provides a Threat and Vulnerability Defense. consistent source of support and information. We offer an integrated approach to security for applications, networks, and remote devices, keeping today’s mobile workforces connected and safe. Enterprise Security Services. We facilitate the building and maintenance of robust security governance, risk, and compliance systems through our Information Security Management solution. Global Incident Response helps customers prevent Hewlett Packard Enterprise 36 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs Privacy and freedom of expression Our position Policies Programs Privacy and freedom of expression are basic human rights. HPE Global Master Privacy Policy Privacy in a connected world Respect for these rights is a core value at Hewlett Packard HPE Privacy Statement IT products and services and Enterprise and is integral to the way we do business. HPE Global Human Rights Policy human rights People sharing personal data with us trust in our ability to handle their information with care and to comply with our privacy policies, applicable laws, and contractual commitments. We have a responsibility to ensure that data is accurate, used appropriately, and kept secure. We manage our own customer and employee data, process personal information on behalf of customers, and provide the means for our customers to collect and process personal data themselves. Our approach considers the full data lifecycle including collection, processing, use, and disposal. As technology develops, we evolve our privacy practices to keep up with change, engaging with data protection regulators, governments, and thought leaders to help modernize laws and the development of compliance frameworks. We are committed to accountability and seek to maintain a robust privacy program globally. Hewlett Packard Enterprise 37 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs > Privacy and freedom of expression Privacy in a connected world The advent of disruptive technologies is shifting business models and offering new ways to connect. Yet the importance and These innovations are straining privacy frameworks and laws, many of which predate the internet. The traditional approach of l  rovide trusted advice and industry P perspective to countries and regions, including contributing to the creation of 2 relevance of an individual’s right to privacy seeking informed consent at the point of data Binding Corporate Rules in Europe, and 2015 Highlight36 and freedom of expression remain as strong as collection is no longer sufficient. Companies Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Cross There were two substantiated ever. Leading companies that want to succeed must become more accountable for the Border Privacy Rules complaints to Hewlettin the future need to sustain relationships of collection, management, use, and disposal Packard Company regarding l  artner with regulators, academics, and P breaches of customer privacy mutual trust with their customers and must of personal data throughout its life. Growing other thought leaders with the aim of and losses of customer data continually adapt and change their practices awareness of privacy risks and rights will from outside parties. establishing industry best practices for to reflect shifting contexts. increasingly determine customer trust and the design and use of analytic tools. This choice. HPE is at the forefront of these new includes our partnership with a leading technologies: As a leader in this new business environment, privacy think tank, the Information HPE also needs to be a trailblazer in Accountability Foundation, on the Big Data Big data. New predictive analytic tools that responsible privacy practices. We’re committed Code of Ethics initiative. challenge traditional privacy strategies to evolving our policies to ensure that they remain ethical and transparent in the face of This is a decrease from six in Cloud-based services. Internet-based change. Strong relationships and strategic 2014. Substantiated complaints services that offer step changes in data partnerships are critical to our success. For from regulatory or other official bodies remained at zero. management frameworks example, we: l W  ork with our peers, advocates, lawmakers,  he Internet of Things. Numerous connected T and regulators worldwide to develop new devices that provide multiple data collection concepts of accountability for data practices opportunities, feeding into big data and l  articipate in the strengthening and P the cloud modernization of privacy laws, including the EU General Data Protection Regulation and the Electronic Communications Privacy Act 36 For  further detail, including all relevant footnotes, see Hewlett Packard Enterprise 38 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs Diversity and inclusion Our position Policies and standards Programs Diversity fuels invention, drives new business, and helps us HPE Global Human Rights Policy An environment of inclusion attract and retain the best employees. HPE Harassment-Free Work Employee Resource Groups Environment Policy We’re committed to maintaining a diverse workforce and People with disabilities a culture of inclusion, where courtesy, dignity, and respect HPE Nondiscrimination Policy Women in technology come naturally. HPE Standards of Business Conduct Leadership and accountability Supplier diversity We recognize that our industry needs to make improvements. We’re working, with others, on issues including the underrepresentation of women in technology roles. Our approach to diversity includes our supply chain. A diverse supplier base brings us competitive advantage, catalyzes innovation, and supports local economic development. We work to ensure that our handling of customer data and big data analytics does not result in discriminatory outcomes. Read more about our approach to privacy and data security. Hewlett Packard Enterprise 39 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs > Diversity and inclusion An environment of inclusion Employee Resource Groups People with disabilities The HPE global community of employees is Dandelion, our partnership with Denmark’s HPE Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) help People with disabilities should be empowered one of our greatest strengths. We want HPE to Specialisterne, a pioneering employment our people stay connected and provide one to succeed in the IT industry in the same way be an employer of choice for underrepresented enabler, and the Australian Department another with mutual support. With more than as every other employee. groups, where we celebrate the power of our of Human Services opens the door to 130 chapters in over 30 countries, these To attract and retain a diverse employee base, differences and work together to accelerate opportunity for people with autism. employee-generated volunteer communities in 2015, we established the HPE Global People progress. come together to learn together through: People on the autistic spectrum often have with Disabilities Program Office. The program Our inclusive culture relies on every employee excellent skills that lend themselves naturally l  lobal webcasts on topics including G office focuses on developing initiatives, to share expectations of conduct and to to jobs that require focus, but they can find leadership and diversity programs, and processes that enable people support one another. it difficult to access jobs. Dandelion aims with disabilities to succeed and perform. It has l Mentorship programs to change that. Through the program, HPE five clear objectives, which we aim to achieve We provide a range of formal and informal is building the ability to attract, hire, and l R  egional campaigns focusing on issues by the end of 2018: training to help our employees understand the retain these high-potential people in testing, such as lesbian, gay, bisexual, and value of a diverse culture, and apply this to our 1. R elaunch the Able@HPE program to analytics, IT operations, and cybersecurity transgender (LGBT) equality working environments. Our online program, improve self-identification rates and positions. So far, the program has provided Regular meet-ups, including more than 50 Cultural Navigator, helps teams increase l identify key geographies for further focused 37 talented people with fulfilling roles, Lean-In Circles where peer groups share in cultural competence across every part of our activities supplying HPE and our customers with muchtheir goals and ambitions in a supportive business. Understanding and celebrating our needed specialized skills. We are committed 2. E  stablish a new global governance model cultural differences increases self-awareness, environment to continuing to grow and expand the for our People with Disabilities Employee improves communications, and strengthens Read more about our ERGs and other Dandelion program. Resource Group, to fuel growth and relationships, ultimately offering HPE a activities. participation competitive advantage. Read more about why diversity and inclusion matters to us. 3. G row partnerships with external nonprofits in key geographies 4. L  everage a data-driven approach to track metrics and benchmark activities 5. I nfluence accessibility improvements in our facilities, IT systems, training, and collaboration tools Hewlett Packard Enterprise 40 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs > Diversity and inclusion Women in technology Leadership and accountability Supplier diversity Our priority is to make HPE the number one Maintaining an inclusive environment is ensure that women and minority groups are Through the HPE Global Supplier Diversity technology company for women. We invest in everyone’s responsibility. Our holistic approach properly represented across every level of our Program, we actively encourage small developing and supporting a strong pipeline to diversity encompasses our people, our business. companies and diverse suppliers to compete of female talent, including coders, designers, customers, our suppliers, and the community for our business. This includes enterprises We encourage employees to report any engineers, and technology executives. For at large. It requires us to communicate a clear owned by aboriginal or indigenous people, concerns to their human resources department example, we: vision and be transparent about where we can minorities, veterans, and women, as well as or by contacting the Ethics and Compliance do better. LGBT individuals. l Invest in science, technology, engineering, office at corporate.compliance.hpe@hpe. and math (STEM) education Our Chief Diversity Officer and Global Diversity com. We do not tolerate discrimination or We focus on increasing diversity regionally and Inclusion board set the standards to harassment in any form. through targeted programs in Australia, South l  arget recruitment at key universities and T which we hold one another accountable— Africa, the United Kingdom, and the United technical conferences Our confidential Voice of the Workforce often to a higher level than is legally required States. Highlights include: survey helps us to understand whether l Leverage HPE initiatives such as HPE in countries where we operate. We report diverse employees’ experiences match their Codewars and Living Progress Challenge detailed workforce demographics, and each Mentor-Protégé. Provides guidance and and our own expectations of an inclusive and to reach out to STEM communities business unit sets strategies with measurable support to select minorityand woman-owned supportive workplace. l  ffer a technical buddy program to O goals aligned with our Global Diversity and suppliers, increasing opportunities to compete Inclusion Strategy and our diversity and Read more about our diversity and inclusion for HPE business new hires inclusion policies. We invest in a pipeline of leadership activities and strategic partners. l  ake relevant learning solutions visible M technical talent and executive leadership to SMEngage. Established in 2012 to support to technical women through targeted small and medium enterprises in the UK and communications Ireland in developing long-term business l S ponsor HPE women to attend technical relationships with HPE 36.5% conferences We submit an annual commercial small We partner with external organizations business subcontracting plan to the U.S. to enhance opportunities and support for Government. To better understand our wider women in ICT at all stages of their career. For 2015 Highlight37 supplier base and to encourage a more example, we sponsor the National Center for Helwett-Packard Company diverse, inclusive, and robust supply chain, Women and Information Technology (NCWIT) female new hires we request that all strategic suppliers report Aspirations in Computing program, a talent increased to 36.5%. their annual spend with small and diverse development pipeline that supports technically businesses. inclined young women in the U.S. toward fulfilling their ambitions and potential. 37 For  further detail, including This is up from 35.1% in 2014. all relevant footnotes, see Hewlett Packard Enterprise 41 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs Employee development and engagement Our position Standards Programs The passion and innovation of our employees drive our HPE Standards of Business Conduct Employee development business forward. We want our people, at the leading edge Engagement and recognition of our fast-moving industry, to constantly feel inspired and motivated as they help our customers make ideas happen. Maintaining open channels of engagement and communication builds long-term partnerships with our employees, based on shared values. We invest in substantial programs and experiences to enable them to fulfill their potential and realize their ambitions. Development and engagement programs enable our people to grow personally and professionally, and to stay connected to their communities and customers. Hewlett Packard Enterprise 42 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs > Employee development and engagement Employee development The IT industry operates at a rapid pace of social network, leaders and emerging leaders Our success depends on high performance. change, requiring a special combination of are empowered to connect. Participants can We encourage all managers to hold regular technical knowledge and skills. Our ability to post conversations, topics, articles, videos, and performance review conversations with attract and train highly skilled employees to questions on the dedicated online platform, employees, set clear goals together, and match these evolving requirements is key to challenging and supporting one another to discuss ongoing feedback. We also utilize our success, and is a global priority for us. fulfill their maximum potential. Workday, a cloud-based human capital management software. We enable our employees to learn and develop so that we can stay ahead of the curve, Professional development and continuing We turn to our talented employees first when matching employee skills to the needs of our education. Whether it’s excelling in a current looking to fill new positions, and offer ongoing business. We encourage them to fulfill their role or exploring new avenues, we offer support during changes such as restructuring professional and personal development goals training and development opportunities to and realignment. We encourage utilization at every stage of their career with us. extend our employees’ knowledge and skills. of all available advisory resources, including Our virtual university—Accelerating U our redeployment services, and support Our key areas of focus are: —provides end-to-end development employees in making decisions based on their opportunities for every employee, from new own long-term interests. Leadership development and management hires to senior leaders. The university is excellence. Our leaders play a number of divided into nine colleges covering areas crucial roles. They keep us aligned and facing matched to our strategic priorities, including forward, inspire ideas and innovations, and business and professional skills, supply chain, take actions that contribute to our success. and engineering. Learners can choose from The Leading at HPE program equips all of our thousands of self-directed or instructorleaders with a deep understanding of HPE led online courses, matched to their own Strategy. Targeted development experiences development goals. for new or existing managers, directors, and vice presidents contribute to a sense of shared For employees wishing to extend their further focus and a high-performance culture. education, our Degree Assistance Program offers financial contributions to qualifying Mentoring. The HPE Mentoring Network bachelor’s, master’s, and doctorate degrees at enables employees to share, collaborate, accredited institutions. We also partner with and interact—contributing to one another’s many academic institutions that offer special progression and learning. Through this global programs or discounts for HPE employees. Hewlett Packard Enterprise 43 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs > Employee development and engagement Engagement and recognition Our best achievements are accomplished Voice of the Workforce (VoW) survey. HPE Sustainability Network. Our largest through partnership, and a connected Our annual confidential survey provides environmental volunteer and engagement workforce catalyzes new ideas and inspires employees with the opportunity to share views group, this network of 30 chapters connects achievement. We work to ensure that everyone and insights about our strengths and priorities employees who want to take action to protect at HPE shares our core values, so that we for improvement. Available online in 28 our natural world. Members coordinate can grow and succeed together. Ongoing languages, the survey covers key areas such localized sustainability activities, including engagement activities include: as ethics and inclusion, work environment, annual Earth Day celebrations, on-site wasteleadership, and innovation. reduction events, and community projects. Culture web page. This internal website enables all employees to share in our culture Take Our Children to Work. We encourage HPE News Now. This online news service and values, and to access essential human our employees to share their passion for work keeps employees up to speed with the latest resources programs. and pride in HPE by introducing young people information on our business, people, products, to our workplaces, people, and technologies and services. ConnectNow. Our internal corporate social through organized local events and virtual Read about other employee engagement network utilizes the Microsoft Yammer experiences. In 2015, more than 14,000 activities: the Global Wellness Challenge, platform to keep our people connected. Similar children attended 100 on-site events in 31 Employee Resource Groups, and volunteering. to other popular social media sites, it allows countries, and over 36,000 participated online. the use of hashtags, online chat, file sharing, The program’s impact included generating We actively show our appreciation for and much more. It also enables employees to 4,000 extra donations to our Matter to a employees’ contributions to HPE. Our give one another shout-outs and recognition, Million program. Recognition@HPE program celebrates so that we can celebrate one another’s behaviors that reinforce our values, as well successes together. as recognizing employment milestones, achievements, and leadership. Hewlett Packard Enterprise 44 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs Employee health, safety, and well-being Our position Policies Programs Access to a healthy, safe, and secure working environment HPE Environmental, Health, and Safety Ensuring a healthy and safe workplace is a basic right and a shared responsibility for everyone (EHS) Policy Health and safety communications at HPE. and training Employee well-being Environmental, Health, and Safety (EHS) management systems We work with our employees to ensure that our approach to health and safety is understood and delivered in every part of our business. HPE training and education programs aim to keep everyone alert and responsive to health and safety risks. Our comprehensive health, safety, and well-being initiatives support a resilient, productive, and engaged workforce. Hewlett Packard Enterprise 45 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs > Employee heath, safety, and well-being Ensuring a healthy and safe workplace Health and safety Healthy and happy employees are essential We work with our business partners to communications and training to HPE’s success. We have a fundamental monitor and improve the health and safety We want our employees to know where we responsibility to ensure that our policies and of contractors and of HPE employees stand on health and safety in the workplace, programs enable our people to do their best working at non-HPE locations. We provide so that together we take responsibility for one work in a safe environment. guidance through the HPE Global Contractor another’s well-being. Environment, Health, Safety, and Security Our occupational health staff in many To keep everyone current with the latest (EHS&S) Handbook, available on our intranet, countries across the globe provide a range of health and safety issues and compliant which complements our EHS training services, including: with regulatory requirements, we offer programs. l First aid and medical treatment comprehensive instructor-led and web-based Our risk-based approach to health and safety training. l H  ealth promotion and disease prevention policies and programs takes into account programs regional and country-specific requirements. We stay prepared for global events such as To stay up to date with current legislation and the spread of communicable diseases. When a l S pecialized services such as medical testing, external guidance—such as the Globally global disease event arises, we communicate immunizations, travel advice, disability Harmonized System of Classification and quickly and clearly with our employees, as well management, ergonomics, and more Labeling of Chemicals—we regularly review as maintaining open engagement externally. Our Environmental, Health, and Safety (EHS) and improve our risk assessment activities and We also focus on ongoing health and safety Policy and management systems align with management processes, adapting these to issues such as ergonomics. Regular training internationally recognized Occupational specific regions and countries as needed. offerings, assessment, and mitigation reduces Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) risks for our office-based employees and those 18001 and ISO 140001, as well as American manually handling goods or materials. National Standards Institute (ANSI) Z10 and International Labour Organization (ILO) OSH 2001. Eight sites were OHSAS 18001 registered in 2015. We collect, track, and monitor injury trends regionally and globally, in line with the ILO Code of Practice on Recording and Notification of Occupational Accidents and Diseases. Hewlett Packard Enterprise 46 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs > Employee heath, safety, and well-being Employee well-being We look beyond basic health and safety to enhance the well-being of our employees through our Winning with Wellness initiative, meQuilibrium, which offers personalized management tools for assessing and handling stress effectively. Our personal assistant 0.06 0.14 which focuses on three key areas: services and backup child and adult care 2015 Highlight38 2015 Highlight38 offer employees practical everyday help with Hewlett-Packard Company Hewlett-Packard Company Physical health. We run preventive health managing their busy lives. lost workday case rate global recordable incidents programs, screenings, and global programs decreased to 0.06 decreased to 0.14 (from 0.07 in 2014). (from 0.21 in 2014). to support the maintenance of optimum Financial wellness. Employees can consult fitness and health. For example, our Power our online finance guide, My HPE Financial of Prevention initiative combines cancer Wellness. This offers support and advice on screening with education about the causes all aspects of financial management, including and risk reduction strategies for the disease. saving, investing, retirement planning, and The Global Wellness Challenge encourages debt management. every HPE employee to set achievable fitness Our Winning with Wellness webpage— goals across a six-week period each year. available to all employees on our intranet— Working in teams, participants support one provides news, programs, and guidance on another to monitor progress and celebrate resilience and well-being. success via a dedicated social network. Stress management. We provide assistance programs and work-life balance services to help employees maintain emotional resilience and deal with personal issues. These include 38 For  further detail, including all relevant footnotes, see Hewlett Packard Enterprise 47 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs Ethical sourcing practices in the supply chain Our position Codes, policies, and standards Programss At HPE, we believe that all people should be treated with respect. HPE Supplier Code of Conduct Supply Chain Responsibility (SCR) We partner with our suppliers to protect and elevate workers, HPE Supply Chain Social and program communities, and the environment across our value chain. Environmental Responsibility Policy Supplier audit and assessment HPE Foreign Migrant Worker Standard Supporting workers and capability Our respected Supply Chain Responsibility (SCR) program evolves continually, building equipping us to meet our commitments and alerting us to new risks. The program HPE Student and Dispatch Worker empowers and protects the rights of the workers making and delivering our worldStandard for Supplier Facilities in the Transparency and leadership class products, services, and solutions. Through our conflict minerals program, our People’s Republic of China (PRC) Conflict minerals SCR approach extends to tin, tantalum, tungsten, and gold at the very beginning HPE Global Human Rights Policy Human trafficking in the supply chain of our supply chain. It also addresses environmental impacts in our supply chain, HPE General Specifications for the including energy and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, waste, and water. Substances of concern in products Environment Our efforts ensure that we remain a trusted partner to our customers by providing them with high-quality products and confidence in our SCR program. We communicate our expectations to suppliers, and monitor their performance with an audit and scorecard system. We work with our first-tier and strategic commodity suppliers to share our expectations with their own suppliers—our sub-tier suppliers —and to improve social and environmental performance deeper in our supply chain. Partnering with our suppliers, we invest in their workers’ well-being. Where extra support is needed to meet our requirements, we work together to strengthen social and environmental responsibility management system capabilities. To elevate industry standards, we share our experiences, collaborating with peers and other stakeholders. Working together, we develop tools to drive best practices in social and environmental management and monitoring. Hewlett Packard Enterprise 48 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs > Ethical sourcing practices in the supply chain Supply Chain Responsibility (SCR) program The HPE Supply Chain Responsibility (SCR) We pay special attention to the suppliers Globally, we pay attention to emerging risks for and Environmental Affairs (IPE) in China to program is fundamental to accelerating with whom we have a direct contractual worker populations with specific vulnerabilities asses supply chain environmental risks. We fairness in our sourcing activities. Our SCR relationship, such as final assembly and to potential abuse, including students, dispatch use the IPE pollution database to assess and mission is simple: strategic component suppliers. We engage workers, young workers, and foreign migrant review our sub-tier suppliers for environmental more deeply in our supply chain when we have workers. We recognize that these groups violations and to ensure corrective actions l Protect and elevate workers the opportunity to prevent a specific risk, such need enhanced support and protection, and where needed. l R  educe global and community as human trafficking. We also monitor risks we respond by strengthening our standards, In 2015, Hewlett Packard Company ranked in environmental impact further along our supply chain, including those monitoring, and performance indicators. We the top 10% of companies assessed by IPE via B  enefit HPE, our business partners and associated with sub-tier suppliers. were the first IT company to issue specific l its Corporate Information Transparency Index customers supply chain requirements to protect student We engage closely with our supply chain (CITI). We transparently report the number and dispatch workers in China as well as to Read more about our approach to supply partners to understand the challenges they of sub-tier suppliers assessed, alongside require our suppliers to directly employ chain responsibility. face, and to take appropriate action to manage violations and corrective actions. foreign migrant workers. SER issues including: In a fast-evolving world, we must keep up to Learn more about HPE’s approach to supply Read more about our focus on supporting date with the many changing issues in our l  ontinually evolving our own policies and C chain environmental impact here. foreign migrant workers and preventing supply chain. Using a risk-based approach, we standards and collaborating with industry human trafficking. invest efficiently, where we can make the most and other stakeholders to elevate our difference. We work to identify and address industry’s standards By addressing environmental impacts in our risks as they emerge. supply chain, we meet customer expectations l Working with suppliers to integrate our and regulatory requirements, enhance We assess social and environmental social and environmental requirements into resource efficiency, and reduce our overall responbility (SER) risks at many levels, their business practices and requiring that impact on the environment. For example, we including location and procurement category. they pass along those requirements in their use the Global Social Compliance Programme We also consider supplier-specific factors, own supply chains, to our sub-tier suppliers (GSCP) Environmental Reference Tools to such as the nature of the workforce, the l  eveloping mitigation or remediation D encourage good practice and provide a clear type of business relationship with HPE, and strategies for emerging risks understanding of fair labor and environmental the volume of business. To determine the requirements and their implementation. l S upporting suppliers and workers in our risk profile of our suppliers, we combine this supply chain with additional training and We work closely with our first-tier suppliers to information with supplier self-assessments, structured capability-building programs ensure that their own suppliers—our sub-tier on-site performance results, external data, stakeholder input, and supplier key l T  ransparently reporting our supply chain suppliers—meet our standards on issues such performance indicator program. composition, risks, performance, and as air quality, water pollution, and waste. This initiatives includes partnering with the Institute of Public Hewlett Packard Enterprise 49 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs > Ethical sourcing practices in the supply chain Supplier audit and assessment Supporting workers and Understanding and influencing supplier social and environmental performance depends on robust monitoring. We work with our suppliers Social and Environmental Responsibility (SER) scorecard. All types of final assembly suppliers and strategic commodity suppliers 192 capability building Investing in our supply chain improves the lives of workers, and benefits communities and to collect and assess data in four ways: participate in our SER scorecard. This is a 2015 Highlight39 the environment. It also helps ensure that we Hewlett-Packard Company can source high-quality products and services five-tier ranking system that complements conducted 192 audits our general supplier management score. in the years to come. Comprehensive audits. Our ongoing and assessments at supplier risk assessment practice includes Suppliers with strong SER performance are supplier facilities. We develop targeted training and capability commissioning independent audits against rewarded with enhanced opportunities for new programs for suppliers. These address our Supplier Code of Conduct. In the case or expanded HPE business, while suppliers identified SER needs, enable suppliers to of significant nonconformances, we agree on with poor performance risk a reduction in the prepare for new and emerging requirements, corrective action and arrange a follow-up audit. business they are awarded. and help to elevate and empower workers by Zero-tolerance items, such as issues related to enhancing their well-being. child labor, forced labor, severe discrimination, We encourage our suppliers to place and serious environment, health or safety best practices in health and safety, labor, Supplier-specific capability building. risks, require immediate escalation, and may environment, and ethics standards at the We implement targeted programs with result in suppliers being downgraded on our core of their businesses, achieving more than suppliers to help them develop sustainable SER scorecard (see below). If a supplier does monitoring can alone. We support them with management systems and further develop not partner with us on remediation, the scale guidance and training on specific issues, their remediation plans to address and of their business opportunity with HPE will such as the use of manufacturing process prevent specific issues. This includes providing be impacted. We require that suppliers have a substances, and combating forced labor and access to the EICC eLearning Academy and process to communicate the requirements and human trafficking. direct virtual and on-site consultation, often monitor compliance in their own supply chain with the assistance of qualified, credible Collaboration on these issues begins during based on our Supplier Code of Conduct. nongovernmental organizations (NGOs). our first contact with a potential supplier. We undertake initial on-site (onboarding) Targeted assessments. We supplement assessments with selected suppliers to give Broad topic capability building. We deliver audits with assessments on specific risk areas, them the opportunity to identify and correct a range of programs and training events to such as foreign migrant workers and fire nonconformance with our standards as address key issues, emerging risks, and new safety. business begins. requirements across our supply chain. Recent initiatives include training on our HPE Code of KPI program. We require our key suppliers By publishing supply chain performance Conduct requirements and supplier summits in high-risk locations to provide additional data, we hold our suppliers and ourselves on preventing forced labor. monthly reporting on key performance accountable, and work together to improve indicators (KPIs) such as working hours, outcomes. Worker well-being. We work with suppliers vulnerable workers, and GHG emissions. to have a positive impact on the lives of their workers. Highlights include the HERfinance 39 For  further detail, including partnership with BSR to strengthen workers’ all relevant footnotes, see financial literacy. Hewlett Packard Enterprise 50 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs > Ethical sourcing practices in the supply chain Transparency and leadership Conflict minerals Accelerating change requires transparency workers, we lead wider progress across the Our conflict minerals program engages closely report shows the status of the smelters’ and collaboration. Clear monitoring and IT and other industries. with our extended supply chain and we are participation in an independent assessment reporting on our supply chain composition working to advance the responsible sourcing and compliance program and its publication We clearly communicate new initiatives to and performance are central to our SCR of minerals used in our products, specifically puts pressure on smelters not yet participating. address emerging risks. We work closely with program. Our approach enables external tin, tantalum, tungsten, and gold (3TG). the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition The supply chain associated with conflict scrutiny, enhances customer relationships, and (EICC), Institute for Human Rights and Governments and campaigners have called minerals is complex and several manufacturing catalyzes improvements. In turn, this leads Business (IHRB) and others to encourage the for an end to the sale and use of 3TG from steps away from us. By collaborating with to a more robust and resilient supply chain, adoption of leading programs and standards. the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) our suppliers, businesses, nongovernmental with a positive impact on people and the An HPE representative currently sits on the (or an adjoining country) that is linked to the organizations (NGOs), and government environment. EICC Board of Directors as Vice Chair. funding of violent groups who commit human agencies, we can together advance the We publish: rights atrocities in those countries. Any link use of conflict-free minerals from the DRC l  list of suppliers. Since its first publication A between the manufacture of our products and and adjoining countries. All of the tantalum the funding of armed conflict is unacceptable. smelters reported to be in HPE’s supply chain, 297 in 2007, we have added details such as names, addresses, information about whether or not they are sourcing from the We’re aiming to achieve DRC conflict free42 sustainability programs, and more. DRC or an adjoining country, are compliant status for our products. Working closely with with the CFSP. l  n interactive map of our final assembly A our suppliers, we want to ensure that the 3TG suppliers, showing the number of reported 2015 Highlight 40, 41 used in our products and services is sourced Hewlett-Packard Company was instrumental in 3TG production suppliers responsibly and does not contribute to conflict establishing the CFSI, and as Hewlett Packard hourly employees dedicated to the reported 297 total 3TG in the region. Enterprise we continue to be an active, production of HPE products at each facility smelters and refiners, engaged and contributing member (CFSI  ur Supply Chain Responsibility O of which 215 are Conflict-Free Like in most IT products, 3TG metals are l Smelter Program (CFSP) member ID: HPE), as well as participating dashboard here found in relatively small amounts in most of compliant and 38 are in steering CFSI through our EICC Board of our products. We set clear conflict minerals Results of supplier audits here in process to become Directors seat. Additionally, we engage with l expectations with our production suppliers in CFSP compliant. Kemet Partnership for Social and Economic l Results of our SER Scorecard here our Supply Chain Social and Environmental Sustainability, Responsible Sourcing Responsibility Policy, Supplier Code of l  list of 3TG (tin, tantalum, tungsten, A Network’s Multi-Stakeholder Group, and the Conduct and General Specifications for the and gold) smelters and refiners and Solutions for Hope project. Environment. We require our suppliers to their locations source tantalum only from smelters compliant l S ummary information about our with the Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative’s 40 This  figure for smelters and refiners includes capability-building programs here (CFSI) Conflict-Free Smelter Program (CFSP). recyclers and scrap processors in the 3TG supply chain. We identify and quickly react to emerging Our annual Conflict Minerals Report, 41 For further detail, including all supply chain risks, resulting in continuous required by the United States Securities and relevant footnotes, see development of our SCR program and Exchange Commission (SEC), provides a full 42 “DRC conflict free” as defined in the U.S.  Securities and Exchange Commission’s conflict standards. As first-movers on issues such list of smelters and refiners provided by our minerals rule to mean products that do not as protecting foreign migrant and student suppliers, including any that source minerals contain conflict minerals that directly or indirectly finance or benefit armed groups in the DRC or from the DRC, or an adjoining country. The an adjoining country. Hewlett Packard Enterprise 51 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs Human trafficking in the supply chain Our position Codes, policies, and standards Programs HPE is committed to protecting all workers in our supply HPE Global Human Rights Policy Supply Chain Responsibility (SCR) chain, and we believe all work should be freely chosen. HPE Supplier Code of Conduct program We set clear standards and processes designed to prevent HPE Supply Chain Foreign Migrant Supporting workers and building forced labor and human trafficking, and encourage others capability Worker Standard to do the same. Working with suppliers to avoid human HPE Student and Dispatch Worker trafficking Standard for Supplier Facilities in the People’s Republic of China (PRC) Advocating for stronger industry standards HPE Contingent Worker Code of Conduct Reporting grievances Working closely with our suppliers, we clearly convey our expectations, assess risks, monitor progress, and take corrective actions where needed. We provide support and training for suppliers, to build a resilient supply chain and avoid conditions that might contribute to human trafficking or forced labor. Building on our legacy of industry-leading standards, we were the first IT company to require our suppliers to hold direct employment contracts with foreign migrant workers, alongside prohibiting worker-paid recruitment fees. We constantly look for opportunities to reduce the risk of exploitative labor practices and we build strong partnerships with others to advocate for industry-wide improvements. We’re also engaged in leading efforts to raise standards for ethical recruitment outside of our industry. Hewlett Packard Enterprise 52 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs > Human trafficking in the supply chain Working with suppliers to avoid human trafficking Advocating for stronger industry standards We engage with our suppliers to ensure Student workers in China are another group Standing up for human rights is our We are part of the Institute for Human Rights that they protect workers and improve potentially vulnerable to exploitation. Our responsibility and core to our values. We and Business (IHRB) Leadership Group for labor standards. Our training programs help Student and Dispatch Worker Standard for publicize our views on labor practices and Responsible Recruitment, a collaboration suppliers recognize human trafficking risks and Supplier Facilities in the People’s Republic of advocate for a shift in policy and process between leading global companies and take the right actions to prevent them. China (PRC) sets out specific requirements to across all sectors. expert organizations to drive positive change protect these workers at our suppliers’ plants. in the recruitment of migrant workers. The We make it clear we have zero tolerance for all We believe that all workers should be Leadership Group challenges companies forms of forced labor and human trafficking. Our supplier monitoring program involves treated with dignity and respect during their across all sectors to prohibit fee charging in Our Supply Chain Foreign Migrant Worker regular assessments of high-risk suppliers on employment. This starts with their recruitment. their operations and supply chain. Standard requires that: key issues, including labor practices. We act One of the key risks for forced labor is debt immediately if we discover issues related to incurred by workers during their recruitment In 2015, Hewlett-Packard Company presented l  ny foreign migrant workers in the supply A human trafficking or forced labor. The supplier process. We established a policy requiring its Foreign Migrant Worker program at the chain hold a direct contract with the must cease the relevant activities immediately our suppliers to cover these costs, which may White House Forum on Combating Human supplier, not a recruitment agency and report corrective action to HPE within 30 include agent service fees, travel, taxes, and Trafficking in Supply Chains​. At HPE, we l S uppliers seek to minimize the use of days or risk discontinuation of business with permits as well as other charges. continue to engage with organizations such recruitment agencies, and to conduct due HPE. We then visit the supplier to check that the EICC and IHRB to share our approach and In 2015, we partnered with our competitors, diligence and monitoring of any agents used the correct actions have been taken. exchange ideas with other industry leaders. peers and suppliers on this issue through in sending and receiving countries Collaboration with peers, suppliers, nonprofits, Anyone concerned about human trafficking or the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition M  igrant workers keep their passports and and government leverages our combined l forced labor in our supply chain—or any other (EICC) to push for a collective standard personal documentation, and must be strength, tackling forced labor and human issue—can use a range of publicly available banning worker-paid recruitment fees across treated the same as local workers, with trafficking in the IT industry and beyond. reporting channels to tell us. We keep the our industry. Led through the EICC Board of access to grievance mechanisms and the information confidential, respond promptly to Directors and Forced Labor Taskforce, these Increasingly, external stakeholders want to freedom to join a union, per local law any grievances, and work with our suppliers to efforts resulted in further strengthened Freely see transparent disclosure of industry efforts l S uppliers pay all costs associated with address any allegations that are proven. Chosen Employment provision in the EICC to tackle labor issues. We disclose information recruitment, travel, processing, and Code of Conduct. As of January 1, 2016, the required by relevant legislation, including the We keep a central record of all allegations, repatriation at the end of the migrant provision now prohibits all worker recruitment California Transparency in Supply Chains which helps us to identify risks and report our workers’ contracts fees, in line with HPE’s policy. Act of 2010 and—from 2016 onwards—the activities transparently where appropriate. UK Modern Slavery Act. Insisting on direct employment of foreign Read more about our ethics and compliance We now call on other industries to do the migrant workers enables us to minimize program. same. risks associated with forced labor. It By encouraging extensive adoption of the removes another party from the system of “employer pays” principle, we can catalyze the management for these workers and ensures development of a wider network of ethical that our suppliers take direct responsibility for recruiters. In addition to removing a critical conditions of employment. risk of forced labor, this will further protect companies from risks of corruption and other unethical practices. Hewlett Packard Enterprise 53 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs Corporate governance Our position Codes and policies Programs How we work at Hewlett Packard Enterprise is as important HPE Standards of Business Conduct Oversight as what we do. HPE Corporate Governance Guidelines Living Progress governance Our leaders and employees work in partnership to drive our Economic governance Living Progress strategy, demonstrating our shared values Management systems through everyday behaviors and actions. Detailed policies, codes, and management systems provide everyone at HPE with clear and consistent guidance. A robust governance structure provides the foundation, enabling us to accelerate progress across our value chain while working to benefit and protect people and the environment. Our business success contributes to the economies in which we operate. Sustainable growth for HPE delivers long-term positive impacts for the millions of people touched by our supply chain, operations, products, and services. Hewlett Packard Enterprise 54 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs > Corporate governance Oversight Living Progress governance High standards of business conduct and Our Chief Sustainability Officer leads our l R  eviews the HPE Living Progress Positions, HPE Living Progress Strategy Council: corporate governance are essential to our efforts to engage internal and external Policies, and Programs and Data Summary l Ensures company-wide commitment to ongoing success. Our business affairs and stakeholders in our Living Progress strategy, reports and alignment with HPE Living Progress policies are overseen by our Chief Executive supported by a robust governance structure. l Identifies, evaluates, and monitors social, objectives Officer and Board of Directors, the majority of political and environmental factors that whom are independent of HPE. HPE Board of Directors’ Nominating, l Communicates HPE Living Progress could significantly affect HPE public affairs, Governance, and Social Responsibility coherently to stakeholders inside and The Board demonstrates good governance including trends, issues, concerns, legislative Committee: outside HPE and HPE values for our employees worldwide. proposals, and regulatory developments It oversees specific aspects of our work l Reviews, assesses, reports, and provides l O  versees the HPE Political Action Senior leaders from Ethics and Compliance through five standing committees: guidance to management and the Board Committee Office, and Corporate Affairs organizations: l Audit regarding l O  versees HPE government affairs activities l Provide the interface to the Nominating, – HPE policies and programs relating to l Finance and Investment and related policies Governance and Social Responsibility Living Progress and public policy matters Human Resources (HR) and Compensation Committees and other relevant Executive l – The impact of HPE operations on HPE Executive Council (led by our CEO): Council-level committees l N  ominating, Governance, and Social employees, customers, suppliers, partners, Responsibility and communities worldwide l Has overall responsibility for Living Progress l Technology We think our leadership should reflect the Living Progress governance structure diverse society in which we operate, and have worked to ensure strong representation of women and a mix of ethnic backgrounds on HPE Board of Directors the HPE Board of Directors. Nominating, Governance, and Social Responsibility Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities related to HPE’s public policy, government affairs, and Living Progress (including human rights) actvities HPE Company Foundation Board HPE Executive Council HPE HPE Living Progress Strategy Council Company Foundation Stakeholder enagament Corporate Supply chain Social Human rights Privacy HPE people Environment ethics responsibility investment Hewlett Packard Enterprise 55 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs > Corporate governance Economic governance Management systems Our global presence directly supports local We ensure that every HPE employee global EHS organization oversees delivery, markets through employment and tax and facility shares the same approach to including collaborating across the business revenues—we want to contribute to thriving environmental, health and safety (EHS) to set improvement goals, deliver audits, and economies that catalyze innovation and performance. implement corrective or preventive actions sustainable growth. HPE fulfills, taxation where needed. Our comprehensive EHS management responsibilities in every location where we system is integrated into every part of our We always comply with legal minimum operate. We support tax reforms for a modern business, tailored to local, regional, and standards on environment, health, and safety marketplace. Read more about our approach global considerations. It provides a structured wherever we operate, and often go beyond. to tax and economic incentives. approach to: Whenever we acquire a new site or company, Our Human Resources and Compensation we introduce our EHS management system l Identifying EHS priorities Committee regularly reviews executive during the integration process to ensure that compensation at HPE, including for our CEO l Managing risk every part of our business adheres to the same and other named executive officers. This l Improving performance high standards. ensures that we reward strong performance Meeting external requirements Read more about our approach to energy use and offer a competitive level of remuneration l and greenhouse gas emissions, waste, water, consistent with our peers. We balance Based on current international models— and employee health, safety, and well-being. rewarding for near-term results with long-term including ISO 140001 and OHSAS 18001— success, enabling us to attract, retain, and our EHS management system promotes focus our executive team on achieving strong continuous improvement through regular business performance now and in the future. risk-based audits and employee training. Our Hewlett Packard Enterprise 56 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs Transparency, accountability, and reporting Our position Programs Effective communication is key to our success. It helps us Staying open and accountable innovate, fuels collaboration, and reminds us to stay focused Stakeholder partnerships and engagement on what’s important. We accelerate progress by partnering with others who inspire and challenge us, and by setting goals in areas such as greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and water usage. We assess, monitor, and report our performance on key issues. This enables us to identify where we need to do more, and to be held accountable for our actions. Through regular assessments involving internal and external stakeholders, we evaluate the ethical and environmental issues that are most material to our business. Hewlett Packard Enterprise 57 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs > Transparency, accountability, and reporting Staying open and Stakeholder partnerships and engagement accountable Everything we do is built on partnership— seek feedback from them to identify trends, As a global IT company, connectivity is central with customers, employees, leaders, suppliers, evaluate progress, and influence our strategy. to our business and our relationships with policy makers, industry bodies, nonprofits, We share updates on our progress and invite customers, partners, and the communities and sector experts. engagement on Twitter at @HPE_LivingProg where we operate. and through our Inspiring Progress blog. Clear communication, ongoing dialogue, Maintaining transparent channels of and close collaboration strengthen these Since 2014, our Living Progress Exchange communication enables us to stay ahead of relationships. By connecting openly with (LPX) has brought together creative thinkers external trends, surpass expectations, and our stakeholders, we: and sustainability leaders from diverse keep in touch with the world around us. industries and organizations to discuss l Understand external priorities progress toward a better future. Facilitated by We report externally to share our progress l Share expectations of conduct and independent third parties, the biannual online and performance, clarify our approach to key performance sessions focus on discovering fresh ideas and issues, and tell our story. Read more about solutions for accelerating efficiency, fairness, l Learn and innovate this report. and opportunity. Read more about LPX. l Contribute to industry-leading initiatives Our leaders and employees work together Our regular engagements with internal and accelerating efficiency, fairness, and to embed our culture and values across external stakeholders include audits, industry opportunity every business function worldwide. A robust working groups, training, and lobbying. Read governance structure ensures that we hold l H  old ourselves and others accountable to more about our external memberships and each other to account for our behaviors and the highest standards affiliations. actions. Read more about our approach to We map and engage key stakeholders corporate governance. involved in our most material issues and Hewlett Packard Enterprise 58 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs Intellectual property protection Our position Standards Programs Hewlett Packard Enterprise has a vast and expanding HPE Standards of Business Conduct Advocating for intellectual property intellectual property (IP) portfolio. We’re committed to protection protecting the IP that drives our services, solutions, and products, including more than 10,000 patents worldwide. As one of the U.S.’s largest patent holders, we know firsthand the critical role patents play in the global economy and that strong patent rights are central to maintaining a competitive advantage. Effective frameworks that safeguard IP encourage creativity and innovation, generating value for our customers and businesses. We support the protection of intellectual property rights in every market. Our advocacy complies with all applicable national and international laws, as well as our own Standards of Business Conduct. Hewlett Packard Enterprise 59 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs > Intellectual property protection Advocating for intellectual property protection Hewlett Packard Enterprise engages In the United States, we encourage Congress directly with governments on counterfeiting, to pass bipartisan legislation that modernizes particularly in high-risk regions. We: intellectual property frameworks. We support reforms that: l S upport the elimination of counterfeit products l Strengthen the U.S. patent system l  ncourage awareness campaigns about E l Encourage technological innovation counterfeiting l Improve patent quality l A  dvocate for the best practices in l  eter excessive patent litigation in the D procurement to avoid counterfeit products courts and at the International Trade Commission Read more about our broader public policy engagement activities. Hewlett Packard Enterprise 60 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs Public policy engagement Our position Codes, policies, standards, and guidelines Programs We engage with government officials around the world to HPE Political Contributions, Criteria, and Policy priorities promote effective public policies that encourage growth and Approvals Policy Collaboration innovation, provide access to technology, and benefit people HPE Standards of Business Conduct Political engagement and communities. HPE U.S. Public Sector Code of Conduct HPE Corporate Governance Guidelines As a leading global technology solutions company, we share our business perspective and expertise, advising policy makers on creating robust policies in areas such as technology development, taxation and economic incentives, market access, and IT sustainability. Hewlett Packard Enterprise’s public policy work complies with all applicable national and international laws, as well as our own strict Standards of Business Conduct. Hewlett Packard Enterprise 61 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs > Public policy engagement Policy priorities Political engagement We focus our public policy work on four critical areas: technology, tax and economic incentives, market access, and IT sustainability. Partnership, that remove IT-related barriers, protect and enforce intellectual property rights, promote regulatory transparency, and Engagement in the political process and global public policy debate is consistent with our core values. In our view, such activity represents an $790k facilitate global supply chains. important, necessary, and appropriate part of 2015 Highlight43 Technology. We support policy frameworks doing business. Hewlett-Packard Company that encourage growth of innovative IT sustainability. We promote public policies political contributions totaled In the United States, we contribute corporate technologies, such as the cloud, big data, that accelerate efficiency, fairness, and nearly $790,000. funds to U.S. state and local candidates, cybersecurity, and the Internet of Things. We opportunity. We promote the use of energycommittees and ballot measures, where encourage an outcomes-based regulatory efficient data centers and renewable allowed. These contributions are consistent approach and international collaboration energy, and support global energy efficiency with our political contributions policies, to strengthen cybersecurity. We advocate standards. We advocate for ethical supply criteria, and approvals. for robust privacy and data protection chain practices and promote workforce frameworks. diversity. We actively seek opportunities U.S. law prohibits corporate contributions to to leverage technology to solve societal federal political candidates. Eligible employees Tax and economic incentives. We promote challenges such as economic inclusion. can make individual donations to the Hewlett tax policies and economic incentives Packard Enterprise Political Action Committee that encourage innovation, research and (HPE PAC). The HPE PAC is a separate legal development, economic growth, and job Collaboration entity and donations are voluntary. HPE PAC creation. For several years we have engaged makes bipartisan contributions to campaigns Our Corporate Affairs team leads our public and committees for congressional candidates with global tax reform efforts through the G20 policy engagement with government officials who share our policy views. and Organisation for Economic Co-operation around the world. We also often work with and Development (OECD). In the United Hewlett Packard Enterprise does not generally industry associations on issues faced by States, we support comprehensive tax reform make political contributions outside the United multiple companies. We list our major that reflects the modern marketplace. In other States. memberships and coalitions on our markets, we stand ready to assist governments Corporate Affairs website. We disclose our political contributions as as they deliberate the implications of the follows: OECD recommendations. In regions where we have significant business interests, we may engage external consultants, l C  andidates and groups that received Market access. In order to encourage including professional contract lobbyists, Hewlett Packard Enterprise corporate global innovation and access to technology, whom we expect to abide by national and contributions we support open markets for IT goods regional lobbying regulations as well as the l  andidates and groups that received C and services, promote globally accepted, HPE Standards of Business Conduct. Hewlett Packard Enterprise PAC technology-neutral standards and seek to contributions maintain free flow of data across borders. We encourage negotiation and approval of trade l S ection 527 organizations that received agreements, such as the Trans-Pacific corporate contributions from Hewlett Packard Enterprise. 43 For  further detail, including all relevant footnotes, see ECONOMIC Accelerating Opportunity Social application of ICT and access  63 to technology  Network resilience  66 Empowering people to drive economic progress Hewlett Packard Enterprise 63 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs Social application of ICT and access to technology Our position Programs We harness the power of our people, products, and solutions to Living Progress Challenge meet society’s toughest challenges. Transformative technology Through partnerships with nonprofits, governments, and People power international agencies, we develop pioneering programs Digital skills focused on global needs such as education, entrepreneurship, and healthcare. Technology can change lives, but only if it is accessible to people and communities. We seek to close the digital divide by investing in skills and increasing access to technology for those who will benefit most. Through our Living Progress Challenge, for example, we’re enabling people with great ideas and skills to contribute innovative, practical solutions which will improve people’s lives. We draw upon the skills and generosity of our employees to support entrepreneurs. We also encourage underrepresented individuals such as women and the young to develop IT skills and improve their career prospects in technology. Hewlett Packard Enterprise 64 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs > Social application of IT and access to technology Living Progress Challenge Transformative technology Millions of people are being excluded from a world of opportunity because they can’t access the power of technology. We’re harnessing Every day the world creates 2.5 quintillion bytes of data, information that has the potential to transform lives for the better. Making sense of big data is essential to improving social services. Our Visual Survey Platform is a cloud-based data collection and $90m ideas and inspiration from people and We use our expertise and technology to management system. It enables the collation 2015 Highlight44 organizations all over the world to change this. interpret this big data, connect people with the and analysis of large sets of information Hewlett-Packard Company information they need, and improve access to including visual images and Global Positioning invested nearly $90 million Our Living Progress Challenge asks a simple essential services. System data. The platform was codeveloped in social initiatives, including question: what software applications and more than $17 million in cash with the nonprofit Fundación Paraguaya to digital services would you create to improve Our eHealth Centers are helping underserved and more than $72 million in identify financial and social service needs products and services. people’s lives? communities that lack access to primary in Paraguay, and has helped to lift 20,000 healthcare services including skilled people From agriculture to world poverty, education to people out of poverty. The platform is now and equipment. By leveraging HPE knowecosystems, anyone can submit an idea via our commercially available, providing effective how we’re bringing high-quality, affordable online portal. We then invite detailed proposals data analysis in industries such as aviation healthcare to these people, many of whom live designed to bring these ideas to life. and healthcare. in communities situated far from adequate In May 2016, we selected 20 of the strongest services. ideas to be worked into prototypes, and up These centers are equipped with essential to five winners will have their designs built diagnostic tools, linked to cloud-based IT into solutions, deployed with the help of HPE and data-sharing systems. Using technology people and technology by 2018. such as videoconferencing, doctors are able Read more about how the innovative ideas to effectively diagnose conditions, and then from this year’s winners are set to change connect patients with specialists for more the world. detailed consultations. 44 For  further detail, including all relevant footnotes, see Hewlett Packard Enterprise 65 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs > Social application of IT and access to technology People power Digital skills Our employees care about our world and their fellow global citizens. They’re generous with their skills, knowledge, and time, and we ability to support our communities is also enhanced by HPE’s expanded volunteerism policy, which enables every employee to use IT skills such as programming and coding— vital to our business and society—are in short supply. This must change, and we take 38,000 support them to tackle social challenges. 60 hours of paid time a year to spend on a proactive approach by focusing our efforts 2015 Highlight46 volunteering activities. Volunteer hours logged on student engagement and increasing the More than 38,000 Funding from the Hewlett Packard Enterprise Hewlett-Packard Company by employees are matched at US$5 per hour, number of women with these valuable skills. Foundation and our partnership with Kiva employees participated with the rate increasing to US$10 per hour for enables employees to contribute to local l  ur annual CodeWars event aims to spark O in volunteer activities, board service. donating more than economic development in more than 85 an early interest in science, technology, countries. Called Matter to a Million, the Major natural disasters such as floods and engineering, and math (STEM). At several 1.2 million hours of time. program involves the HPE Foundation earthquakes can overwhelm communities locations around the world, teams of providing every HPE employee with a $25 or entire countries. To bring relief to people high school students compete to solve credit45 that they can lend to entrepreneurs around the world, our employees, company, programming problems. selected through the Kiva online platform. and the Hewlett Packard Enterprise l  e invest in the National Center for Women W Borrowers then use the money fund to finance Foundation dig deep to contribute services & Information Technology’s Aspirations their microbusinesses and work to pay back and skills, along with financial support. The in Computing program. This initiative the loan. Employees can learn about the Hewlett Packard Enterprise Foundation will provides a long-term community for women stories of the entrepreneurs they support via continue to fund disaster relief in 2016. in technology, through higher education the Kiva platform. Our involvement continues The Hewlett Packard Enterprise Foundation is and beyond. It offers a source of ongoing the original Matter to a Million initiative started also a generous supporter of the American engagement and encouragement at each by Hewlett-Packard Company. Red Cross Annual Disaster Responder stage of educational and professional NGOs and other organizations participating Program, which helps secure a reliable funding development. Read more about our focus on in the Living Progress Challenge can tap into base that enables the Red Cross to provide female talent in the workplace. the co-innovation crowd in HPE Spark, made relief services, both in the U.S. and around the Read more about our approach to diversity up of architects, designers, and developers, world, immediately when disaster strikes. and inclusion. to further their ideas. Some of the winners will have access to HPE’s world-class Data Analytics team to accelerate the impact of their solutions through the power of big data. The HPE Gives global platform enables employees to support their favorite causes and double the power of their donations. The Hewlett Packard Enterprise Foundation has provided up to $5 million in funding to match 45 Each employee is provided with an initial  $25 credit to loan to an entrepreneur, and employee donations of time or money, up may receive an additional $25 credit if they to a cap of $1,000 for most employees. Our use the first loan within 48 hours. 46 For  further detail, including all relevant footnotes, see Hewlett Packard Enterprise 66 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs Network resilience Our position Programs Today’s IT systems are built on connectivity. With the advent Keeping our customers connected of cloud computing and the acceleration of mobile technology, HPE networks downtime is not an option. Our leading network services help to secure resilience at global organizations, from innovative start-ups to those that are too big to fail. We design and engineer robust networks for our customers, working with them to continuously improve systems that adapt to the modern world. Our own networks are built to keep our employees connected wherever they are, providing uninterrupted support to customers. Hewlett Packard Enterprise 67 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs > Network resilience Keeping our customers connected HPE networks IT systems are no longer constrained by wires Our lifecycle approach focuses on continuous Our approach to building resilient networks and walls. In the age of 24-hour connectivity, improvement across three key areas: starts with our own business. At every HPE communications and data transfers must be facility, we carry out a risk assessment based reliable and fast, in all locations. Advise. We work with our customers to on size, function, and location. We balance create and deliver plans for systems that network requirements with cost to design Complex networks supporting critical are efficient, flexible, and resilient. IT systems that deliver connectivity around the infrastructure, public goods, and financial clock. institutions must perform, even when threatened by risks such as cyber-attacks, Transform. We enable our customers to We pay close attention to evolving workplace weather events, and server downtime. stay ahead of the curve, facilitating the trends. As the internet and cloud computing shift to mobile and wireless working without become increasingly critical to business, we We help our customers to embrace the fastlosing network reliability or security. continuously update our networks to give changing world by designing and engineering our employees access to the data they need, networks that have both redundancy and Manage. We manage our customers’ whenever they need it. resilience. We work with them to understand IT environments—including mobile computing their risks and needs, balancing cost, The hardware and software we put in place at and the cloud—providing industry-leading availability and quality to develop robust each HPE location are designed to: service levels, effective risk management, and networks which can continue to perform well, work-anywhere productivity. l O  ptimize the pathway between our in all contexts. customers and our people l Withstand minor and major disruptions l  aintain consistent levels of productivity M and quality of service Networks are the fabric of modern business. By building ours to be up to date, secure, and resilient, we keep HPE and our customers fit for the future and able to create value from ideas faster. Hewlett Packard Enterprise 68 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs This report This report provides a summary of HPE’s current positions and programs relevant to our most material issues. It forms part of a suite of HPE Living Progress communications, which also includes the HPE Living Progress 2015 Data Summary and the HPE 2015 GRI Index . The information in this report is current as of The goals in this report were established prior resulting from the materialization of any of the date of initial publication. This report has to the split of Hewlett-Packard Company these risks or uncertainties, or in the case of not been updated to reflect any changes that into Hewlett Packard Enterprise and HP assumptions proving incorrect. may have occurred after such date, including Inc. Hewlett-Packard Company as a whole Seeking external assurance is an important any changes to HPE’s business or strategy. remained in operation until the end of part of our commitment to transparent Information within this report adheres to the fiscal year 2015. Where possible, we provide reporting. HPE engaged external assurance following specifications: performance data based on operations provider Ernst & Young LLP (EY) to perform applicable to HPE only. See individual data l  ontents covers all HPE operations but C an independent review of a selected number points for detail. Data are rounded to reflect does not cover joint ventures. of key performance indicators, included in the the appropriate level of certainty. HPE Living Progress 2015 Data Summary l  ll references to years are to HPE’s fiscal A This is a forward-looking report setting out and those referred to in this document. This year, which ends October 31, unless stated HPE’s current approach to key issues. It is in accordance with attestation standards otherwise. therefore contains many statements that established by the American Institute of l All references to dollars are to U.S. dollars. involve inherent assumptions, risks and Certified Public Accountants, including l “ Tonnes” refers to metric tons. One metric uncertainties. HPE assumes no obligation AT-101 Statements on Standards for ton is equivalent to 2,205 pounds. and does not intend to update these forwardAttestation Engagements, of the American looking statements based on changes Institute of Certified Public Accountants. Hewlett Packard Enterprise 69 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs Defining our material issues The following table summarizes the material as best practice guidelines from reporting An index of our reporting to GRI guidelines Key n  Accelerating Efficiency issues included in this report—read more organizations such as the Global Reporting can be found here. n Accelerating Fairness about how these were chosen. The definition Initiative (GRI) and the Sustainability n Accelerating Opportunity of each issue takes into account input from Accounting Standards Board (SASB). internal and external stakeholders, as well Issue Description High importance to sustainable development, high importance to HPE’s business success n IT as an efficiency enabler Providing IT services, products, and solutions and engaging with customers to solve customer business challenges, alongside providing sustainability benefits. Increasing the energy efficiency of HPE products and enabling customers to reduce their energy use. Developing IT solutions that customers can use to manage and reduce their environmental sustainability impacts. n Data security Working to protect information managed by HPE and customers from unwanted parties and unauthorized access, such as security threats and cyber-attacks—including data collection, use, processing, storage, transfer, sharing, and end-of-life disposal. n Ethical behavior and business partnerships Promoting high standards of ethics in employee, business partner, joint venture, and customer relationships. Working against corruption, extortion and bribery in employee, business partner, joint venture, and customer relationships. n Privacy and freedom of expression Managing and processing personal data throughout its lifecycle in a manner that upholds the right to privacy and freedom of expression and is protected from unwanted parties. This includes commercial and government relationships. Medium importance to sustainable development, high importance to HPE’s business success n Diversity and inclusion Ensuring that the HPE workforce reflects our global business and customers. Maintaining a supply chain that is diverse, inclusive, and global. Preventing discriminatory outcomes resulting from the use of customer data and big data analytics. n Employee development and engagement Promoting professional growth and matching employee skills to the needs of the business. Addressing the need to train and retrain at the pace required for the ever-evolving technology industry. Maintaining a connected workforce through open engagement and communication. n IT products and services and human rights Taking measures to prevent the use of HPE products and services by individuals, groups or entities that are restricted, or who may use IT to infringe on human rights. n Transparency, accountability, and reporting Providing clear and comparable business and sustainability information on products, operations and the supply chain in an accessible manner. Engaging and partnering with external stakeholders openly and transparently. Hewlett Packard Enterprise 70 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs Key n Accelerating Efficiency n Accelerating Fairness n Accelerating Opportunity Issue Description High importance to sustainable development, medium importance to HPE’s business success n Energy use and greenhouse gas emissions in our Improving energy efficiency and reducing greenhouse gas emissions across the HPE value chain, including operations, data operations and value chain centers, and buildings, employee travel and transportation logistics. Using renewable energy sources to reduce GHG emissions. n Product lifecycle management Managing the impacts of HPE products and services through their entire lifecycle, including production of raw materials, engineering, design, manufacture, use, and end-of-life options. n Substances of concern in products Designing and developing products and solutions that use alternatives to materials and substances of concern to human health and the environment. n Waste and hazardous materials in our operations Managing and disposing of hazardous and nonhazardous waste responsibly across the HPE value chain. and value chain n Ethical sourcing practices in the supply chain Maintaining and elevating ethical standards in the supply chain, including services and manufacturing supply chains. Achieving fair and beneficial outcomes for supply chain participants, especially workers and communities. Implementing and enforcing codes and standards that set a baseline for supplier social and environmental responsibility, including labor, health and safety, environmental, and ethical standards. n Human trafficking in the supply chain Taking measures to avoid slavery and forced labor in the HPE supply chain. n Social application of ICT and access to technology Providing IT solutions that improve access to health, finance, food, government services, education, information, and markets. Taking account of ethical considerations in the social applications of big data. Addressing the “digital divide” by increasing access to affordable, durable, low-impact, and locally appropriate technology for people of all ages, abilities, regions, languages, and income groups. Medium importance to sustainable development, medium importance to HPE’s business success n Water in our operations and value chain Taking measures to conserve water usage and implement water-saving measures across the HPE value chain. n Corporate governance Ensuring independent oversight of the company, as led by the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer. Enabling effective governance of sustainability efforts. Improving the diversity of HPE’s board structure. Ensuring appropriate executive compensation and the fulfillment of taxation responsibilities to the economies in which HPE operates. n Intellectual property protection Managing patents and patent litigation to protect intellectual property without restricting competition. n Public policy engagement Influencing public policy development through direct engagement and multi-stakeholder associations or initiatives. n Network resilience Managing reliable information networks—including those that support critical infrastructure and public goods—to reduce and rapidly respond to systemic risks and disruptions such as programming errors or server downtime. Additional fundamental issues covered in this report47 n Human rights Upholding the fundamental freedoms and standards of treatment to which all people are entitled, across the HPE value chain. n Employee health, safety, and well-being Creating a healthy, safe, and secure working environment. 47 The headings of the material issues included in the materiality matrix evolved as a result of the process of external and internal assessment and refinement described here. Human rights is a topic that cuts across a number of our material issues. Employee health,  safety and well-being appeared in the materiality matrix as an issue of high importance to our business but of less importance to sustainable development. We have included these two issues in the report because we think they are fundamental to the operation of any business, and as such we want readers to be able to access relevant information quickly and transparently. Hewlett Packard Enterprise 71 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs Acronyms and definitions 3TG tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold—known GRI Global Reporting Initiative NGO nongovernmental organization as “conflict minerals” GSCP Global Social Compliance Programme OECD Organisation for Economic CoBFRs brominated flame retardants operation and Development GSE General Specification for the CDP formerly Carbon Disclosure Project Environment PUE power usage effectiveness—the accepted measure of data center energy CFRs chlorinated flame retardants Hewlett-Packard Company our legacy efficiency company, which separated into HPE and HP CO2e carbon dioxide equivalent. A tonne of Inc. in November 2015 PVC polyvinyl chloride CO2e means one tonne of carbon dioxide or an amount of any of the other greenhouse gases HPE Hewlett Packard Enterprise—one of REACH an EU regulation concerning the with an equivalent global warming potential. two companies created from the separation of registration, evaluation, authorization, and Hewlett-Packard Company in November 2015, restriction of chemicals DfE Design for Environment program alongside HP Inc. RECs renewable energy credits DJSI Dow Jones Sustainability Index HPE PAC Hewlett Packard Enterprise Political Action Committee RoHS EU Restriction of Hazardous EEP Energy Efficiency Program. An HPE Substances Directive program to help suppliers implement energyHP Inc. Also known as HP—one of two saving initiatives and incentivize them to set companies created from the separation of SASB Sustainability Accounting Standards emissions targets. Hewlett-Packard Company in November 2015, Board EHS Environmental, Health and Safety alongside HPE SCR Supply Chain Responsibility program EICC Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition IoT Internet of Things SER social and environmental responsibility IP intellectual property (with reference to HPE’s SER scorecard for ENERGY STAR® A U.S. Environmental suppliers) Protection Agency (EPA) voluntary program LGBT Lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender that helps businesses and individuals save STEM science, technology, engineering and money and protect the climate through Living Progress our framework for building a math superior energy efficiency sustainable business VoW Voice of the Workforce survey ERGs Employee Resource Groups LPX Living Progress Exchange—biannual online sessions bringing together creative EU European Union thinkers and sustainability leaders to discover GHG greenhouse gas fresh ideas and solutions for accelerating efficiency, fairness, and opportunity Hewlett Packard Enterprise 72 Accelerating Efficiency Accelerating Fairness Accelerating Opportunity Living Progress Positions, Policies, and Programs Resources HPE reports and online content HPE Living Progress 2015 Data Summary HPE Living Progress 2015 GRI Index HPE Annual 10-K Report HPE Investor Relations External ratings Search for Hewlett-Packard for historical Hewlett-Packard Company submissions, and Hewlett Packard Enterprise for post-separation HPE submissions. CDP Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) Feedback We welcome feedback on any aspect of our Living Progress reporting and performance. Contact us here. Sign up for updates
