Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Contents 1 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Contents Introduction 02 How to Use This Report 02 Fair Operating Practices 52–57 Editorial Policy 02 Promoting Work Practices in Line 52 with International Ethics Codes Hitachi and Society 04 Engaging in Responsible Procurement 54 Customers (Consumer Issues) 58–65 Management Approach 09 Pursuing Customer Satisfaction 59 Leadership 10–11 Ensuring Accessibility to Products and Services 61 CEO’s Message 10 Ensuring Thorough Management of Quality and Safety 63 Executive Officer’s Message: CSR and the Environment 11 Community Involvement and Development 66–67 Recognition of Social Responsibility 12–23 Promoting Sustainable Community Involvement 66 and Development Realizing Sustainable, Innovative Management 12 Environment 68–92 Understanding Issues Through Dialogue 19 and Taking Part in Initiatives Promoting Environmental Management 69 Review and Improvement of CSR Activities 24–27 Enhancing Environmental Management 72 on an Ongoing Basis Enhancing CSR Management 24 Responding to Environmental Risks and Opportunities 81 Reducing the Environmental Burden 82 Activities 28 of Our Business Operations (Fiscal 2015 Results) Preserving Ecosystems 91 Corporate Governance 29–37 Pursuing Management Transparency and Efficiency 29 Performance Data 93 Sharing a Hitachi Group Identity 33 Advancing Risk Management on Multiple Fronts 35 Key Indicators 94–95 Human Rights 38–40 Overview of Financial Results, 96–97 Board Members, and Employee Data Respect for Human Rights Throughout the Value Chain 38 Main Assessments and Awards 98–99 Respect for Workers’ Rights 40 Independent Assurance 100 Labor Practices 41–51 Achieving a Fair and Equitable Work Environment 42 Promoting Diversity and Inclusion 42 Promoting Occupational Health and Safety 47 A Strategy for Growing Together 49 with Our Global Human Capital Contents 2 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data How to Use This Report Use the category tabs, navigation icons, and link buttons to go directly to different sections of this report. Link Buttons Navigation Icons Click to go to corresponding website Click to go back one page Click to go forward one page Click to go to corresponding page Contents Click to show table of contents Contents 1 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Category Tabs Go to the beginning of the corresponding section Editorial Policy Basic Concept We are continuously improving our CSR activities in line With reference to these nine key themes, the Hitachi with the ISO 26000 international guidelines for CSR and Sustainability Report 2016 details the social and have identified nine key themes for our CSR Management environmental issues that are vital to the sustainability of Framework: (1) recognition of social responsibility, (2) our operations and society, presenting our stance and the corporate governance, (3) human rights, (4) labor activities undertaken in fiscal 2015. practices, (5) environment, (6) fair operating practices, (7) Inasmuch as the report is a tool with which we customers (consumer issues), (8) community involvement engage with our stakeholders through honest and and development, and (9) review and improvement of transparent disclosures of information, it contains our CSR activities. basic policies, promotion systems, key performance indicators, and specific measures for our CSR initiatives in line with the disclosure provisions of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4). What This Report Covers (Boundary of Reporting) Period: The main period covered is fiscal 2015 (April 1, 2015, to March 31, 2016) Companies: 1,306 companies, namely Hitachi, Ltd. and 1,305 consolidated subsidiaries (including 249 equity-method affiliates) Boundary of Data: Financial data: 1,306 companies, namely Hitachi, Ltd. and 1,305 consolidated subsidiaries (including 249 equitymethod affiliates) Social data: Boundary of data indicated under each indicator Environmental data: 1,057 companies, namely Hitachi, Ltd. and 1,056 consolidated subsidiaries. However, for environmental performance data associated with Hitachi’s business operations, Hitachi, Ltd. and consolidated subsidiaries whose environmental load comprises 90% of the total (based on Hitachi calculations) are included. Reporting Cycle: Published every year as an annual report Date Published: October 2016 * The data for each fiscal year are the results according to the boundary of data in that fiscal year. * The base fiscal year data has been revised to match the boundary of data for fiscal 2015. Contents 3 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data [Symbol Marks Used in This Report] Disclosure of Financial and Non-Financial Information * Technical terms, proper nouns, tables, diagrams, etc. Hitachi, following closely the deliberations of the European requiring explanation Union (EU) and the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) about non-financial disclosure, presents information to [Hitachi References in This Report] match the needs of stakeholders reading this report. Hitachi, Ltd.: Information on or initiatives of Hitachi, Ltd. To date the Annual Report has mainly presented Hitachi and the Hitachi Group: Information on or initiatives of financial information, while the Hitachi Sustainability Report all Group companies in and outside Japan mainly presented non-financial information. Starting in 2016 the Hitachi Integrated Report will present both financial and [Key Guidelines Referred to in Preparing This Report] non-financial information in showing how Hitachi is striving • G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, Global Reporting to create value. The Hitachi Sustainability Report will Initiative continue to serve as a comprehensive tool providing detailed • Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2012 version), non-financial information. Ministry of the Environment, Japan • Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2001—With Focus on Stakeholders, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, Japan Financial and Non-Financial Information Non-Financial Information Reports Reports on Hitachi’s Value Creation The Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 provides non-financial information to investors, auditors, and CSR experts in an easily searchable, interactive PDF format (A4, 102 pages). The CSR website contains not only the contents of this report but also examples of environmental conservation activities and news releases to provide up-to-date information to our diverse stakeholders. Hitachi Integrated Report 2016 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Financial Information Reports WEB Investor Relations WEB C  SR (Corporate Social WEB E  nvironmental Activities WEB G  lobal Community Relations http://www.hitachi.com/IR-e/ Responsibility) http://www.hitachi.com/environment/ and Activities (Social http://www.hitachi.com/csr/ Contribution Activities) http://www.hitachi.com/csr/sc/ * Information about Hitachi, Ltd. is also disclosed in the * We also disclose information about Hitachi, Ltd. in the Corporate Governance Report. Annual Securities Report and the Report on the 147th Business Term. Independent Assurance 3000 and 3410, as well as the Practical Guidelines for the To enhance the credibility of this report, we have engaged Assurance of Sustainability Information of the Japanese KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. to provide assurance Association of Assurance Organizations for Sustainability on environmental and social performance indicators. This Information. Performance indicators for fiscal 2015 that assurance was carried out in accordance with the have been assured are marked with in the report. International Standard on Assurance Engagement (ISAE) Contents 4 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Hitachi and Society Creating value to fulfill our Corporate Credo—contributing to society through the development of superior, original technology and products—has underpinned our business development for more than a century. Hitachi’s R&D program focuses on products and services that help to resolve social issues. Hitachi Group Profile Company Profile (as of March 31, 2016) Corporate name Hitachi, Ltd. Incorporated February 1, 1920 (founded in 1910) Head office 1-6-6 Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8280, Japan Representative Toshiaki Higashihara Representative Executive Officer, President, and CEO Capital 458.79 billion yen Number of employees 37,353 (unconsolidated basis) 335,244 (consolidated basis) Number of consolidated subsidiaries 1,056 (Japan: 262, outside of Japan: 794) (including variable interest entities) Number of equity-method affiliates 249 Consolidated Financial Highlights for Fiscal 2015, Based on the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Revenue 10,034.3 billion yen (up 3%, year on year) EBIT*1 531.0 billion yen (down 1%) Income from continuing operations, before income taxes 517.0 billion yen (unchanged) Capital expenditure*2 528.5 billion yen (up 23%) R&D expenditure 333.7 billion yen (unchanged) Total assets 12,551.0 billion yen Overseas production as percentage of revenue 26% *1 EBIT: Income from continuing operations before income tax, less interest income, plus interest charges. *2 Since fiscal 2015, the amount of investment in leased assets that fall under the heading of finance and leases included in conventional capital expenditure are deducted from capital expenditure for disclosure. Note: Hitachi’s consolidated financial statement is prepared based on the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Revenue and Income from Continuing Operations, Before Income Taxes (billion yen) (billion yen) 12,000 1,200 9,666.4 9,774.9 10,034.3 10,000 1,000 8,000 678.4 800 518.9 517.0 6,000 600 4,000 400 2,000 200 0 2013 2014 2015 (FY) 0 Revenue (left scale) Income from continuing operations, before income taxes (right scale) Contents 5 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Other Areas 459.0 billion yen (5%) Revenue and Ratio by Region Number of Companies: 89 (Consolidated for fiscal 2015, based on IFRS) Number of Employees: 10,802 Asia 2,112.3 billion yen (21%) Number of Companies: 399 Number of Employees: 95,496 Revenue by Region Japan 5,231.5 billion yen Overseas 4,802.7 billion yen Japan 5,231.5 billion yen (52%) Number of Companies: 263*1 Europe 951.1 billion yen (9%) Number of Employees: 187,936 Number of Companies: 194 Number of Employees: 19,984 *1 Including Hitachi, Ltd. and 262 consolidated subsidiaries in Japan. North America 1,280.3 billion yen (13%) Number of Companies: 112 Number of Employees: 21,026 Revenue and Ratio by Segment Financial Services (Consolidated for fiscal 2015, based on IFRS) 365.3 billion yen (3%) Others (Logistics and Other Services) Information & Telecommunication Systems 1,252.7 billion yen (11%) 2,109.3 billion yen (19%) Smart Life & Ecofriendly Systems 681.0 billion yen (6%) Subtotal of Revenue by Segment Automotive Systems 11,192.7 billion yen Social Infrastructure & Industrial Systems 1,001.1 billion yen (9%) Consolidated Revenue 2,333.1 billion yen (21%) 10,034.3 billion yen High Functional Materials & Components 1,564.0 billion yen (14%) Electronic Systems & Equipment 1,127.6 billion yen (10%) Construction Machinery 758.3 billion yen (7%) Notes: • Since April 1, 2015, Power Systems has been integrated into Social Infrastructure & Industrial Systems. • Hitachi Transport Systems, Ltd. included in Other became an equity-method affiliate of Hitachi, Ltd. as of May 19, 2016. • Hitachi Capital Corporation, which consists of Financial Services, is scheduled to become an equity-method affiliate of Hitachi, Ltd. in October 2016, pending regulatory approval. Main Products and Services Key Business Segments for Social Contributions Systems Integration, Consulting, Cloud Services, Servers, Storage, The issues humanity faces are becoming global in nature: Software, Telecommunications & Networks, ATMs environmental problems like climate change and ecosystem Principal Consolidated Subsidiaries (as of March 31, 2016) degradation, as well as energy, water, resource, and food Hitachi Information & Telecommunication Engineering, Ltd., Hitachi-Omron shortages, urban population growth, and the graying of Terminal Solutions, Corp., Hitachi Computer Products (America), Inc., societies. As a global corporate citizen, Hitachi engages in Hitachi Computer Products (Europe) S.A.S., Hitachi Financial Equipment business worldwide in social infrastructure and many other System (Shen Zhen) Co., Ltd., Hitachi Solutions, Ltd., Hitachi Systems, Ltd., fields, thereby creating both economic and social value in order Hitachi Consulting Corporation, Hitachi Data Systems Corporation, Hitachi Information & Telecommunication Systems Global Holding Corporation to address these issues and contribute to a sustainable society. Information & Telecommunication Systems Hitachi provides IT services that address customers’ diverse needs by combining Hitachi’s extensive expertise in a diverse range of business fields including financial services with advanced information technology. Our services cover the entire life cycle of systems, ranging from consulting to system integration, operation, A Hitachi storage system. maintenance, and other support. Locations of our business operations: Revenue Adjusted operating income EBIT 100 countries and regions 2,109.3 billion yen 141.3 billion yen 109.1 billion yen Over To contribute solutions to issues facing society and our customers, we provide IT solutions worldwide, particularly storage solutions supporting data utilization. Contents 6 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Social Infrastructure & Industrial Systems As of the end of March 2016, Hitachi Medical Corporation Hitachi provides infrastructure products and services that (currently the Healthcare Business Unit, Hitachi, Ltd.)*1 had form the underpinning of people’s daily lives and their shipped MRI medical scanners to 87 countries. Through communities, such as rolling stock and train management development of these scanners and other medical equipment, systems, power plants and transmission/distribution Hitachi contributes to realizing a safe and secure society in systems, elevators and escalators, and water treatment which people live healthy lives. systems. In addition, it offers industrial equipment and Main Products and Services energy-saving solutions that help reduce the Semiconductor Manufacturing Equipment, Test and Measurement environmental impact on our society. Hitachi leverages Equipment, Advanced Industrial Products, Medical Electronics Equipment, technological capabilities and products developed over Power Tools many years to maximize the efficiency and reliability. Principal Consolidated Subsidiaries (as of March 31, 2016) Business operations are focused on industrial equipment Hitachi High-Technologies Corporation, Hitachi Koki Co., Ltd., Hitachi and plants in the Asia region, railway systems in the Medical Corporation, Hitachi Kokusai Electric Inc. United Kingdom, and elevators in China. Ultrafast elevator speed: 1,200 m/min (72 km/h) In 2016, Hitachi is scheduled to deliver elevators traveling 1,200 meters per minute (72 kilometers per hour) for the CTF Finance Centre, 530 meters tall, under construction in Guangzhou, China. A proton beam cancer therapy system. Main Products and Services Industrial Machinery and Plants Solutions, Water Environment Solutions, Revenue Adjusted operating income EBIT Elevators, Escalators, Railway Systems, Nuclear, Wind, and Photovoltaic 1,127.6 billion yen 67.0 billion yen 64.3 billion yen Power Generation Systems, Transmission & Distribution Systems, Digital Technology Service Solutions Principal Consolidated Subsidiaries (as of March 31, 2016) Construction Machinery Hitachi-GE Nuclear Energy, Ltd., Hitachi Industrial Equipment Systems Co., Hitachi provides integrated solutions globally, ranging Ltd., Hitachi Elevator (China) Co., Ltd., Hitachi Building Systems Co., Ltd., from the sale of hydraulic excavators and other Hitachi Industry & Control Solutions, Ltd., Hitachi Plant Construction, Ltd., construction machinery to services and maintenance. Hitachi Plant Services Co., Ltd., Hitachi Power Solutions Co., Ltd., Hitachi Rail Europe, Ltd., Horizon Nuclear Power, Ltd. Leveraging decades of expertise with these technologies and know-how, Hitachi offers solutions that address the needs of a broad range of industries, including civil engineering and construction, building and structural demolition, and mining and excavation. Overseas sales ratio: 69% This is the fiscal 2015 overseas sales ratio for construction machinery. Our hydraulic excavators, wheel loaders, and Class 800 high-speed train cars for the Intercity Express Programme (UK). dump trucks are used at construction sites and mines around the world. Revenue Adjusted operating income EBIT Main Products and Services 2,333.1 billion yen 81.3 billion yen 29.1 billion yen Hydraulic Excavators, Wheel Loaders, Mining Machinery Principal Consolidated Subsidiaries (as of March 31, 2016) Electronic Systems & Equipment Hitachi Construction Machinery Co., Ltd. Drawing upon the Hitachi Group’s advanced technologies, Hitachi provides systems that support the information society, including semiconductor manufacturing equipment, electronic component processing equipment, and broadcasting and wireless communications systems. Hitachi also produces medical and inspection systems that improve health as well as power tools. We conduct business operations in regions including North America, Hitachi Construction Machinery’s ultralarge hydraulic Europe, and Asia. excavator and dump truck for use in mining. MRI scanners shipped: 7,050 Revenue 758.3 billion yen Adjusted operating income 22.6 billion yen EBIT 25.8 billion yen Contents 7 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Main Products and Services High Functional Materials & Components Engine Management Systems, Electric Powertrain Systems, Drive Control Hitachi draws upon its wealth of technologies and Systems, Car Information Systems expertise to provide various materials and products that Principal Consolidated Subsidiaries (as of March 31, 2016) support advanced functions, as well as a host of diverse Clarion Co., Ltd., Hitachi Automotive Systems, Ltd., Hitachi Automotive products in fields ranging from IT to consumer electronics Systems Americas, Inc. and automobiles. These materials and products include semiconductor and display materials, advanced performance materials, synthetic resin products, specialty steels, magnetic materials, casting components, and wires and cables. We conduct business operations in regions including Asia, North America, and Europe. World share of anode material for lithium ion batteries: About 25% (Hitachi estimation) Hitachi Chemical’s anode material for lithium ion batteries is Hitachi Automotive Systems’ Stereo Camera. an essential material for improving the quality of lithium ion Revenue Adjusted operating income EBIT batteries. In the market for eco-friendly automobiles, which 1,001.1 billion yen 61.9 billion yen 53.9 billion yen are in increasing demand, we hold the top world share. Main Products and Services Semiconductor and Display Related Materials, Circuit Boards and Smart Life & Ecofriendly Systems Materials, Automotive Parts (Molded Plastics, etc.), Energy Storage Hitachi delivers new values and lifestyle innovations to Devices, Specialty Steels, Magnetic Materials and Components, Casting society and people all over the world by providing home Components, Wires and Cables appliances, lighting and housing equipment, and Principal Consolidated Subsidiaries (as of March 31, 2016) refrigerating and air-conditioning solutions. Hitachi also Hitachi Chemical Company, Ltd., Hitachi Metals, Ltd. helps reduce the environmental impact on our society through the development of more energy-efficient products. We conduct business operations in regions including China, Asia, and the Middle East. Grand Prize winners: 3 kinds of products for 3 consecutive years Three Hitachi Appliances products—IH rice cookers, largecapacity refrigerators, and water pumps—won fiscal 2015 An amorphous metal alloy from Hitachi Metals. Energy Conservation Grand Prizes. This is the third consecutive year that three Hitachi Appliances products Revenue Adjusted operating income EBIT have been awarded. 1,564.0 billion yen 125.9 billion yen 153.5 billion yen Main Products and Services Home Appliances, Lighting and Housing Equipment, Refrigerating and Automotive Systems Air-Conditioning Products Hitachi is working on mobility technology innovations for Principal Consolidated Subsidiaries (as of March 31, 2016) electronic and motorized automotive parts in the areas of Hitachi Appliances, Inc., Hitachi Consumer Marketing, Inc., Hitachi the environment, safety, and information to contribute to Consumer Products (Thailand), Ltd. the creation of safe and comfortable automobiles with ultra-low fuel consumption. We are conducting business operations globally. Ratio of automotive electronics products: 47% Hitachi Automotive Systems aims for high levels of safety and fuel efficiency in developing electronics products. The electronics products share in fiscal 2014 placed Hitachi at the equivalent of third place among the top 10 global suppliers. Hitachi Appliances’ large-capacity “Vacuum Compartment” XG series refrigerator. Revenue Adjusted operating income EBIT 681.0 billion yen 23.8 billion yen 41.9 billion yen Contents 8 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Main Products and Services Others (Logistics and Other Services) Leasing, Loan Guarantees Hitachi is active in the logistics sector, including system Principal Consolidated Subsidiaries (as of March 31, 2016) logistics, transport and installation of heavy products and Hitachi Capital Corporation precision machinery, and international air and sea freight transportation, as well as the manufacture and sales of information storage medium and batteries, and real estate. We conduct business operations in regions including North America, Europe, and Asia. Eco-car ownership rate: 90% In Japan, Hitachi Transport System*2 has a rising eco-car ownership rate, including hybrid, natural gas, electric, and Hitachi Capital’s Hitachi Corporate Card. LPG vehicles, as well as nationally certified, low-emission gas and biofuel vehicles. Revenue Adjusted operating income EBIT 365.3 billion yen 45.2 billion yen 46.6 billion yen Main Products and Services Logistics, Optical Disk Drives, Property Management Principal Consolidated Subsidiaries (as of March 31, 2016) Hitachi-LG Data Storage, Inc., Hitachi Life, Ltd., Hitachi Transport System, Ltd., Hitachi Urban Investment, Ltd., Hitachi America, Ltd., Hitachi Asia Ltd., Hitachi (China), Ltd., Hitachi Europe Ltd., Hitachi India Pvt. Ltd.*3 Hitachi Transport System’s Metropolitan East Distribution Center and a large truck. Revenue Adjusted operating income EBIT 1,252.7 billion yen 52.5 billion yen 40.6 billion yen Financial Services We offer solutions integrating diverse functions including leasing, loans, rentals, credit cards, and securitization as well as payment and collection agency services, insurance services, trust services, and outsourcing. We provide these solutions to customers in five key areas: Japan, Europe, the Americas, China, and ASEAN. Power generated in renewable projects: 200% growth Hitachi Capital finances and operates wind and solar power plants, providing Hitachi’s combined strengths to find solutions that promote renewable energy use. We boosted power generated from renewable energy from 160 MW in fiscal 2012 to 320 MW in fiscal 2015. *1 The trade name of Hitachi Medical Corporation was changed to Hitachi Healthcare Manufacturing, Ltd. as of April 1, 2016. *2 Hitachi Transport System, Ltd. became an equity-method affiliate of Hitachi with the transfer of some of the shares held by Hitachi in that company. *3 Hitachi America, Ltd., Hitachi Asia Ltd., Hitachi (China), Ltd., Hitachi Europe Ltd., and Hitachi India Pvt. Ltd. are the Hitachi Group’s regional headquarters for the Americas, Asia, China, Europe, and India, respectively, and they sell the Hitachi Group’s products. Contents 9 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Management Approach Leadership10–11 Review and Improvement of CSR Activities 24–27 CEO’s Message 10 Enhancing CSR Management 24 Executive Officer’s Message: 11 CSR and the Environment Recognition of Social Responsibility 12–23 Realizing Sustainable, Innovative Management 12 Understanding Issues Through Dialogue 19 and Taking Part in Initiatives Contents 10 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Leadership CEO’s Message Leadership CEO’s Message Hitachi’s Social Innovation for Safer, Richer Lives The state of the world is in constant flux. Each day brings The solutions we provide through our Social Innovation new political, economic, and environmental changes, and Business aim to support people’s lives for decades as vital the issues facing our customers and societies as a whole capital for society. When addressing environmental issues, grow ever more diverse and complex. The field of business too, we must look ahead to the likely state of the global and people’s lifestyles are also seeing dramatic shifts as environment decades from now and implement actions the impact of IoT (the internet of things) and with an eye firmly on the impact of corporate activities on computerization continue to gain momentum. the environment. We have created the Hitachi Environmental Anticipating these changes, in May 2016 Hitachi moved Innovation 2050 targets to help achieve a low-carbon to become an Innovation Partner for the IoT Era with its new society; a resource efficient society; a harmonized 2018 Mid-term Management Plan. In this plan, we focus our society with nature. Toward the realization of these goals, efforts in four business domains—power and energy; industry, we continue developing innovative technologies and solutions. distribution, and water; urban; and finance, public, and It is precisely because this is an era of great change healthcare. We have launched a market-driven business that Hitachi is dedicating itself to working smarter and structure comprising three layers: the “front” businesses that faster, creating new value for customers and enhancing interface directly with customers as they develop and provide people’s quality of life. In this way we will pursue growth services; the “platform” that enables quick, efficient provision as a company and sustainable development for society of those services; and the globally competitive “products” as a whole. we bring to market. In line with our Corporate Credo—contributing to society through the development of superior, original technology and products—we engage in the Social Innovation Business on a global basis, putting our IT and control and operational technologies to use in the advanced social infrastructure systems we provide to Toshiaki Higashihara create a future where people can live safer, richer lives. President & CEO Moving forward, we will take our Social Innovation Hitachi, Ltd. Business to a more advanced phase with enhanced digital technologies to accelerate “collaborative creation,” tackling shared issues and crafting solutions together with our customers and partners. Contents 11 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Leadership Executive Officer’s Message: CSR and the Environment Executive Officer’s Message: CSR and the Environment Integrating CSR into Corporate Management With the formulation of the corporate governance code in Japan, the adoption of Toshiaki Kuzuoka, Hitachi, Ltd. the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as the centerpiece of the 2030 Representative Executive Officer; Senior Vice Agenda for Sustainable Development, adopted by the United Nations, and the President and Executive Officer; General Counsel & Head of Corporate Communication; Head of Risk growing importance of ESG*1 considerations in mainstream investment, private Management; General Manager of Legal and companies—particularly those with global operations—are increasingly being Communications Group; General Manager of Risk called upon by not only investors and shareholders but also various other Management Group; General Manager of Corporate Hospital Group stakeholders to incorporate CSR into their management strategies and contribute to building a sustainable society. For years, the Social Innovation Business has been Hitachi’s core management focus. We have proactively responded to global corporate trends by expanding our CSR initiatives, such as by strengthening corporate governance, upholding respect for human rights, ensuring ecosystem preservation, and promoting diversity management. Our CSR policies, goals, and actual performance have been disclosed in our annual sustainability reports. With more companies incorporating CSR into their core management strategies, and in keeping with our 2018 Mid-term Management Plan (announced in May 2016), we have decided to publish the Hitachi Integrated Report beginning in fiscal 2016 as a means of providing greater information about our integration strategies and results, including CSR. The Integrated Report provides insights into how we are building CSR considerations into the foundations of our management along with concisely presented non-financial information. For the sake of completeness and continuity, we will continue publishing detailed nonfinancial information in our Sustainability Report. Of special note during fiscal 2016 is our announcement in September of the Hitachi Environmental Innovation 2050 targets in line with our 2018 Mid-term Management Plan. The announcement of ambitious targets to achieve a lowcarbon society, a resource efficient society, and a harmonized society with nature is an expression of Hitachi’s determination to contribute to the resolution of environmental issues through the development of innovative technologies, products, and solutions. At a time when business practices and people’s lifestyles are undergoing a dramatic transformation due to such factors as the growing impact of IoT and computerization, we aim to create new value for customers and enhance people’s quality of life by communicating actively with our stakeholders and applying what we learn to our business operations. *1 ESG stands for “environment,” “social,” and “governance”—key factors in promoting socially responsible investment. Contents 12 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Recognition of Social Responsibility Realizing Sustainable, Innovative Management Recognition of Social Responsibility Hitachi’s Aims We are actively advancing our CSR activities to meet society’s expectations based on an accurate perception of the impact of our operations on society and our social responsibilities. We are contributing to the resolution of social issues through our Social Innovation Business, which combines advanced IT with infrastructure technologies developed over many years, and are conducting dialogue with all our stakeholders to identify and contribute to the identification of social issues. In addition, we are promoting collaborative creation with stakeholders to resolve those issues and achieve the sustainable growth of society by fulfilling our social responsibilities. We are creating both economic and social value by aligning our CSR activities with our Mid-term Management Plan to realize the Hitachi Group Vision. Realizing Sustainable, Innovative Management Hitachi’s Approach our Corporate Credo and Founding Spirit—while continuously considering the next generation. We look Trends in Society and Hitachi Group Identity ahead to the longer term, while promoting corporate Society is today undergoing great changes and faces a activities informed by sensitivity to the needs of a changing range of challenges, from environmental issues and natural society. Our Mid-term Management Plan is the action plan resource and energy constraints to poverty, inequality in we define to realize this vision; by integrating our education, diseases, and population concentration in cities. management and CSR strategies, we seek to enhance the Hitachi’s Corporate Credo is to contribute to society effectiveness of this approach. through the development of superior, original technology The implementation of our plan is a way for us to fulfill and products. We created our Group Vision in May 2013, our responsibilities as a good corporate citizen through at the start of the 2015 Mid-term Management Plan, with robust, diverse governance; the pioneering spirit and the aims of delivering innovations that help to answer strong ethical stance of our employees; and operations society’s challenges and of building a safe, secure, that help address environmental and other issues. We comfortable, and fair society. comply with the laws of all countries in which we operate The Group Vision indicates the path to the next stage and pursue our activities in line with the Hitachi Group of growth. We draw on the ethics and values that Hitachi Codes of Conduct. has developed over the past 100 years—encapsulated in Contents 13 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Recognition of Social Responsibility Realizing Sustainable, Innovative Management Trends in Society and Hitachi Group Identity Hitachi Group Identity Macro Trends in Society Toward a society centered on decentralization, sharing, and recycling Expansion of free trade zones Global economic growth led by emerging nations The mission that Hitachi MISSION Contribute to society through the development of Global market structural changes based on aspires to fulfill in society superior, original technology and products. energy resources Achieving a Sustainable Society The values crucial to Securing water resources, energy, and food VALUES the Hitachi Group in Hitachi Founding Spirit: Replacing aging infrastructure systems accomplishing its mission Harmony, Sincerity, Pioneering Spirit Reducing CO2 emissions Improving transportation systems Dealing with the low birthrate and aging population Promoting material recycling Hitachi delivers innovations that answer What the Hitachi Group VISION society’s challenges. With our talented aims to become team and proven experience in global in the future markets, we can inspire the world. Direction of our management strategies Rules for fair corporate behavior Mid-term Management Plan Codes of Conduct Business plans Companies’ regulations and standards Hitachi’s Social Innovation Business operations by evolving and enhancing our Social Innovation We work with stakeholders to recognize issues society and Business through digital technology and promoting it our customers face, including global environment overseas in the focus business domains of power and problems, and are contributing to the resolution of social energy; industry, distribution, and water; urban; and finance, issues through our Social Innovation Business, which public, and healthcare. combines advanced IT with infrastructure technologies We will continue to provide optimum solutions to developed over many years. society’s issues with advanced network technologies that In May 2016, we formulated our 2018 Mid-term are capable of connecting social infrastructure, products, Management Plan, which will culminate in fiscal 2018. and people. Under the plan, we aim to become an Innovation Partner for the IoT Era centered on our Social Innovation Business, Social Innovation Business seeking to expand the sales ratio of frontline operations that develop and deploy services meeting the diverse needs of 2018 Mid-term Management Plan global society to 40% and to increase our overseas sales ratio as a whole to 55%. We will expand our frontline Focus Business Domains and Key Initiatives Industry/ Finance/Public/ Power/Energy Urban Distribution/Water Healthcare Transition to distributed power Use “Lumada”*1 IoT platform to Improvement of quality of life in FinTech, My Number supply utilizing IT optimize value chains for industry communities Healthcare service (platform) Microgrid, regional energy and distribution From rail as a service to outcome management delivery Investment Focus Renewable energy Investment Focus Strengthening Healthcare Informatics Strengthening Engineering Investment Focus Investment Focus Predictive Maintenance Development of Urban Solutions Strengthening Grid and Engineering Optimized Factory Expansion of the Rail Business Area *1 Hitachi’s open and highly versatile IoT solution platform using software technology to obtain new information from integrating and analyzing data and running simulations. Contents 14 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Recognition of Social Responsibility Realizing Sustainable, Innovative Management 2015 Mid-term Management Plan and Material Issues for Hitachi The 2015 Mid-term Management Plan focused on the three themes of “Innovation,” “Global,” and “Transformation,” and we have used our Social Innovation Business to achieve growth and transformation. Achieving the plan’s goals required improvements in not only our financial activities but also non-financial performance aimed at addressing Hitachi’s material issues. We set targets for non-financial activities related to key management policies and carried out these activities from fiscal 2013. Material Issues for Hitachi Management Focus Fiscal 2013–15 Targets Fiscal 2015 Results Innovation: Sustainable Business Strengthen services and achieve innovation Promoted R&D in 7 regions Expand R&D centers globally (as of June 2015) Launched Global Centers for Social Innovation as part of R&D Increase R&D staff by 500 people framework with 200 staff in Japan, 350 overseas Demonstration experiments of Strengthen Open Innovation prototypes: 74 (27 in fiscal 2014) Caring for the Environment Eco-Product sales ratio: 90% 95% Global: Diversity Management Grow as a company providing Social Innovation Business solutions Outside directors: 9 worldwide Non-Japanese: 5 (of which 2 are Diversity among directors women) (as of June 2015, out of 13 directors) Appointed female head of CSR and Environmental Strategy Female senior executives Division as senior executive-level director on April 1, 2015 Female managers (Hitachi, Ltd.) 474 women Fiscal 2020 target: 1,000 women Respect for Human Rights Procurement division began Implement due diligence in the conducting human rights due field of “business and human diligence based on due diligence rights” guidelines Public Policy Initiatives Engage in dialogue with Participated in policy councils government officials Provide forums for stakeholder Four events held in India, dialogue Australia, Europe, and China Transformation: Diversity Management Achieve Hitachi Smart Transformation marked by global standards and Expanded the range of employees speedy, responsive management directly sent the results of the global employee survey with the Promotion of global human capital goal of promoting communication management strategy with team members and applying the results toward concrete action plans Contents 15 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Recognition of Social Responsibility Realizing Sustainable, Innovative Management Innovation Management Linking Customer-Driven R&D to New Business To accelerate collaborative creation with customers, the Research and Development Direction Research & Development Group reconfigured itself as a To become an “Innovation Partner for the IoT Era,” more customer-driven research organization in April 2015. Hitachi is accelerating collaborative creation with The three research laboratories in Japan—the former customers to advance its Social Innovation Business Central Research Laboratory, Hitachi Research Laboratory, in four business domains—power and energy; industry, and Yokohama Research Laboratory—were realigned distribution, and water; urban; and finance, public, together with the Design Division and overseas research and healthcare. centers to form four Global Centers for Social Innovation The Research & Development Group has been setting (CSIs), nine Centers for Technology Innovation (CTIs), and the pace in collaborative creation with customers, the Center for Exploratory Research (CER) to support the evolving from R&D that generates new technology to that new business structure. In April 2016, Hitachi transitioned which drives innovation and leads to new growth. to a new business structure consisting of service and R&D is being pursued under the following directives to product business groups, supported by R&D, to expand create business innovation amid uncertainty. the Social Innovation Business. (1) Create service businesses by accelerating collaborative Under the new business structure, the CSIs collaborate creation with the 12 Front business units (BUs) and regional centers (2) Build up technology platforms for Service & Product to develop services to meet the needs of customers in business growth each region. The CTIs coordinate with the BU responsible (3) Challenge future societal issues through open for the core of Social Innovation and the Product BUs innovation supporting services with their highly competitive key Hitachi will contribute to resolving increasingly global components to establish world-leading technologies. As a and complex societal issues through the Social Innovation global and open laboratory, the CER works with various Business. research institutions to conduct cutting-edge research to realize solutions to future societal issues and to tie this to future Social Innovation Business. Research & Development Group Structure Business structure from FY 2016 R&D structure from FY 2015 Global Centers for Social Innovation (CSIs) CUSTOMERS Service development matched to customer needs in each region FRONT North America: 100 Europe: 70 China: 115 Regional bases APAC: 65 Japan: 200 Total: 550 people (Total: 550 people) Customer segments (12 Business Units) Centers for Technology Innovation (CTIs) PLATFORM Establishment of top global technologies Core of Social Innovation (Platform, Products) Japan: 2,050 people PRODUCTS Center for Exploratory Research (CER) Industrial products, automotive parts, materials, etc. Solving future societal issues Japan: 100 people Accelerating Collaborative Creation with Customers approximately 550 researchers in the CSIs are Worldwide non-Japanese. Hitachi’s Social Innovation Business is expanding globally. CSI-Tokyo focuses on collaborative creation of The CSIs are located in five key regions—Tokyo, the Asiasolutions with customers using methodologies developed Pacific (APAC), North America, China, and Europe—with through design and service research. researchers assigned close to their customers to facilitate At CSI-APAC, data science, machine learning, and collaborative creation. To be able to better serve the software engineering are used to create energy, transportation, needs of customers in each region, about 350 of the and urban solutions in collaboration with customers. Contents 16 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Recognition of Social Responsibility Realizing Sustainable, Innovative Management CSI-North America is building a big-data analytics Building Up Technology Platforms for Business Growth platform to collaboratively create advanced solutions in such In its history, which spans 100 years, Hitachi has continued areas as energy, communications, finance, and healthcare to pursue technology development in a broad range of with customers. areas—from information and telecommunications, electric CSI-China conducts collaborative creation to develop power systems, and industrial machinery to transportation such products as elevators and ATMs in order to realize and urban development—producing many different types of solutions for the Chinese government’s industrial policies products to meet customer expectations and contribute to including “Made in China 2025,” promoting growth in the society. manufacturing sector, and a low-carbon society. The CTIs are innovating technology through product CSI-Europe is participating in the creation of new development. By accumulating know-how in this way, they markets through standardization activities led by Europe, have established 36 technology platforms in nine technologies: addressing challenges faced by a matured society by Energy, Electronics, Mechanical Engineering, Materials, developing solutions together with key institutions. Systems Engineering, Information and Telecommunications, Communication with customers was also enhanced in Controls, Production Engineering, and Healthcare. fiscal 2015 by the increased participation of the Research & Through the application and free combination of these 36 Development Group in various external events, such as the technology platforms beyond the boundaries of a given regional Hitachi Social Innovation Forums in Japan, North product or technological field, innovative products and America, and EMEA, as well as the Hitachi Technology services are generated, providing greater value to customers. Forum in China. 36 Technology Platforms in 9 Areas of Technology Promoting Open Innovation hub for open innovation, creating the seeds for the next An open R&D environment is maintained in collaboration Social Innovation Business. In June 2016, joint research with research institutes and universities both within and laboratories were established within the University of Tokyo, outside of Japan and customers to proceed with innovative Kyoto University, and Hokkaido University to work toward technology development that cannot be achieved by Hitachi the realization of the “Super Smart Society” (Society 5.0)*1 alone. To date, Hitachi has established the Hitachi proposed by the Japanese government. Through Cambridge Laboratory at the University of Cambridge in collaborative creation with each university, Hitachi seeks 1985 to pursue research in fundamental physics and pioneer insights into future societal challenges and proposes visions innovations in future computing, devices, and materials, and and innovations to realize solutions that both resolve those a joint research laboratory within the Shanghai Jiao Tong challenges and contribute to economic development. University, China, in fiscal 2012 to conduct research on Furthermore, in fiscal 2015, research collaboration was metallurgical materials. In fiscal 2015, the CER became the conducted with 85 research institutes outside of Japan and Contents 17 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Recognition of Social Responsibility Realizing Sustainable, Innovative Management Key Indicators 233 within Japan. Collaboration with researchers outside of R&D Expenditure (Hitachi Group) Japan is being further strengthened through such programs as the Hitachi Research Visit Program (HiVIPS), established (billion yen) in 1985 to invite researchers to work for a fixed term in the 500 4.3% labs in Japan. 3.8% 3.7% 450 3.4% 3.3% 412.5 *1 Super Smart Society: A vision proposed by the government of Japan for a new type of society that will be led by innovations in science and technology, following on from the 400 351.4 hunter-gatherer, pastoral-agrarian, industrial, and information societies. 341.3 335.5 333.7 350 R&D Ethics Reviews 300 In September 2000, Hitachi established an ethical review 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) committee to review the handling of information from human Research investment (billion yen) R&D expenditure as a % of revenue genome analysis. It was the first such committee to be established by a private company in Japan. We instituted Allocation of Research & Development Group Funds this because we were handling information from human genome analysis. The majority of the committee members are external experts, and the committee meets two or more Frontier and Sponsored Platform Research Research times a year. The original ethical guidelines were prepared based on the “Ethical Guidelines for Human Genome/Gene 30% Allocation of R&D 50% Funds＊1 Analysis Research” from the Ministry of Education, Culture, FY 2016 Sports, Science, and Technology and the “Ethical Guidelines for Clinical Research” from the Ministry of Health, Labor, and Welfare; these guidelines remain in effect today.*1 All Hitachi business divisions and Group companies Advanced Sponsored whose activities require review are expected to show a high Research level of corporate social responsibility and to maintain high 20% ethical standards among their researchers and staff. Change in digital-solutions-related research 24% 64% *1 On October 1, 2015, the Ethical Guidelines for Clinical Research of the Hitachi ethical review committee were changed to the Ethical Guidelines for Medical and Health FY 2015 FY 2016 Research Involving Human Subjects. R&D Planning and Budget *1 Roughly 20% of total Hitachi Group R&D expenditure. R&D investment by the Hitachi Group is equivalent to about 4% of revenue, of which approximately 20% is used in the Research & Development Group. Research categories can be divided into Sponsored Research, Advanced Sponsored Intellectual Property Research, and Frontier and Platform Research. Sponsored Actions in the Intellectual Property Field and Advanced Sponsored Research are financed by Intellectual property (IP) is a key element of Hitachi’s business units or Group companies, and are based mainly business strategy. We protect the innovations emerging from on business roadmaps from business unit initiatives. Frontier our R&D, as well as the Hitachi brand, on the basis of these and Platform Research is based on midto long-term IP rights, while providing remuneration and incentive awards technology plans led by the Research & Development for inventors. Group. The aim of Sponsored or Advanced Sponsored Research is to expand and grow core businesses, targeting Building a Global Patent Portfolio practical application within three to five years. Frontier and One of the IP activities supporting our global operations is Platform Research aims to strengthen customer developing a global patent portfolio to ensure worldwide collaborative creation and technical platforms and to create protection for innovations emerging from our R&D and to new businesses. prevent other companies from using our technologies In fiscal 2016, investment in Frontier and Platform without authorization. The portfolio also enables us to Research focused on digital solutions (Social Innovation demonstrate the advantages of those technologies to Business using digital technology) as a driver of growth customers, as well as to provide patent licenses to other across the Group in the 2018 Mid-term Management Plan. companies. We boosted our patent application ratio Hitachi will continue to pursue R&D aligned with outside Japan from 47% in fiscal 2009 to 59% in fiscal corporate strategy in order to contribute to the expansion 2015. We will continue to efficiently build and maintain our and accelerated global deployment of our businesses. global patent portfolio. Contents 18 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Recognition of Social Responsibility Realizing Sustainable, Innovative Management In tandem with efforts to globalize our R&D centers, Anti-Counterfeiting Activities we are also globalizing our IP hubs. We currently have IP Protecting the Hitachi brand is crucial for supporting our offices in New York and Santa Clara, California, in the global operations. We operate a rigorous regime against United States, Beijing and Shanghai in China, and Munich such infringements as making and selling counterfeit goods in Germany to protect the innovations generated through carrying the Hitachi brand and illegally applying for or R&D activities outside Japan. registering trademarks similar to the Hitachi brand. Another key issue is developing globally minded IP Until recently, the bulk of counterfeit goods were human resources. Since fiscal 1964, Hitachi’s Intellectual manufactured in China, but over the past several years Property Division has operated an international job training manufacturing methods and sales routes have become more system, sending trainees to IP law firms and Group sophisticated and diverse. In 2015, for example, counterfeit companies in Europe and the United States and to study goods operations were successfully raided in UAE and abroad. In fiscal 2015, four trainees went to the United Vietnam as a result of our approaching local authorities. With States, two to Germany, and one to the United Kingdom. the growth in trade over the Internet, anti-counterfeit measures for the Internet are also increasingly important. Key Indicators It is important to teach general consumers not to buy Patent Application Ratios by Country or Region them in order to eliminate counterfeit goods. Hitachi (%) conducts ongoing consumer awareness activities to FY 2011 45 11 10 8 6 20 eliminate counterfeit goods. FY 2012 43 9 11 8 6 23 Reward System for Employee Inventions FY 2013 41 9 9 7 6 28 We motivate employees in the R&D field with an ample FY 2014 41 9 9 8 6 27 reward system for new inventions. To make this reward system as fair and transparent as possible, we set standards FY 2015 41 9 9 7 5 29 to evaluate inventions and disclose these standards to Japan US Europe China Other PCT* 1 employees. We also have a mechanism for receiving inquiries about the rewards, as well as opinions on the *1 International applications filed for Patent Cooperation Treaty coverage. reward system. We have set up a special division within the Intellectual Property Division to plan and operate this system. An Respect for Intellectual Property internal Invention Management Committee made up of R&D, We respect the intellectual property rights (IPRs) of others, legal affairs, personnel management, and IP experts ensures as we expect them to respect ours. We follow the Hitachi that the system operates effectively across the whole Group. Group Codes of Conduct and conduct preliminary searches The system includes an invention information channel to of others’ patents when undertaking R&D on new products promote communication between inventors and the and technologies in order to avoid IPR infringements. For business divisions implementing the resulting patents. IPRs that belong to others, we obtain licenses from IPR Inventors can ask the business divisions for information holders before we use the IP. As our Social Innovation about patent implementation and check the evaluation Business expands and opportunities for collaborative standards used to calculate the rewards for their inventions. creation with customers and partners increase, we carefully To ensure transparency and inventor satisfaction, we also handle IP acquired from other parties. If any company is set up an Arbitration Committee for Invention Rewards with found to have infringed Hitachi’s IPRs, we encourage the the same composition as the Invention Management counterparty to acquire the necessary license and take legal Committee. Inventors can appeal to this committee if they action if necessary. disagree with the amount they have been awarded. From fiscal 2005, we have also given President’s Awards to the top 100 inventors. Since fiscal 2006, we have also Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct, 5.3: Management and Preservation of Company Assets awarded the top 50 young inventors (under 35 years old) based on patent application rewards received within five years of their joining Hitachi. Contents 19 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Recognition of Social Responsibility Understanding Issues Through Dialogue and Taking Part in Initiatives Understanding Issues Through Dialogue and Taking Part in Initiatives Hitachi’s Approach Stakeholder Engagement Hitachi promotes its Social Innovation Business with efforts Communication with Stakeholders to accurately perceive the social issues in each country or The outcomes of communication with stakeholders are region, followed by collaborative work with customers and shared with respective divisions and actively utilized as other stakeholders to resolve them. In conducting this valuable insights into our business. Public interest is growing business, we place importance on two-way communication in how corporations are taking in stakeholders’ voices to with stakeholders and active participation in various improve their businesses, and we will continue to globally initiatives in coordination with various groups. develop and promote ways of capitalizing on the opinions of the members of society with whom we engage in our business activities. Stakeholders Main Roles Main Divisions Means of Communication Pages Customers Creation of better products and Quality Assurance Customer satisfaction activities Customer Satisfaction Adaption for Emerging services, response to complaints, Sales Marketing pp. 59–60 Markets appropriate disclosure of information Website Universal Design pp. 63 on products and services Advertisement activities pp. 61–62 Quality Assurance Product Information Activities Disclosure pp. 63–65 pp. 63 Rigorous Information Management pp. 65 Shareholders and Timely and proper information Public Relations Announcements of financial results Stakeholder Engagement Investors disclosure, fair assessment and and IR (quarterly) pp. 19–22 support from capital markets, reflection General shareholders’ meetings of shareholder and investor viewpoints (annual) in corporate management IR events, one-on-one meetings (about 740 times/year) IR tools: Integrated Report, business reports, etc. Suppliers Building of fair and sound business Procurement Procurement activities Supply Chain Management pp. 54–57 relations, smooth information sharing Supplier meetings toward better partnerships CSR monitoring (218 companies/ year) CSR audits (20 companies/year, annual) Employees Active utilization, proper treatment, Public Relations Intranet, in-house newsletters Diversity and Inclusion Diverse Support Systems promotion of occupational health and Human Capital Training pp. 42–44 for Employees safety of human capital Town hall meetings between senior Developing Women’s pp. 46 management and employees (21 Careers Occupational Health and times/year) pp. 44 Safety Employee surveys (annual) pp. 47–48 Work-Life Management pp. 45–46 Global Human Capital Employing People with Development Disabilities pp. 49–51 pp. 46 Stakeholder Engagement pp. 19–22 National and Local Compliance with domestic and foreign Government & Policy council participation Stakeholder Engagement Governments, laws and regulations, policy External Relations Participation in business and pp. 19–22 Industrial recommendations, participation in industry associations Associations industry-government-academia collaborative projects Local Communities Fulfillment of responsibilities as Social Contribution Contribution to local communities Social Contribution Activities corporate citizen, involvement in local All Business through business pp. 67 communities Divisions Participation in volunteer activities Academic Promotion of technological innovations, Research and Open innovation (joint research) Innovation Management Associations and participation in industry-governmentDevelopment pp. 15–18 Research Institutions academia collaborative projects NGOs and NPOs Incorporation of diverse public CSR Promotion Stakeholder dialogue (4 times/year) Social Contribution Activities opinions, promotion of stakeholderDialogue through collaboration pp. 67 focused management, social contribution through nonprofit activities Global Environment Global warming prevention, resource Environment Environment conservation, ecosystem preservation All Business pp. 68–92 Divisions Contents 20 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Recognition of Social Responsibility Understanding Issues Through Dialogue and Taking Part in Initiatives Engagement with Customers brokerage-sponsored investor meetings, and one-on-one Global Campaign Rollout meetings with institutional investors and analysts. It is critical for Hitachi to gain stakeholders’ understanding of In fiscal 2015, we held quarterly financial results its Social Innovation Business and corporate vision, which briefings and corporate strategy meetings on our progress aspire to realize a sustainable society. Continuing from fiscal with the 2015 Mid-term Management Plan. Following on 2014, we conducted the Global Brand Campaign in 19 from fiscal 2014, we hosted Hitachi IR Day 2015, where countries and regions. The campaign uses the slogan senior management explained their business strategies and “SOCIAL INNOVATION—It’s Our Future,” presenting management policies under the plan. Feedback from examples of how Hitachi’s Social Innovation Business is institutional investors and analysts was positive. Their helping to address the many issues societies now face comments included, “I was struck by the companywide globally, such as energy issues, depletion of water efforts to generate cash flows,” and “This was a valuable resources, transportation issues linked to urbanization, once a year opportunity to update our understanding of the healthcare issues associated with the graying of society, company’s various businesses—one that I very much hope advancement of big data and other information will continue.” technologies, food safety, and information security. We also conducted tours of the Nakajo Division of To globally enhance the Hitachi brand, we have held the Hitachi Industrial Equipment Systems and Hitachi Consumer Hitachi Social Innovation Forum in locations worldwide, Products (Thailand), a consumer electronics production site, including Brazil, Germany, India, Japan, Myanmar, Turkey, to deepen understanding of our product businesses, in the United Kingdom, and the United States, showcasing addition to conducting about 740 one-on-one meetings with examples of the Social Innovation Business being conducted institutional investors and analysts worldwide. Members of in each region. Through keynote speeches, panel senior management visit institutional investors in North discussions, and exhibits, we present a wide range of America, Europe, and Asia twice a year to explain corporate stakeholders—including customers and government management policies and business directions. We are doing officials—with solutions to social issues that countries and our best to share IR feedback in-house and reflect this in regions around the world face today. management and operations. We also post briefing materials and business Engagement with Employees performance as well as stock price trend charts in a timely Enhancing Management-Employee Communication manner on our IR website. We aim to continuously enhance Since fiscal 2012, we have been organizing town hall our information disclosure. In fiscal 2015 we introduced a meetings bringing together senior management and new responsive design on our website for improved employees. We held around 130 town hall meetings at browsing convenience from smartphones and tablets. operations in and outside Japan during the first three years, and in fiscal 2015, the Chairman and CEO and the President Investor Relations and COO attended 21 meetings in the United States and China, as well as in Japan and elsewhere. Disclosure Policy Ordinary business meetings and conferences are limited in agenda, and company communications with employees via our intranet and other channels tend to be one-way. Town hall meetings, meanwhile, are intended as forums for direct dialogue where employees can gain a real sense of the senior management’s way of thinking and what is needed for Hitachi to make the next leap forward, as well as occasions for reaching a shared understanding of the work in which everyone is involved. In the town hall meetings, we believe that it is important for senior management to hear the thoughts of frontline employees and for both sides to share their awareness as they engage in dialogue on diverse topics, such as how we can grow our business. Promoting a Proactive IR Approach Our investor relations (IR) activities broadly include business strategy meetings, tours of plants and R&D facilities for institutional investors and analysts, participation in Contents 21 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Recognition of Social Responsibility Understanding Issues Through Dialogue and Taking Part in Initiatives Working with Governments and Public Policymakers Policy Council Participation External Relations Initiatives As part of our dialogue with government officials, Hitachi The social infrastructure field draws particularly strong executives and other representatives participate in a range interest from the public sector. In the task of globally of government-sponsored policy councils. Chairman of the expanding our Social Innovation Business, government Board and Representative Executive Officer Hiroaki institutions in Japan and other countries around the world Nakanishi served from fiscal 2013 to 2015 as a member of are important partners to Hitachi, both as customers and Japan’s Council for Science, Technology, and Innovation— as backers. which serves as the control tower for science, technology, The Japanese government has implemented a support and innovation policy under the prime minister—making structure for fields including the internet of things (IoT), policy planning recommendations. He also contributed to artificial intelligence (AI), and infrastructure system export the compilation of the 5th Science and Technology Basic projects to raise industrial competiveness. Effective use of Plan. His current work emphasizes both resolving social these structures and advice from the government is issues and economic growth with the use of ICT to achieve enormously helpful to us in advancing our Social Innovation the “Society 5.0”*1 proposed by the Japanese government. Business. We also increasingly receive requests for policy Since fiscal 2015 he has participated as a member of proposals from government authorities when they are the New Industrial Structure Committee of the Ministry of looking into social issues and infrastructure support policies. Economy, Trade, and Industry in discussions for the In responding to these requests, Hitachi contributes to a formulation of a New Industrial Structure Vision to help better society. Japan take the lead in innovations based on IoT, big data, We also cooperate with government-related and AI—the so-called fourth industrial revolution. organizations in other countries while addressing local social Staff from Hitachi headquarters and business issues and the forms of society envisioned by the people departments have also participated in meetings and there with the aim of creating the best possible societies. roundtable discussions that look into policy and from the In carrying out the Social Innovation Business, making standpoint of expanding businesses, as well as various types of policy proposals to the governments of cooperating in planning new policies for Japan, including Japan and other countries is becoming increasingly specific recommendations for more effective policy important. The Government & External Relations Division planning and implementation. contributes to the creation of new social mechanisms. *1 In the 5th Science and Technology Basic Plan, “Society 5.0” refers to scientific and technical innovation that leads to transformations to bring about a new society following Promoting External Relations the evolution from a hunting society to an agricultural society, industrial society, and information society. Hitachi established the Government & External Relations Division in our corporate headquarters in fiscal 2009 to guide and accelerate the external relations of the entire Government Support Hitachi Group, and we have since worked to strengthen our As one of its infrastructure system export support measures, relationships with government and industrial organizations. METI commissions the Overseas Human Resources and In fiscal 2016, we reorganized the division to achieve our Development Association (HIDA) and the Japan External new goals of further enhancing the global expansion of our Trade Organization (JETRO) to conduct a Global Internship Social Innovation Business from the perspective of external Program to support global human resource development relations activities. and the creation of global networks. From fiscal 2012 The Government & External Relations Division works through 2015, 17 young Hitachi Group employees took part together with the Hitachi Corporate Office in Washington DC in this program, which sends junior-level employees from and the Hitachi Corporate Office, Europe, as well as private companies to government institutions and local business locations in the Americas, Europe, Asia, and companies in emerging countries for several months. Japan. By dealing with these governments and Employee participation in this type of program enables organizations, the division uncovers new business Hitachi to accurately identify the needs of emerging opportunities for Hitachi based on the social issues and countries and propose the optimal solutions for their policies in each region. The division works together with particular social concerns, helping to resolve them. other departments in the company to further strengthen the Social Innovation Business, and to contribute to better societies in Japan and around the world. Contents 22 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Recognition of Social Responsibility Understanding Issues Through Dialogue and Taking Part in Initiatives Participating in Business and Industry Associations government representatives on Hitachi’s technological Membership in business and industry associations is another expertise to convey how Hitachi can contribute to the United critical aspect of our external relations. Hitachi is a member States. of Keidanren (Japan Business Federation), where Chairman These kinds of activities allow us to a foster broader of the Board and Representative Executive Officer Hiroaki understanding of Hitachi’s business and technological Nakanishi has served as vice chair since June 2014. He also expertise and to expand our global network. chairs the Committee on South Asia, the Committee on Information and Telecommunication Policy, and the Europe: Hitachi Corporate Office, Europe Committee on Education and Human Resources The Hitachi Corporate Office, Europe, located in Brussels, Development (as of May 2016). Other executives and monitors policy and legislation trends in the European Union, employees participate in a wide range of Keidanren such as the European Commission and European committees. As the planning and coordination chair for the Parliament, and analyzes their impact on Hitachi’s business subcommittee on Europe, we also conduct activities with activities. It is active in European societal issues, Japanese and European governments to pursue early contributing to policy development through business. agreement during ongoing negotiations on the Japan-EU Specifically, the office actively gathers information in the Economic Partnership Agreement, while maintaining close fields of energy, trade, information and telecommunications, economic relations with European governments and transportation, healthcare, research and development, economic organizations in those regions. environment, and CSR; communicates with relevant As a member of the Japan Electronics and Information departments within the company; and makes proposals to Technology Industries Association (JEITA), we continue to EU institutions through business and trade associations like participate in activities to formulate industry responses to BUSINESSEUROPE, DigitalEurope, and the Japan Business the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation on Council in Europe (JBCE). We also participate in a European personal data protection that was adopted in April 2016, as Commission Product Environmental Footprint (PEF) pilot well as proposed amendments to Japan’s Act on the project as part of our environmental policy activities, Protection of Personal Information that were enacted in exchanging opinions and supporting the development of September 2015. We will continue similar efforts related to new policies. delegated regulations in the EU and cabinet orders and We maintain ongoing dialogues with representatives guidelines in Japan that provide more detailed regulations. responsible for European policy, business associations, and Within the Japan Electrical Manufacturers’ Association others, mainly via the JBCE, in the EU-Japan Working Group (JEMA), Hitachi is surveying the status of the development of on Corporate Social Responsibility, organized by the the electric power infrastructure in other countries, including European Commission and Japan’s Ministry of Economy, power generation and transmission facilities, to promote Trade, and Industry, and the UN Asia Regional Forum on infrastructure system exports. We are also participating in Business and Human Rights, among other organizations. public relations activities—primarily interactions with business Since 1998, we have held the EU Hitachi Science & operators in these countries—on how Japanese technologies Technology Forum to deepen understanding of Hitachi’s and products can help to solve social issues there. business. In fiscal 2014, the forum took place in Paris, addressing the theme of healthcare. Starting in fiscal 2016 United States: Hitachi Corporate Office in Washington DC we are focusing on the Social Innovation Business while The Hitachi Corporate Office in Washington DC examines continuing to hold these forums from the perspective of the impact of US government policies and legislation on our contributing to European society through business and business activities. To promote mutual understanding and technology. Through these activities Hitachi actively shares improve business opportunities, we communicate to key information with European stakeholders. We also stakeholders on how Hitachi can contribute to the growth of communicate with policymakers through workshops and US society. other activities. For example, we share information gathered by the Washington office with Group companies, exchanging reports on key laws and regulations that impact management and business, analyzing their business impact, and responding appropriately. To increase the effectiveness of these activities, we cooperate with influential external business associations, think tanks, and academic groups, exchanging opinions with specialists and researchers in efforts that will lead to policy proposals. As part of the global expansion of our Social Innovation Business, we provide information to policymakers and Contents 23 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Recognition of Social Responsibility Understanding Issues Through Dialogue and Taking Part in Initiatives Participation in Initiatives International Standardization Activities To help create and expand markets as well as to accelerate Main Initiatives in Which Hitachi Is Involved our global business expansion, we are actively involved in United Nations Global Compact developing international standards and are willing to commit Hitachi became a full member of the United Nations Global employees to serve as chairpersons or international Compact in February 2009. Our corporate foundation is the secretaries or in other key positions of international basis for continuing growth as a global company, and it also standards developing organizations, such as the needs to meet internationally recognized global standards International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) and the that go beyond national and regional laws and regulations. International Organization for Standardization (ISO). We believe that respecting and implementing the 10 The Hitachi Group Standardization Committee was principles of the UN Global Compact will build a stronger established to work for coordination among the Hitachi foundation for our business. Group toward international standardization. The Steering Committee*1 of this body determines priority themes and promotes standardization activities by creating working Global Compact Network Japan (GCNJ) groups for each theme. Hitachi’s international standardization work is well regarded. In fiscal 2015, we received the Industrial World Business Council for Sustainable Development Science and Technology Policy and Environment Bureau The World Business Council for Sustainable Development Director-General’s Award in the Ministry of Economy, (WBCSD) is an organization led by CEOs of forward-looking Trade, and Industry’s Industrial Standardization Awards, companies in more than 30 countries worldwide. Its aim is and we were honored by the Telecommunication to create a sustainable future for business, society, and the Technology Committee and the Information Technology environment. Hitachi has participated in the WBCSD since Standards Commission of Japan. 1995. Hitachi is committed to contributing to international standardization via standard-developing organizations like the IEC, ISO, and various consortia to facilitate innovation that resolves social issues, as well as to providing solutions consistent with international standards to support the development of sound global markets. *1 Steering Committee: Headed by the executive officer overseeing R&D, this entity includes chief technology officers of Hitachi business units and Group companies. The committee is responsible for decisions on cross-departmental and companywide standardization projects. Hitachi Group Standardization Committee Head: Members: Priority Theme 1 Hitachi, Ltd. Hitachi Group Working Group executive officer in representatives in charge of R&D charge of international Priority Theme 2 standardization Working Group (CTOs, etc.) Priority Theme 3 Steering Committee Working Group Hitachi Group Standardization Committee Contents 24 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Review and Improvement of CSR Activities Enhancing CSR Management Review and Improvement of CSR Activities Hitachi’s Aims Our society faces a wide range of problems, including global warming, poverty, and social discrimination, and demand is growing for corporations to address these problems. To meet these expectations, Hitachi is integrating its management and CSR, incorporating CSR into routine business practices throughout the organization and improving the quality of management by implementing the PDCA cycle. By communicating with our stakeholders, we are affirming our relationship of trust with society, and by sharing values with stakeholders, we will aim to achieve both the sustainable development of society and our economic growth as a global company. Enhancing CSR Management Hitachi’s Approach Hitachi’s CSR Management Framework We are building our CSR policy on a framework based on To realize the Hitachi Group Vision, which draws on our ISO 26000 to promote activities that are consistent Corporate Credo and Founding Spirit that form the core of throughout the Group, actively organizing global CSR our CSR, we have been sharing throughout the Group our meetings and undertaking initiatives at the national and CSR Policy, created in 2005, as the basis of our CSR regional levels, with the aim of building and developing a activities. In keeping with a management strategy of actively global, Group-wide CSR network. We attach importance to advancing our Social Innovation Business, we have, since information disclosure, on which communication with fiscal 2014, adopted a framework of nine key themes based stakeholders is based, and are responding to stakeholder on ISO 26000 with the aim of further integrating needs through the Hitachi Sustainability Report, containing management and CSR and continually improving our CSR standard disclosures defined in the GRI Sustainability activities by running the PDCA cycle. Reporting Guidelines. CSR Management Framework Recognize Properly recognize our social responsibility 1 Recognition of Social Responsibility 2 Corporate Governance 3 Human Rights 1 4 Labor Practices 5 Environment 6 Fair Operating Practices 7 Customers (Consumer Issues) 8 Community Involvement and Development Review and Improve 9 Review and Improvement of Identify, Prioritize, and Act Confirm and enhance CSR CSR Activities Identify relevant issues, establish activities through proactive priorities for addressing issues, communication and stakeholder and act on them engagement Contents 25 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Review and Improvement of CSR Activities Enhancing CSR Management Hitachi’s Engagement with Material Issues The Selection and Boundaries of CSR Reporting Themes Hitachi’s CSR activities are premised on an accurate perception of changing social issues and expectations. To In reporting the achievements of its CSR initiatives, Hitachi strengthen the integration of management and CSR, from seeks to select those themes that are of interest to its fiscal 2015 to the first quarter of fiscal 2016, Hitachi, Ltd. stakeholders. To ascertain the ever-changing interests of prioritized, from its own perspective, its CSR initiatives in stakeholders in the light of fluctuating economic and social accordance with the 2018 Mid-term Management Plan. As a conditions, we have endeavored since fiscal 2014 to give result, three material issues were identified, namely, social specific examples of our initiatives under our nine-item innovation, collaborative creation, and the environment. Our CSR management framework. We take note of aims for each item were formulated, and initiatives are being stakeholders’ own priorities, analysis conducted by outside actively advanced using the CSR management framework consultants, and the opinions of experts in choosing as the foundation for the achievement of those aims. initiatives that correspond to our nine framework items. These are further screened with reference to the ESG Hitachi’s Material Issues (environmental, social, and governance) investment indexes Material issues Aims for each issue and SASB (Sustainability Accounting Standards Board) Social innovation Utilize digital technology, which can connect all things, to offer standards, reviewed by the executive officer in charge of optimum solutions to social issues Share understanding of issues and ideals with various CSR, and reflected, starting this year, in Hitachi Collaborative creation stakeholders, suggesting and implementing solutions with Sustainability Report 2016. them, to create new social value and minimize adverse risks We also aim to provide a more detailed account of the Resolve environmental issues involving climate change, Environment reported themes’ social impact by clarifying the resources, and ecosystems throughout the value chain boundaries (importance to internal and external stakeholders) of each theme. Reporting boundary Items Reporting themes Internal External 1 Recognition of social responsibility Realizing sustainable, innovative management Understanding issues through dialogue and taking part in initiatives 2 Corporate governance Pursuing management transparency and efficiency Sharing a Hitachi Group Identity Advancing risk management on multiple fronts 3 Human rights Respect for human rights throughout the value chain Respect for workers’ rights 4 Labor practices Achieving a fair and equitable work environment Promoting diversity and inclusion Promoting occupational health and safety A strategy for growing together with our global human capital 5 Environment Promoting environmental management Enhancing environmental management on an ongoing basis Responding to environmental risks and opportunities Reducing the environmental burden of our business operations Preserving ecosystems 6 Fair operating practices Promoting work practices in line with international ethics codes Engaging in responsible procurement 7 Customers (consumer issues) Pursuing customer satisfaction Ensuring accessibility to products and services Ensuring thorough management of quality and safety 8 Community involvement and development Promoting sustainable community involvement and development 9 Review and improvement of CSR activities Enhancing CSR management Contents 26 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Review and Improvement of CSR Activities Enhancing CSR Management CSR Management Structure stakeholder dialogue on a worldwide basis in cooperation with our regional headquarters and take a proactive In October 2013, the CSR Division and the Environmental approach to incorporating global social issues into our Strategy Office at Hitachi, Ltd. merged to form the CSR and management strategy while continuously striving to improve Environmental Strategy Division. We are sharing the Hitachi the quality of our management. Group CSR Statement and Mission, created in fiscal 2014 to *1 CSR Promotion Team: Takes the lead in implementing important CSR initiatives lay out the goals of the new organization, with business units throughout the Group. and Group companies. To promote CSR across the Group, the CSR and Hitachi Group CSR Statement and Mission Environmental Strategy Division, together with CSR-related We strive to realize a sustainable society by properly understanding departments at Hitachi, Ltd. (the CSR Promotion Team*1) global social and environmental expectations through communication and CSR departments of business units, Group companies, with our various stakeholders and integrating those expectations into and regional headquarters outside Japan, hold regular global our management: CSR meetings to share a common direction and develop CSR and environmental initiatives that contribute to solving social issues Group-wide CSR policies and initiatives. Governance that realizes sustainable management To fulfill our social responsibilities, as well as to seek Communication that fosters mutual understanding with stakeholders sustainable growth as a global company, we conduct Structure of Hitachi Group CSR Promotion Senior Executive President Committee*1 CSR and Heads of Environmental Strategy business units Business sites/Plants Division (Secretariat) CSR promotion officers Group company presidents Group companies CSR promotion officers CSR Promotion Team Regional headquarters outside Japan Group Management, Corporate Brand Management, Regional executives Customer Satisfaction, Overseas Operations, Employee CSR promotion officers Relations & Human Capital, Legal Affairs, Corporate Citizenship, Environmental Conservation, Compliance, Quality Hitachi, Ltd. and 1,056 consolidated subsidiaries and 249 Assurance, Procurement, Public Relations, Research and equity-method affiliates*2 Development, Government and External Relations *1 Senior Executive Committee: Develops CSR management policies at the executive level. *2 As of March 31, 2016. Contents 27 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Review and Improvement of CSR Activities Enhancing CSR Management Main Plans and Results Recognition of Our Social Responsibility Achievement Policies FY 2015 goals/plans Results in FY 2015 level FY 2016 goals/plans · Perception of company’s impact on society through · Engage in stakeholder · Conducted objective · Continue stakeholder interactive communication with stakeholders dialogue in Japan evaluation of material dialogue at business units issues · Held six dialogues with experts, investors, research firms, and others · Engage in stakeholder · Held dialogues in India, · Continue stakeholder dialogue outside Japan Australia, Europe, and dialogue outside Japan China · Implementation of PDCA cycle on the formulation and · Confirm progress in the · Strengthened frontline · Develop human capital communication (inside and outside the company) of the vision final year of 2015 Midfunctions through through special training and growth strategy for CSR management term Management Plan realignment into 12 program (19,000 and implement measures business units to employees by fiscal 2018) to achieve targets accelerate collaborative · Formulation and · Examine longer-term creation with customers announcement of 2018 issues in formulating 2018 · Management executives Mid-term Management Mid-term Management reviewed strategic Plan and promotion of Plan while also scenarios of each business strategic projects considering and unit in preparation for 2018 developing specific Mid-term Management measures Plan · Promotion of innovative R&D that contributes to resolving · Actively promote · Issued 27 press releases · Continue policy of customers’ or society’s issues information on research (7 related to open disclosure and open activities and achievements innovation) innovation · Achieve recognition for · Received 54 external · Continue to conduct world-leading innovative recognitions, including the world-leading innovative research Medal with Yellow Ribbon research that is and Contemporary Master recognized by peers and Craftsman award contributes to resolving challenges in society · Global brand communication activities · Advertise in 20 countries, · Ran three creative themes · Advertise in 19 countries, · Implementation of “Global Brand Campaign” under a including Japan (two for TV commercials) including Japan integrated communication strategy in 20 countries, including Japan · Awareness of advertisements reached its target level in 15 of the 18 countries surveyed · Proactive communication of operations · Revitalize proactive public · Actively participated in · Continue revitalizing · Proactive participation in and contributions to social initiatives relation activities committees of proactive public relation and policymaking government institutions activities and economic organizations : Achieved : Partially achieved : Not achieved Review and Improvement of CSR Activities Achievement Policies FY 2015 goals/plans Results in FY 2015 level FY 2016 goals/plans · Development of CSR network on Group-wide, global basis · Hold global meeting of · Held global meeting of · Continue holding global CSR promotion officers CSR promotion officers meeting of CSR promotion officers · Hold regional meetings of CSR promotion officers · Communication with stakeholders through information · Publish Hitachi Group · Published Hitachi Group · Publish integrated report, disclosure Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 sustainability report, and and Highlights containing and Highlights containing company outline and think standard disclosures from standard disclosures from about project team for the GRI Sustainability the GRI Sustainability next year’s publications Reporting Guidelines and Reporting Guidelines and · Obtain feedback from obtain independent obtained independent stakeholders assurance assurance · Identified issues in the Hitachi Group Sustainability Report 2015 and selected reporting themes for Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 in keeping with stakeholder interests : Achieved : Partially achieved : Not achieved Contents 28 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Activities Corporate Governance 29–37 Fair Operating Practices 52–57 Pursuing Management Transparency and Efficiency 29 Promoting Work Practices in Line 52 with International Ethics Codes Sharing a Hitachi Group Identity 33 Engaging in Responsible Procurement 54 Advancing Risk Management on Multiple Fronts 35 Customers (Consumer Issues) 58–65 Human Rights 38–40 Pursuing Customer Satisfaction 59 Respect for Human Rights 38 Throughout the Value Chain Ensuring Accessibility to Products and Services 61 Respect for Workers’ Rights 40 Ensuring Thorough Management of Quality 63 and Safety Labor Practices 41–51 Community Involvement and Development 66–67 Achieving a Fair and Equitable Work Environment 42 Promoting Sustainable Community Involvement 66 Promoting Diversity and Inclusion 42 and Development Promoting Occupational Health and Safety 47 A Strategy for Growing Together 49 Environment68–92 with Our Global Human Capital Contents 29 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Corporate Governance Pursuing Management Transparency and Efficiency Corporate Governance Hitachi’s Aims “Sustainability management” is expected to play an array of roles in realizing a sustainable society, a key component of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)—the centerpiece of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, adopted by the United Nations in 2015. We believe that meeting society’s expectations requires a corporate culture that unfailingly contributes to the resolution of social issues through the creation of products and services and that ensures ethical and fair business activities. We are cultivating a self-directed corporate culture where CSR perspectives are reflected in management decision making and a common identity is shared throughout the Hitachi Group. In addition to pursuing greater managerial transparency and efficiency, we have identified the main themes of this effort as sharing our Codes of Conduct and values throughout the Group and promoting multifaceted risk management. In these ways we are accelerating the development of corporate governance that incorporates CSR into our decision making and operations across our business activities. Main Plans and Results Achievement Policies FY 2015 goals/plans Results in FY 2015 level FY 2016 goals/plans · Instilling of the · Further instill the Hitachi · Implemented the brand awards “Inspiration · Realize the Hitachi Group Vision by further Hitachi Group Group Identity under an of the Year Global Awards 2015” to promote instilling the Group Identity in employees, Identity in “autonomous understanding the Hitachi Group Identity raise employee awareness to achieve the employees decentralized global and Hitachi brand; shared within the Hitachi 2018 Mid-term Management Plan management” structure, Group video of the round table session with (1) Provide training worldwide to promote raise employee CEO Toshiaki Higashihara and the grand understanding of the Hitachi Group awareness globally to prix winners Identity and the Hitachi brand value realize the Hitachi Group · Held brand-training sessions to gain (2) Implement the brand awards “Inspiration Vision employees’ understanding about the of the Year Global Awards 2016”; foster Hitachi brand and utilize brand ambassadors · Held brand-training sessions in Europe, (3) Hold brand-training sessions Southeast Asia, China, and India · Establishment of · Enhance Group-wide · Held Compliance Management Conference · Enhance Group-wide compliance framework corporate ethics, compliance framework · Convened Advisory Committee globally strict compliance globally · Revised Hitachi Global Compliance Program with laws and · Shared CEO’s message during Ethics and regulations Compliance Month · Held Hitachi Group Compliance Conference · Appointed Regional Head of Compliance : Achieved : Partially achieved : Not achieved Pursuing Management Transparency and Efficiency Hitachi’s Approach forging ever-stronger corporate governance. Worldwide social and environmental megatrends, such We not only strive to ensure the legality, soundness, and as population growth and climate change, have reached a transparency of our business but also endeavor to respond point in recent years where they are having a bigger impact rapidly to constantly changing economic and social on corporate management decisions. As a global company conditions and efficiently conduct operations. At the same that contributes to society through our Social Innovation time we are bolstering management oversight and monitoring Business, we are working to ensure that environmental and capabilities and clearly defining managerial responsibilities social issues are at the heart of decision making at the with a view to sustainably enhancing our corporate value by highest levels of corporate governance. Contents 30 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Corporate Governance Pursuing Management Transparency and Efficiency Corporate Governance A Business Structure for Collaborative Creation From fiscal 2016 we are transitioning from our existing Driving Hitachi’s Governance product-specific in-house company system to a business Hitachi, Ltd. has adopted the committee system, which has structure that bolsters frontline functions to accelerate nominating, audit, and compensation committees.*1 We aim collaborative creation with customers and provide innovation to establish a framework for quick business operations and through our services and products. to realize highly transparent management by separating the responsibilities for management oversight from the execution Market-Specific Business Structure with Strengthened of business operations. The majority of our Board of Frontline Functions Directors are outside directors, including non-Japanese. Our Our new business structure consists of service-focused goals are to reflect diverse and global viewpoints as well as businesses that provide innovation as a service to our to reinforce management supervisory functions. We have customers and product-focused businesses that furnish formulated and published Corporate Governance Guidelines products, parts, and materials. outlining the framework of corporate governance, such as In the service-focused businesses, the service and the function and composition of the Board of Directors, platforms business unit provides a shared, open platform, qualifications for outside directors, and the criteria for and 12 front business units offer services in the power and assessing the independence of outside directors. energy, manufacturing and water, urban development, finance, public sector, and healthcare markets. The front *1 A corporate governance system under the Companies Act of Japan, where a board of directors makes basic policy decisions and oversees the execution of business by business units have bolstered frontline functions such as executive officers, while the executive officers, appointed by the board of directors, sales, engineering, and consulting, while the service and execute the company’s business affairs via a set of statutory committees. platforms business unit offers a shared platform for aggregating and integrating technologies essential to Corporate Governance Guidelines providing advanced services, including artificial intelligence (AI), analytics, and control technologies, integrating them in a system enabling collaborative innovation with customers. Governance Structure of Hitachi, Ltd. Our product-focused businesses present customers and The Board of Directors comprises a majority of outside front business units globally competitive products, parts, directors and includes five non-Japanese directors, two of and materials. whom are women. This represents an effort to reflect global, Business units are directly operated by the president, diverse viewpoints in company management, as well as to while CEOs of individual business units have investment reinforce management supervisory functions. authority and responsibility for profit and earnings. They work in partnership with other business units, General Meeting of Shareholders comprehensively and organically leveraging the resources of the entire Hitachi Group and creating innovations quickly Election and flexibly in order to provide optimum products and services to customers. Board of Directors Our business model aims to sustainably create value. (13 members, including 9 from outside) Through our Social Innovation Business it contributes to improving people’s quality of life by addressing on an Nominating Audit Committee Compensation ongoing basis the issues society and our customers face. Committee Committee (5 members, (4 members, (4 members, including 3 from outside) including 3 from outside) including 3 from outside) Appoint Supervise Executive Officers: Quick execution of company business Contents 31 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Corporate Governance Pursuing Management Transparency and Efficiency Fiscal 2016 New Business Structure President and CEO Group Corporate R&D Group Service-focused businesses 12 front business units Energy solutions business unit Nuclear power business unit Electric power business unit Manufacturing and commerce Water business unit Building systems business unit Railway systems business unit Urban solutions business unit Defense systems business unit Financial institutions business unit Governments and public Healthcare business unit Chief Executive for the Americas Chief Executive for EMEA/CIS Chief Executive for Asia-Pacific Chief Executive for China corporations business unit business unit Power/Energy Manufacturing/ Urban development Finance/Public/ Water Healthcare Service and platforms business unit Product-focused businesses Industrial products business unit Group companies Products, components, materials, etc. Hitachi to Make a Transition to a Market-Specific Business Structure with Strengthened Frontline Functions Transition to a Global Management System Five-Year Plan, and are also promoting our Social Innovation To accelerate growth in the global market, Hitachi in April Business in developing countries. Social-infrastructure2015 appointed regional chief executives in the four global related demand is very strong in the Asia-Pacific, where the regions of the Americas, China, the Asia-Pacific, and EMEA/ aim is to collaborate with local partners in the region in CIS.*1 In addition to creating regional growth strategies, developing our Social Innovation Business to solve issues promoting localization, and effectively utilizing management common in urban areas. In the EMEA/CIS region, where resources, the chief executives have authority to establish innovations in manufacturing drive markets, the focus will be our Social Innovation Business in new business areas where on rolling out our Social Innovation Business aimed at growth is expected. The chief executives also advance our increasing efficiency in production and supply chains. In all Social Innovation Business based on market needs, these regions, the chief executives will act as regional providing services and solutions that leverage our strengths. “control towers,” developing and building solutions with Toward the goal of thorough compliance, they promote Hitachi customers to resolve a variety of global issues that coordinated global management of our operations and are becoming increasingly complex and borderless. efficient allocation of our management resources. In this *1 EMEA/CIS: Europe, the Middle East, Africa, and Commonwealth of Independent States. way, Hitachi provides innovation at the highest level and establishes firm governance as a global company. In the Americas, a market that features world-leading IT innovations, big data analytics are providing new solutions in a variety of industries, including energy. In China, we have brought the direction of our Group operations in line with government initiatives for strengthening infrastructure networks and improving health presented in the Thirteenth Contents 32 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Corporate Governance Pursuing Management Transparency and Efficiency Internal Control over Financial Reporting Compensation for Directors and Executive Officers To ensure the reliability of consolidated financial reporting, Compensation for each director and executive officer is every company develops and uses assessment determined by the Compensation Committee in accordance documents for company-level controls, and business with the provisions of the Companies Act of Japan. process controls based on the guidelines determined by Compensation for directors consists of monthly our J-SOX Committee.* 1 remuneration and a year-end allowance. Compensation for Our business units and major Group companies have directors is basically fixed. developed mechanisms to objectively perform assessments. Compensation for executive officers consists of monthly Assessment results are reported to the J-SOX Committee’s remuneration, a performance-linked component, and office to assess the effectiveness of internal control. mediumand long-term incentive compensation. The higher the position that executive officers hold is, the higher the *1 J-SOX: A system for the development of the internal control required under Japan’s Financial Instruments and Exchange Act (FIEA) that ensure the reliability of financial proportion of variable pay (the sum of the performancereporting. linked component and the mediumand long-term incentive compensation, not including monthly remuneration as fixed pay) is as a portion of the total annual compensation. Hitachi Internal Control Assessment System Monthly remuneration is decided by adjusting a basic amount to reflect the results of an assessment. The basic Financial Services amount is set in accordance with the relevant position. The Agency performance-linked component is decided by adjusting a basic amount to reflect financial results and individual Internal Control Report performance. The basic amount is set within the range of about 25% to 35% of the total annual compensation of each Hitachi, Ltd. President executive officer in accordance with the relevant position. and CFO Mediumand long-term incentive compensation is in the Report Audit Report form of stock options as stock-based compensation, with Report Committee share price conditions (stock acquisition rights with the J-SOX Committee Independent Collaboration Auditors strike price of ¥1), with the number granted determined Committee’s office Internal within the range of about 10% to 40% of the total annual Report Auditing External compensation of each executive officer in accordance with Office Audit the relevant position. As for expatriates, cash awards based Business units and major Group companies on the value of Hitachi’s share price with similar conditions are substituted for the stock options. Report Beginning with compensation for fiscal 2008, the system for directors and executive officers was revised to abolish Subsidiaries retirement allowances. The payment of retirement allowances to directors and executive officers due to the abolition of the retirement allowance system will be in an amount determined by the Compensation Committee at the time of the retirement of a relevant director or executive officer. The amount of compensation for directors and executive officers in fiscal 2015 is shown below. FY 2015 Compensation to Directors and Executive Officers Category Recipients (number) Total amount (millions of yen) Directors (outside directors) 11 (8) 398 (280) Executive officers 28 1,763 Total 39 2,161 * The number of directors indicated excludes two directors who concurrently serve as executive officers. * Compensation to directors includes the monthly remuneration of one director who retired due to expiration of his term of office at the close of the 146th Annual General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 25, 2015. * In addition to the above, there are retirement allowances of 56 million yen for two executive officers who retired on March 31, 2016. Contents 33 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Corporate Governance Sharing a Hitachi Group Identity Sharing a Hitachi Group Identity Enhancing Our Compliance Framework Hitachi’s Approach To comprehensively implement our compliance framework, We carry out our business not only in full compliance with we have appointed a senior executive as the head of risk legal requirements but also in ways that ensure socially management for the entire Hitachi Group. Every business responsible conduct. Spreading understanding of this unit and key Group company also has an executive among all Hitachi employees is a fundamental handling risk management, assisted by a compliance management issue. As economic activity becomes manager. We are also supporting regional Group increasingly borderless, there is a growing need for steps companies and have appointed compliance heads in 11 to eradicate bribery, corruption, and other illegal behavior regions globally. in accordance with conditions in the countries and Under this system, policies and measures are shared regions where we have operations. As a global company, through the Compliance Management Conference, composed we are implementing a consistent compliance structure of risk management executives from business units and key across the entire Hitachi Group. Group companies. In addition, all compliance managers meet In pursuing sustainable management, we give equal regularly at the Hitachi Group Compliance Conference to importance to value creation that contributes to the provide information on compliance and to confirm resolution of social issues. This is being advanced implementation of required actions. through the dissemination and sharing among all The Advisory Committee, consisting of outside experts, employees of the Hitachi Group Identity—an integrated convenes regularly to exchange views on the state of set of principles spelling out our management vision, compliance initiatives. The insights provided by committee Codes of Conduct, and values. members are utilized to improve policies and actions. The internal audit section regularly conducts Groupwide reviews to verify that each area of compliance is Sharing Codes of Conduct and Compliance being appropriately operated. In cases where the reviews Approaches Throughout the Group identify necessary improvements, corrective measures are swiftly implemented. Ensuring Awareness of the Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct Compliance Reporting System Hitachi, Ltd. formulated the Hitachi Group Codes of Hitachi has instituted a Group-wide whistleblowing system Conduct as a common conduct code for the Hitachi Group to prevent illegal and unethical behavior, to promptly address in fiscal 2010. We issued the Hitachi Group Codes of infractions, and to enhance our ability to self-regulate. Conduct Handbook in fiscal 2011 as a guidebook for all In this system, reports go directly to the Compliance employees; as of March 2016, more than 250,000 copies Department at Hitachi or to an outside attorney. This have been distributed to employees in Japan. We ask system can be used not only by employees within the managers to submit a written pledge to comply with the Hitachi Group, who are able to report issues through Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct. To deepen awareness of in-house channels, but also by temporary staff and the codes throughout our global operations, we have suppliers. In addition, we have implemented the Channel to produced English and Chinese versions of a Japanesethe Board of Directors system to allow employees to language e-learning tool showing appropriate behavior and directly report problems anonymously to Hitachi directors. presenting specific examples for use in Hitachi Group The facts related to all reports are subject to thorough companies within and outside Japan. investigation and checking, and people who have identified themselves in the reports are informed of the investigation results. We make every effort to appropriately deal with Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct situations, including taking remedial action where necessary. Contents 34 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Corporate Governance Sharing a Hitachi Group Identity Prevention of Antisocial Transactions Sharing Values Throughout the Group To cut off all relationships with organized crime groups and other antisocial forces, we observe the following three Solidifying the Hitachi Group Identity provisions laid out in the Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct: Instilling the Group Identity in Employees 1. We will have no relations whatsoever with antisocial To help us solve social issues through understanding and forces such as organized crime groups, and we will embodiment of the Hitachi Group Identity, our brand never engage in antisocial transactions under any management must engage everyone in the Group. We use circumstances. channels including our intranet to ensure that Group 2. We will prevent antisocial transactions through selfemployees are clearly aware of what needs to be done to inspection of our transactions. express the Group Identity. To promote understanding of the 3. We will oppose antisocial forces such as organized Hitachi Group Identity and the Hitachi brand, we launched crime groups with firm resolve, and refuse any the Inspiration of the Year Awards in fiscal 2003 to share improper demands. activities within Hitachi that have demonstrated the Hitachi The entire Hitachi Group acts decisively to eliminate Group Identity and made an outstanding contribution to our approaches from antisocial forces in partnership with, where brand value. In fiscal 2012, we began evaluating applications necessary, the police, external specialist institutions (the globally, renaming the program the Inspiration of the Year National Center for the Elimination of Boryokudan and Global Awards. In fiscal 2015, the awards saw 227 Tokuboren, the Federation on Special Organized Crimes applications from China, Europe/Africa, India, North Within Jurisdiction of the Metropolitan Police Department), America, Southeast Asia, and Japan. Outstanding activities and lawyers. We include an organized crime elimination from each region were highlighted on the intranet, and the clause in contracts so that if it is determined that a business president presented the awards at a ceremony held at our partner belongs to an antisocial group, we can void the Tokyo headquarters. contract and break off the relationship. To further instill the Hitachi Group Identity and promote understanding of the Hitachi brand among our employees Thorough Export Controls globally, we held brand-training sessions utilizing the Hitachi For basic export control policies, we have adopted the Brand Book, a straightforward explanation of the Group Hitachi Standards of Corporate Conduct, which state: Identity and Hitachi brand, and the Hitachi Vision Movie, a “We shall help maintain international peace and security visual depiction of the Hitachi Group Vision. By raising through compliance with trade-related laws and employee awareness of the Hitachi Group Identity through regulations.” We established the Corporate Regulations these activities, we continue to strive to become a company concerning Security Export Control based on this policy in that “delivers innovations that answer society’s challenges.” 1987. We carry out strict export control practices in line with relevant laws and regulations, screening all goods Hitachi Group Identity and technologies intended for export against such factors as destination countries and regions as well as intended end use and end users. We provide guidance and educational support to Hitachi Group companies to ensure that all Group companies follow the same export control policies. In fiscal 2015, we held workshops for Group companies in the United States, South Korea, and India providing practical training on export control. During this period an e-learning program in Japanese, English, and Chinese—Export Controls of the Hitachi Group (Introductory Course)—was introduced and taken by around 113,000 employees at Group companies worldwide. Preventing Bribery and Corrupt Practices Preventing Violations of Fair Competition Laws Contents 35 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Corporate Governance Advancing Risk Management on Multiple Fronts Advancing Risk Management on Multiple Fronts secondary and other suppliers, cloud storage and Hitachi’s Approach multiplexing of production information, and the need to Changes to our operating environment from such factors as secure alternate transportation and fuel sources. the globalization of the economy and advances in and Based on the lessons learned from this disaster, in spread of information and communications technology (ICT) October 2011 we released and distributed new BCP lead not only to the expansion of business opportunities but guidelines for departmental implementation to further improve also to the diversification of risks to our operations. our BCPs. Hitachi Group operations in Japan completed their We have built a diverse risk management system under preparation and review of BCPs, based on applicability to their which we carry out risk analysis to accurately gauge operations, by the end of fiscal 2011. BCPs for large ongoing economic and social changes and use the insights earthquakes and novel strains of influenza have been prepared gained to take preventive measures and ensure a rapid for 49 Hitachi, Ltd. business sites and 96 Group companies. response to issues that may arise unexpectedly. As a On top of these efforts, since fiscal 1998, Hitachi, Ltd. company deeply involved in infrastructure projects in has held annual earthquake drills simulating a major seismic countries and regions around the world, we strive to event at key operations in Japan. In November 2015, Hitachi minimize risks to society from our operations. Measures Automotive Systems held coordinated drills at its head office include those to ensure the stable supply of our products and business sites in the cities of Sawa, Atsugi, and and services, further tighten our information security, and Fukushima, where managers in charge of their divisions reinforce business continuity plans (BCP). confirmed the action plans in emergency situations based on BCPs. In fiscal 2013, Hitachi appointed personnel in charge of Reinforcement of Risk Management System risk-response policies at its main overseas bases and around 300 companies prepared BCPs with the goal of The entire Hitachi Group is reinforcing its risk completing them for key operations by the end of fiscal management system to address increasingly globalized 2013. These BCPs are aimed at strengthening our ability to and complex risks. respond to business risks, including large disasters, novel Under Hitachi, Ltd.’s head of risk management, each strains of influenza, political instability, and social disruption, business operation assigns an executive as its risk as well as acts of terrorism. Moving forward, we intend to management officer to manage risks mainly concerned further expand the scope of our BCPs. with compliance, export control, disasters, and crime, and to respond adequately in coordination among the entire Group. Furthermore, Hitachi is building a comprehensive risk management system that contains standards and procedures to objectively evaluate different risks that may affect business. Stable Provision of Products and Services Creating BCPs in Key Operations Worldwide Hitachi Group Guidelines for Developing Business Continuity Plans (department version). Given the close relation of our business to social infrastructure, we are enhancing our BCPs to ensure that the impact of risks does not disrupt our business and thereby significantly affect society. In December 2006, we issued the Hitachi Group Guidelines for Developing Business Continuity Plans in Japanese. In fiscal 2010 these were translated into English and Chinese for distribution to all Hitachi Group companies worldwide to ensure our response readiness for large disasters and other risks. When the Great East Japan Earthquake struck in March 2011, our BCPs enabled quick responses and swift decision making. However, issues emerged including identification of Earthquake simulation drill. Contents 36 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Corporate Governance Advancing Risk Management on Multiple Fronts Creation of Procurement BCPs Promoting Information Security We have a deep involvement in social infrastructures in places where the suppliers who are our business Implementing Rigorous Information Security partners can be affected by major earthquakes and other The Information Security Committee, chaired by the Chief natural disasters. Information Security Officer, determines our information These disasters can heavily impact not only our security policies and procedures. The Information Security business operations and those of our suppliers but also Promotion Council and other bodies convey decisions society as a whole. To minimize this impact, the internally and to other companies in the Hitachi Group. procurement divisions in key Group and in-house Information security officers at business sites and companies in Japan have created procurement business companies ensure that these decisions are implemented in continuity plans (BCPs) that (1) standardize and use the workplace. generic parts to make procurement as flexible as possible; The Hitachi Group emphasizes two points in (2) cultivate multiple suppliers; (3) distribute production information security and personal information protection: across several locations; (4) budget inventory strategically; and (5) consider substitute products. To see (1) Precautionary measures and prompt security responses whether or not procurement BCPs would be effective, we We classify assets to be secured and take safeguarding held desktop exercises to discuss in a group what should measures based on vulnerability and risk analyses. We also be done during and after a disaster, making further have an emergency manual for security breaches, based on the assumption that these are inevitable, and not just possible. improvements as a result. In fiscal 2015, 118 Group (2) Promoting stronger ethical and security awareness among companies outside Japan took similar steps to bolster data users procurement BCPs, thereby contributing to the We have prepared a program tailored to Hitachi’s various continuation of Hitachi’s global operations. personnel levels and are working to raise the prevailing sense of ethics and security awareness through Group-wide e-learning. We are also conducting audits to identify and Improving Safety for Employees Sent to Dangerous address problems early on. Regions Responding to the hostage incident in Algeria in January 2013, then President Hiroaki Nakanishi reinforced his policy Basic Approach to Information Security Governance in February 2013 of ensuring the safety of employees sent Clearly designate assets to be protected to countries and areas at higher risk. Survey missions of Evaluate information assets and conduct risk analysis in-house and outside experts are now sent beforehand to areas at high risk of war, terrorism, and other threats. Even after employees are dispatched to such areas, we conduct Implement preventive Improve user literacy additional local surveys every six months as a means of Supply security Information techniques Widely implement confirming the effectiveness of our safety policies. In fiscal education materials assets to be administrative measures Educate managers and protected 2014, survey missions were sent to several countries in staff Deploy technological processes Africa and the Middle East. In addition, we have introduced a range of safety measures in the light of recent terrorist incidents involving Japanese and other nationals, including Establish information security system Develop rules (security policy) providing timely alerts to employees. These and other Create managerial framework steps underscore our commitment to ensuring the safety of Establish audit and follow-up system Ensure solid feedback through extensive PDCA our employees working around the globe. Hitachi is also cycles for prevention and accident response contributing to safety measures at other Japanese corporations operating outside Japan. To help enhance collaboration between the private and public sectors in this area, Hitachi executives participated in the Council for Public-Private Cooperation for Overseas Safety organized by Japan’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Since 2014 Hitachi has taken part in public-private kidnap incident preparatory training exercises. Contents 37 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Corporate Governance Advancing Risk Management on Multiple Fronts Education on Information Security Three Principles for Preventing Leakage of Consistently maintaining information security requires all Confidential Information parties to continually develop their knowledge of information Principle 1 As a general principle nobody can take Confidential Information out handling and to remain strongly aware of the issues. For of the Company’s premises. this reason, we hold annual e-learning programs on Principle 2 information security and personal information protection for Any person taking Confidential Information out of the Company’s all directors, employees, and temporary employees. premises due to business necessity shall obtain prior approval from Nearly all of the roughly 40,000 employees at Hitachi, the Information Assets Manager. Principle 3 Ltd. participate in these programs. We provide specific Any person taking Confidential Information out of the Company’s additional training, with clear goals, that is geared to new premises due to business necessity shall put in place relevant and employees and managers, and to information system appropriate measures against information leakage. administrators in particular. In 2012, we also began simulation training to educate employees about the increasing trend toward targeted e-mail attacks and other Global Information Security Management cyberattacks. Employees are sent examples of targeted Hitachi Group companies worldwide reinforce their e-mail to heighten their awareness of security through information security in line with our Global Information direct experience. Security Administration Rules, which conform to the Our educational programs, available to Hitachi Group international ISO/IEC 27001 standard. These rules are companies in Japan and other global regions, provide distributed from the parent company in Japan to Group Group-wide education on information security and personal companies around the world. Other security measures information protection. include secure shared services and support from our regional headquarters in the Americas, Europe, Southeast Preventing Information Leaks Asia, China, and India. Hitachi, Ltd. has formulated the Three Principles for Preventing Leakage of Confidential Information to ensure the Thorough Information Security Audits and Inspections highest level of care for such information and to prevent The Hitachi Group has developed its approach to security leaks and other incidents involving it. Our policies ensure based on the “plan-do-check-act” (PDCA) cycle for its that if an incident does occur, damage is promptly minimized information security management system. We conduct by contacting customers, reporting to government agencies, annual information security and personal information investigating causes, and acting to prevent any recurrence. protection audits at all Group companies and business units. Hitachi Group companies take the following IT steps to The president appoints officers to conduct independent prevent information leaks: using encryption software and audits. These officers are not allowed to audit their own secure PCs; employing electronic document access control units, underlining our commitment to fairness and objectivity and expiration processing software; maintaining ID in auditing. There are 238 Hitachi Group companies in Japan management and access control by building an that conduct audits in the same way as Hitachi, Ltd. and all authentication infrastructure; and filtering e-mail and visited results are subject to confirmation. For Hitachi Group websites. In response to the recent spate of targeted e-mail companies outside Japan, we use a “common global selfattacks and other cyberattacks, we are participating in an check” approach to ensure Group-wide auditing and initiative to share information between the private sector and inspections. We implement Confirmation of Personal the government. We are also enhancing our IT organization Information Protection and Information Security by adding more layers to our leak prevention procedures, Management annually for the voluntary inspection of including both entry and exit countermeasures. business unit workplaces. We conduct monthly Confirmation To ensure the secure exchange of information with our of Personal Information Protection and Information Security suppliers, we review their information security measures Management assessments at 453 operations (as of March based on Hitachi’s own standards before allowing them 2016) that handle important personal information. This access to confidential information. We have provided tools regular control mechanism ensures ample safety to suppliers (procurement partners) for security education management and implementation. and for checking business information on computers. In addition, we require suppliers to check and remove business information from personal computers to prevent leaks. Contents 38 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Human Rights Respect for Human Rights Throughout the Value Chain Human Rights Hitachi’s Aims As our value chain expands on a global scale, we find diverse working conditions, business norms, and trade practices in countries and regions around the world, and this has highlighted the need to ensure respect for human rights in our operations. Society’s awareness of human rights issues is also rising, and companies are expected to address human rights issues in accordance with such international standards as the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Companies are now being asked not only to undertake initiatives for the in-house promotion of human rights but also to avoid abetting human rights infringements by suppliers and customers. In carrying out our business, Hitachi recognizes human rights as a key issue related to risk management. On the basis of this awareness, we will respect the human rights of all stakeholders, including our own employees and supply chain, in every country and region where we operate. We are also engaged in raising awareness of human rights throughout the Hitachi Group and in expanding the scope of our activities through such measures as the launching of human rights due diligence. Main Plans and Results Achievement Policies FY 2015 goals/plans Results in FY 2015 level FY 2016 goals/plans · Promotion of · Implement human rights · Initiated human rights due diligence in · Implement human rights training sessions for employee training session for procurement Hitachi, Ltd. executive officers understanding of Hitachi, Ltd. executive · Implemented human rights due diligence · Hold human rights workshops in Europe the Principles on officers training for legal and compliance officers in · Conduct e-learning Business and · Hold human rights six Group companies in Europe · Implement human rights due diligence Human Rights workshops in Europe · Distributed human rights message by CEO and respect for Toshiaki Higashihara to approximately human rights 148,000 executives and employees : Achieved : Partially achieved : Not achieved Respect for Human Rights Throughout the Value Chain foster an organization in which human rights infringements Hitachi’s Approach do not occur. At the same time, we are pressing forward Hitachi operates in line with the Hitachi Group Human Rights with human rights due diligence. In fiscal 2015 we took Policy and other guiding principles that set forth its respect steps in our procurement divisions to assess potential for international human rights norms. To implement these human rights risks in the supply chain, identify higher-priority principles, we carry out educational activities targeting issues and craft specific measures to address them. executives and employees on an ongoing basis to help Contents 39 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Human Rights Respect for Human Rights Throughout the Value Chain Respect for Human Rights units and business site committees, led by business unit presidents and division heads. Business units provide Human Rights Initiatives consultation services through which employees can seek In May 2013, we adopted the Hitachi Group Human Rights consultation on issues such as sexual harassment and are Policy to supplement the Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct, working to ensure that those coming forward are treated drawn up in fiscal 2010. In this policy, we clarify our with respect and dignity. understanding of human rights as being, at a minimum, In a practice launched in fiscal 2014, we distribute a those outlined in the International Bill of Human Rights and human rights message by Representative Executive Officer, the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on President, and CEO Toshiaki Higashihara every year on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. This policy December 10, Human Rights Day. In fiscal 2015, shapes Hitachi’s approach to meeting the responsibility to approximately 148,000 executives and employees at respect human rights, including implementing human rights Hitachi, Ltd. and Group companies in and outside Japan due diligence*1 in line with the UN Guiding Principles on received an e-mail message regarding global trends in Business and Human Rights,*2 providing appropriate human rights, Hitachi’s human rights policy and activities, education to employees, adhering to national laws and and the importance of individual employees respecting regulations in all the regions and countries where we human rights in their work. operate, and seeking ways to honor the principles of international human rights when faced with conflicts Compliance Reporting System between internationally recognized human rights standards and national laws. In fiscal 2014, Hitachi added the perspective of Hitachi, Ltd. Framework for Promoting Respect for Human Rights Business and Human Rights to its existing structures and policies and developed a guidance on human rights due Corporate Human Rights Promotion Committee diligence that explains procedures for everyday business Chairperson Executive officer in charge of human capital practices. Based on this guidance, in fiscal 2015 we initiated Members P  ersonnel in charge of corporate divisions such as sales, procurement, human capital, and CSR human rights due diligence in procurement, assessing and prioritizing human rights risks in the supply chain and Business Unit and Business Site Committee Chairperson Business unit presidents and division heads considering measures to reduce these risks. Members Division managers *1 Human rights due diligence: An ongoing process to identify and assess potential and Business Unit and Business Site Committee actual human rights impacts, integrate findings, and take appropriate action to prevent Chairperson Business unit presidents and division heads or mitigate potential impacts or to provide for or cooperate in remediation of actual impacts. The processes also cover tracking the effectiveness of actions to address Members Division managers impacts and communicating externally. *2 UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights: Included in the March 2011 Business Unit and Business Site Committee Report of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General on the issue of human Chairperson Business unit presidents and division heads rights and transnational corporations and other business enterprises, John Ruggie (A/ Division managers Members HRC/17/31). Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct Raising Human Rights Awareness Among Executives Hitachi Group Human Rights Policy and Employees Hitachi conducts regular group training and seminars and uses videos to educate employees in each business unit Framework for Human Rights and Group company. The target is for each employee to Hitachi, Ltd. established the Corporate Human Rights attend these sessions at least once every three years Promotion Committee in fiscal 1981 to gauge the impact of (equivalent to a yearly participation rate of 33.3%). In fiscal business activities on stakeholders’ human rights and to 2015, the participation rate came to 71.8% at Hitachi, Ltd. deliberate on mechanisms and policies for preventing and 46.0% among Group companies. We also offer an human rights violations. The executive officer in charge of e-learning program on business and human rights, human capital chairs this body, whose members include launched in June 2013; as of March 2015, approximately representatives from sales, procurement, human capital, 187,000 Group employees in Japan and elsewhere had CSR, and other corporate units. Hitachi is improving its taken the program. Using educational materials developed Group-wide human rights awareness based on the in line with the Hitachi Group Human Rights Policy, guidelines discussed and written by the Corporate Human adopted in May 2013, the program aims to ensure that Rights Promotion Committee. Information from employees understand Hitachi’s human rights policy and deliberations is shared with all employees through business act accordingly. The training is provided to all employees Contents 40 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Human Rights Respect for Human Rights Throughout the Value Chain, Respect for Workers’ Rights once every three years on average, taking into account Human Rights Due Diligence Initiatives human rights trends worldwide. In our Hitachi Group Human Rights Policy, we pledged to In July 2015, moreover, 25 Hitachi, Ltd. executive continue to develop structures for human rights due officers participated in an officer training session on the diligence. Toward that end, in fiscal 2013 some business theme of human rights in global businesses, led by Takaji units implemented pilot programs for human rights due Hishiyama of the Center for Corporate Behavior. Touching diligence to identify key issues that need to be clarified on several cases, Hishiyama discussed what the for implementation of due diligence throughout the international community expects of corporations regarding Hitachi Group, while also analyzing and evaluating human respect for human rights and how human rights risks rights risks in six of the ASEAN countries. Based on the translate into business risks, among other topics. results of these pilot programs, in fiscal 2014 we developed a guidance document for implementing human rights due diligence in collaboration with the nonprofit organization Shift. In fiscal 2015, we initiated human rights due diligence in the procurement divisions, the activities of which can potentially have negative impacts on the human rights of workers in the supply chain and local communities. Human Rights Due Diligence in Procurement A scene from the officer training session. Respect for Workers’ Rights Hitachi’s Approach In countries and regions where labor unions are recognized, we espouse the three fundamental rights of Our employees are tasked with maintaining respect for labor unions (to organize, to bargain collectively, and to act human rights within the supply chain, but at the same time, collectively) as seen, for example, in the collective agreement in their role as employed persons, they are also stakeholders between Hitachi, Ltd. and the Hitachi Workers Union. whose human rights must be upheld. Hitachi’s longstanding approach has been to give Notification of Work-related Transfers and importance to building a mutually beneficial relationship with Reassignments our employees as partners in a common effort. Moving The collective agreement between Hitachi, Ltd. and the forward, we will continually strengthen our system of mutual Hitachi Workers Union states that any transfer or cooperation to build an equitable worker-employee reassignment of an employee for work-related reasons relationship and improve worker health and safety levels should adequately take into consideration the situation of based on respect for workers’ fundamental rights. the employee, as well as requiring the company to promptly inform the Hitachi Workers Union of the decision. More specifically, in cases of large-scale transfers or reassignments, the company will consult with the labor Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining union regarding the basic issues involved. Respecting the Rights of Employees Cooperating to Improve Health and Safety The Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct, formulated to specify Hitachi is dedicated to improving health and safety levels the standards of behavior applicable throughout the Hitachi through employee-management cooperation. This includes Group, call for the upholding of fundamental human rights of signing a collective agreement with the Hitachi Workers Union employees, in line with the principles of the United Nations on the promotion of, among other things, health and safety Global Compact. mechanisms, a health and safety commission, education and training programs, and health checks for employees. Contents 41 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Labor Practices Labor Practices Hitachi’s Aims Employees are valued partners who play a vital role in sustaining our business. The cornerstone of a sound and mutually beneficial relationship between employees and the company, and the motive force for sustainable growth, is to provide proper working conditions for employees and build a framework for the maximization of their potential. By complying with all work-related laws and regulations and creating a work environment that maintains and develops fair employment relations and makes full use of the abilities of its diverse human capital, Hitachi aims to be a company in which all employees can engage in safe and fulfilling work. In addition, the nationalities of Hitachi workers are diversifying in response to the globalization of our operations, and the share of non-Japanese employees at Hitachi, Ltd. is rising. In order to adequately meet the needs of customers that differ from region to region and country to country, we have augmented and strengthened our frontline staff and are also aiming to build a structure to foster global human capital. Main Plans and Results Achievement Policies FY 2015 goals/plans Results in FY 2015 level FY 2016 goals/plans · Implementation · Hold career training for · Held career training for 765 new employees · Hold career training for 660 new employees of career training over 700 new · Held H-CDW for 548 new assistant · Hold H-CDW for 800 new assistant for employees, employees managers managers young and old, at · Hold Hitachi Career · Provided older employees with Life Plan · Provide Life Plan Training, including various stages in Development Workshop Training; 1,924 registered for e-learning and participation in (1) e-learning program, (2) their careers (H-CDW) for over 700 988 completed program, 602 participated in seminars for 50-year-old employees on new assistant managers seminars, and 441 participated in Life Plan annual contracts, and (3) Life Plan Briefing · Provide Life Plan Briefing for employees at age 58 for 500 employees at age 58 Training to older employees, including over 700 participants in e-learning program, over 400 in seminars, and over 350 in Life Plan Briefing · Promotion of · Achieve Japan’s legally · Achieved 2.11% employment rate at · Achieve legal employment rate at Hitachi, employment of required employment Hitachi, Ltd. and 2.18% at Group Ltd. people with rate at Hitachi, Ltd. companies in Japan; 15 still below the legal · Ensure strict compliance with legal disabilities within · Ensure strict compliance rate (as of March 2016) employment rate at all Group companies in the Group with legal employment Japan rate at all Hitachi Group companies in Japan · Raising of health · Implement and review · Began implementing and reviewing minimum · Continue to implement and review minimum and safety minimum Group-wide health and safety standards Group-wide health and safety standards management standards for health and · Compiled global statistics in 2015 and · Implement preventive measures by utilizing levels across the safety provided feedback every six months; best practices and accident cases Group through · Compile global health collection rate increased by approximately · Introduce measures in response to new laws promotion of and safety statistics by 11% from previous fiscal year and regulations in Japan global health and region · Implemented measures to improve safety safety · Strengthen health and levels in Japan, leading to slight decrease in management safety measures in accidents Japan : Achieved : Partially achieved : Not achieved Contents 42 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Labor Practices Achieving a Fair and Equitable Work Environment, Promoting Diversity and Inclusion Achieving a Fair and Equitable Work Environment we promote HR management practices that maximize the Hitachi’s Approach strength we can draw from a diverse, highly engaged Ensuring that hiring and promotions, as well as worker workforce transcending national and corporate boundaries. assessment and compensation, are fair is not only a duty Our globally shared leadership development program fosters that companies must fulfill toward their employees but also leaders who champion our Social Innovation Business an important means of building a healthy relationship with around the world, while a range of other training programs outstanding human capital. Hitachi has a human resource help employees obtain the knowledge and skills they need strategy that emphasizes the concept of “decent work” to provide innovative solutions to our customers. (that is, work that is humane and fulfilling). This concept Hitachi also views it as crucial to create a work has taken on increased importance globally as a standard environment in which each employee can engage for labor practices, with the International Labour meaningfully in productive work. As part of efforts in this Organization, for example, positioning the concept as an area, we have unified performance review standards important objective of its activities. Companies are worldwide in a highly transparent and fair system for expected to ensure decent work through policies evaluating each employee’s achievements. We have also appropriate to their businesses. enacted safety policies that apply across the entire Hitachi Group, and continue striving globally to create workplaces that offer safety and peace of mind to those who work there. Other initiatives aim to make it easier to achieve work-life Decent Work balance, reduce work hours, and promote healthy lifestyles Hitachi’s Thinking on Decent Work among employees. Additionally, we conduct an annual Human resources are key to Hitachi’s ability to adapt to survey of employee engagement levels across the Group, rapid social and environmental change and continue using the results as the basis for further improvement in providing new value to customers. Diversity and inclusion management practices. are crucial to our strategy, and throughout the Hitachi Group Promoting Diversity and Inclusion Hitachi’s Approach Diversity and Inclusion Hitachi believes that building a corporate culture that fully Statement on Diversity and Inclusion draws on the diversity of human capital, in terms of gender, Diversity is the wellspring of our innovation and our growth age, and values, not only offers employees an opportunity to engine. Hitachi regards personal differences—gender, approach their work with enthusiasm but also contributes to nationality, work history, age, sexual orientation, and enhancing competitiveness through the provision of philosophy—as facets of people’s individuality. By solutions that incorporate diverse perspectives. In recent respecting our employees’ individualities and positioning years, with the growing interest among stakeholders for them as an advantage, Hitachi frames its diversity and personnel policies enabling flexible workstyles, we are taking inclusion as conducive to both the individual’s and the a proactive stance toward implementing this approach. We company’s sustainable growth. With strong teamwork and are also establishing key performance indicators to help broad experience in the global market, we will meet our expand career options for female employees. customers’ needs. With the strong commitment of top management, we aim to promote diversity as part of our management strategy Diversity Management Initiative: “Diversity for the and become a company that makes full use of our diverse Next 100” human capital. Since the 1990s, we have been at the social forefront, supporting women and other members of our multifaceted workforce. This includes setting up systems to help balance work with child and nursing care. Entering Phase 3 of our diversity management roadmap, we are embracing diversity as Contents 43 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Labor Practices Promoting Diversity and Inclusion a management strategy under the initiative slogan “Diversity women and other members of our varied workforce can use for the Next 100.” This means creating an environment where their skills in leadership and business management. Roadmap for Developing Diversity Management Phase 3: Diversity promoted as a management Phase 2: strategy Phase 1: From “women” to “diversity” Support for women’s career 2012 advancement 2009 “Diversity for the Next 100” launched Diversity & Inclusion Development Center set up 2000 2006 FF Plan* Diversity Promotion Project FF Plan II Support balance between work and nursing care, etc. Strengthen senior management Enhance Hitachi Group partnerships commitment Promote timeand Reduce overtime/Review work styles location-free work Promote diversity awareness/Reform work environment Support work-life balance; support women’s career advancement Strengthen women’s career development Introduce, expand support systems for work-life management 1990 2000 2006 2009 2012 2015 * The Gender-Free and Family-Friendly (FF) Plan is an initiative to create a better work environment by supporting efforts to balance work and family life and supporting women in the workplace. Expanding the Scope of Diversity Management Gender, etc. Men and women, family composition, marital status Age Nationality, etc. Senior, middle-aged, young Nationality, race, ethnicity, language Widening Scope of Diversity LGBT Disabilities Lesbian, gay, bisexual, Physical, intellectual, mental disability transgender status Step 1 Minorities integrated into existing organizational Integration culture, systems, methods, customs Step 2 Discrimination banned through force of law Legal Compliance (Japan’s Equal Employment Opportunity Act) Step 3 Companies, organizations educate staff about discrimination so differences are actively Respect for Diversity embraced, respected Step 4 Evolution from respect for differences to Competitive Advantage organizational reform as part of strategy to forge Diversity promoted as management strategy varied strengths into competitive advantage Deepening Diversity Management Contents 44 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Labor Practices Promoting Diversity and Inclusion Development Structure of Diversity Management order to enhance initiatives geared to the challenges faced The Diversity Development Project, launched in fiscal 2006 by individual workplaces. We also hold regular meetings to under the president’s direct control, was replaced in fiscal exchange opinions on diversity with labor unions. 2009 with the Diversity & Inclusion Development Center, In Europe, too, we are accelerating the pace of our which currently operates under the direct supervision of the diversity and inclusion initiatives on the basis of establishing Human Capital Group. the D&I Steering Committee in January 2016. The Hitachi and 20 Group companies jointly operate the committee, which convenes every quarter, is made up of Advisory Committee and the Diversity Development Council executives from the seven main Hitachi Group companies in to accelerate awareness across Hitachi as a whole, including Europe, including Hitachi Europe Ltd., Hitachi Rail Europe support for diverse human resources and work-life Ltd., and Hitachi Data Systems Corporation. The three main management. The Advisory Committee ensures followareas addressed are “the creation of a diversity and inclusion through on our diversity management policy, while the framework,” “career development,” and “communication.” Diversity Development Council discusses specific activities Members are assigned to each area and lively discussions and shares best practices. Both meet every six months. are held in order to formulate and implement plans to Group companies and business groups/sites have also promote diversity and inclusion. set up their own diversity-promotion organizations and projects, such as those to help develop women’s careers, in Hitachi Group Diversity Structure Hitachi, Ltd. President Advisors: External directors Advisory Committee: Diversity & Inclusion Development Center Chief Human Resource Officer (CHRO) (dedicated organization) Executive officers and general managers in charge of personnel affairs and labor Human Capital Group administration in Group companies General managers in charge of personnel affairs and labor administration in business units * Participating enterprises (20 companies as of March 2016): Hitachi Metals, Hitachi Chemical, Hitachi Capital, Hitachi Construction Machinery, Hitachi Kokusai Electric, Hitachi Group Diversity Development Council Hitachi High-Technologies, Hitachi Transport System, Managers in charge of personnel affairs and labor administration in Group companies, Hitachi Medical, Clarion, Hitachi Koki, Hitachi Urban business units, and business groups/sites Investment, Hitachi Appliance, Hitachi Automotive Systems, Hitachi Consumer Marketing, Hitachi Industrial Equipment Systems, Hitachi Systems, Hitachi Solutions, Hitachi Insurance Services, Hitachi Maxell, Hitachi Life Organizations and projects at companies and business groups/sites to advance diversity (including issues related to Around 50 projects women in workplace) Developing Women’s Careers Goals for Hitachi, Ltd. (KPIs) Appoint female executives by fiscal 2015 by promoting from within KPI of Developing Women’s Careers (including the CSR and Environmental Strategy Division chief as a Hitachi, Ltd. has created two key performance indicators corporate officer in April 2015). Increase the number of female managers in Japan to 1,000 by (KPIs), announced externally in fiscal 2013, to enable as fiscal 2020 (2.5 times more than at the end of fiscal 2012). many female employees as possible to take up leadership positions and to participate in management decision making. These KPIs signal our commitment both internally Key Indicators and to the world to further advance women in the workplace Number and Ratio of Female Managers (people) (people) and to improve our diversity management. 800 3,670 3,727 4,000 In addition to reinforcing existing programs, we will use 3,415 the Hitachi Group Women’s Career Success Survey to 6.4% 600 6.0% 3,000 highlight progress with initiatives and outstanding issues in 5.6% 434 474 401 418 each business unit and to set numerical targets for each 377 400 4.0% 2,000 3.8% 3.7% unit, strengthening our management commitment. We will 3.4% 3.5% also boost women’s individual ambitions and morale through 200 1,000 73 programs such as the Hitachi Group Women Leaders’ Meeting, which targets female employees at the general 0 2000 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) 0 manager level and above. We intend to create an Female managers, Hitachi, Ltd. (left scale) Female managers, Hitachi Group (right scale) Percentage of total, Hitachi, Ltd. Percentage of total, Hitachi Group environment where as many women as possible are able to optimize their potential in management positions. Contents 45 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Labor Practices Promoting Diversity and Inclusion Work-Life Management Hitachi looks beyond work-life balance, promoting worklife management that enables our employees to take charge Hitachi’s Work-Life Management Approach of improving the quality of both their work and their private Our diversity and inclusion management initiatives are lives. We believe that optimizing time spent in and outside designed to enable all employees to reach their full potential, the workplace through work-life management enhances our as well as to enhance our organizational capabilities and to employees’ professionalism and builds character, resulting in create synergies that will boost productivity and grow our both individual and organizational growth over the long term. business. This requires building a work environment that embraces human resource diversity and promotes work Enhancing Work-Life Management Support Systems style flexibility. Since the 1990s, we have been introducing and improving an array of programs for employees to balance work with family, Boost productivity and grow business aiming to create a more employee-friendly work environment. Fulfill potential to contribute to business Enable diverse ways of working Company (employee-friendly workplaces) Employees Work-Life Management Support System (Example of Hitachi, Ltd.) Child Care Support System Nursing Care Support System For women For men Pregnancy Fertility treatment leave (1 year total) Nursing care leave Nursing care leave (up to 1 year; can be taken on nonconsecutive days) Leave for prenatal medical appointments, pregnancy problem leave, etc. Childbirth Maternity leave (8 weeks before and 8 weeks Paternity leave (5 days total) Return to work Shorter working hours after childbirth) Work from home Nursing care leave (5 days per year) Family nursing leave Child care leave Child care leave (Up to 3 years, until the child completes the first grade of elementary Child nursing leave school; can be taken on nonconsecutive days) Half-day leave (unlimited) Return to work Shorter working hours (generally 6, 6.5, or 7 hours) Work from home (career-stream positions) Family nursing leave (5 days per year), child nursing leave (5 days per child per year) Half-day leave (unlimited), leave for overseas spouse transfers (3 years or less) Cafeteria Plan*1 (Child care and nursing care menu) *1 Flextime and discretionary labor systems are also available. The cafeteria plan is a system in which employees can select the support that they need, when they need it, according to their “cafeteria points.” Contents 46 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Labor Practices Promoting Diversity and Inclusion Key Indicators In-House Child Care Centers Employment of People with Disabilities and Employment Ratio The Hitachi Group, in collaboration with its labor union, has (Hitachi, Ltd.) set up in-house child care facilities as a way to help Legally required employment rate*1 employees balance work with child raising. (people) (%) 2.11 2.08 Genki Club 2,000 2.1 2.02 2.02 2.03 Established April 2003 1,600 2.0 Location 292 Yoshida-cho, Totsuka-ku, Yokohama-shi, Kanagawa, Japan 1,370.5 1,332 (Yokohama Office, Hitachi, Ltd.) 1,200 1.85 1,243 1.9 1,150 1,072 Capacity Approximately 70 children 981 800 1.8 Ages eligible Children aged several months up to 6 years old (who have not yet entered elementary school) of Hitachi Group employees who live 400 1.7 near or commute to the Totsuka area in Yokohama Operating 7:30–20:00 0 2000 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 0 hours Employment of people with disabilities (left scale) Employment ratio (right scale) *1 Up to fiscal 2012, the legally required employment rate was 1.8%; from fiscal 2013 it has been 2.0%. Notes: “Genki Club” Logo • Data compiled in June of each fiscal year. • The employment ratio is calculated according to methods prescribed in the relevant laws. Diverse Support Systems for Employees Support Systems that Meet Diverse Employee Needs To respond to the diverse lifestyles and needs of our Excursion (sweet potato digging). Christmas party. employees, Hitachi, Ltd. has provided a wide range of support by introducing welfare systems that include housing Sakura Hiroba (Hitachi Chemical Group) support, such as dormitories, company housing, and a Established April 2008 housing allowance system, as well as an asset-building Location 2-27-22 Higashi-cho, Hitachi-shi, Ibaraki, Japan savings program, an employee stock ownership program, (near Yamazaki Division, Hitachi Chemical) group insurance, consolation payments, and a “cafeteria Capacity 20 children (can enroll a maximum of 30) plan” program. The cafeteria plan allows employees to Ages eligible Infants aged several months to children up to 6 years old who have select the benefits they receive. This allows them to tailor a not yet entered elementary school (children of Hitachi Chemical Group employees who commute to the city of Hitachi) plan to their individual lifestyles and living needs by choosing Operating 7:30–20:00 from a list of options, such as skills development, child care, hours nursing care, health promotion, and donations. Employees use “cafeteria points” to select the type of support they need when they need it. For our retirement and pension plans, defined Employing People with Disabilities contribution and defined benefit plans have been introduced across the Hitachi Group in response to the Expanding Hiring of People with Disabilities diversification of lifestyles among the elderly and the Hitachi, Ltd. and Group companies in Japan have worked changes in forms of employment. The defined contribution hard to employ people with disabilities, such as by holding a pension plan encourages employees to participate in their special hiring fair and study meetings for Group companies postretirement planning by providing asset management to share information. As a result, as of June 2015 the and investment education, as well as other support. We employment ratio of people with disabilities was 2.08% at increased the choice of benefit options and timeframes for Hitachi, Ltd. and 2.14% for the entire Group in Japan. As of both the defined contribution pension plan and the defined June 2016, the employment ratio of people with disabilities benefit pension plan in order to better meet the varied was 2.11% at Hitachi, Ltd. and 2.18% for the entire Group needs of employees. in Japan. All of these figures topped Japan’s legally required employment rate of 2.0%. We will maintain our Group-wide drive to hire more people with disabilities. Contents 47 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Labor Practices Promoting Occupational Health and Safety Promoting Occupational Health and Safety We promote a range of Group-wide occupational health and Hitachi’s Approach safety activities that include preventing workplace accidents As a corporate group that engages in multinational business by setting and applying minimum safety standards to be activities, building safe, healthy, and hygienic workplace observed by Group manufacturers around the globe and by environments at business sites around the world is a Grouptaking into consideration the specific conditions at each wide management task for Hitachi. This means that we must company. We respond quickly when an accident occurs, be sure to take into careful consideration the social conditions using incidents to make improvements and boost our levels and workplace environment of each country and region. of health and safety management. Hitachi has thoroughly implemented measures for In accordance with Japanese law, a health and safety occupational health and safety since its founding. Currently, we commission—composed of company representatives, laborare advancing a global occupational health and safety system union officials, and employees—is organized at each based on the concept of decent work while also drawing on business site and is convened every month to discuss and the lessons and knowledge gained at workplaces in Japan. share information related to such issues as workplace accident causes and countermeasures, the situation regarding employees who have taken sick leave, and other Occupational Health and Safety points of concern. In fiscal 2011 we introduced the Hitachi Group Key Fundamental Idea for Occupational Health and Safety Safety Management Designation System. This initiative Ensuring the health and safety of all employees is the basic tracks key safety management improvements at Hitachi principle underlining the Hitachi Group Health and Safety Group companies and business sites in Japan that have Policy. This policy is shared by all Hitachi Group companies experienced serious work accidents. Under the leadership of around the world. Employees work together to create safe, top executives, these companies and business sites take on secure work environments that aim to be accident free. management-driven and bottom-up initiatives to formulate and promote specific improvement plans. We are also Hitachi Group Health and Safety Policy reshaping the Group’s safety management framework and Principle introducing targeted safety measures, including extensive “Health and Safety Comes First.” investigations of the cause of serious accidents, reviews of risks to reduce potential accidents, and engagement of third Policies parties with a high level of health and safety expertise to In accordance with our mission, “Contribute to society through the development of superior, original technology and products,” the diagnose safety issues. Hitachi Group will endeavor to ensure safe and healthy workplaces In fiscal 2015, we became able to grasp our safety under the principle of “Health and Safety Always Comes First.” management level overseas through the application of safety statistics and minimum standards. Moving forward, we aim To accomplish this, we will: to continually make improvements to further raise the level of 1. Continually be involved in health and safety activities in order to prevent work-related injuries and sickness by designating the safety. health and safety of employees as management’s top priority. 2. Comply with the local laws and regulations in each company Key Indicators regarding health and safety. Occupational Accident Rates 3. Develop a safe and comfortable work environment by encouraging 2.0 1.62 1.59 1.66 1.61 employees to maintain their own health and taking a proactive 1.58 stance on health and safety activities in the workplace. 1.5 4. Require an understanding of Hitachi’s principle and the promotion 1.05 1.00 1.06 1.06 0.94 of health and safety awareness from all business partners of the 1.0 Hitachi Group. 0.54 0.44 0.39 0.41 0.41 5. Contribute to the creation of a safe and pleasant society by 0.5 0.22 emphasizing activities that make health and safety a top priority in 0.15 0.14 0.19 0.27 all of Hitachi’s business activities. 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) Revised November 2013 All industries Manufacturing industries Electrical machinery sector Hitachi Group Notes: Occupational accidents are defined as those involving fatality or work-time loss of more than one day. Hitachi Group figures for Japan, including Hitachi, Ltd., are for Framework for Promoting Health and Safety 90 Group companies in 2011; for 175 Group companies in 2012; for 195 Group Hitachi views occupational health and safety as vital companies in 2013; for 251 Group companies in 2014; and for 240 Group companies in 2015. preconditions for advancing our Social Innovation Business. Contents 48 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Labor Practices Promoting Occupational Health and Safety Hitachi Group’s Global Safety Figures (Occurrence rate*1) research results, shared information on methods for 2014 2015 improving occupational health programs at business sites, Americas 2.25 4.35 and discussed training approaches for relevant healthcare Europe 3.34 2.02 workers. China 2.38 2.10 Rest of Asia 1.65 0.80 The Hitachi Group Health and Safety Award Program Other 20.53 22.05 We have implemented the Hitachi Group Health and Safety Japan 0.53 0.42 Award Program to recognize Group companies in Japan that Global total 1.23 1.21 extend their accident-free records or that receive prizes for *1 Occurrence rate is the rate of workplace accidents per 1,000 employees resulting in health and safety from external organizations. fatality or work-time loss of more than one day. Initiatives to Improve Employee Health Response to Laws Related to Occupational Health Health is the foundation for being able to work with energy and Safety and peace of mind. The fundamental principle of the Hitachi In terms of legal compliance, the Hitachi Group goes beyond Group Health and Safety Policy is that “Health and Safety meeting all legal requirements to also make efforts specified Always Comes First.” Based on this principle, we are in the law even when they are not mandatory. As one part of engaged in efforts to maintain and improve the health of these efforts, we made a new Stress Check System employees. mandatory in Japan in December 2015. We are encouraging Occupational healthcare workers, human resource employees to be aware of their own stress levels and striving departments, and the Hitachi Health Insurance Society work to improve workplaces to help prevent mental health together to provide a range of health support and disorders, while also strategically using the results of group appropriate health management in accordance with Japan’s analysis as a means of enlivening the workplaces. Industrial Safety and Health Act. In addition, we are carrying out risk assessments of In Ibaraki, Tokyo, and Kanagawa Prefectures, where chemical substances, which became mandatory in Japan in many Hitachi Group business sites are concentrated, a June 2016, to reconfirm the dangers and harmful effects of system of health-management centers has been put in chemical substances in the workplace and to implement place, staffed with occupational doctors, nurses, and other measures well integrated with management conditions to medical personnel. The centers support the health keep employees who handle such substances from maintenance of employees by providing them with health damaging their health. guidance based on periodic health checks and other examinations to prevent serious disease, while also offering Sharing Health and Safety Information in the Hitachi medical interviews and advice to employees working long Group hours to head off mental and physical disorders. Support is We built the Hitachi Group Health and Safety Portal System also provided to raise health awareness through in 2012 to ensure that every Hitachi Group company in consultations that can help relieve employees’ health Japan can track the health and safety performance of the concerns and promote regular exercise. entire Hitachi Group. In addition, Hitachi Group companies carry out activities Group-wide information on work accidents is registered including sporting competitions and other events for in the system so that companies can track causes and see employees and their families as a way of encouraging what preventive measures have been initiated. To help workplace cohesion and promoting health. prevent recurrences, statistics are kept on types of accidents. Since 2014, we have carried out initiatives to share information on workplace accidents globally, including one that tracks and provides feedback on accidents occurring at Group companies outside of Japan. Once a year we hold the Hitachi Group Health and Safety Research Presentation Meeting for Hitachi health and safety officers. The 59th gathering, held in November 2015, attracted around 150 participants, who shared newfound knowledge from case studies and heard special lectures from outside experts on ways to improve health and safety Participants wait to take part in a strength-measurement test at a activities at companies. Around 70 occupational healthcare health event. workers, including physicians and public health workers, participated in the 15th Hitachi Group Industrial Health Conference in February 2016. Participants presented Contents 49 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Labor Practices A Strategy for Growing Together with Our Global Human Capital A Strategy for Growing Together with Our Global Human Capital Global Recruiting and Globalizing Human Capital Hitachi’s Approach As a means of opening up global markets, we have been The globalization of the economy has led many companies accelerating the globalization of human capital in Japan to accelerate the shift toward multinational operations. through three initiatives: (1) recruiting personnel in Japan Fostering global human capital has thus become who can promote global operations, (2) providing more indispensable to providing common global services while at young Japanese employees with experience outside Japan, the same time meeting the needs of each country and and (3) comprehensively implementing globally unified region. Impacting heavily on the employment and human management training. resource strategies of companies over the mediumto longWith an eye on the globalization of our business, we are term, though, are the falling birthrates and aging populations committed to hiring activities that secure the right personnel. of industrial countries and the population explosion in In principle, we categorize all employees graduating from developing nations. universities and technical colleges as global business The Hitachi Group, with a combined workforce of personnel who can contribute to driving our global around 340,000 people engaged together in business operations. Our priority for employing global business activities in countries and regions around the world, is personnel is to attract people who are eager to build their promoting a global human capital management strategy. foreign language skills and relish the challenge of working in We are fostering human capital through a diverse array of different cultures, social settings, and work environments. initiatives, such as hiring and promoting to management positions non-Japanese personnel, drafting measures to Key Indicators share values and promote mutual understanding, and Non-Japanese Employees*1 (Hitachi, Ltd.) (people) formulating programs to develop human capital capable of 600 509 meeting the needs of global operations. 500 446 400 340 300 239 257 Global Human Capital Development 200 Advancing Global Human Capital 100 Our Group-wide global human capital management strategy 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) optimizes both human resources and organizational *1 Figures include contract-based technical intern trainees with fixed terms. performance in pursuit of Hitachi’s goal of becoming a major global player. One example of our initiatives is the Global Human Capital Database covering all Hitachi Group employees, excluding factory workers outside Japan. This database enables us to fully ascertain the status of worldwide Group human capital and to assess macro management data, such as the allocation of human resources. We have also built a global grading system that applies to all managers in the Hitachi Group worldwide, using it as a common platform for job evaluations throughout the entire Group and as a common standard for assessing the value of management duties. In addition, we introduced a performance management system at Hitachi, Ltd. and at some Group companies worldwide to link the operational business goals and individual skills, with the aim of mutual sustained improvement and growth of both businesses and individuals. This system will be expanded to include more companies. With an eye to supporting the advancement of employees as our global operations expand, we are introducing common global hiring systems to secure talented personnel, boost efficiency, and reduce hiring costs. Contents 50 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Labor Practices A Strategy for Growing Together with Our Global Human Capital Providing Young Employees with Overseas Experience of career development support that focuses on employees’ Hitachi maintains broad programs to systematically cultivate “internal careers,” namely, their individual values and views and secure people who can succeed in global business. To on the significance and meaning of their work. In addition develop the careers of people who can understand and to ensuring that these individuals can fulfill their potential adapt to local cultures and lifestyles, we have offered a and maximize their creativity, our aim is also to link that program for younger employees to live outside Japan. We individual growth to the positive outcomes and growth of have sent around 4,800 young Group employees over the the organization, thereby enhancing our corporate value. five years beginning with fiscal 2011, allowing them to take Along with promoting self-understanding and fostering part in more than 80 programs, including understanding strong individuals with the independence and autonomy other cultures, language studies, local field studies, and needed to think and act for themselves, we also are internships, as well as opportunities to work with local providing support to create a framework for the people to resolve social issues. In fiscal 2015, we shifted our organization to benefit from the engagement and focus to this practical, work-related model of overseas motivation of individual employees and to enhance mutual postings, instead of the former emphasis on language understanding as a way of fostering the teamwork needed training and cross-cultural activities, to accelerate our to enhance organizational strength and performance. fostering of employees ready to take on global tasks. Future Initiatives for Career Development Globalizing Management Training In pursuit of becoming a major global player, we are Along with the rollout of global human capital prioritizing individual and organizational performance. We management, we are also globalizing our human capital create value built on employees’ individuality and personal development programs. aspirations by implementing Hitachi’s Global Performance Since fiscal 2012, we have been holding the Global Management (GPM) grounded in diversity and the individual. Advanced Program for Leadership Development (GAP-L) We are also committed to supporting career development by every year in Singapore. The program mainly targets local fostering communication and mutual understanding between human resources with potential to be active at our employees and their organizations based on programs overseas subsidiaries, aiming to foster individuals who encouraging individual employees to take greater control of can play leading management-level roles at local developing their own careers. In these ways, we provide the subsidiaries. In fiscal 2015, 24 leaders from around the resources and tools that enable a wide range of people to world took part in the program. In addition, since fiscal work together with enthusiasm. 2013 we have been implementing the Global Advanced Program for Key Positions (GAP-K), which targets Conducting a Global Employee Survey management candidates. In fiscal 2015, 22 people Since fiscal 2013, we have been conducting the annual selected from Japan and India participated in training global employee survey, Hitachi Insights, as a way of under the program for three months. measuring employee engagement.*1 In September 2015, the These programs focus on global business expansion survey was administered for the third time. Around 210,000 by creating customer value and the requisite leadership employees worldwide were sent the survey in one of 13 skills, moving us closer to our goal of becoming a major different languages, and roughly 170,000 responses were global player. In the GAP-K program in particular, time is received. For the second consecutive year, the results in all set aside for participants to look at themselves objectively 13 categories improved compared to the previous fiscal and gain a deeper understanding of the Hitachi Group year’s results. The year-on-year improvements were the Identity, in addition to learning and discussing strategies outcome of the in-house departments and organizations for global business expansion with a special emphasis on examining the results and implementing improvements, in emerging markets. line with the PDCA (plan, do, check, act) approach. We Starting in fiscal 2014, we also initiated standard training intend to continue making improvements. courses for general managers and new managers, with Overall, among the 13 categories, Hitachi scored well as around 4,300 people taking part across our global Group in previous surveys in “pride in your company” and “your operations. As global human capital management evolves to supervisor’s management,” but less well for the category realize Hitachi’s management strategies, we will globalize “resources and support.” This suggests that employees are our management development programs and continue to proud to be part of a company that is aiming to grow along cultivate leaders to guide us toward further growth. with society through its Social Innovation Business, but that many employees felt that Hitachi can do better on the level Career Development Support of staffing as well as information and resource tools. In There are differences among individual employees with addition, in fiscal 2015 we expanded the range of an regard to what they find fulfilling in their lives and careers. initiative begun in the previous fiscal year to directly send the Bearing this in mind, Hitachi has developed a broad range survey results to section and department heads so that they Contents 51 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Labor Practices A Strategy for Growing Together with Our Global Human Capital can confirm the survey results and communicate with their In addition to those programs, Hitachi also offers team members, with the aim of promoting concrete programs targeting specific age groups, such as our career initiatives. In fiscal 2016, in line with our Mid-term education for younger employees and our training for Management Plan, the content of the survey will be revised, middle-aged or older employees to help them prepare for along with providing support to in-house workplaces to the changes ahead in their professional life. continually implement the PDCA cycle, as a way to further enhance the level of engagement within Hitachi as a whole. “Adventure Kids in the Company” Implemented Hitachi’s Financial Systems Department is implementing a *1 Hitachi uses the term “engagement” to refer to employees’ understanding of the company’s strategies and policies, as well as their job satisfaction and desire to take 10-day training program for all of its new employees called actions on their own initiative to bring about results. “Adventure Kids in the Company” that involves explaining the financial systems profession to sixth-year elementary Career Development in the Workplace school students. Under the training, the new employees For Hitachi, the center of career development is the daily formulate a plan for the program while receiving support work that employees perform in the workplace. Based on from fourth-year employees acting as “team leaders.” They our Global Performance Management (GPM), we implement then create presentation materials based on interviews with a cycle aimed at the growth of each employee through a mid-level managers recommended by each section head process in which goals for daily tasks are set and then regarding “work they consider meaningful.” The department pursued, followed by the evaluation of the results to head also takes part in meetings where the first-year formulate the next objectives. Every fiscal year we also employees refine the content of their presentations before conduct “performance planning,” in which individual giving them to the students to convey the joy of work. employees work with supervisor guidance and support, For the new employees, preparing a presentation geared consulting with the supervisors to reach a consensus to the understanding of elementary school students, within a regarding short-term objectives. These consultations include limited timeframe, helps them to assimilate the key concepts discussions about past work and evaluations of the content of quality and deadlines—essential to the financial systems of the work performed to date and the degree to which sector that supports social infrastructure. The process is goals were met, followed by the setting of goals for the next also a way for the newcomers to learn about client relations fiscal year. Repeating the GPM cycle improves individual while building rapport with colleagues who entered the performance and further increases motivation and creativity. company before them. This in turn spurs individual growth and improves The team leaders, for their part, gain insight into the organizational results. Along with GPM, employees also take challenge of management through the team coordination part in career consultations with their superiors to discuss experience. The program allows participating managers to their mediumand long-term career plans regarding such look back on past experiences and gain new perceptions matters as requests for transfers or overseas postings. from them. Finally, for the section heads who choose In addition, Hitachi administers the Career Counseling participants from among the young employees and Center as part of our career development support, in order managers, the program is part of their ongoing responsibility to provide employees with professional counseling services to choose the most appropriate employees for a given task. to help them proactively address concerns related to such In these ways, the program brings together various levels of issues as their jobs, career plans, or personal relations. the organization in an ongoing project. The program was launched in 2009. To date, 338 new Promoting Career Development Workshops employees have participated, as well as 47 fourth-year Along with our workplace career development, we also employees and another 47 managers. provide direct support for individual career development through our career development programs. Our key program is the Hitachi Career Development Workshop (H-CDW), launched in fiscal 2002 as an initiative across Group companies in Japan. Around 8,600 people have participated in the program so far (as of March 31, 2016), with a focus on technicians, managers, and researchers in their 30s. Participants use self-analysis to deepen their selfunderstanding with an emphasis on their “internal careers,” affirming their career direction, goals, and paths so that they can direct the development of their own career and skills. H-CDW has gained recognition as a high-quality program for in-house career development that has built up research and improvements during a period of over 40 years. Contents 52 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Fair Operating Practices Promoting Work Practices in Line with International Ethics Codes Fair Operating Practices Hitachi’s Aims There is a growing idea that companies should build their businesses with a view to promoting CSR throughout the supply chain, not just around the company’s operations. This view informs such global initiatives as the Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and the United Nations’ Global Compact and Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. In seeking to be a company that continually fulfills its social responsibility throughout the value chain, Hitachi strictly adheres to laws and regulations and acts in a moral and fair manner with all its business partners. We thoroughly promote the compliance of our employees in all business activities, including procurement, manufacture, sales, export, and taxation. By enhancing activities to raise our suppliers’ awareness, we are advancing the creation of a framework and fostering a corporate culture to carry out ethical actions and fulfill our social responsibility together with our business partners. Main Plans and Results Achievement Policies FY 2015 goals/plans Results in FY 2015 level FY 2016 goals/plans · Contribution to · Establish procurement · Established BCPs at 118 targeted · Regularly update information on parts and continuation of BCPs at production production sites outside Japan suppliers Hitachi’s sites outside Japan operations by · Identify bottlenecks and working with develop suppliers to countermeasures; secure supplies conduct BCP surveys of suppliers · Reinforcement of · Consider supply chain · Held seminar for suppliers in Shanghai as · Implement measures based on the results of supply chain management based on part of capacity building; 15 people from 12 the fiscal 2015 human rights due diligence from global survey results companies attended perspective · Conducted human rights due diligence at procurement division : Achieved : Partially achieved : Not achieved Promoting Work Practices in Line with International Ethics Codes Hitachi’s Approach Hitachi has formulated in-house regulations in line with widely accepted international standards to govern important Given the globalization of the economy and the increasingly business practices, such as bribery prevention, ensuring of borderless nature of corporate activities, our business fair competition, and tax compliance, and these regulations increasingly spans countries and regions with different are made known to and thoroughly implemented across the governmental and economic frameworks, trade practices, Hitachi Group. and sets of values. Common worldwide principles in the form of initiatives and guidance are becoming increasingly important in order to thoroughly implement fair business practices around the globe and to avoid any risks that could impede business activities. Contents 53 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Fair Operating Practices Promoting Work Practices in Line with International Ethics Codes Preventing Bribery and Corrupt Practices Tax Compliance Measures to Prevent Bribery and Corrupt Practices Implementing Thorough Tax Compliance To deal with global bribery and corruption risks, in fiscal The global expansion of Hitachi’s business activities has 2013 we referred to the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act made it necessary for the Group as a whole to build a Resource Guide*1 and other documents to develop various system of tax governance in order to comply with corruption risk scenarios. These were used as the basis for indications made by the tax authorities in each country and a survey conducted at Hitachi Group companies outside respond to risks concerning taxation, such as tax-related Japan. By analyzing the survey results, we identified several legal proceedings. companies at risk from corruption. We are monitoring and In January 2016, we established a set of tax-related working with those companies with the goal of reducing regulations with which the entire Group must comply. In corruption worldwide. connection with the globalization of our business, we are In 2015, we also created a set of revised rules regarding implementing risk management for taxation that focuses in prevention of bribery and corrupt practices, which were particular on the points listed below. globally adopted by Hitachi Group companies. That same (1) Group companies strictly comply with all relevant laws year, we released a global version of an e-learning program and implement tax management when pursuing their regarding the fundamentals of preventing bribery and corrupt business activities, bearing in mind such international practices to be utilized among Group companies worldwide. tax-compliance standards as the Transfer Pricing Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and Tax *1 The US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act consists of antibribery provisions regarding foreign government officials and transparent accounting provisions within the Securities Administrations of the Organisation for Economic Exchange Act. Enforced by the Department of Justice, it prohibits bribes to foreign Co-operation and Development (OECD), as well as that government officials. Transparent accounting, enforced by the Securities and Exchange Commission, requires companies to show transactions fairly and accurately in their body’s Action Plan on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting accounting records and to maintain effective internal control over accounting. (BEPS). (2) Group companies effectively, continually, and proactively manage tax-related issues as socially responsible Measures to Prevent Unfair Competition organizations, while maintaining Hitachi brand value and seeking to maximize shareholder value. Preventing Violations of Fair Competition Laws (3) Group companies build sincere and positive relations of Hitachi engages in business based on the principles of trust with the tax authorities in the regions where the conformance with the law and business ethics and fair and companies do business, and strive to maintain and disciplined competition. However, Hitachi, Ltd. was found to develop those relations. have impaired the fairness of a public bid in fiscal 2002 and was penalized in September 2006, October 2008, and March 2009 for violating the Japanese Antimonopoly Act. In November 2012, a subsidiary dealing in automotive components was penalized by the Japan Fair Trade Commission for violating the Antimonopoly Act. In September 2013, the same company was prosecuted by the US Department of Justice for violating American antitrust laws, resulting in a plea bargain, and in January 2016 the company reached a settlement with the European Commission for a violation of EU competition laws. We are working to prevent further violations and to broaden awareness of compliance issues, including publicizing messages from top executives, developing company regulations, conducting regular audits, and providing education and training to employees based on a compliance manual. In fiscal 2015, we held group education sessions on the Antimonopoly Act for 1,263 participants, including all Hitachi sales managers. We also released an e-learning program on the fundamentals for compliance with competition laws and implemented it at Hitachi Group companies globally. Through these initiatives, we will continue working to improve and enhance our compliance framework. Contents 54 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Fair Operating Practices Engaging in Responsible Procurement Engaging in Responsible Procurement Hitachi’s Approach Guidelines for Procurement Activities These guidelines define business transaction standards which shall International initiatives like the UN Global Compact have be applied to all HITACHI executives and employees in connection prompted companies worldwide to give greater thought to with their activities purchasing necessary materials, products, services, and information from outside sources. CSR and green procurement under which they take social 1. Overall procurement activities of Hitachi shall adhere to the and environmental concerns into consideration when “HITACHI Company Conduct Standards.” selecting suppliers, thereby strengthening CSR activities 2. HITACHI shall maintain proper partnerships, mutual throughout the supply chain. understanding, and reliable relationships with suppliers with a view As a company that procures products and services from to the long term results, giving due consideration to the following: (1) HITACHI shall treat all suppliers impartially and be suppliers in regions and countries around the world, Hitachi prohibited from favoritism such as giving unfair priority to was quick to introduce policies on CSR and green any specific suppliers. procurement. Moreover, Hitachi has taken the lead in (2) HITACHI respects fair business dealings with suppliers and will responding to the issue of conflict minerals, which has been avoid any improper act which might cause a loss to a supplier the focus of public interest in recent years, by scrutinizing apart from normal and customary business transactions. (3) HITACHI shall keep suppliers’ trade secrets strictly confidential the countries where raw materials are mined in order to and prevent them from being revealed or improperly used. prevent the infringements on human rights by countries 3. HITACHI develops suppliers to maintain competitiveness from a engaged in conflict. Along with sharing our procurement worldwide point of view, with particular attention to the policies throughout the Hitachi Group, we are conducting following points: CSRand environment-related inspections and audits of (1) HITACHI responds to all suppliers’ offers sincerely, and is always willing to offer the information necessary for suppliers suppliers and stepping up awareness-raising activities. to compete on an even playing field. (2) HITACHI shall periodically check and review suppliers’ performance and will consider offering more advantageous business opportunities when comparison with other Supply Chain Management resources allows. 4. Through a designated selection process, and in compliance with Creating and Sharing Procurement Policies the standards given below, suppliers shall be evaluated by product We base our procurement activities on the Hitachi quality, reliability, delivery, price, suppliers’ business stability, Guidelines for Procurement Activities, while sharing global technical development ability, fair and transparent information supply chain issues within the Group. All Group companies release, compliance with societies’ rules, regulatory compliance, follow these guidelines. The guidelines were created in line respect for human rights, elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation, elimination of all forms of forced and with the United Nations Global Compact and include the compulsory labor, environmental preservation activities, social elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation contributions, good working environment, and recognition of as well as all forms of child and forced labor. social responsibilities with business partners. To help suppliers, as the codrivers of our operations, to (1) HITACHI shall not request quotations from suppliers with whom understand Hitachi’s supply chain management philosophy, there is no intention to enter into a future business relationship. (2) In accordance with specified internal procedures, the authority we have distributed the Hitachi Group Supply Chain CSR and responsibility for specifications, terms and conditions, and Deployment Guidebook, revised in 2009, which is based on product acceptance and inspection belong to each Requester, the Supply Chain CSR Deployment Guidebook issued by Procurement Department, and Inspection Department. JEITA.*1 The guidebook is given out to around 23,000 (3) Procurement Departments shall represent HITACHI when suppliers of our in-house and Group companies. contracting with suppliers. 5. HITACHI members are prohibited from receiving any personal gifts *1 JEITA (Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association): An or offers from suppliers. industrial association for electronics technologies, electronic machinery, and Revised in 2009 information technologies. Guidelines for Procurement Activities Procurement Policy CSR/Green Procurement Contents 55 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Fair Operating Practices Engaging in Responsible Procurement CSR Supply Chain Management Framework environmental conservation, including building an Given the global reach of Hitachi’s business, there is a environmental management system and acquiring growing likelihood of supply chain risks creating certifications. There are also requirements for reducing the management problems, and we are working hard to identify environmental impact of products supplied to Hitachi, such and mitigate these risks beforehand as much as possible. as conserving resources and energy in production, We established a CSR/Green Procurement Promotion recycling, managing chemical substances, and fully Center within the Hitachi headquarters in fiscal 2011. We disclosing related information. have also established the Hitachi Group CSR Green There is a global trend toward tighter regulations on Procurement Committee, which includes committee chemical substances. In fiscal 2013, we reviewed our members from in-house and key Group companies. This categories for controlled chemical substances in our Green completes a framework that will enable our CSR supply Procurement Guidelines to comply with the stipulations on chain management and green procurement philosophy and restricted substances, authorized substances, and initiatives to be shared throughout the Group. substances of very high concern (SVHCs) in Europe’s In order to share the philosophy of Hitachi among our Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of suppliers, in fiscal 2015 we also introduced a new initiative Chemicals (REACH) regulation for managing chemical to provide suppliers directly with information in a face-tosubstances within the European Union. Specific changes face format, in addition to the information shared on the include: (1) moving some chemicals to the prohibited Hitachi website as well as our CSR monitoring, CSR audits, substances list, (2) further breaking down the controlled and other measures. The first of these face-to-face events substances list, and (3) adopting the industry association was held in January 2016 at a CSR and green procurement list. The previous guidelines were revised to version 8.2 and seminar held in Shanghai for Hitachi Group partners in distributed through in-house and Group companies to China. The event was attended by 15 people from 12 suppliers to ensure that they are fully informed. We have companies, primarily suppliers in eastern China. At the built A Gree’Net, an Internet-based green procurement seminar, Hitachi explained topics including its fundamental system, to collect information about chemical substances CSR philosophy, the CSR audit situation, regulatory trends contained in products and other environment-related data under Chinese environmental laws, and Hitachi’s related from suppliers as soon as it becomes available. The goal is policies. Feedback from participants included a comment to manage chemicals carefully. Under this system, we from one person who was “impressed by the emphasis the encourage suppliers to use the MSDSPlus*1/AIS*2 reporting company places not only on monozukuri craftsmanship but templates published by the Joint Article Management also on fulfilling its social responsibility in a range of areas.” Promotion Consortium.*3 We also encourage them to use Another participant “gained a sense that profitability is not information transmission systems and to minimize the the sole aim and that it is important to adhere to amount of labor. environmental laws.” As reflected in the comments, the *1 MSDSPlus: A format for reporting chemical substances contained in products created seminar served to deepen the understanding of Hitachi by upstream companies (chemical manufacturers) for midstream companies (molded initiatives related to CSR and green procurement. product manufacturers, etc.). *2 AIS: A format for reporting chemical substances contained in products created by midstream companies (molded product manufacturers, etc.) for downstream companies Number of Hitachi Group suppliers (assembly manufacturers, etc.). *3 Joint Article Management Promotion Consortium (JAMP): Established in September (as of December 2015): 2006 as a cross-industry promotion association of 17 companies endorsing the idea 26,000 companies (about 62 countries) that “it is essential for the enhancement of industrial competitiveness to ensure proper management of information on chemical substances contained in articles (parts and final products), and to establish and popularize a concrete mechanism for smooth disclosure and transmission of such information in supply chains.” Hitachi Group Green Procurement Guidelines Green Procurement To procure parts and materials manufactured with reduced Joint Article Management Promotion Consortium environmental impact, so that suppliers help to protect the environment, it is crucial that we share our commitment to environmentally conscious monozukuri craftsmanship throughout our entire supply chain. In fiscal 1998, we led the industry in developing Green Procurement Guidelines to define our basic position on procuring parts and products that do not have a negative impact on the global environment, as well as our requirements of suppliers, so that we can work together to promote green procurement. The guidelines set out supplier requirements for Contents 56 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Fair Operating Practices Engaging in Responsible Procurement Response to the Conflict Minerals Issue Strengthening Global Partnerships The Request to Our Suppliers, based on the Conflict A key element of the Hitachi Group Vision is to improve the Minerals Procurement Policy that we released in September competitiveness of our value chain based on partnerships 2013, has been published on our website as a clear with our suppliers. Given our business aim to expand statement of our position. internationally, we need to extend our procurement globally, looking toward increasing local production for local Hitachi Group Conflict Minerals Procurement Policy consumption. In fiscal 2011, we appointed procurement The Hitachi Group is committed to responsible procurement practices officers to oversee local procurement in China, the rest of to mitigate the risk of sourcing conflict minerals (tantalum, tin, Asia, Europe, and the Americas. tungsten, and gold) that can directly or indirectly finance armed groups A global supplier database built in fiscal 2013 was abetting human rights violations in the Democratic Republic of the followed in fiscal 2014 by a new global procurement scheme Congo (DRC) and adjoining countries. The Hitachi Group Procurement Division strives to establish a sustainable supply chain that eliminates using the Group’s professional service functions (Hitachi procurement of materials and/or parts using conflict minerals. Our High-Technologies Corporation, Hitachi Capital Corporation, efforts are to continue procurement of minerals from responsible and Hitachi Transport System, Ltd.). We are expanding our sources in the region and are not intended to implement a ban on suppliers in emerging nations while also strengthening our procurement of minerals from the DRC and adjoining countries. response to CSR-related risks expected to arise from the global expansion of our supply chain. Request to Our Suppliers Rate of Local Procurement of Materials for Main Countries To do so, it is important to enhance supply chain transparency and to strengthen responsible procurement of materials and parts. Therefore, we expect our suppliers to agree to our Conflict Minerals Procurement Policy and to cooperate with us in our efforts to ensure procurement of conflict-free minerals. In accordance with the DoddJapan China Frank Act*1 and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises,*2 companies are required to conduct a reasonable country of origin inquiry and to exercise due diligence covering the entire supply chain 73 % 80 % to determine whether final products include conflict minerals which benefit armed groups. The Hitachi Group will examine its supply chain through a collaborative industrywide approach by utilizing the tool developed by EICC-GeSI.*3 We expect our suppliers to adhere to our Conflict Minerals Procurement Policy and to cooperate with our supply chain investigation. As improved processes are introduced to eliminate conflict Thailand India minerals from the supply chain, we will ask our suppliers to comply with such programs once they are developed, proven, and 66 % 45 % established (i.e., expansion of the Conflict-Free Smelter*4 list, which is under implementation by EICC-GeSI). The Hitachi Group will continue to engage in industry efforts to develop methods to build a stable, conflict-mineral-free supply chain. *1 Dodd-Frank Act: The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, signed into federal law by President Barack Obama on July 21, 2010. *2 OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises: Government recommendations for multinational corporations operating in or from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) countries to adhere to their guidelines. *3 EICC-GeSI: Nonprofit organization of members in the information and communications technology (ICT) industry. *4 Conflict-Free Smelter: A smelter or refinery that does not handle conflict minerals. Hitachi Group Conflict Minerals Procurement Policy and Request to Our Suppliers Contents 57 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Fair Operating Practices Engaging in Responsible Procurement Implementation of CSR Monitoring (Self-Checks) Increasing Green Purchasing of Office Supplies To monitor how well Hitachi’s CSR supply chain We are improving our green procurement rate—the ratio of management philosophy has been adopted by our suppliers, environmentally conscious products purchased to total office since fiscal 2007 we have asked key suppliers to conduct supplies—by using a Group-wide online procurement CSR Monitoring (self-checks) using the JEITA Supply Chain system: the E-sourcing Mall. This system has a range of CSR Deployment Guidebook and detailed checklists. After environmentally conscious products and promotes collecting and analyzing the results, we provide feedback for procurement by clearly labeling these products. In fiscal the business operations related to the suppliers, and then 2015, our green purchasing rate reached 87%. work with those involved in the operations to resolve issues related to the suppliers. Since fiscal 2011, we have Human Rights Due Diligence in Procurement expanded the scope to include suppliers in China and the Starting in fiscal 2015, the Hitachi Group Procurement rest of Asia, and in fiscal 2015 we asked 218 suppliers Division began implementing human rights due diligence outside Japan to conduct CSR Monitoring. based on the Hitachi Group Human Rights Policy. In the current fiscal year we requested the consulting services of Self-Check Results the nonprofit organization Shift for the creation of a working group centered on the procurement and CSR divisions at FY Suppliers in Japan Suppliers outside Japan Total Hitachi, Ltd., which serve as the corporate divisions 2011 0 102 102 overseeing activities throughout the Group, including the 2012 57 41 98 procurement and CSR divisions of two in-house and four 2013 55 45 100 Group companies and the CSR division of Hitachi Asia Ltd. 2014 0 200 200 The working group has evaluated human rights risks within 2015 0 218 218 the supply chain, set priorities, and considered measures for Total 112 606 718 reducing risks. Starting from fiscal 2016, plans call for Hitachi to update existing policies and its guidance document based on the results of the fiscal 2015 due Implementation of CSR Audits diligence, and also to introduce concrete measures such as Since July 2012, we have been auditing suppliers in China incorporating human rights initiatives within its ordinary and the rest of Asia. In fiscal 2015 as well, we conducted procurement operations. CSR audits of 20 suppliers , all of them in China. For these audits, we engaged the experienced CSR auditing Respect for Human Rights company Intertek Certification. Our audits are based on the international SA8000 certification standard developed by Social Accountability International (SAI), an American CSR evaluation institution. These audits investigate our workplace practices, and an EICC-recognized auditor checks suppliers’ CSR initiatives from the perspectives of labor and human rights, health and safety, the environment, and ethics. In fiscal 2015, audit results revealed no major infringements at the 20 suppliers, but made note of some small areas needing improvement, such as overtime work exceeding stipulated rules (17 suppliers), failure to conduct periodic inspections of machinery and equipment (12), and insufficient management of hazardous waste (15). We have mandated that these suppliers submit improvement action plans and will be working with and advising them until they complete the planned improvements. *1 Intertek Certification: With a presence in over 100 countries across the globe, the Intertek Group provides a wide array of certification services in every industrial field. Contents 58 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Customers (Consumer Issues) Customers (Consumer Issues) Hitachi’s Aims Under the Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct, we have worked to provide high quality and safe products and services and to prioritize the customer’s perspective. The Hitachi Group provides a broad range of products and services extending from household electronics to social infrastructure, and we strive to expand our lineup to address the needs of our clients and issues facing society. We feel it is important to contribute to building societies where everyone can enjoy a lifestyle of convenience and comfort, and toward this goal we are working to respond to the diverse needs of customers regardless of factors such as age, physical and mental abilities, economic circumstances, and cultural background. We develop products and services with which customers will be satisfied and which can be used with confidence while also striving to improve their accessibility. We also respect the rights of customers and are working to provide accurate information about our products and services while strictly managing customer information. Main Plans and Results Achievement Policies FY 2015 goals/plans Results in FY 2015 level FY 2016 goals/plans · Infiltration and · Implement ochibo hiroi, · Implemented ochibo hiroi at 85 offices · Implement ochibo hiroi, analyzing root embeddedness analyzing root causes of worldwide causes of product accidents and reviewing of QF (Quality product accidents and preventive measures with the needs of First) mindset reviewing preventive customers foremost in mind and sense of measures with the responsibility and needs of customers efforts to foremost in mind strengthen implementation · Improvement of · Conduct two training/ · Conducted two training/briefing sessions in · Conduct an annual training session in Japan corporate briefing sessions in Japan · Annually update information and distribute website Japan · Conducted five training/briefing sessions at materials for online conferences at various accessibility in · Conduct training/briefing four locations outside Japan locations outside Japan keeping with sessions at five locations · Re-examined the corporate website for 2010 revisions of outside Japan accessibility Japan Industrial · Promote use of Standards guidelines for regional portal sites : Achieved : Partially achieved : Not achieved Contents 59 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Customers (Consumer Issues) Pursuing Customer Satisfaction Pursuing Customer Satisfaction Our Hokkaido, Tohoku, and Shikoku area operations Hitachi’s Approach hold executive seminars for local customers. Through As a company that offers a broad range of products and direct dialogue with customers participating in our services, we believe it is important to engage in corporate seminars and lectures, we incorporate their expectations activities with the general public in mind, not just the corporate for Hitachi and their opinions into product strategies. and individual consumers with whom we deal directly. We also hold the Hitachi Social Innovation Forum, To improve customer satisfaction (CS), we have created which includes lectures, business sessions, seminars, and the Customer Satisfaction Management Guidelines. We exhibits showcasing new businesses and initiatives share customers’ thoughts obtained through direct dialogue, targeting social innovation. Project leaders explain details customer service counters, and other means within the to customers to deepen their understanding of Hitachi’s relevant divisions and reflect these in our management, business. We use feedback from this forum to improve products and services, and solution strategies. We also look our operations. to disseminate information through our advertising and Our R&D Technology Community program provides public relations activities in a truthful and appropriate opportunities for creation through collaboration with manner that does not mislead customers or in other ways customers. Project leaders invite customers to their that may adversely affect society, such as by reinforcing research labs to see exhibits of products and systems human rights infringements. currently being developed. Applying Advertisement Guidelines Customer Satisfaction Based on its Customer Satisfaction Management Guidelines, Hitachi, Ltd. applies advertisement guidelines to ensure that CS Improvement Activities its advertising activities comply with laws and regulations Using the Customer Satisfaction Management Guidelines, showing proper consideration for society as a whole. We will one of the pillars of the company’s business management, continue to create advertisements that reflect ongoing Hitachi continues to improve CS with the goal of creating changes in society, that provide customers with clear and innovation through collaboration with customers. concise messages, and that are appropriate for a company committed to contributing to society. Customer Satisfaction Management Guidelines As issues that arise from advertisement activities can 1. Listen to our customers, who determine the value of products and have broad impact on the company, we have established in services each business unit a framework for evaluating the 2. Review information from our customers is another source of expressions in advertisements that stands independent of improvement the ad production process. Following this institutional check, 3. Offer prices and quality that are competitive 4. Respond rapidly to keep our promises to our customers we also evaluate advertisements to ensure that they are 5. Adopt systems that prevent accidents and minimize their impact socially appropriate. Formulated in 1994 We designed our advertisement guidelines to be flexibly adjusted and applied to the entire Hitachi Group’s diverse operations. At our business locations outside Japan in Reflecting Customers’ Voices particular, we strive to ensure appropriate advertising Our sales and marketing division uses customer input in activities by confirming all items on the checklist included in developing management, product, and solution strategies. the guidelines. We identify key customers who will help grow our business, then assign an account manager (AM) to each one. The AMs serve as customers’ “portals” into Hitachi Group companies in Japan, and the whole Group works with them to build closer relations with customers and to boost customer satisfaction. Contents 60 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Customers (Consumer Issues) Pursuing Customer Satisfaction Customer Contact Cases, Call Completion Rate Providing Customer Support Online (12-Month Average) Hitachi offers comprehensive customer support on its (cases per month) (%) website. This enables us to process customer inquiries, 100,000 84.8 100 opinions, requests, and complaints—in collaboration with 80.8 80.5 82.1 74.8 the customer support offices of Hitachi Group companies in 80,000 80 Japan—to improve our business operations, as well as our 60,000 60 45,607 products and services. We also conduct training courses to 14,376 40,193 39,782 37,158 36,197 40,000 8,720 5,952 4,782 4,050 40 provide better handling of these inquiries. As one initiative, we have been holding the Web Inquiry 20,000 31,231 31,473 33,830 32,376 32,147 20 Responsiveness Improvement Course since fiscal 2009. In 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) 0 fiscal 2015, 52 Hitachi Group company employees took the course (bringing the cumulative total to 701 participants), White goods (electric home appliances and other products) (left scale) Brown goods (electronic equipment) (left scale) (Call completion rate) (right scale) which features case studies on responses to inquiries. Going forward, we will strengthen coordination among Group Results of Evaluation Survey for Customer Repair Services companies to respond more quickly and effectively to (Customer Satisfaction) customer inquiries, using the website as an important (%) contact tool. 100 97.1 96.6 97.1 97.2 97.3 95 Improving Customer Satisfaction in Electric Home 90 Appliances The Electric Home Appliances Customer Satisfaction 85 Division has enabled the expansion of Hitachi’s business 80 from electronic and electric equipment to the environment 75 business by drawing up a vision for environmental value 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) creation, actively promoting various service areas. Notes: Evaluation survey for 2015 carried out in June–August 2015 (35,400 respondents; Our call center and website handle about 2.31 million 38.8% response rate) and December 2015–February 2016 (28,800 respondents; customer inquiries, repair requests, and complaints about 37.9% response rate). washing machines, LCD TVs, and other appliances per year.*1 We have undertaken a number of initiatives to better Flow of Customer Service respond to inquiries and to reflect customer feedback in our Repair request Information on repair service Individual business Repair group monozukuri craftsmanship, including improving the contact Contact Quality assurance success rate by using outsourcing; creating a database of Center department Repair Feedback on improvements customer feedback, including consultations, inquiries, and Customers complaints; and enhancing our website’s FAQ section. Design We also conduct semiannual customer service department Inquiry Customer Input in Feedback database evaluation surveys at approximately 90 service centers in Support Contact Japan. Based on the answers, we improve services through Center Manufacturing Response (no repair) department CS training courses and other programs. With the expansion of Hitachi’s markets outside Japan, Response activity Flow of information Information sharing sales offices have been opened in nine countries in Asia and the Middle and Near East. We are also working on unifying management of operations outside Japan. *1 Since fiscal 2013, technical inquiries from suppliers and parts orders have been excluded from these statistics. Contents 61 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Customers (Consumer Issues) Ensuring Accessibility to Products and Services Ensuring Accessibility to Products and Services Increasing UD Products in Digital and Home Appliances Hitachi’s Approach We define people as customers as soon as a product ISO 26000 provides guidelines for corporate social interests them, and therefore make a point of considering UD responsibility. It identifies such core consumer issues as “fair concepts in all stages, from presales to disposal. Key marketing, factual and unbiased information” and “access to attributes are usability, features, harmony with the essential services” and calls on corporations to actively take environment, safety, and maintenance. Our intention is to measures addressing these. It is the base of our CSR provide products that suit the physical capabilities and management framework, and in applying it we are working lifestyles of all customers and are appreciated for a long time. to improve our products and services to make them broadly Our UD focus extends beyond products to include accessible to society through such activities as the product manuals. For example, to allow the visually impaired appropriate disclosure of product information and the to use our products safely and easily, we are working with promotion of universal design. In addition, to support the the NPO Kanagawa Information, Employment, and Welfare growth of emerging economies we are developing products Network for the Visually Impaired (View-Net Kanagawa) to and services to meet new social needs and carrying out our make our manuals available as audio text files. Social Innovation Business while also engaging in active The entire manual, including photographs, diagrams, marketing and other activities. and tables, is converted into a text file that can be played aloud using text-to-speech software (a screen reader for the visually impaired) and made available online. The text files Universal Design are created based on feedback from visually impaired people who have operated and verified product use while We promote universal design (UD) with a focus on three listening to the instructions. aspects of our products: their quality of use, their We have also launched a range of measures to improve accessibility, and their entire life cycle. Quality of use means the accessibility of increasingly complex electronic focusing on the traits that make people feel that the product consumer appliances for the elderly and disabled. DVDs is easy and enjoyable to make a part of their lives. providing clear explanations on product use are included Accessibility refers to the range of people who can use a with products, while some products have Japanese Braille product or service. And the life cycle covers all the labeling on their buttons. customer-relevant stages of the value chain, from product purchase through to disposal. We conduct basic research on users’ behavioral and cognitive characteristics to formulate UD guidelines and reflect these in product development, incorporating input from users and experts at every stage. The information obtained during product development goes into a database shared by our businesses in Japan. We also distribute some Instruction DVD. of this information externally to promote open-source standardization and education. Verifying audio text files for product operation. Universal Design at Hitachi Contents 62 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Customers (Consumer Issues) Ensuring Accessibility to Products and Services Bringing UD to Public Equipment and Systems Public equipment and systems are used by a large number of people, including children, either individually or collectively, in public spaces like government buildings, stations, railways, and hospitals. Product design must address not only ease of use but also security, privacy, and safety. For example, our automated teller machines (ATMs) include considerations and ideas based on a human-centric approach aimed at producing a machine that a range of people can operate in the same way with ease and without any particular concern. The arched guide frame leads hands naturally toward the card, bankbook, and cash slots. The AKe-S next-generation ATM. open space below the user panel has been substantially deepened to improve wheelchair access. Increasing UD Products in Web and Information Systems The screen interface, designed to be easier to use Web and information systems are essential for gathering regardless of differences in color vision, has received Color information and communicating. For users with disabilities Universal Design certification*1 from the NPO Color Universal who have difficulty accessing information, it is particularly Design Organization (CUDO). important to make systems accessible, usable, and secure. Hitachi promotes UD that ensures accessibility in our web *1 CUDO Color Universal Design certification: Granted where the color schemes used in products and facilities, etc., are tested and found to be consistent with CUDO and information systems by using the international Web standards for color UD, the concept of designing products and facilities for universal Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.0.*1 Examples ease of use, regardless of people’s differences in color perception. The aim of the CUDO certification system is to contribute to the public good by creating a society that include screens and layouts that are easy to read, accommodates individuals’ differences. compatibility with screen readers that read content out loud, and a feature that allows people to alter font size and color. The Assistance for Color Generation by CSS3 (CSS3 Generator) tool uses CSS3,*2 enabling the rendering of gradation, shadows, glow effects, font bordering, rounded corners, and other effects that allow more people to create web pages efficiently without factoring in colors or using images. This tool makes it easy to choose colors that can be differentiated regardless of color vision. Hitachi has made this tool available for free so that it can be used by screen designers and systems developers. An arched guide frame leads hands naturally toward the slots. *1 WCAG 2.0: Guidelines created by the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) that form the basis of the Japanese Industrial Standard on information communications and Web content. The International Organization for Standardization (ISO) adopted these guidelines as an ISO/IEC 40500:2012 standard on October 12, 2012. *2 CSS3 (CSS Level 3): An additional specification for the W3C’s Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), a language for describing the rendering of HTML and XML documents. An inset front face below provides better wheelchair access. Screenshot of the Assistance for Color Generation tool. A display screen accommodating color vision differences. Contents 63 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Customers (Consumer Issues) Ensuring Accessibility to Products and Services, Ensuring Thorough Management of Quality and Safety Product Safety Information Disclosure Economic growth and rising incomes in India have made bolstering the nation’s financial infrastructure a top-priority Information Disclosure for Safety issue, and the Indian government is promoting measures to Hitachi’s Product Safety Assurance Guidelines state that our expand access to financial services throughout the country, highest priority is the safety of our customers, and we have including in rural communities. Hitachi has entered India’s established activity guidelines for safety across the Group. payment services market by acquiring a major domestic firm As changes in social norms and the environment bring with a proven record in automated teller machine (ATM) about the need for higher standards of safety, we are services, including monitoring, maintenance, and support in crafting even higher safety standards by having the Hitachi optimizing installation for better location selection and Group’s risk assessment team share the latest practical further efficiency. Pairing the local company’s knowledge of cases within the Group and evaluate the safety activities the markets with our big data analytic technology has related to each product. enabled us to increase our services nationwide. As of March Moreover, we are also proactively working to disclose 2016, we manage over 50,000 ATMs and over 270,000 safety information on the use of our products and improving point of sale (POS) service devices. risk communication with our customers by establishing the The introduction of our payment services business Guide for Preparing User Instruction Manuals. represents a change in direction for our operations in India toward more complete financial solutions. In contrast to developed countries, where FinTech*1 such as cashless Adaptation for Emerging Markets settlement services is widely available, the need for ATMcentered financial services is expected to continue as Product and Service Adaptation for Emerging Markets emerging markets are heavily reliant on cash payments. As a consequence of their rapid economic development, Moving forward, we plan to expand our financial services emerging markets face issues including food shortages, business in Southeast Asia and other emerging countries. poverty, and environmental and energy concerns, which are *1 FinTech: A portmanteau of financial technology, describing convenient and innovative attributed to urbanization and population growth. In an effort financial services using IT created from the point of view of customer needs. to seek solutions to these social issues, we are expanding our Social Innovation Business globally. Ensuring Thorough Management of Quality and Safety Hitachi’s Approach Quality Assurance Activities Meeting the quality standards our customers expect and About Our Activities providing products and services they can use with confidence Based on the Corporate Credo of contributing to society are the management themes cited at the beginning of the through the development of superior, original technology and Hitachi Group Codes of Conduct that each employee strives products, Hitachi is engaged in the monozukuri to fulfill as a promise to society. We are establishing thorough craftsmanship with quality and reliability as top priority. An quality assurance measures from the design and production integral aspect of this is ochibo hiroi, Hitachi’s traditional stages through after-sales service, as well as working to approach meaning “gleaning” in English, through which we ensure a quick response and proper information disclosure in learn from failure and further develop our technologies. In the event a problem emerges. In addition, as production and practice, when an accident occurs, we not only investigate other operations increasingly take place outside of Japan, we the technical cause of the accident but also have an giving importance to quality assurance in our global human executive officer in charge and relevant staff members resource development activities, and we are working to thoroughly discuss the process, framework, and expand our current programs. psychological factors of the incident in order to improve our product reliability and customer satisfaction. To ensure quality and reliability, we enhance our quality assurance activities from the perspectives of organization and management, technology, and human resources in every process—from planning, development, design, manufacturing, and delivery to maintenance—in order to perform our safety-driven brief. Contents 64 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Customers (Consumer Issues) Ensuring Thorough Management of Quality and Safety From fiscal 2010 to 2015 we promoted Group-wide consciousness and safety labels. We distribute information measures to ensure product safety, compliance with laws on product regulations worldwide, along with amendment and regulations, human resource development, and quality trends and enforcement dates, among Hitachi Group improvements. To realize our fiscal 2018 Mid-term companies. We have also created guidelines for assessment Management Plan, from fiscal 2016 onward we are steadily of technical laws and quality assurance systems, sharing working to improve the quality of services and the reliability them throughout the Group. The guidelines focus on of our products for quality, as well as to promote the clarifying product-specific laws (the product-specific laws reduction of loss costs with better quality management. map); on regulatory compliance activities and continuous improvement of processes, based on our compliance Intensive Risk Assessment management system; and on compliance education, as well Hitachi is committed to the quality, reliability, and delivery of as raising compliance awareness. safe products and services by combining expertise and technologies in such varied areas as planning, research, Handling Product Accidents design, manufacturing, quality assurance, and maintenance. When a product accident occurs, the division responsible The safety of our customers’ life, health, and property is the acts swiftly to resolve the problem from the customer’s top priority in product development. Therefore, we verify perspective. For an especially severe accident, we report to safety at every step, from development and production to government agencies in line with legal requirements and sales and maintenance, and conduct risk assessments from publish the incident information on our website and through a wide perspective in collaboration with related business other channels. At the same time, we promptly submit a units and research laboratories. status report to top management, ensuring fast and appropriate action at all companies across the Group. Complying with Technical Laws To supply our customers with products that they can use with confidence, we comply with all product safety and technical laws, including those covering environmental Response Flow in the Event of Product Accident Accident occurrence Hitachi Group Information gathering Consumer Affairs Report Agency, etc. Top management Customer QA Department liaison Emergency Confirmation of accident status Serious Customers, response product Product recall retailers authorities Investigative accident Notification via web, committee on serious media Investigation of cause product accidents Onsite Product Investigation of Decision on Response and investigation investigation damage scope seriousness of reporting accident Flow of information Report Information sharing Quality and Reliability Education Each business unit also conducts specialized technical We conduct various technical lectures for engineers engaged courses regarding manufacturing, quality assurance, and in monozukuri craftsmanship, beginners and experts alike, in maintenance at their quality assurance training centers. the field of the Weibull, FTA, and FMEA analysis methods in addition to product safety. In addition to these lectures, we Ensuring Home Appliance Safety initiated training on reliability improvement to foster We are reducing consumer appliance accidents to near instructors from November 2014 to August 2015. The zero levels in line with Hitachi’s Customer Satisfaction content of the training extended from the Founding Spirit and Management Guidelines, which set avoidance of all accidents lessons learned from accidents to our distinct approach, as the baseline. For example, since fiscal 1987 we have been monozukuri, which makes Hitachi special. As of August testing worst-case scenarios, such as deliberately setting a 2015, we have trained over 200 instructors, who are passing fire inside a product to confirm that the fire will not spread on Hitachi’s monozukuri to the next generation of engineers. outside it. Since fiscal 2006, we have also been conducting Contents 65 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Customers (Consumer Issues) Ensuring Thorough Management of Quality and Safety product safety risk assessments at the development stage, Protecting Personal Information creating “accidents” that might be caused by misuse. We established a personal information protection We will continue to make all our consumer appliances even management system based on our Personal Information safer, using our own voluntary action plan for product safety, so Protection Policy. Through the rollout of this system, as that customers can use our products with confidence. well as the safe handling of personal information, e-learning programs for all employees, and periodic Training Global QA Personnel in Asia audits, we are ensuring protection of personal information As local production has been growing in Asia, we are throughout the company. carrying out training to ensure that products from the region We are also establishing a management system and meet Hitachi’s global standard of quality. For example, we defining internal regulations in line with legal requirements to host conferences for QA managers in China and Thailand, appropriately manage information related to Japan’s My where we have a large number of manufacturing sites, to Number taxpayer identification system, which the raise quality awareness with regard to Hitachi’s monozukuri government introduced in January 2016. craftsmanship and to share information and best practices. Hitachi experienced no leaks of personal information Additionally, to help employees in quality assurance during fiscal 2015. become global players and improve their level of quality management, we provide three levels of training courses in Privacy Mark*1 Certification Beijing, Shanghai, and Guangzhou in China and in Bangkok, Hitachi, Ltd. first received Privacy Mark certification in March Thailand: the Basic Reliability Course,*1 Intermediate 2007. We have maintained the high level of privacy Reliability Course,*2 and Advanced Reliability Course. In the protection needed to renew this certification five subsequent Advanced Reliability Course, managers and senior managers times, most recently in March 2015. We are making every hold group discussions on past product accidents to effort to ensure our sixth consecutive certification in March investigate the causes, including process-related, 2017. The entire Hitachi Group is committed to personal organizational, and psychological factors, and the information protection, with 57 Hitachi Group companies in discussions help them enhance their ability to identify issues Japan having received the Privacy Mark as of May 2016. In and craft solutions. July 2009, the Corporate Hospital Group in Japan also gained Privacy Mark certification. This group is working hard *1 Basic Reliability Course: Deepens understanding of Hitachi’s monozukuri craftsmanship, quality management, and labor safety. to protect and carefully handle the personal information of its *2 Intermediate Reliability Course: Improves understanding of more practical issues, patients and others. Hitachi also strives to safeguard including Hitachi’s monozukuri craftsmanship, ISO 9001 certification, defect elimination, design for reliability, and purchase management. personal information globally at Group companies outside Japan based on the Personal Information Protection Policy and by adhering to all applicable laws and regulations, Rigorous Information Management including social requirements. Again, Hitachi experienced no leaks of personal Web Marketing information during fiscal 2015. Hitachi utilizes online platforms, including the corporate *1 Privacy Mark: A third-party certification established in April 1998 that is granted by the website and social media, to promote its business and assessment body Japan Information Processing Development Corporation to enhance customers’ understanding of Hitachi as part of businesses that have taken appropriate security management and protection measures related to personal information. developing the Social Innovation Business globally. The use of these platforms requires effective risk management to protect our brand and to prevent violations of human rights. Personal Information Protection Policy To this end, we have established the Hitachi Disclosure Policy, the Global Information Security Administration Rules, and the Social Media Guideline as guidance tools, sharing them with Group companies worldwide. Additionally, Hi-CRM, Hitachi’s customer relations management system, has been applied to 194 Group companies to collect and accurately manage customer information Group-wide, in addition to serving as a marketing tool. Hi-CRM covers 66% of the orders received across the whole Group, with the database enabling us to formulate more effective sales strategies and offer collaborative solutions by multiple businesses. We are currently considering rolling out the system more aggressively across the Group. Contents 66 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Community Involvement and Development Promoting Sustainable Community Involvement and Development Community Involvement and Development Hitachi’s Aims Corporations interact with a diverse community of stakeholders through their onsite operations. In working toward a sustainable society, modern corporations are expected to recognize the value of community interaction and utilize their operational strengths in actively supporting the local community through projects that bolster involvement and development at the local level. As a good corporate citizen, Hitachi is carrying out a diverse range of community activities and advancing coexistence with society, such as through youth development, creation of cultural diversity, assistance for local community development, and environmental preservation. Main Plans and Results Achievement Policies FY 2015 goals/plans Results in FY 2015 level FY 2016 goals/plans · Examination and · Plan, implement, and review · Implemented research and analysis · Construct framework for activities implementation of activities that serve as precedents of in-house activities that serve as measures to establish precedents longer-term relationship with communities in which Hitachi operates · Implementation of · Conduct programs by or for Group · Group employee volunteers · Continue with independent community support employees conducted Universal Design (UD) community support programs of activities · Conduct independent programs in Educational Programs at 38 schools each Group company and each collaboration with Group companies in and outside Japan business unit · Have each Group company and · Held seven Hitachi Science business unit conduct independent Seminars in collaboration with community support programs Group companies · Implemented 113 community support programs during Hitachi Volunteer Day—a month of social contributions by the entire Group · Implementation of · Hold 13th Hitachi Young Leaders · Held HYLI in Manila, Philippines, · Prepare for 14th HYLI policies to cultivate Initiative (HYLI) with the participation of 31 university human resources in students from seven ASEAN developing countries countries and Japan · Examine and implement exchange · Implemented internship for one · Continue exchange program with program with students from Asian AUW graduate AUW University for Women (AUW) : Achieved : Partially achieved : Not achieved Promoting Sustainable Community Involvement and Development Hitachi’s Approach pursue social contribution activities and to establish sustainable goals. We have formulated a policy on social Our diverse operations span the globe and involve a wide contribution activities and are carrying out a wide variety of range of communities. In order to participate in a community, activities across the Group. establish a longer-term relationship with it, and contribute to its development, we feel it is important to strategically Contents 67 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Community Involvement and Development Promoting Sustainable Community Involvement and Development Social Contribution Activities Classification According to LBG Guidelines We conduct surveys of social contribution activities by Policy on Social Contribution Activities applying three categories of motivation based on the LBG*1 In fiscal 2014, we revised our policy on social contribution measurement framework, namely charitable gifts, community activities based on our own CSR management framework. investment, and commercial initiatives in the community. With the new Group-wide policy on social contribution Hitachi continues to focus on ways to strategically align its activities, we will proactively promote our activities. The social contribution activities with its business, with efforts engine of our various businesses including social innovation toward this end including continued charitable activities and is not only driven by Hitachi’s efforts to build a relationship increased community investment across the Hitachi Group. with communities as a corporate citizen but also by our employees’ flexible mindset and motivation brought about Ratio of Social Contribution Activities Based on LBG Guidelines by volunteer activities. We believe that these initiatives (monetary basis) enable us to contribute to the development of sustainability Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 in both our business and society as a whole. Charitable gifts 80% 80% As one of Hitachi’s global efforts, we introduced the Community investment 18% 16% Commercial initiatives in the community 2% 4% Hitachi Volunteer Day in 2012. To mark the International Volunteer Day on December 5 each year, we set every *1 LBG (London Benchmarking Group): An internationally recognized, global network of 114 companies that provides a framework for measuring corporate community November and December as a period during which we investment. Over 300 companies worldwide use the LBG model. further encourage our employees to organize and take part in a broad range of volunteer activities to contribute to their LBG communities. In fiscal 2015, Hitachi and the Hitachi Global Foundation provided 2,057 million yen in funding toward The Hitachi Global Foundation social contribution activities worldwide. On April 1, 2015, five foundations in Japan long supported by the Hitachi Group—namely, the Odaira Memorial Hitachi Policy on Social Contribution Activities and Statement Education Foundation, the Kurata Memorial Hitachi Science Policy on Social Contribution Activities and Technology Foundation, the Hitachi Environment The Hitachi Group promotes interactive communication with local Foundation, the Hitachi Scholarship Foundation, and the society through social contribution activities related to business Hitachi Mirai Foundation—merged into the Hitachi Global activities, employee volunteers, and charitable activities in the Foundation. The aim is for the newly formed organization to key fields of human development, the environment, and community support. develop the activities previously undertaken respectively by Statement each of the five foundations to further meet societal needs. “Nurturing People, Connecting to the Future” Under a policy on social contribution activities revised in The statement was set down to succinctly express and convey fiscal 2014, the Hitachi Global Foundation plans to utilize the meaning of the policy to as many people as possible. Hitachi’s experience and know-how to promote activities in three key areas—promotion of academic research, science, and technology; human development; and support for local Social Contribution Activity communities—in order to enhance social value through collaboration across the Hitachi Group. Key Indicators In fiscal 2016–18 we will focus attention on Breakdown of Funding for Social Contribution Activities consolidation of the organization. The Foundation has a Social welfare long-term view informing how it carries out social 7% contribution programs based on an array of societal needs, Other such as addressing the declining birthrate and the graying of 33% (including disaster society, responding to the rapid advancement of information relief at 3%) technology, cultivating future human resources, and 2,057 million yen*1 invigorating local communities. Our programs include Scholarships Environment and education providing scientific research grants, nurturing future science5% 41% and engineering-related personnel, offering scholarships to faculty at universities around Asia, and launching new Culture and the arts 14% programs addressing global issues facing the socially vulnerable, including youths and the elderly. *1 Japan: Hitachi, Ltd., 137 Group companies, and the Hitachi Global Foundation. Outside Japan: 244 Group companies. The Hitachi Global Foundation Contents 68 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Environment Hitachi’s Aims The world’s population, which was 7.3 billion in 2015, is projected to grow to 9.7 billion by 2050 and to 11.2 billion by 2100.*1 Global GDP is also continuing to expand—led by emerging economies—aggravating a host of environmental problems, including global warming caused by higher CO2 emissions from fossil fuel consumption, the depletion of resources due to increased demand, and ecosystem destruction. Global-scale efforts are being made to develop approaches that lighten the burden on the environment so that a prosperous planet can be passed on to future generations. Hitachi strives to achieve a more sustainable society by addressing environmental problems, which pose a major challenge for society, based on its corporate mission of contributing to society through the development of superior, original technology and products. *1 According to World Population Prospects: The 2015 Revision, published by the United Nations. Main Plans and Results Achievement Policies FY 2015 goals/plans Results in FY 2015 level FY 2016 goals/plans · Expansion of Hitachi Eco-Product lineup · Achieve Eco-Product · Achieved Eco-Product · Reduce CO2 emissions (through fiscal 2015) sales ratio of 90% sales ratio of 95% from use of products · Improvement in environmental performance of products and services by 30% and services (from fiscal 2016) (compared to fiscal 2010) · Promotion of improved energy efficiency in factories · Reduce energy use per · Reduced energy use per · Reduce energy use per and offices unit by 15% unit by 16% unit by 15% (compared to fiscal 2005) : Achieved : Partially achieved : Not achieved Promoting Environmental Management 69 Reducing the Environmental Burden of Our Business Operations 82 (Fiscal 2015 Results) Enhancing Environmental Management on an Ongoing Basis 72 Preserving Ecosystems 91 Responding to Environmental Risks and Opportunities 81 Contents 69 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Environment Promoting Environmental Management Promoting Environmental Management Hitachi’s Approach Environmental Vision Hitachi faces a broad range of challenges regarding its Hitachi will resolve environmental issues products and services, such as reducing carbon emissions and achieve both a higher quality of life and improving resource efficiency across the value chain. At the same time, given the expectations of society, innovations and a sustainable society through its that help resolve environmental issues present major Social Innovation Business in collaborative business opportunities. creation with its stakeholders. Guided by our Environmental Vision, we have formulated a set of long-term environmental targets called Hitachi Environmental Innovation 2050 to guide our environmental Setting Long-Term Environmental Targets: Hitachi initiatives from a broader and longer-term perspective. The Environmental Innovation 2050 Environmental Action Plan for 2018 lays out specific activity Our Environmental Vision envisions a low-carbon society; areas and improvement targets for achieving our a resource efficient society; a harmonized society with Environmental Vision and long-term environmental targets. nature. To achieve such a sustainable society, we have Aligning this with the 2018 Mid-term Management Plan, we reviewed the contents of our long-term Environmental will promote Group-wide efforts to achieve the targets set Vision 2025, which we have been promoting until now, forth in the Environmental Action Plan, thereby practicing and newly established a set of long-term environmental environmental management in a manner that meets the targets called Hitachi Environmental Innovation 2050. expectations of society. Hitachi Environmental Innovation 2050 Hitachi’s Environmental Vision and Long-Term Low-carbon society Environmental Targets Achieve 50% reductions Hitachi’s Environmental Vision in CO2 emissions by fiscal 2030 As global warming, resource depletion, ecosystem and 80% reductions by fiscal 2050 destruction, and other environmental issues grow more across the value chain serious, companies face increasing demands and (compared to fiscal 2010) expectations to reduce the environmental burden of their business activities. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Resource efficient society concluded in the Synthesis Report of its Fifth Assessment Build a society that uses water and Report, issued in November 2014, that limiting global other resources efficiently warming “below 2°C relative to pre-industrial levels” would Achieve 50% improvement in usage efficiency require “40 to 70% global anthropogenic GHG emissions of water and other resources by fiscal 2050 reductions by 2050 compared to 2010.” The Paris (compared to fiscal 2010 in the Hitachi Group) Agreement adopted in December 2015 at the 21st Conference of the Parties (COP21) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change set ambitious Harmonized society with nature targets, including a global long-term target of keeping global warming to below 2°C and efforts to limit the increase to Minimize the impact 1.5°C. Long-term environmental targets have also been set on natural capital in the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)—the centerpiece of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, adopted by the United Nations in 2015. In the light of these global trends and our own management policy, we created an Environmental Vision to better define the kind of society that Hitachi envisions from a long-term perspective. Contents 70 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Environment Promoting Environmental Management Low-carbon society Environmental Action Plan for 2018 The target aims for an 80% reduction in CO2 emissions compared to fiscal 2010 levels by fiscal 2050, going over Hitachi is pressing forward with activities in accordance with and beyond the targets set forth in the IPCC’s Fifth its Action Guidelines for Environmental Conservation in order Assessment Report. We will reduce CO2 emissions arising to achieve its Environmental Vision and its Hitachi from the use of Hitachi’s products and solutions, which Environmental Innovation 2050 long-term environmental account for over 90% of emissions in our value chain. We targets. Toward this end, we are steadily promoting will contribute to our customers and society by developing environmental activities through the implementation and innovative technologies and solutions, as well as enhancing sustained improvements of the detailed environmental the efficiency of our products and supplying low-carbon initiatives and targets set forth in our Environmental Action energy. At the same time, we will also work to cut down on Plan. To give our environmental strategy a more prominent emissions at the production stage. role in our management strategy, we revise the Environmental Action Plan every three years to align it with Resource efficient society the Mid-term Management Plan for the Hitachi Group. Together with our customers and society, we will do our In keeping with the 2018 Mid-term Management Plan, utmost through our business operations to help build a which begins in fiscal 2016, we have formulated the society that uses water and other resources efficiently. We Environmental Action Plan for 2018 with a view to further will expand circulative use of water by further advancing the reinforcing our environmental activities from a global entire range of water treatment technologies involved in perspective. We will advance our environmental activities water use from seawater desalination and other forms of over the next three years through fiscal 2018 under this plan. fresh water generation to sewage treatment. We will also improve our usage efficiency of water and Environmental Action Plan for 2018: Targets other resources by 50% compared to fiscal 2010 levels by Under the Environmental Action Plan for 2018, the following fiscal 2050. To that end, we will create products that last main targets have been established for fiscal 2016, which is longer and use less resources, make thoroughgoing efforts the first year of the plan, and fiscal 2018, the final year. to collect and recycle used products, reduce the volume of water used in the production process as well as purifying Management and reusing water, and engage in other efforts. Items Indicators Fiscal 2016 Final fiscal year targets (2018) targets Strengthen Voluntary implementation of 20% 80% or higher Harmonized society with nature global environmental monitoring by (cumulative total) environmental business units and Group companies We will strive to minimize Hitachi’s impact on natural capital, management at overseas business sites which bestows the benefits of nature on humankind. We will (implementing sites/total targeted) Raise the Green points (GPs) under the 240 GPs 480 GPs assess ecosystem impact and advance measures to level of GREEN21-2018 environmental minimize the burden at each stage of Hitachi’s value chain. environmental activity index activities Moreover, we will preserve the ecosystem through our products and services, such as our air and water purification systems and environmental monitoring systems. We will also Products and Services Fiscal 2016 Final fiscal year endeavor to minimize the environmental burden of our Item Indicator target (2018) target factories and offices. Improve Rate of reduction in CO2 emissions 30% 40% environmental from use of products and services performance (base: FY 2010) The Hitachi Action Guidelines for Environmental Conservation The Action Guidelines for Environmental Conservation were Factories and Offices: Prevent Global Warming Fiscal 2016 Final fiscal year drawn up to show the direction of our business management Item Indicator target (2018) target initiatives for environmental protection as we set out to Reduce Reduction in energy use per unit 15% 17% energy use (base: FY 2005) realize the Hitachi Environmental Vision. Factories and Offices: Use Resources Efficiently The Hitachi Action Guidelines for Environmental Conservation Fiscal 2016 Final fiscal year Items Indicators targets (2018) targets Reduce waste Reduction in waste and valuables 12% 14% generation generation per unit (base: FY 2005) Enhance Reduction in water use per unit 23% 27% efficiency of (base: FY 2005) water usage Contents 71 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Environment P  romoting Environmental Management Factories and Offices: Manage Chemical Substances Eco-Products has sufficiently taken root. To take our Item Indicator Fiscal 2016 Final fiscal year environmental considerations to an even higher level, we target (2018) target Reduce Reduction in atmospheric emissions 34% 36% have formulated a new Environmentally Conscious Design emissions of of chemical substances per unit Assessment based on the IEC 62430*1 international chemical (base: FY 2006) substances standard. Beginning in fiscal 2016, we will carry out Environmentally Conscious Design Assessment on products and services involving a design process in our Ecosystem Preservation Fiscal 2016 Final fiscal year design and development activities. Item Indicator target (2018) target Contribute to New ecosystem preservation 30 600 *1 The standard developed by the International Electrotechnical Commission concerning ecosystem activities implemented environmentally conscious design for electrical and electronic products. preservation Partnership with Stakeholders Factories and Offices Fiscal 2016 Final fiscal year Hitachi engages in efforts to reduce the environmental Item Indicator target (2018) target burden of its operations through the efficient use of energy Make social Activities implemented in such areas 800 2,400 contributions as environmental education, (cumulative total) and resources in the production process. We have created through information exchange, ecosystem key performance indicators (KPIs) for energy usage, as well environmental preservation through afforestation, activities etc., community contribution as to gauge our operational efficiency in terms of improved through cleanup projects, etc., ratios of waste volume, water usage, and atmospheric campaigns to turn off lighting, and community energy-saving activities emissions of chemical substances per unit, and are systematically working to achieve our targets while regularly monitoring our progress in each of these areas. Products and Services In addition to continued efforts encouraging factories Hitachi will launch new initiatives in fiscal 2016 to help and offices to have a high level of environmental address environmental issues through the development and consciousness, the Environmental Action Plan for fiscal popularization of products and services of high 2016 to 2018 includes new targets reflecting emerging environmental value. social concerns. By setting these targets, we aim to Until now, we have been promoting the development promote manufacturing activities with less environmental and expansion of environmentally conscious Eco-Products. burden on a global basis. To turn environmental value into the creation and expansion With respect to the target of mitigating global warming, of business opportunities, however, it is important to indicate we will curb CO2 generation by installing more energymore clearly how this leads to added value for our efficient equipment and increase renewable energy use. To customers. This is why the Environmental Action Plan now meet the target of making more effective use of resources, calls for improvements in the environmental performance of and address environmental problems caused by natural Hitachi products and services. The reduction rate of CO2 resource depletion and waste materials, we will work to emissions from the use of our products and services and the reduce the volume and promote the recycling of waste reduction rate of resource use over the life cycle of products generated by our business activities, thereby contributing to and services are now used as indicators for achieving both the formation of a resource-efficient society. To deal with functional improvements and reduced environmental burden water-associated risks, meanwhile, we will increase the in products and services. We now seek to achieve a target efficiency of water usage by gaining an accurate grasp of of a 40% reduction in CO2 emissions compared to fiscal current conditions and enhancing water risk management. 2010 levels by fiscal 2018 for products that contribute highly And for the target of appropriate management of chemical to the resolution of environmental issues. substances, we will minimize emissions of substances that Thanks to the use of the Assessment for DfE (Design affect humans and ecosystems by improving production for Environment) to evaluate the conformity of our products processes and switching to alternative substances. At and services with standards for environmentally conscious companies that have newly joined the Hitachi Group, we will design, moreover, the percentage of Eco-Product sales in reduce their environmental burden and promote total product sales exceeded 95% in fiscal 2015. This is an environmentally conscious production by sharing these indication that the initiative for environmentally conscious goals with them and applying the goals to their operations. Contents 72 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Environment Enhancing Environmental Management on an Ongoing Basis Enhancing Environmental Management on an Ongoing Basis Hitachi’s Approach Environmental Management To lay the groundwork for strategic environmental Environmental Management Framework management, the Hitachi Group needs to establish and Our global environmental management system supports continuously improve systems to reduce the environmental environmental decision making and implementation at burden of its business operations. Based on a number of Hitachi, Ltd. and 1,056 consolidated subsidiaries (a total of certifications and guidelines, including ISO 14001, we have 1,057 companies), as well as 249 equity-method affiliates. developed Group-wide environmental management systems The CSR and Environmental Strategy Division is that allow us to gauge the environmental burden of our responsible for developing Group-wide environmental business activities and steadily implement a PDCA (plan, do, policies. The Senior Executive Committee, which is chaired check, act) cycle to reduce that burden. We also have in by the president of Hitachi, Ltd., considers important items place a global environmental management framework, under related to environmental initiatives. The Environmental which we evaluate our environmental activities and keep Strategy Officers Meeting, comprising representatives from close track of our environmental performance. business units and major Group companies, ensures that the Hitachi Group Environmental Action Plan approved by the executive officer in charge of environmental concerns is implemented throughout the Group. The Environmental Committee and committees of working-level experts for each policy area develop targets and ways to achieve them, as well as promote initiatives to be carried out by the Group as a whole. Outside Japan, we assign regional specialists to report on the progress of the Environmental Action Plan and share information on the latest environmental regulations while exchanging views on local environmental issues within each region. Hitachi’s Environmental Management Framework (FY 2016) President Senior Executive Committee for Environmental Policy Executive officer in charge of environmental matters Environmental Strategy Officers Meeting CSR and Environmental Strategy Division Business Sites Division Heads Environmental Management Officers Hitachi, Ltd. Business Units Environmental Committee Environmental Strategy Officers Environmental Promotion Departments Group Companies Eco-Management Committee Presidents Environmental Management Officers Eco-Business Committee Regional Environmental Network Meetings Eco-Factory Committee Business Sites Division Heads Environmental Management Officers Major Group Companies Environmental Strategy Officers Environmental Promotion Departments Group Companies Presidents Environmental Management Officers Regional Specialists (Europe, the Americas, China, and the Rest of Asia) Hitachi, Ltd. and 1,056 consolidated subsidiaries (a total of 1,057 companies) and 249 equity-method affiliates. Contents 73 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Environment Enhancing Environmental Management on an Ongoing Basis Building Environmental Management Systems Environmental Activity Evaluation System We have established environmental management criteria to We use our own evaluation system, GREEN 21, to improve ensure efficient management of each business site’s the level and quality of our environmental activities. It divides environmental load. There are approximately 250 business environmental activities into eight categories and evaluates sites that meet these criteria, and these, together with the achievements and progress toward Action Plan targets by CSR and Environmental Strategy Division, have developed rating 52 items on a scale from 1 to 5. A perfect score for and implemented the Hitachi Group Environmental any category is 100 green points (GPs). We surpassed our Promotion Organization EMS (environmental management fiscal 2015 target of 640 GPs with a score of 646 GPs. system) to promote the consistent implementation of Starting in fiscal 2016, the system was revised to 47 environmental policies. At the same time, every business items under six categories. Our aim is to improve our site meeting the criteria for environmental management environmental activities based on the target of 240 GPs continues to maintain ISO 14001 certification. Certification under the revised system. is also being pursued at business sites that do not yet meet the criteria. Key Indicators Green Point (GP) Average: FY 2015 Targets and Results Status of ISO 14001 Certifications (as of April 2016) FY 2015 target: 640 GPs FY 2015 result: 646 GPs Japan Outside Japan Total 1 Eco-Management Environmental Management Number of Certified Sites*1 137 137 274 86 GPs 100 *1 Including companies with more than one certified business site. 8 Worldwide Environmental 2 Eco-Management Partnerships Product/Service Strategy 80 GPs 50 84 GPs Europe Americas 14 China 7 Eco-Factories 0 3 Eco-Management 16 57 Resource Recycling Supply Chain Japan 75 GPs 82 GPs Rest of Asia 137 50 6 Eco-Factories Global 4 Eco-Mind Warming Prevention 83 GPs 71 GPs 5 Eco-Products 85 GPs Categories and Evaluation Items List of ISO 14001-certified sites 1 Environmental management, 5 Assessment of products and services environmental accounting, and 6 CO2 emission reductions, energy compliance with laws and regulations efficiency improvements, and energy 2 Progress toward goal of reducing CO2 savings in transportation Monitoring Environmental Performance Data emissions; environment business 7 Resource recycling and chemical strategies substances management For effective environmental management, we collect data on 3 Gathering and communicating 8 Information disclosure, communication the environmental performance of business operations using environmental information across the activities, global citizenship activities, supply chain and ecosystem preservation the Environmental Load Evaluation System. 4 Environmental education and training of This system collects environmental load data from some environmental experts 250 Hitachi business sites worldwide on items such as energy use, CO2 emissions, and waste generation, together with information on awards received and other items. By analyzing this information we identify environmental management issues, share instructive examples within the Group, and improve environmental practices. Specifically, we collect and analyze environmental performance data in the key areas of energy, waste materials, water, and volatile organic compounds (VOCs) monthly and quarterly so that performance levels can be further increased. Contents 74 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Environment Enhancing Environmental Management on an Ongoing Basis Environmental Education Initiatives Next Steps From fiscal 2016, we will continue with environmental Promoting Environmental Education education training across all our global operations to Promoting greater environmental awareness and enhance the knowledge and skills of staff in charge of understanding among our employees is essential to Hitachi’s factory management. We will also be holding training effort to energize its environmental activities. Toward that end, programs so that we can fully respond to the new standards we are advancing our environmental education. Hitachi Group during the period of transition between the announcement of training is being implemented for all Group employees, the revisions to the ISO 14001 Environmental Management starting from newly hired workers to working-level employees. Systems in fiscal 2015 and September 2018. The training covers a wide range of topics, from basic courses to such specific issues as environmental risks and compliance with environment-related laws and regulations. Environmental Compliance Actions and Achievements Environmental Compliance Response In fiscal 2015 we provided basic environmental management Hitachi considers the environmental burden of all business courses for employees working in air, water, and waste activities and sets voluntary management criteria that are management, as well as training in recent amendments to more stringent than regulatory requirements. We regularly laws and operational procedures. monitor water quality, noise levels, and other conditions at In order to respond to the new environmental each business site and work to minimize environmental management standards (ISO 14001) revised in September, risks. In addition, we take every possible step to prevent during the three-year transition to those standards, problems or their recurrence and to strengthen controls by explanatory meetings for the internal auditors of the Hitachi sharing information on environmental laws and regulations, Group were held to deepen understanding of the revisions. as well as examples of infringements, throughout the Group. The meeting held in Japan was attended by 184 internal auditors from 68 Group companies, while 52 internal Actions and Achievements auditors from 36 Group companies attended the meeting in In fiscal 2015, we received a worldwide total of 12 notices Chengdu, China. In addition to Hitachi Group training, concerning water quality, air quality, or waste matter and individual companies and units provide education tailored to complaints about noise or odors, all of which were their own business area. For general education, we offer promptly addressed. Internet-based e-learning courses in Japanese, English, and Hitachi continues to implement enhanced Chinese. To date 178,035 employees worldwide, equaling environmental management in order to prevent repeated or 96.4% of target employees, have taken this course. new contamination occurrences. Environmental Education and Training System Global Notices and Complaints Target Introductory Beginning Intermediate Advanced Waste Other Water quality Air quality Complaints matter (facilities, etc.) Introductory training for new Fiscal 2015 3 1 1 4 3 employees cases General education Online e-learning: Eco-Mind education (General topics: Global All employees environmental issues, environmental law, etc.) To help prevent pollution of soil and groundwater, we are working to complete decontamination of soil and water Online e-learning: Eco-Mind education (Hitachi Group topics: at business sites where chemical substances have been Environmental policy, Environmental Action Plan, etc.) used or to confirm that they are contamination free. At other business sites, we continue to carry out cleaning and Basic environmental management course for working-level employees observation activities as needed. (management of waste; air/water quality; hazardous materials; development & operation of Working-level Specialized education management systems; etc.) employees Education for Eco-Factories Eco-Product development training Risk communicator training Brush-up training for ISO 14001 Internal ISO 14001 ISO 14001 environmental auditor senior auditor auditors certification certification training training Contents 75 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Environment Enhancing Environmental Management on an Ongoing Basis Environmental Load Data on Environmental Load from Operations (FY 2015) The data below shows the resource inputs and the environmental load for Hitachi Group operations in fiscal 2015. Total Input of Resources Total Output of Environmental Load Products shipped: 3,064 kt (in Japan), 957 kt (outside Japan) Total Energy Input Greenhouse Gas Emissions Energy consumption (crude oil equivalent) 1.58 million kL Greenhouse gases 3,162 kt-CO2e*1 Outside Japan 28% Outside Japan 32% In Japan 72% In Japan 68% Electricity 82% CO2 emissions 98% Gas 12% Other GHGs 2% Fuel oil 6% Total Volume of Total Input of Materials Waste and Valuables Materials 2,134 kt Waste and valuables generation 618 kt Outside Japan 36% Outside Japan 32% In Japan 64% Operations In Japan 68% Metals 77% Recycle 84% Plastics 7% Waste reduction 9% Rubber 1% Landfill 7% Other materials 15% Total Volume of Water Total Water Input Effluents Discharged Water use 43.91 million m3 Wastewater 43.30 million m3 Outside Japan 13% Outside Japan 12% In Japan 87% In Japan 88% Industrial water 46% Public water 63% Tap water 13% Sewerage 22% Groundwater, etc. 41% Underground Water recycling infiltration, etc. 15% In Japan: 34.44 million m3 Outside Japan: 2.16 million m3 *1 CO2e: CO2 equivalent. Contents 76 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Environment Enhancing Environmental Management on an Ongoing Basis Detailed Data on Resource Input and Environmental Load Output Total Input of Resources Total resources input from Hitachi Group operations. Total Energy Input Energy consumption: (crude oil equivalent) 1.58 million kL In Japan Outside Japan Electricity 3.7 billion kWh (36 PJ) 1.4 billion kWh (14 PJ) Gas Natural gas 0.06 billion m3 (2.7 PJ) 0.05 billion m3 (2.2 PJ) LPG, LNG, etc. 45 kt (2.3 PJ) 11 kt (0.6 PJ) Fuel oil (heavy oil, kerosene, etc.) 81 thousand kL (3 PJ) 4 thousand kL (0.1 PJ) Total Input of Materials Materials: 2,134 kt In Japan Outside Japan Metals 1,005 kt 633 kt Plastics 107 kt 42 kt Rubber 5 kt 15 kt Other materials 249 kt 78 kt Chemicals PRTR substances*1 handled 155 kt 22 kt Ozone-depleting substances handled 11 t 0t Greenhouse gas substances handled 3,655 t 136 t *1 PRTR substances: The 462 chemicals designated in Japan’s Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (PRTR) Law. Total Water Input Water use: 43.91 million m3 In Japan Outside Japan Tap water 4.17 million m3 1.48 million m3 Industrial water 17.65 million m3 2.48 million m3 Groundwater, etc. 16.41 million m3 1.72 million m3 Total Output of Environmental Load Environmental load output from Hitachi Group operations. Greenhouse Gas Emissions Greenhouse gases: 3,162 kt-CO2e In Japan Outside Japan CO2 emissions 2,090 kt-CO2e 995 kt-CO2e Other GHGs SF6 (sulfur hexafluoride) 33 kt-CO2e 23 kt-CO2e PFCs (perfluorocarbons) 1 kt-CO2e 3 kt-CO2e HFCs (hydrofluorocarbons) 14 kt-CO2e 2 kt-CO2e N2O, NF3, CH4 1 kt-CO2e 0 kt-CO2e Total Volume of Waste and Valuables Waste and valuables generation: 618 kt In Japan Outside Japan Waste reduction 49 kt 4 kt Recycling 363 kt 159 kt Reuse 2 kt 1 kt Materials recycled 351 kt 155 kt Thermal recovery 10 kt 3 kt Landfill 8 kt 35 kt Chemicals PRTR substances discharged or transferred 4 kt 0.4 kt SOx (sulfur oxides) 41 thousand Nm3 9 thousand Nm3 NOx (nitrogen oxides) 262 thousand Nm3 88 thousand Nm3 Ozone-depleting substances emitted 1 t (0t-ODP*1) 0 t (0t-ODP) *1 ODP (ozone depletion potential): A coefficient derived by conversion into equivalent in metric tons of CFC-11 (trichlorofluoromethane). Total Volume of Water Effluents Discharged Water effluents discharged: 43.30 million m3 In Japan Outside Japan Public water 26.74 million m3 0.62 million m3 Sewerage 5.30 million m3 4.07 million m3 Underground infiltration, etc. 5.99 million m3 0.59 million m3 Water quality BOD (biochemical oxygen demand) 210 t 223 t COD (chemical oxygen demand) 125 t 607 t Contents 77 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Environment Enhancing Environmental Management on an Ongoing Basis Environmental Load Through the Value Chain Calculation of GHG Emissions Throughout the Value Chain We calculate greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions throughout the entire value chain to more effectively reduce these emissions. As over 90% of emissions come from use of the products we have sold, we worked to reduce emissions by developing Eco-Products that meet environmentally conscious criteria throughout their life cycle. Categories of GHG Emissions in the Value Chain Extraction companies, etc. Power plants, etc. Processors of intermediate 3 Fueland energy-related Indirect emissions due to products activities not included in generation of purchased 10 Processing of sold products SCOPE 1 and 2 energy (SCOPE 2) Electricity and heating Suppliers Shipping companies Shipping companies Product end users 1 Purchased goods and 4 Upstream transportation 9 Downstream transportation 11 Use of sold products services and distribution and distribution Construction companies, In-house Waste treatment companies etc. 12 End-of-life treatment of sold 2 Capital goods Facilities and products equipment Direct emissions (SCOPE 1) Users of leased assets Waste materials 13 Downstream leased assets Franchise members 14 Franchises Investment destinations 15 Investments Waste treatment Leasing companies Transportation companies, companies 8 Upstream leased assets etc. 5 Waste generation in 6 Business travel operations 7 Employee commuting SCOPE 1 SCOPE 2 SCOPE 3: Upstream SCOPE 3: Downstream Direct GHG emissions by the Indirect emissions from electricity, Other indirect emissions not covered by SCOPE 1 and 2, such as company heat, and steam supplied to and emissions by other entities related to the company’s activities used by the company In-house: Within the scope of the company’s organizational boundaries. In principle, the scope of all business activities of the company itself and activities within or controlled by its consolidated subsidiaries. Upstream: In principle, activities related to purchased products and services. Downstream: In principle, activities related to sold products and services. Contents 78 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Environment Enhancing Environmental Management on an Ongoing Basis GHG Emissions Throughout the Hitachi Value Chain Calculation Results Category Description (Mt-CO2e) SCOPE 1*1 Direct emissions Direct emissions from in-house fuel use and industrial processes 0.77 (0.3%) SCOPE 2*2 Energy-related indirect emissions Indirect emissions from production of electricity and heat purchased by the 2.92 (1.1%) company SCOPE 3: Upstream (other indirect emissions) 1 Purchased goods and services Emissions from the resource extraction stage to the manufacturing stage, 8.61 (3.2%) including raw materials, parts, supplied products, and sales 2 Capital goods Emissions generated in the construction, manufacture, and shipping of the 1.38 (0.5%) company’s own capital goods, such as equipment, devices, buildings, facilities, and vehicles 3 Fueland energy-related activities Emissions from procuring fuel necessary for electricity and other energy 0.24 (0.1%) not included in SCOPE 1 and 2 production, including resource extraction, production, and shipping 4 Upstream transportation and Emissions from distribution of raw materials, parts, supplied products, and 0.18 (0.1%) distribution sales prior to delivery of materials to the company, as well as other distribution activities of products for which the company bears the expense 5 Waste generated in operations Emissions from transportation, disposal, and treatment of waste generated in 0.08 (0.0%) the company’s operations 6 Business travel Emissions generated from fuel and electric power used by employees for 0.07 (0.0%) business travel 7 Employee commuting Emissions generated from fuel and electric power used in employee 0.07 (0.0%) commuting 8 Upstream leased assets Emissions from the operation of assets leased by the company, excluding Included in SCOPE those counted in SCOPE 1 and 2 1 and 2 SCOPE 3: Downstream (other indirect emissions) 9 Downstream transportation and Emissions from transportation, storage, loading and unloading, and retail 0.01 (0.0%) distribution sales of products 10 Processing of sold products Emissions by downstream companies during processing of intermediate N/A*3 products 11 Use of sold products Emissions from use of products by end users, such as consumers and 258.23 (94.6%) businesses 12 End-of-life treatment of sold Emissions from transportation, waste disposal, and treatment of products by 0.17 (0.1%) products end users, such as consumers and businesses 13 Downstream leased assets Emissions from operating assets owned by the reporting company as lessor 0.03 (0.0%) and leased to other entities 14 Franchises Emissions by franchises under SCOPE 1 and 2 N/A 15 Investments Emissions related to management of investments 0.09 (0.0%) Total 272.85 (100%) Note: Figures in parentheses are percentages of GHGs emitted throughout the value chain. *1 Includes SF6, PFC, HFC, N2O, NF3, and CH4. *2 The CO2 electrical power conversion factor used to calculate emissions uses the 2005 emission coefficients for individual countries published by the International Energy Agency (IEA) in the 2010 edition of CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion. *3 Cannot be determined due to insufficient information on processing. Contents 79 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Environment Enhancing Environmental Management on an Ongoing Basis Environmental Accounting Environmental Accounting Hitachi has adopted and made public a set of environmental accounting procedures conforming to the Japanese Ministry of the Environment’s Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005. We have used the results of these procedures to raise the efficiency of our environmental investments and activities, more effectively allocating management resources to our ongoing environmental efforts. Achievements Environmental Investments, Environmental Protection Costs, and Economic Effects (billions of yen) 150 127.9 123.3 119.7 125 112.0 107.6 100 75 50 29.0 29.9 25.8 25 15.2 14.1 9.6 7.5 5.3 5.8 4.5 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 （ FY ） Environmental Investments Environmental Protection Costs Environmental Protection Effects (Economic Effects) Fiscal 2015 Environmental Investment by Countermeasure Other 14.2% Global Warming Prevention 34.1% Pollution Prevention Waste Reduction 49.1% 2.7% Contents 80 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Environment Enhancing Environmental Management on an Ongoing Basis Environmental Investments Costs (billions of yen) Description FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 Total investment Investment in energy-saving equipment and 9.61 5.28 5.81 4.46 7.50 equipment that directly reduces environmental load Environmental Protection Costs Costs (billions of yen) Item Description FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 Expenses Business area Maintenance costs for equipment with low 27.78 31.84 38.63 26.90 24.22 environmental load, depreciation, etc.*1 Upstream/downstream Green procurement expenses, recovery and 1.43 1.38 1.27 1.09 0.97 recycling of products and packaging, recycling expenses Administration Labor costs for environmental management, 8.25 7.67 6.77 6.47 5.97 implementation and maintenance of environmental management system Research and R&D to reduce environmental burden 79.81 84.71 75.62 76.12 75.71 development caused by products and production processes, product design expenses Social activities Planting, beautification, and other 0.45 0.41 0.51 0.36 0.45 environmental improvement expenses Environmental Environmental mitigation costs, 1.94 1.90 0.53 1.03 0.27 remediation contributions, and charges Total 119.66 127.91 123.33 111.97 107.59 *1 Equipment depreciation costs are calculated using the straight-line method over five years. Environmental Protection Effects Economic Effects*1 Costs (billions of yen) Item Major FY 2015 Activities FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 Net income effects Recovering value from waste by sorting and 13.72 17.85 15.98 7.54 7.27 recycling Reduced expenses effects Installing high-efficiency equipment (lighting, 15.27 12.07 9.82 7.65 6.78 power supply) Total 28.99 29.92 25.80 15.19 14.05 *1 Economic effects include: · Net income effects: Benefits with real incomes, including incomes from the sale of resalable materials and incomes from environmental technology patents. · Reduced expenses effects: Reduction in electricity, waste treatment, and other expenses through environmental load reduction activities. Physical Effects*1 Amount Reduced Item Major FY 2015 Activities FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 Reduction in energy used Installing LED lighting, upgrading air93 107 70 68 59 during production conditioning equipment, etc. million million million million million kWh kWh kWh kWh kWh Reduction in landfilled Promoting sale of waste material, reducing 4,754 t 3,788 t 2,420 t 3,979 t 5,498 t waste incurred during volume of liquid waste, recycling, etc. production *1 As with depreciation costs, benefits from equipment investments are calculated using the straight-line method over five years. Efficiency of Environmental Load Reduction*1 Item FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 Efficiency of energy reduction efforts (million kWh/100 million yen) 2.0 1.7 1.3 1.2 1.2 Efficiency of landfilled waste reduction efforts (t/100 million yen) 183 146 95 166.7 194.6 *1 Environmental load reduction divided by reduction costs. Contents 81 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Environment Responding to Environmental Risks and Opportunities Responding to Environmental Risks and Opportunities Hitachi’s Approach business. At the same time, efforts in individual countries and regions to reduce CO2 emissions are helping to expand From abnormal weather conditions around the world our business in the areas of energy-saving equipment and associated with global warming to resource depletion and loss high-efficiency equipment and devices. Energy conservation of biodiversity, environmental risks that could seriously affect initiatives are growing to encompass entire cities, as the future of humanity and our planet are on the rise. exemplified by smart cities. We will work to further expand International calls are being made for measures to mitigate our business by providing environmentally conscious these risks, as exemplified by the Paris Agreement adopted in solutions suited to the needs of each country or region. 2015 at the 21st Conference of the Parties (COP21) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change Risks and Opportunities Presented by Physical Factors and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)—the Global warming is leading to extreme weather conditions, centerpiece of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, such as more powerful typhoons and heavier rainfall, adopted by the United Nations. Businesses, too, must causing natural disasters worldwide. Hitachi has had its accurately ascertain the risks they face and the opportunities share of damage, including flooding of Southeast Asian that arise for the utilization of management resources. business sites and submersion of areas surrounding Hitachi focuses on two particular environmental risks and business sites in Japan due to river embankments giving opportunities—climate change and water resources—and way. We view the unavoidable damage that arises from promotes initiatives to address them in a steadfast manner. such disasters as risks that threaten the continuity of our business operations. Meanwhile, in response to growing worldwide demand Climate Change: Risks and Opportunities for measures against natural disasters, business is expanding for disaster-prevention information systems and Engaging with the Risks and Opportunities of Climate other disaster-related products and services. Hitachi is Change using the latest IT to analyze and evaluate the information According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate necessary for people’s daily lives, nature-related Change (IPCC), there is no room for doubt that our climate information concerning weather and other factors, and is warming. The report states that the temperatures of the information on the operation of the social infrastructure in atmosphere and oceans are on the rise and that the volume order to provide solutions that contribute to appropriately of snow and ice has declined. It also notes a heightened responding to climate change and help to create new tendency toward extreme climatic phenomena and indicates business opportunities. the strong possibility that such consequences of global warming stem from the impact of human activities. Other Risks and Opportunities Hitachi recognizes the risks of climate change as a vital Risks that could threaten the continuity of our business management issue. Seeing opportunities in the mitigation of operations might arise if our initiatives to tackle the global and adaptation to these risks—the former by reducing issue of climate change are insufficient, such as the loss of greenhouse gases and the latter by changing how society reputation and trust among stakeholders or the market interacts with nature—we are working closely with our rejection of products and services that are not customers and partners to promote our Social Innovation environmentally conscious. We believe that developing and Business, which fuses social infrastructure with information marketing Hitachi products and services with high technology to tackle the many challenges facing society. environmental value is the way for us to help mitigate climate change and also to increase the competitiveness of Regulatory Risks and Opportunities those products and services, thereby contributing to The environmental regulations and policies of countries and increased sales as well. regions around the world include measures that affect business activities at manufacturing sites, such as emissions trading, carbon taxes, and energy efficiency standards, and those that affect product and service conditions, such as energy efficiency standards for products, carbon footprint labeling, and the introduction of a feed-in tariff system for renewable energy. We view these regulations and policies as potential risks for the sustainability and growth of our Contents 82 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Environment R  esponding to Environmental Risks and Opportunities, Reducing the Environmental Burden of Our Business Operations (Fiscal 2015 Results) Water-Related Risks and Opportunities emerge and worsen, they can seriously hinder the continuity of business activities. Hitachi surveys the Activities for Water-Related Risks and Opportunities locations of our various business sites to make sure that The serious crisis confronting water—the source of all life— our businesses operate in areas with few water-related is said to stem from increasing demand, rather than a risks. We have ascertained the water consumption levels of decrease in supply. The growth in the human population has around 700 of our business sites and have continued to pushed up water consumption, and people have adopted implement measures to reduce water consumption in order lifestyles that lead to more water being wasted. Other to minimize these risks. factors behind the crisis include the supplies of products Hitachi has positioned its Water Solutions business as whose manufacture requires a large amount of water a key area within our Social Innovation Business. This consumption. For all of these reasons, people today are business is contributing to preserving and improving the using far greater quantities of water than their predecessors. global water environment and creating business Along with water shortages due to rising populations opportunities through activities including seawater and other human causes, water-related risks also include desalination, the development of drinking water and shortages stemming from natural disasters or flooding. But sewage treatment systems, and the building of pumping whatever the causes, once such water-related problems stations to foster vegetation in desert areas. Reducing the Environmental Burden of Our Business Operations (Fiscal 2015 Results) Establish Environmental Management Systems Hitachi’s Approach Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2015 Achievement Items Indicators targets results level We systematically promote efforts to reduce the environmental Raise the level of GPs (green points) 640 GPs 646 GPs environmental in GREEN 21 burden of our business activities while adhering to a PDCA activities Environmental cycle in line with our Group-wide environmental management Activity Evaluation System system. The targets and achievements of these efforts are Ecosystem Implementation of Completion of Completed consolidated into our Environmental Action Plan, based on (biodiversity) ecosystem ecosystem ecosystem preservation preservation preservation preservation which we strive for continuous improvements in priority areas. assessment assessment assessment The Environmental Action Plan for 2013 to 2015 encompassed many themes, such as promoting Eco-Products, Promote Eco-Products reducing CO2 emissions, and using resources efficiently. Three Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2015 Achievement years of improvement activities were concluded in fiscal 2015 Items Indicators targets results level with many positive results. In fiscal 2016 we are moving on to Expand Hitachi Percentage of 90% 95% Eco-Product Hitachi Ecothe Environmental Action Plan for 2018. We will further engage lineup Product sales in environmental activities under the plan, not only taking into Number of models 340 models 409 models in Eco-Products account the achievements made over the previous three years Select program but also incorporating a more global perspective. Contribute to the Volume of 35.0 million 36.49 million reduction of CO2 contribution to metric tons metric tons emissions CO2 emission (100 million through products reductions metric tons by Environmental Action Plan for 2018 and services through products 2025) and services Build Industry’s Most Advanced Factories and Offices Environmental Action Plan for 2013 to 2015 Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2015 Achievement Item Indicator target results level Environmental Action Plan for 2013 to 2015: Promote EcoEco-Factories & Average of at New Achievements Factories & Offices Select Offices Select certification least 1 certification per certifications: 15 Renewed In fiscal 2015, the final year of the Environmental Action certification in-house or certifications: 58 Group company Total: 73 Plan for 2013 to 2015, we were able to achieve our targets for all items. Shown in the tables below are the main indicators for Hitachi’s environmental activities. Initiatives corresponding to each indicator are introduced in the following pages. Contents 83 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Environment Reducing the Environmental Burden of Our Business Operations (Fiscal 2015 Results) Prevent Global Warming helping to resolve environmental issues by developing and Item Indicator Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2015 Achievement expanding the use of products and services with high target results level Reduce energy Reduction in 15% 16% environmental value. use per unit energy use per unit (base: FY 2005, global) Environmental Action Plan for 2018, Products and Services Use Resources Efficiently Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2015 Achievement Hitachi’s Framework for Environmentally Conscious Products Items Indicators targets results level Reduce waste Reduction in 23% 28% Products meeting one or and valuables waste and more of the following criteria generation per valuables Either a global warming unit generation per prevention factor or a unit (base: FY resource factor of 10 or more 2005, global) Industry-leading level for Reduce water Reduction in 30% 41% achieving an energy efficiency Eco-Products standard or similar factor use per unit water use per unit Select Recipient of an award outside (base: FY 2005, Hitachi or officially certified for outside Japan) environmental excellence CO2 emissions reduced by at Products that meet least 50% compared to fiscal Design for Environment 2005 products Manage Chemical Substances assessment criteria Eco-Products Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2015 Achievement Item Indicator target results level Reduce volatile Reduction in VOC 40% 50% organic atmospheric Products compound (VOC) emissions per unit atmospheric (base: FY 2006, emissions per global) unit Designation of Eco-Products Global Citizenship Program Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2015 Achievement Designation of Eco-Products Select Item Indicator target results level Make social Promotion of Implementation Implemented at contributions flagship of at least 1 least 1 activity through environmental flagship per company environmental communication environmental Actions and Achievements activities activity at each communication In fiscal 2015, our Eco-Product sales ratio reached 95%, in-house and activity per Group company company and we increased the number of Eco-Products Select models by 66, bringing the total to 409 products. : Achieved : Partially achieved At business sites outside Japan—now with new design and development functions—we went ahead with a planned Environmentally Conscious Products and Services approach to expanding the lineup of Eco-Products. This included improving the eco-design skills of our designers. Increasing the Ratio of Eco-Products We promote the development of environmentally conscious Key Indicators products called Eco-Products as part of our initiative to Eco-Product Sales Ratio*1 (%) reduce the environmental burden of our products and 93 95 100 89 services as much as possible. Eco-Products must meet criteria used in the design and 75 development stages, when we evaluate the extent to which their environmental burden can be reduced. In addition, 50 Eco-Products that meet even more demanding requirements are designated as Eco-Products Select. Until fiscal 2015, we 25 promoted the development of Eco-Products by setting 0 2013 2014 2015 (FY) targets for raising the Eco-Product sales ratio, a figure measuring Eco-Product sales against total product sales. In *1 The ratio of Eco-Product sales to sales of all products, excluding elements whose fiscal 2016, we will launch new initiatives with the aim of environmental impact Hitachi cannot control or influence, such as patent income. Contents 84 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Environment Reducing the Environmental Burden of Our Business Operations (Fiscal 2015 Results) Eco-Products Select Hitachi launched CFP assessment in 2009. We (number of models) participate in the Carbon Footprint Communication 450 409 Program of the Japan Environmental Management 343 Association for Industry (JEMAI) and are working to expand 300 the number of approved CFP Products.*1 In fiscal 2015, 210 our midrange storage systems, IP-PBX communication systems, and OCR (optical character reader) scanners 150 were verified and approved by the JEMAI CFP Program. In addition to visualizing CO2 emission amounts, we quantified 0 2013 2014 2015 (FY) the rate of CO2 emission reductions per function*2 from previous models, publishing the quantitative effect of their Eco-Products by Business Segment (FY 2015 Sales Ratio) energy efficiency in our catalogs and on our website and Financial Services, Others Information & offering explanations at product shows. We will make 9% Telecommunication Systems efforts to capitalize on CFP as an added value for our Smart Life & Ecofriendly 21% products in the future. Systems 4% *1 Approved CFP Product: A product subjected to testing according to the CFP quantification rules of the Carbon Footprint Communication Program, which also Automotive Systems Power Systems passes the CFP quantification verification and undergoes the application process for 13% 7% registration and public announcement. *2 Specifically, the “life cycle GHG emissions per unit function amount,” calculated by High Functional Materials dividing “life cycle GHG emissions per sales unit” by “function amount of applicable & Components Social Infrastructure product” as specified by performance (or performance characteristic) and/or use period. & Industrial Systems 15% 16% Products authorized to display the CFP label in fiscal 2015 Construction Machinery Electronic Systems & Equipment 8% 7% IP-PBX communication Product Midrange storage OCR scanners systems Hitachi Virtual Storage Model MX-01 CCUB HT-4165-48 Platform G200 Hitachi Products Helping to Reduce CO2 Emissions In fiscal 2015, we expect to achieve a reduction in CO2 emissions through products of 36.49 million metric tons, Single unit (above) Product better than our target of 35 million metric tons. Major appearance and multiple units in rack. (Not contributions to this achievement came from the products intended to show standard system and services of our Power Systems Company, Infrastructure configuration.) Systems Company, Information & Telecommunication [Previous Hitachi Unified Storage MX900IP CCUB HT-4139-48U model] 130 Systems Company, Hitachi Appliances, and Hitachi Rate of Construction Machinery. We plan to continue working harder reduction in CO2 to develop and popularize other products that contribute to emissions –48% –13% –27% CO2 emission reductions. (compared to previous model) Calculation Methods for Environmental Load Data/Contribution of Hitachi products and services to the reduction of CO2 emissions Working with European Environmental Footprint Addressing Our Carbon Footprint Initiatives The carbon footprint of products (CFP) is the CO2 The Product Environmental Footprint (PEF) and equivalent of the total amount of greenhouse gases (GHGs) Organisation Environmental Footprint (OEF) initiatives emitted over the entire life cycle of a product or service— develop methodologies for measuring the life cycle from procurement of materials through to disposal and environmental burden of products and organizations in up recycling. Making the GHG emission amount visible in this to 15 areas. Three-year pilot studies were started in way encourages efforts to reduce the amount of carbon November 2013 to establish assessment methods in emitted by products over their whole life cycle. A number multiple product and organization fields. of countries around the world use the CFP approach. Contents 85 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Environment Reducing the Environmental Burden of Our Business Operations (Fiscal 2015 Results) Hitachi, drawing on experience with Japan’s Carbon Environmental Considerations at Business Sites Footprint Communication Program and the knowledge gained from calculating and visualizing CO2 emissions in Creating Eco-Factories & Offices Select the IT product life cycle, is participating in a European To reduce the environmental burden of our business activities, Environmental Footprint pilot study in the IT equipment since fiscal 2011 we have implemented an Eco-Factories & field, for which it serves as the technical secretariat. Offices Select certification program for locations that promote In fiscal 2015, we established methods for evaluating activities demonstrating a high level of environmental the environmental burden of IT products, which were consciousness and produce notable results in that area. This approved by the European Commission. We also reviewed helps raise the environmental awareness of employees and possible means of disclosing and communicating the promote environmentally conscious business activities. evaluation results to our stakeholders. At an October 2015 Based on certification criteria that were developed for mid-term conference organized by the European our manufacturing (factory) and nonmanufacturing (office) Commission for members of industry, government, divisions globally, we certify existing factories that actively nongovernmental organizations, and the general public, we engage in improvements to achieve efficient production and reported on developments and challenges in the pilot study new offices that have been environmentally designed from and took part in discussions toward their application to the start. To maintain and raise the level of environmental European environmental policy. awareness through Eco-Factories & Offices Select, certified factories and offices are re-evaluated every fiscal year to Next Steps confirm that their performance continues to meet Having achieved an Eco-Product sales ratio of 95%, our requirements. In fiscal 2015, at least one factory or office next step in fiscal 2016 and beyond will be to develop and was certified at each in-house and Group company, with 15 popularize products with high environmental value through facilities obtaining new certifications and 58 facilities having our eco-design activities. We will enhance the their certifications renewed. environmental performance of our products and services by promoting reductions in CO 2 emissions and resource Eco-Factories & Offices Select Certification Criteria use. Our aim in fiscal 2016 will be to achieve 30% An office or factory that reductions in CO 2 emissions from the use of products and has met at least one of the services compared to fiscal 2010 levels. Moreover, we will following criteria Eco-Factory Select maintain the environmental consciousness of our products Energy efficiency by conducting an Environmentally Conscious Design Renewable energy use High-efficiency lighting Assessment, created in compliance with IEC 62430, on Eco-Factories & Recycling of waste and Offices Select other resources products and services that involve a design process. Efficient water recycling Through these activities, we will strive to ensure that the VOC emission reduction Facilities that have Eco-Office Select environmental value of our products and services leads to met their targets for High-efficiency lighting added value in ways that will help our business to grow, each fiscal year Eco-Factories & Offices Renewable energy use under the GREEN Energy savings as well as work to contribute to the global environment by 21 evaluation Improved office building environmental performance offering products and services with low environmental system burden. Factories and Offices Eco-Factories & Offices Contents 86 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Environment Reducing the Environmental Burden of Our Business Operations (Fiscal 2015 Results) CO2 Emissions Next Steps (kt-CO2e/year) In fiscal 2016 and beyond, we will continue our efforts to 4,000 expand the Eco-Factories & Offices Select program by 3,447 3,453 3,355 3,311 3,085 promoting more efficient energy use, waste recycling, and 3,000 other measures in Group factories and offices, thereby reducing the environmental burden of our business activities. 2,000 1,000 Environmental Action Plan for 2018, Factories and Offices 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) Japan Rest of Asia China Americas Europe Global Warming Countermeasures Breakdown by Region (kt-CO2e/year) (FY) Promoting Global Warming Countermeasures 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 We are promoting ways to use energy more efficiently and Europe 7 4 4 8 7 reduce GHG emissions during production and transportation, Americas 295 316 321 358 375 China 287 315 332 305 211 in both manufacturing and nonmanufacturing divisions, to Rest of Asia 357 381 375 423 402 help prevent global warming. Japan 2,501 2,437 2,323 2,217 2,090 Total 3,447 3,453 3,355 3,311 3,085 Actions and Achievements Notes: · Emissions are calculated based on the 2005 CO2 emission coefficients for electric power We are working to reduce the energy use per unit as one by country published by the International Energy Agency in CO2 Emissions from Fuel way to use energy more efficiently. In fiscal 2015, we Combustion (2010 edition). · Energy-related CO2 emissions were 660 kt-CO2e (Scope 1) and 2,425 kt-CO2e (Scope 2). achieved a reduction of 16% (from fiscal 2005, the base year), surpassing the target of 15%. We are systematically working to improve the energy efficiency of individual lighting Introducing Renewable Energy equipment and facilities by installing high-efficiency We are promoting the use of solar, wind power, and other equipment and devices, from LED lighting to inverter air forms of renewable energy. During the 2015 fiscal year, conditioners. In pursuit of more efficient energy use, Hitachi produced 3,914 MWh of renewable energy for its own moreover, we are actively harnessing the control use. Hitachi Computer Products (America), Inc. proactively technologies and IT systems that are our forte to conserve uses renewable energy to power its factory, purchasing 7,242 energy at our factories and offices. MWh during fiscal 2015. In Japan, we also contracted for Green Power Certifications for 1,000 MWh/year through Key Indicators Japan Natural Energy Company Limited, using these to cover Reduction in Energy Use per Unit power generated for offices, showrooms, and exhibitions. From base year 16 % reduction Green Power logo for Green Power Certification. FY 2005 (base year) FY 2015 Reducing Transportation Energy Consumption Reductions in transportation energy consumption per unit 100 % 84% Energy used 1,746 ML Energy used 1,581 ML Activity amount*1 Activity amount are reflected in the individual targets of each business unit and Group company. This allows additional actions to be *1 A value closely related to the emission factor numerators (environmental burden) of energy use from business activities (for example, production quantity, output, building taken to further reduce energy consumption. Business sites floor space, and number of employees). are promoting a modal shift to highly efficient transportation methods, improving truck loading ratios and taking other measures to reduce transportation energy consumption, and switching to the use of eco-cars. Hitachi is actively utilizing rail transport for surface freight shipments of 500 km or more, for which we have earned the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport, and Tourism’s Eco Rail Mark.*1 CO2 emissions from transportation inside Japan for the Hitachi Group in fiscal 2015 were 114 kt-CO2e. Contents 87 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Environment Reducing the Environmental Burden of Our Business Operations (Fiscal 2015 Results) Key Indicators The Mito Works, a building systems business unit, is Reduction in Waste and Valuables Generated per Unit taking a range of measures to cut transportation energy usage. These include improving the efficiency of its shipping and delivery network and reducing the distances and From base year frequency of transportation. In fiscal 2015, CO2 emissions per unit were reduced by 69% compared with fiscal 2006. 28 % reduction *1 A mark conferred on products and businesses when a designated share of freight shipments are made by rail transport, which has low CO2 emissions. FY 2005 (base year) FY 2015 100 % 72% Amount generated 782 kt Amount generated 618 kt Activity amount Activity amount About the Eco Rail Mark Waste and Valuables Generated (kt/year) 800 701 692 Next Steps 655 677 618 As suppliers of products and services, Hitachi business sites 600 will continue to promote efficient energy usage and consistently maintain a high level of improvement activities. 400 We will also contribute to the reduction of energy-related emissions of CO2 and other GHGs by making maximum use 200 of renewable energy. In pursuit of these targets, Hitachi 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 continually implements a PDCA (plan, do, check, act) cycle (FY) Japan Rest of Asia China Americas Europe and works to reduce GHG emissions. Breakdown by Region (kt/year) (FY) Efficient Use of Resources 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Europe 3 1 1 2 1 Reducing Waste Generation and Promoting Product Americas 55 58 56 67 63 China 40 38 62 54 36 Recycling Rest of Asia 80 80 93 106 98 Resource-related problems arising from economic Japan 523 478 465 463 420 Total 701 655 677 692 618 development and population growth are universal challenges, and measures are needed to cope with the mass consumption of resources and mass generation of waste. To address these issues, Hitachi is working to reduce Using IT for Managing Waste the volume and improve the recycling rates of waste Hitachi has developed a waste management system aimed generated during production. We also promote the efficient at more efficient processes and reduced compliance risk. In use of resources by collecting end-of-life products and Japan, we visualize the generation and disposal of waste reusing or recycling them. produced at our factories, offices, and contract operations and manage data on waste contractors so that we can keep Actions and Achievements accurate track of our progress in waste recycling. In fiscal For fiscal 2015, we set a target of a 23% reduction (from the 2015, entries were made to the system regarding waste fiscal 2005 base year) for waste and valuables generated generated at approximately 2,600 locations in Japan. This per unit, bettering this by achieving a 28% reduction. Every information is being put to use in measures to reduce waste business site is reducing waste through onsite recycling of volume and improve recycling rates. byproducts and scrap from the production process and As of fiscal 2015, the e-manifest system*1 registration efforts to curb use of packing materials during transport. rate for Hitachi Group business sites was 95%, surpassing Under the Zero Emission initiative, which seeks to minimize our target of boosting the registration rate to at least 90% by landfill disposal, 111 business sites achieved their zero fiscal 2015. emission goal*1 as of fiscal 2015. *1 The e-manifest is a document that waste generators must issue when commissioning a disposal company to handle waste disposal. *1 Defined as a final disposal rate (landfill disposal/waste and valuables) of less than 0.5% in any given fiscal year. Zero Emission Sites Contents 88 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Environment Reducing the Environmental Burden of Our Business Operations (Fiscal 2015 Results) Waste Management System Product Recycling Network Office Hitachi Group Companies Hitachi Group (Equity-Method Affiliates) 1 Home Appliance Recycling 2 IT Product Recycling Intranet Internet 3 Financial Equipment Recycling 4 Industrial Equipment Recycling 5 Medical Equipment Recycling Home Appliance Recycling Plants E-manifest Regional Business Partners Data link Paper manifest JWnet*1 e-manifest Valuable materials Hokkaido Eco Recycle Systems General waste 1 2 3 4 5 Waste disposal Internet Contractor Contract details Hitachi Group Hitachi Industrial Equipment Environmental Load Industrial waste Nakajo Engineering 3 5 Audit System disposal company Nichiwa Service 4 5 Kanto Eco Recycle 1 Hitachi Capital Services (Osaka) 2 4 Tokyo Eco Recycle *1 JWnet: The Japan Waste Network is an electronic manifest system operated by the 1 2 4 5 Japan Industrial Waste Information Center under the auspices of Japan’s Ministry of the Hitachi Capital Environment. Services (Tokyo) 2 4 Hitachi ICT Business Services 2 Product Collection and Recycling In order to comply with the 2001 Home Appliance Recycling Law, Hitachi has taken part in cooperative efforts by five companies*1 in the same industry while recycling air conditioners, televisions, refrigerators, and washing machines at 18 recycling plants nationwide. In fiscal 2015, Next Steps we recycled around 56,000 metric tons of the roughly With a focus on reducing the volume of waste generated, 63,000 tons of end-of-life products we collected. Hitachi will take a range of measures to address wasteToday we are building on our know-how in recycling related issues, such as conserving resources and reducing home appliances by creating a recycling network and product volume from the design stage, recycling waste, and expanding collection and recycling programs to include IT promoting use of recycled resources. To counteract the products like personal computers, servers, and cross-border movement of hazardous waste materials, communication equipment; industrial equipment including moreover, we will enhance our management of waste pumps, motors, distribution boards, transformers, contractors. refrigeration equipment, and machine tools; and industrial air We will also promote the effective use of resources at conditioners and medical equipment. In fiscal 2015, we both the production and disposal stages of the product life recycled more than 9,000 tons of the roughly 10,000 tons of cycle by expanding our recycling network for end-of-life the end-of-life IT products, industrial equipment, and other products as well as the range of products that we collect. items we collected. *1 Hitachi Appliances, Inc., Sharp Corporation, Sony Corporation, Fujitsu General Limited, and Mitsubishi Electric Corporation. Contents 89 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Environment Reducing the Environmental Burden of Our Business Operations (Fiscal 2015 Results) Water Use Outside Japan Reducing Water Use (million m3/year) 12 Water Conservation 9.88 8.91 Issues related to water resources are diverse. They include 9 7.37 7.17 shortages of domesticand agricultural-use water due to 5.68 population growth, land subsidence from overuse of 6 groundwater, and ecological destruction from wastewater. Hitachi uses water in such production processes as 3 cleaning, cooling, and painting. To reduce water use through 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) greater efficiency, we are enhancing our level of water Rest of Asia China Americas Europe management by installing flow meters at more locations, introducing wastewater treatment devices to increase the Breakdown by Region (million m3/year) use of recycled water, and upgrading water supply facilities (FY) at our business sites. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Different countries and regions are affected by waterEurope 0.03 0.03 0.02 0.02 0.01 related issues in different ways. Recognizing the importance Americas 2.35 3.15 1.20 0.98 0.89 China 2.92 2.85 2.50 2.32 1.22 of devising measures suited to each region, we will tackle Rest of Asia 3.61 3.85 3.65 3.85 3.56 these issues by establishing region-specific targets. Total 8.91 9.88 7.37 7.17 5.68 Actions and Achievements Next Steps In fiscal 2015, we set a target for our business sites outside Hitachi will continue appropriately managing its water usage Japan of a 30% reduction (over the fiscal 2005 base year) for related to business activities, promoting effective use of this water use per unit and achieved a 41% reduction. A growing resource. We will also ascertain water-related risks on an portion of our production takes place outside Japan, and we ongoing basis in each region and take measures that are are promoting efficient use of water through conservation appropriate for that region’s water environment. worldwide. To accurately grasp water-related risks in each region, we conducted surveys at 283 business sites around the world on levels of water stress (an index of scarcity of Chemical Substances water relative to demand), water intake volume per source, and wastewater volume per discharge destination. Managing Chemical Substances In fiscal 2005, Hitachi formulated the Regulations for Key Indicators Environmental CSR-Compliant Monozukuri to manage the Reduction in Water Use per Unit (Outside Japan) chemical substances contained in its products at all stages— from development and design, procurement, and production to quality assurance and sales. With regard to chemical From base year substances used in our business operations, we manage risk 41 % by assigning three ranks to the use of such substances: prohibition, reduction, and control. We also reduce risk by reduction educating chemical substance handlers and managers on laws and regulations and on proper risk assessment. FY 2005 (base year) FY 2015 Managing Chemical Substances in Our Products 100 % 59% Amount used 8.89 million m3 Amount used 5.68 million m3 Activity amount Activity amount To ensure compliance with European REACH*1 and other regulations, we continuously revise the list of chemical substances in our products that are to be managed. In October 2015, we modified the list of Voluntarily Controlled Chemical Substances so that now 18 prohibited substances (Level 1) and 27 controlled substances (Level 2) are listed. In compliance with Europe’s REACH regulation, we submitted reports on the use of particular substances in parts and final products by the June and December 2015 deadlines. *1 REACH regulation: The European Union regulation on Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of Chemicals. Hitachi Group’s Voluntarily Controlled Chemical Substances Contents 90 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Environment Reducing the Environmental Burden of Our Business Operations (Fiscal 2015 Results) Working with the Supply Chain to Manage Chemical local governments for each office or plant. Although some Substances substances are exempt from reporting due to their small Working closely with suppliers and customers, we gather quantities, our policy is to keep data on the handling, and make available information on chemical substances emission, and transfer of all PRTR substances of 10 across the supply chain via the Integrated Management kilograms or more per year, recognizing the need to control System for Chemical Substances Contained in Products, these substances as well. which has been in operation since fiscal 2005. As of March *1 Emissions of SOx and NOx: Calculated as the product of concentration and exhaust 31, 2016, chemical substance information for more than air-flow rate. 1.27 million parts and products was registered under this integrated management system. Key Indicators for Chemical Substance Management Integrated Management System for Chemical Substances Reduction in VOC Atmospheric Emissions per Unit Contained in Products Suppliers From FY 2006 Environmental information 50 % reduction Survey/register FY 2006 (base year) FY 2015 Integrated Management System for Chemical Substances Contained in Products 100 % 50% Emissions 6,863 t Emissions 3,615 t Activity amount Activity amount Registration database Collection database Manage amounts of designated Manage total amounts of chemical substances in a product designated chemical substances Japan Outside Japan Overall by material and part by product and business FY 2015 29% 21% 50% (from base year) Communicate Reducing VOC Atmospheric Emissions Customer/society (t/year) 5,000 4,415 4,285 4,127 4,216 Environmental information disclosure 4,000 3,615 3,000 Managing Chemical Substances in Our Business 2,000 Operations 1,000 As for the management of chemical substances emitted 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 from our factories and other sites, we are cutting emissions (FY) of 41 volatile organic compounds (VOCs) that we have Japan Rest of Asia China Americas Europe designated with an eye to preventing air pollution. Initiatives in fiscal 2015 to reduce VOC emissions included switching Breakdown by Region (t/year) (FY) from paints containing VOCs to water-soluble and powder 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 paints, expanding the use of stainless steel requiring no Europe 28 6 8 12 9 coating and plated sheet steel chassis, and altering washing Americas 62 53 76 66 113 China 427 273 372 281 199 processes. We successfully achieved our targets through Rest of Asia 232 346 447 604 373 these initiatives. Information on successful efforts is Japan 3,536 3,449 3,313 3,452 2,921 translated into English and Chinese and shared globally with Total 4,285 4,127 4,216 4,415 3,615 Hitachi Group members. We also monitor and manage emissions of sulfur oxides (SOx) and nitrogen oxides (NOx),*1 which are required to be measured under the laws and regulations applicable at our business locations. We comply with Japan’s Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (PRTR) Law through Group-wide monitoring of chemical substances released into the atmosphere or into public waters, removed outside our plants as waste, or discharged into sewage systems, reporting the results to Contents 91 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Environment R  educing the Environmental Burden of Our Business Operations (Fiscal 2015 Results), Preserving Ecosystems The CEGNET Chemical Substance Management System PCB-containing waste. Waste materials containing PCBs To ensure the proper management of chemical substances stored at 39 business sites were treated in fiscal 2015; we used in its business operations, since 1998 Hitachi has are aiming to complete the treatment process ahead of the operated a database for chemical substance management 2027 deadline set by Japan’s Act on Special Measures called CEGNET to keep track of the latest laws and Concerning Promotion of Proper Treatment of PCB Wastes. regulations and the company’s own voluntary regulations. CEGNET also collects and aggregates data on the amount of chemical substances handled, emitted, and transferred in our operations, helping to reduce the volume of chemicals that we handle. Chemical Substance Management System (CEGNET) Regulatory/Voluntary Chemical Data Control Information New Chemical Risk Registration of Amounts Network Searches Handled/Data Collection Production Facilities Managing Storage of Equipment Containing PCBs Disposing of waste materials (large transformers) containing PCBs. In Japan, we gather and manage information on storing and handling equipment that uses polychlorinated biphenyls Next Steps (PCBs) every year and promote the efficient and thorough In fiscal 2016, with our shift to a new Environmental Action treatment of these units. Waste materials with high PCB Plan, we will review our list of targeted substances and concentrations are subject to a treatment program based on continue with our emission-reduction initiatives. requirements set by the national government of Japan, and In connection with Europe’s REACH regulation, we will waste materials with low PCB concentrations are also continue our checks and preparations in the lead-up to the processed by treatment companies that have been certified next round of notification deadlines. and have the capacity to handle them. Thanks to these efforts, we are successfully reducing the stored amount of Preserving Ecosystems Hitachi’s Approach Preserving Ecosystems Various forms of development accompanying economic Initiatives to Preserve Ecosystems growth and urbanization around the world have led to An important aim of our Environmental Action Plan for 2013 environmental degradation and pollution, the overuse of to 2015 was to carry out the Business Assessment on the natural resources, and threats to biodiversity. Hitachi Preservation of Ecosystems. We were also active outside the believes that preserving ecosystems for diverse living company, such as participating in the biodiversity working organisms is vital to ensuring that biodiversity—a precious group of four Japanese electrical and electronic industry asset—will remain intact for future generations. We are associations*1 and the Japan Business Initiative for reducing the burden on the ecosystem from the perspective Biodiversity (JBIB). We continue to raise awareness and of the entire life cycle of products and striving to produce knowledge within Hitachi and to promote ecosystem things in a way that does not damage the ecosystem. We are also promoting Group-wide activities that contribute to preserving ecosystems. Contents 92 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Environment Preserving Ecosystems preservation throughout the entire Group while laying the Encouraging Action to Preserve Ecosystems groundwork for environmental programs through activities The Hitachi Group Guide to Preservation of Ecosystems is a outside the company. guidebook issued to employees that outlines the relationship between corporate activities and ecosystems, introduces *1 The Japan Electrical Manufacturers’ Association (JEMA), Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association (JEITA), Communications and Information trends and examples of initiatives being taken around the Network Association of Japan (CIAJ), and Japan Business Machine and Information world, and makes recommendations. Since fiscal 2013, we System Industries Association (JBMIA). have also been implementing the Business Assessment on the Preservation of Ecosystems every year in order to The biodiversity working group deepen employee understanding. The aim is to promote initiatives that help to preserve ecosystems from a variety of Japan Business Initiative for Biodiversity perspectives by conducting an assessment based on a total of 53 criteria in eight different categories (such as “communication/education” and “design/development”), as Corporate Relationship with Ecosystems specified in the table. In fiscal 2015, the assessment was Corporations depend on “ecosystem services,” including the conducted at around 211 Hitachi business sites (excluding natural supply of materials like fibers and wood, and the the headquarters of each company) both within and outside ability of ecosystems to maintain the quality and quantity of Japan, with the participants conducting a self-assessment air, water, and soil. Contributing to ecosystem preservation regarding the results of activities over a three-year period. through both business and social activities enables companies to continue receiving these benefits and to Main Criteria and Overview of Assessment restore ecosystems. Through its business activities, Hitachi Share of Business is promoting designs and production methods that reduce No Category Assessment Overview Sites that Enhanced Initiatives Over the impact on ecosystems throughout the product life cycle. 3-Year Period We are also increasing the number of products and services 1 Communication/ Understanding the gist and goals of 40% Education preserving ecosystems through for direct preservation of ecosystems, such as water business activities purification measures. We view chemical substance 2 Design/ Products that take ecosystems into 17% Development consideration management as part of ecosystem preservation and 3 Procurement Encouraging and educating suppliers 20% continually ensure that it is carried out correctly. To regarding initiatives to preserve contribute to society, we encourage employee volunteer ecosystems 4 Production Reducing the environmental burden of 42% programs, such as tree planting and ecological surveys of the manufacturing process rare plants and animals, as well as other programs that 5 Site management Surveying ecosystems at business sites 13% preserve ecosystems. and taking environmental issues into consideration when building or renovating structures at those sites Corporations and Ecosystems 6 Transportation/ Conserving energy use for 20% Sales transportation and reducing use of Ecosystem Services printed materials 7 Collecting/ Encouraging and educating waste16% Providing and regulating materials Recycling treatment firms regarding initiatives to Ecosystems (fibers, wood, etc.) and water Corporations preserve ecosystems 8 Engagement Contributing to society through 20% partnerships with stakeholders Contributions through business Reducing the load on ecosystems arising from corporate activities Next Steps In fiscal 2016, we created the “Ecosystem Preservation Creating products and services Activities Menu” including the pioneering efforts being that preserve ecosystems carried out at companies and organizations outside the Contributing to society Hitachi Group. We will continue with existing preservation through nature conservation efforts and systematically add activities in accordance with the new menu. As demonstrated by the addition of the Production dependent on ecosystems number of new ecosystem preservation initiatives as a major Minimizing negative impacts (reducing burden on ecosystems) Expanding positive impacts (contributing to ecosystem preservation) indicator in the Environmental Action Plan for 2018, the Hitachi Group as a whole will make further efforts to promote ecosystem preservation. Contents 93 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Per formance Data Key Indicators 94–95 Overview of Financial Results, Board Members, and Employee Data 96–97 Main Assessments and Awards 98–99 Independent Assurance 100 Contents 94 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Key Indicators Key Indicators The Key Indicators of Hitachi’s CSR activities are listed below. Comparative tables with the GRI Content Index, as well as our Policy, Vision, and Guidelines, are only available on our website. Comparative Tables with GRI Content Index Policy, Vision, and Guidelines Recognition of Social Responsibility FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 Realizing Sustainable, Innovative Management Ratio of R&D expenditure to revenue (%) 4.3 3.8 3.7 3.4 3.3 Number of R&D staff outside Japan 150 — 290 300 350 Patent application ratio outside Japan (%) 55 57 59 59 59 Boundary of Data Hitachi, Ltd. and consolidated subsidiaries (including variable interest entities). Number of companies: FY 2011: 940; FY 2012: 964; FY 2013: 948; FY 2014: 996; FY 2015: 1,057. Labor Practices FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 Promoting Diversity and Inclusion Ratio of male and female employees*1 (%) 84:16 84:16 83:17 84:16 84:16 Number and global ratio of female managers 3,415 3,670 3,727 — — 5.6% 6.0% 6.4% Disabled employment ratio*1 (%) 2.00 2.02 2.02 2.03 2.08 Promoting Occupational Health and Safety*2 Occupational accident rate*1 0.10 0.14 0.10 0.09 0.07 Occupational accident rate*3 0.15 0.19 0.14 0.27 0.22 A Strategy for Growing Together with Our Global Human Capital*2 Number of non-Japanese employees 239 257 340 446 509 Number of young employees participating in training outside Japan*4 1,064 1,202 747 720 674 Boundary of Data *1 Hitachi, Ltd. *2 January to December each year. *3 90 major Hitachi Group companies in Japan including Hitachi, Ltd. through to 2011; 175 Hitachi Group companies in Japan including Hitachi, Ltd. for 2012; 195 Hitachi Group companies in Japan including Hitachi, Ltd. for 2013; 251 Hitachi Group companies in Japan including Hitachi, Ltd. for 2014; 240 Hitachi Group companies in Japan including Hitachi, Ltd. for 2015. *4 Hitachi, Ltd. and Group companies in Japan. Contents 95 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Key Indicators Environment FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 Reducing the Environmental Burden of Our Business Operations Eco-Product sales ratio (%) 80 84 89 93 95 Contributions to CO2 emission reduction (million metric tons) 19.04 22.74 27.47 32.19 36.49 CO2 emissions (kt-CO2e) 3,447 3,453 3,355 3,311 3,085 Waste and valuables generation (kt) 701 655 677 692 618 Water use (outside Japan) (million m3) 8.91 9.88 7.37 7.17 5.68 VOC atmospheric emissions (t) 4,285 4,127 4,216 4,415 3,615 Boundary of Data Hitachi, Ltd. and consolidated subsidiaries. Number of companies: FY 2011: 940; FY 2012: 964; FY 2013: 948; FY 2014: 996; FY 2015: 1,057. Environmental performance data associated with Hitachi’s business operations: Hitachi, Ltd. and consolidated subsidiaries whose environmental load comprises 90% of the total (based on Hitachi calculations); data for each fiscal year indicates performance within the given boundary for the fiscal year. Fair Operating Practices FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 Engaging in Responsible Procurement Number of CSR monitoring (self-checks) 102 98 100 200 218 Number of audits supported by external auditing organizations — 12 16 20 20 Community Involvement and Development FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 Promoting Sustainable Community Involvement and Development Funding for social contribution activities*1 (million yen) — — 1,806 1,218 889 Funding for social contribution activities*2 (million yen) 3,471 3,284 3,076 2,327 2,057 Boundary of Data *1 Hitachi, Ltd. and the Hitachi Global Foundation. *2 Through to fiscal 2014: Hitachi, Ltd. and 136 Group companies (including equity-method affiliates) and five foundations in Japan, 199 companies outside Japan; for fiscal 2015: Hitachi, Ltd. and 136 Group companies (including equity-method affiliates) and the Hitachi Global Foundation in Japan, 244 companies outside Japan. Contents 96 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Overview of Financial Results, Board Members, and Employee Data Overview of Financial Results, Board Members, and Employee Data An overview of the consolidated financial results, board members, and employee data is shown below. Most data are Hitachi, Ltd. figures. Financial Results (Consolidated IFRS) (billion yen) FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 Revenue 9,666.4 9,774.9 10,034.3 Adjusted operating income 604.7 641.3 634.8 EBIT*1 691.2 534.0 531.0 Income from continuing operations, before income taxes 678.4 518.9 517.0 Net income attributable to Hitachi, Ltd. stockholders 413.8 217.4 172.1 Capital investment (completion basis) 849.8 374.3 528.5 R&D spending 351.4 335.5 333.7 *1 EBIT: Income from continuing operations before income tax, less interest income, plus interest charges. Board Members Gender Nationality Total Male Female Japan Outside Japan Directors*1 13*2 11 2 8 5 Executive officers*1 35 35 0 33 2 *1 As of June 2016. *2 Including nine external directors (four from Japan and five from outside Japan). Composition of Employees FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 Number of employees*1 32,908 33,665 33,500 31,375 37,353 Male 27,805 28,437 28,273 26,428 31,536 Female 5,103 5,228 5,227 4,947 5,817 Ratio of female employees (%) 15.9 16.0 16.6 16.3 15.6 Average age (years) 40.0 40.2 40.7 41.0 41.2 Male 40.6 40.8 41.3 41.6 41.7 Female 36.8 37.1 37.6 38.0 38.4 Average service (years) 17.9 18.0 18.3 18.4 18.4 Male 18.6 18.7 19.0 19.0 19.0 Female 14.2 14.5 15.0 15.4 15.6 Number and ratio of female managers* 2 377 401 418 434 474 3.4% 3.5% 3.8% 3.7% 4.0% General manager or above 54 68 77 87 104 1.9% 2.3% 2.7% 2.8% 3.2% Section chief 323 333 341 347 370 4.0% 4.0% 4.3% 4.1% 4.3% Employment ratio of people with disabilities (%)*3 2.00 2.02 2.02 2.03 2.08 *1 Number of full-time employees. *2 See Key Indicators for Group global figures. *3 Data compiled in June of each fiscal year. Contents 97 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Overview of Financial Results, Board Members, and Employee Data Hiring Ratios April 2012 April 2013 April 2014 April 2015 April 2016 Ratio of new female graduates hired*1 (%) 20.3 18.0 19.4 21.7 22.8 Technical 14.7 11.6 14.7 18.3 17.3 Administrative 43.9 43.4 43.4 41.0 45.5 *1 Graduates from universities or colleges (including postgraduate schools and technical colleges). Number of Employees Using Work-Life Balance Support Systems FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 Number of employees taking child care leave/spouse child care leave Female 518 525 539 508 524 Male 224 245 238 236 307 Number of employees using shorter working hours for child care Female 608 617 683 663 668 Male 6 8 5 4 3 Number of employees taking nursing care leave Female 6 10 8 8 8 Male 6 7 12 9 9 Number of employees using shorter working hours for nursing care Female 6 7 4 7 9 Male 2 3 2 3 3 Working Conditions FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 Paid leave Average number of days 15.9 15.3 15.5 15.4 15.6 Ratio (%) 66.8 64.0 64.7 64.3 65.3 Average overtime hours/month 12.8 14.1 13.5 12.2 11.9 Occupational health and safety Number of fatal accidents 1 3 1 1 2 Social Contribution Activities FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 Social contribution activities Number of voluntary social contribution programs 32 34 43 39 38 Participants in voluntary social contribution programs 2,087 2,479 2,744 2,344 2,166 Contents 98 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Main Assessments and Awards Main Assessments and Awards Hitachi actively pursues a range of CSR activities aimed at developing a more sustainable society. These activities have earned the Hitachi Group high marks from numerous external organizations. Actively Integrating ESG Results of ESG Analysis in Fiscal 2015 The Hitachi Group welcomes external assessments as a Institution Index Companies selected RobecoSAM Dow Jones Hitachi, Ltd. target for ESG*1 and sustainability-oriented investment. For Sustainability seven years in a row since fiscal 2009, the Dow Jones World Index Sustainability World Index (DJSI World),*2 a leading global Dow Jones Hitachi, Ltd. Sustainability Hitachi Chemical Co., Ltd. sustainability investment index, has listed Hitachi, Ltd. as a Asia Pacific Index component stock. RobecoSAM, which handles survey and FTSE Group FTSE4Good Hitachi Chemical Co., Ltd. Index Series Hitachi Capital Corporation analysis for the DJSI listings, also gave its Bronze Class Hitachi Construction Machinery Co., Ltd. designation to Hitachi, Ltd. in its 2015 CSR rankings. Four Hitachi High-Technologies Corporation Group companies (Hitachi Chemical Co., Ltd., Hitachi Morningstar SRI Index Hitachi Chemical Co., Ltd. Hitachi Construction Machinery Co., Ltd. Capital Corporation, Hitachi Construction Machinery Co., Hitachi Metals, Ltd. Hitachi High-Technologies Corporation Ltd., and Hitachi High-Technologies Corporation) were Hitachi Kokusai Electric Inc. selected for the FTSE4Good Index Series.*3 Hitachi MSCI MSCI Global Hitachi Chemical Co., Ltd. Chemical, Hitachi Construction Machinery, Hitachi Metals, Sustainability Indexes Ltd., Hitachi High-Technologies, and Hitachi Kokusai Electric Inc. were chosen for the Morningstar SRI Index,*4 with the Group performing well overall in these external assessments. Hitachi Chemical was also selected for the MSCI Global Hitachi Selected for CDP Climate A List Sustainability Indexes.*5 *1 ESG stands for “environment,” “social,” and “governance”—key factors in promoting Hitachi’s efforts to address climate change placed it in the socially responsible investment. top 5% of global corporations surveyed by the nonprofit *2 DJSI: A family of ESG indexes developed by Dow Jones & Company (USA) and RobecoSAM (Switzerland) that includes global and regional indexes with specific organization CDP,*1 which selected Hitachi among 113 compositions. DJSI World, for example, selects on a global basis, while the DJSI Asia leading companies, including seven from Japan, for the A Pacific Index covers Japan, Asia, and Australia. *3 FTSE4Good Index Series: One of the indexes calculated by the London Stock List of its Global Climate Change Report 2015. Exchange–owned FTSE Group that selects component stocks based on their ESG *1 CDP is an international NPO that provides a global system used to gauge, disclose, performance, specifically environmental management, climate change mitigation, manage, and share key environmental information on companies and cities. On behalf human rights and workers’ rights, supply chain labor standards, and bribery and of 822 investors, representing $95 trillion in assets, CDP sends a survey on climate corruption prevention. change to corporations and then evaluates the results. *4 Morningstar SRI Index: An ESG index for Japanese stocks developed by Morningstar Japan K.K. with the Center for Public Resources Development. *5 MSCI Global Sustainability Indexes: A family of indexes developed by US-based Morgan Stanley Capital International comprising companies with high ESG ratings relative to sector peers. Contents 99 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Main Assessments and Awards Nadeshiko Brand Designation strategy backed by strong management commitment. On March 18, 2015, Hitachi Group companies Hitachi On March 16, 2016, Hitachi, Ltd. was selected as a 2016 Transport System, Ltd. and Hitachi Solutions, Ltd. were chosen Nadeshiko Brand, making it the third year in a row the also for the METI Diversity Management Selection 100. company received the honor. Hitachi was recognized for developing environments where women in management positions are able to maximize their potential. Since fiscal 2012, the Ministry of Economy, Trade, and Industry (METI) and the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE) have jointly selected, on an industry basis, enterprises that are considered to encourage women to play active roles in the workplace. From fiscal 2015 selection was increased from among approximately 1,800 companies listed on the first section of the TSE to around 3,500 firms by including those listed on the TSE second section, the Kurumin Certification Mothers index, and JASDAQ. Companies are assessed on two factors: providing career support for women and Kurumin certification is granted under Japan’s 2005 Act supporting women in balancing work and life. Of the top on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising Nextscoring companies, those also meeting return on equity Generation Children to companies that create action plans requirements receive the Nadeshiko Brand designation. for child care support in line with this legislation and that Hitachi, Ltd. was one of 45 enterprises chosen in fiscal meet performance requirements. In February 2011, we 2015, the fourth round of selections. acquired this certification* 1 in recognition of our achievements in developing and implementing action plans supporting child care so that our employees can work with the peace of mind that comes from a good work-life balance. *1 Hitachi Group companies receiving Kurumin certification: Hitachi Capital Corporation, Hitachi Construction Machinery Co., Ltd., Hitachi Kokusai Electric Inc., Hitachi HighTechnologies Corporation, Hitachi Transport System Ltd., Clarion Co., Ltd., Hitachi Urban Investment, Ltd., Hitachi Systems Ltd., Hitachi Solutions, Ltd., Hitachi Maxell, Ltd., Hitachi SC, Ltd., Hitachi Solutions East Japan, Ltd., Hitachi INS Software, Ltd., Hitachi Government & Public Sector Systems, Ltd., Hitachi Architects & Engineers Co., Ltd, and Hitachi Aloka Medical, Ltd. Diversity Management Selection 100 On March 22, 2013, Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade, and Industry (METI) held a ceremony to celebrate Diversity Management Selection 100. Hitachi, Ltd. was one of 43 companies receiving awards in Japan. The Diversity Management Selection 100 system chooses and recognizes companies that achieve high results in such areas as improving innovation and productivity by using the talents of diverse employees, including women, different nationalities, older employees, and people with disabilities. Hitachi was lauded for going beyond simply introducing diversity programs to promote diversity management Group-wide as a corporate Contents 100 Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016 Management Approach Activities Performance Data Independent Assurance Independent Assurance To enhance the reliability of the data disclosed in the Hitachi Sustainability Report 2016, we have received independent assurance of key environmental and social performance indicators by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. The indicators that were assured are marked with a . The standards, guidelines, and calculation methods used in collecting environmental data are posted on our website. Independent Assurance Report Calculation methods for environmental load data Inquiries CSR and Environmental Strategy Division 1-6-1 Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8220, Japan Tel: +81-3-4235-5800 Fax: +81-3-4235-5835 www.hitachi.com/csr/
