2016 Communication on Progress (COP) Communication on Progress (COP) 2016 Table of Contents Letter From Our CEO. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Communication on Progress. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Progress Highlights by the Numbers. . . . . . . . . . . 9 Human Rights. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 Labor Standards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 Environmental . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 Anti-Corruption. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17 Communication on Progress (COP) 2016 Letter from our CEO It is a pleasure to reflect on the past year in and provide a more concrete real world Learn Series. Speakers joined us for various an effort to present our Communication on experience. This initiative fosters strength in educational talks, including healthy eating Progress (COP) to the United Nations Global education and also helps better prepare our and nutrition, cooking with herbs, and Compact. While the previous year celebrated youth for greater success in the workplace. using comedy for stress release. We had a significant business milestone with the firm our first annual team Potluck Summer Picnic Other community initiatives included an celebrating its 25th Anniversary, the past year during National Picnic Month, which was entertaining presentation on National was one of building for the continuation of a a big hit as everyone had an opportunity Humor Day in our Marketing Innovation solid future poised for growth. We continued to contribute their favorite picnic food and & Customer Insights Center lead by a seeking ways to improve in all facets of our share recipes. comedian, where more than 50 local work and our operations. We furthered our professionals enjoyed “Comedy for Once again, we celebrated the service of efforts to help our community economically Breakfast.” our United States Veterans during National and humanitarianly and supported many of Military Appreciation Month with a Flag the same initiatives, along with several new We also continued our volunteer board Raising Ceremony and Presentation led endeavors, to maintain our commitment to service for numerous organizations, by Francisco A. Ureña, Secretary of the the encouragement of a stronger future for including the Corridor Nine Area Chamber Department of Veterans’ Services of the our region. of Commerce, the Worcester Regional Commonwealth of Massachusetts. He was Research Bureau, the Westborough This is our third Communication on Progress joined by Senator Michael Moore, State Economic Development Committee, as a member of the United Nations Global Representatives Carolyn Dykema (D) and the Central Massachusetts Workforce Compact (UNGC) in the United States of Hannah Kane (R), and Adam Costello, Investment Board, and continued service America. Our objective in this report is to Director, Central Massachusetts Veterans’ as a Corporator for the Worcester Art share our progress as it relates to the Ten Services District. The Westborough High Museum, Seven Hills Foundation, Greater Principles during the period of April 2015 School Symphonic Band played patriotic Worcester Community Foundation, and through March 2016. songs, as we raised the American Flag others. Our CEO served on the Transition Over the past 12 months, we have continued in our historic courtyard with our team, Team for Massachusetts Governor Charlie further integration of our community distinguished guests and celebrated Baker during the COP Period. goals, charitable contributions, employee Veterans. We continued supporting women’s engagement, and sustainability strategy in In our work with clients, we continued to initiatives, including our sponsorship in the alignment with the Ten Principles. We had strive to new levels in an effort to bring their Worcester Business Journal’s Outstanding many highlights from the past year, many of programs to a higher level of success. We Women in Business Awards, the YWCA which we will share in this report. accomplished this through best practice Katharine F. Erskine Awards, and the In the area of community engagement, Corridor Nine Area Chamber of Commerce’s applications across the board and the PENTA launched a new program entitled Business Forward Females luncheon series. highest level of professional service. “Marketing Mentorship Scholar Program,” We also celebrated our 9th year of offering We are excited about the seeds we planted which provides a select group of high the PENTA Female Leadership Scholarship. this year that will come to fruition during school business students with a six-month International Women’s Day was celebrated the next COP period. This will include curriculum. We designed this to bring in March with a speaker from Habitat for our first ever Marketing Innovation & together high achieving high school Humanity®, who helped us inspire and Customer Insights Conference, which will business students seeking to experience recruit female leaders to join our efforts for unite marketing and academic leaders and explore the management facets of National Women Build® Week 2016. for a power-packed day of education for real world companies. This multi-faceted our clients and the business community. Our support of educational initiatives program was approved by the school We are looking forward to gathering as a included the launch of our Marketing and covers topics ranging from personal team to beautify the playground for young Mentorship Scholar Program, and we branding to interpersonal communications children at the YWCA on Earth Day, and to also provided funding for mini-grants to skills, confidence building, presentation designing and painting a Door of Hope to area teachers and to the School/Business skills, leadership, learning government’s benefit Habitat for Humanity®. We are also Partnership Committee. In addition, we role in business and how to relate to leading a team of women for Women Build® contributed to the Westborough Education C-level executives, and understanding to help create a home for a low-income Technology Fund, Inc. a nonprofit vertical markets. Through a series of family. There is much on the horizon for the organization that provides needed monthly sessions, students learn, engage, year ahead and we are looking forward to technology to schools. and are challenged to think differently the continuation of our efforts to make a about business and its myriad marketing We were delighted to have completed difference to positively impact our planet challenges. In addition to their on-site our Team Clubhouse, which is a beautiful one project, one initiative at a time. training at PENTA, students were brought space with table tennis, pool table, and air to other corporations for site visits and hockey. Situated near our new team kitchen Deborah Penta “meet and greets” with business leaders at and relaxation room in a private area of the Founder & CEO those companies to further their knowledge building, this entire suite is an oasis for our PENTA Communications, Inc. team. We continued our team Lunch and 3 Communication on Progress (COP) 2016 How PENTA Implemented the Ten Global Principles in 2015 Principle Highlights on Progress Human 1. Businesses •• PENTA’s engagement continued with regional nonprofit organizations that support and Rights should support respect human rights by helping individuals and families work towards economic selfand respect the sufficiency through education and assistance programs; protection of •• PENTA’s leadership continued its volunteer board service to a myriad of community internationally organizations that support the UN Human Rights Principle, including the Central proclaimed human Massachusetts Workforce Investment Board; rights; •• PENTA’s leadership served as a Corporator for the human rights nonprofit organizations 2. And make sure they Seven Hills Foundation and Big Brothers Big Sisters; are not complicit •• PENTA assisted numerous nonprofit human rights related organizations over the past year in human rights with its marketing and communications efforts including Big Brothers Big Sisters, Worcester abuses. Community Action Council, Pernet Family Health Service, Veterans Inc., and Abby’s House; •• PENTA sponsored the Outstanding Women in Business Awards in 2015; •• For 50% of the COP Period, PENTA sponsored the Corridor Nine Chamber of Commerce’s Business Forward Female Luncheon Series; •• PENTA sponsored the YWCA Katharine Forbes Erskine Awards in 2015; •• PENTA celebrated International Women’s Day with a presentation for women supporting Habitat for Humanity® and recruited volunteers to assist with Women Build ® 2016; •• PENTA participated in United Nations Day 2015 in Boston by joining numerous other Global Compact members for collective discussions on human rights; •• In May 2015, PENTA hosted its second annual Flag Raising Ceremony in Celebration of National Military Appreciation Month and in honor of our distinguished American Veterans from our region. The Company also made a donation to benefit its local Veterans of Foreign Wars organization; and •• PENTA was a drop-off site for Toys for Tots again in 2015 and collected over 200 toys to benefit local children in need. Labor 3. Business should •• PENTA continued developing its project to partner with local establishments in the Standards uphold the development of a discount program to benefit its employees, which it will launch in Summer freedom of 2016; association and •• PENTA completed a “new hire” onboarding package; the effective recognition of the •• PENTA’s Lunch and Learn Series continued integrating more speakers and events for its team right to collective including health and nutrition, comedy, cooking with herbs, holiday events, and a festive inbargaining; office holiday carolling performance; •• PENTA completed its Team Clubhouse and furnished its Game Room with a pool table, table 4. the elimination tennis, and air hockey for its team to enjoy; of all forms of compulsory labor; •• PENTA continued celebrating team member anniversaries with cards and gift cards or monetary gifts; 5. the effective •• PENTA’s CEO continued to serve on the Board of the Central Massachusetts Workforce abolition of child Investment Board and Governor Charlie Baker’s Transition Team, which focused on the labor; creation of more job growth and business expansion. She also served as Chairman of the Westborough Economic Development Committee, which works to bring and grow job 6. and the elimination opportunities to Westborough. She also served on Personnel Committees for Boards during of discrimination the COP year; in respect of employment and •• PENTA launched its Marketing Mentorship Scholar Program fostering high-level marketing occupation. knowledge and experience to high school students and encouraging stronger job placement opportunities; and •• The PENTA Female Leadership Scholarship celebrated its 9th year. 5 Communication on Progress (COP) 2016 How PENTA Implemented the Ten Global Principles in 2015 Continued Principle Highlights on Progress Environment 7. Businesses •• PENTA continued its recycling efforts of paper, plastic products, and printer should support cartridges. In addition, it invested in a full service networked printer, server and a precautionary equipment, streamlining its production of printed paper to conserve on ink and approach to paper usage; environmental •• PENTA continued to offer its clients a green line of services and made challenges; recommendations with respect to how its clients could execute green marketing strategies within their businesses; 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater •• PENTA continued to source 90% of its products and services locally; environmental •• PENTA employed 100% of its building contractors from within a 20-mile radius; responsibility; •• PENTA spearheaded the concept for a beautification project to benefit the 9. and encourage YWCA, which will take place during the next COP Period; and the development •• PENTA made every effort to conserve energy through the effective monitoring of and diffusion of electricity usage and other utilities at its corporate office. environmentally friendly technologies. Anti10. Businesses should •• PENTA maintains the highest ethical standards in all of its business operations Corruption work against and relationships. The firm seeks vendors that are in alignment of our corruption in all of core values ensuring high integrity. In addition, we maintain high levels of its forms, including transparency in our client relationships and will not tolerate any level of extortion and unethical behavior on any level. bribery. 7 Communication on Progress (COP) 2016 Progress by the Numbers 26 Years PENTA celebrated 26 years of providing the highest caliber marketing services to its clients. 90% Percentage of PENTA suppliers that are local to the region. $150,000 Provided to nonprofit organizations in pro bono services during the COP Period including those that support human rights, economic development, and arts and culture. 100% Percentage of building contractors within a 20-mile radius that PENTA utilizes to support its corporate office/facility. 14 Number of students selected by their school to participate in the Company’s elite Marketing Mentorship Scholar Program during the COP Period. 9 Communication on Progress (COP) 2016 United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Principle Highlights on Progress Human Rights 1. Businesses should •• PENTA’s engagement continued with regional nonprofit organizations that support and respect support and respect human rights by helping individuals and families work the protection towards economic self-sufficiency through education and assistance programs; of internationally •• PENTA’s leadership continued its volunteer board service to a myriad of proclaimed human community organizations that support the UN Human Rights Principle, including rights; the Central Massachusetts Workforce Investment Board; 2. And make sure they are •• PENTA’s leadership served as a Corporator for the human rights nonprofit not complicit in human organizations Seven Hills Foundation and Big Brothers Big Sisters; rights abuses. •• PENTA assisted numerous nonprofit human rights related organizations over the past year with its marketing and communications efforts including Big Brothers Big Sisters, Worcester Community Action Council, Pernet Family Health Service, Veterans Inc., and Abby’s House; •• PENTA sponsored the Outstanding Women in Business Awards in 2015; •• For 50% of the COP Period, PENTA sponsored the Corridor Nine Chamber of Commerce’s Business Forward Female Luncheon Series; •• PENTA sponsored the YWCA Katharine Forbes Erskine Awards in 2015; •• PENTA celebrated International Women’s Day with a presentation for women supporting Habitat for Humanity® and recruited volunteers to assist with Women Build® 2016; •• PENTA participated in United Nations Day 2015 in Boston by joining numerous other Global Compact members for collective discussions on human rights; •• In May 2015, PENTA hosted its second annual Flag Raising Ceremony in Celebration of National Military Appreciation Month and in honor of our distinguished American Veterans from our region. The Company also made a donation to benefit its local Veterans of Foreign Wars organization; and •• PENTA was a drop-off site for Toys for Tots again in 2015 and collected over 200 toys to benefit local children in need. 11 Communication on Progress (COP) 2016 United Nations Global Compact Labor Standard Principles Principle Highlights on Progress Labor 3. Business should •• PENTA continued developing its project to partner with local establishments in the Standards uphold the freedom development of a discount program to benefit its employees, which it will launch in of association and the Summer 2016; effective recognition •• PENTA completed a “new hire” onboarding package; of the right to collective bargaining; •• PENTA’s Lunch and Learn Series continued integrating more speakers and events for its team including health and nutrition, comedy, cooking with herbs, holiday 4. the elimination of all events, and a festive in-office holiday carolling performance; forms of compulsory •• PENTA completed its Team Clubhouse and furnished its Game Room with a pool labor; table, table tennis, and air hockey for its team to enjoy; 5. the effective abolition •• PENTA continued celebrating team member anniversaries with cards and gift cards of child labor; or monetary gifts; •• PENTA’s CEO continued to serve on the Board of the Central Massachusetts 6. and the elimination Workforce Investment Board and Governor Charlie Baker’s Transition Team, which of discrimination focused on the creation of more job growth and business expansion. She also in respect of served as Chairman of the Westborough Economic Development Committee, which employment and works to bring and grow job opportunities to Westborough. She also served on occupation. Personnel Committees for Boards during the COP year; •• PENTA launched its Marketing Mentorship Scholar Program fostering high-level marketing knowledge and experience to high school students and encouraging stronger job placement opportunities; and •• The PENTA Female Leadership Scholarship celebrated its 9th year. 13 Communication on Progress (COP) 2016 United Nations Global Compact Environmental Principles Principle Highlights on Progress Environment 7. Businesses •• PENTA continued its recycling efforts of paper, plastic products, and printer should support cartridges. In addition, it invested in a full service networked printer, server and a precautionary equipment, streamlining its production of printed paper to conserve on ink and approach to paper usage; environmental •• PENTA continued to offer its clients a green line of services and made challenges; recommendations with respect to how its clients could execute green marketing strategies within their businesses; 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater •• PENTA continued to source 90% of its products and services locally; environmental •• PENTA employed 100% of its building contractors from within a 20-mile radius; responsibility; •• PENTA spearheaded the concept for a beautification project to benefit the 9. and encourage YWCA, which will take place during the next COP Period; and the development •• PENTA made every effort to conserve energy through the effective monitoring of and diffusion of electricity usage and other utilities at its corporate office. environmentally friendly technologies. 15 Communication on Progress (COP) 2016 United Nations Global Compact Anti-Corruption Principle Highlights on Progress Anti10. Businesses should •• PENTA maintains the highest ethical standards in all of its business operations Corruption work against and relationships. The firm seeks vendors that are in alignment of our corruption in all of core values ensuring high integrity. In addition, we maintain high levels of its forms, including transparency in our client relationships and will not tolerate any level of unethical extortion and bribery. behavior on any level. 17 Communication on Progress (COP) 2016 H.E. Ban Ki-moon Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 United States of America Dear Mr. Secretary-General: On behalf of PENTA Communications, Inc., I am delighted to reconfirm our company’s commitment to support the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact on human rights, labor standards, environment, and anticorruption. During our third year as a Global Company signatory, we made great progress in moving several initiatives forward and in both building and planting seeds for the future. As we look forward to our next COP period, we are both excited and energized to raise the bar with our efforts in marrying our community engagement to the ten principles, and, in addition, to strategically develop and implement ways that our organization can emerge to the next level in all areas for a stronger future. Every day, we seek to make a difference in our work and to the betterment of our world around us. We believe that by doing our part locally and regionally that we are indeed part of a movement which inspires a better global economy and a more positive global outlook for the future of our industry and the communities that we touch by our work. PENTA looks forward to making its mark by consciously making an effort to continue acts of kindness, support, and engagement to foster lasting and meaningful progress for a better tomorrow. We look forward to presenting our fourth year Communication on Progress in the spring of 2017 and wish you the best of success as you transition in your role as Secretary General. We are grateful for your many years of service to the United Nations. All the best, Deborah Penta Chief Executive Officer PENTA Communications, Inc. The PENTA Building 208 Turnpike Road Westborough, MA 01581 USA 508.616.9900 www.pentamarketing.com
