BANK HAPOALIM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Economic, Social & Environmental Responsibility The report includes photographs from the Israeli sphere, where the bank operates SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY IT'S IN OUR HANDS BANK HAPOALIM 4 42 110 152 190 214 Introduction The best interests Society and the Quality of life Living with the 216 Ethics and compliance 4 M  essages from the Chairman of the of the client community and well-being environment 218 The bank's profile Board and the CEO Customers, products, and Creating value for society and for the well being and caring for Logistical resources and the 221 Corporate Governance 12 Bank Hapoalim CSR performance services economy employees environment 228 GRI index and Global Compact 14 The bank's CSR perception and report profile 26 Presentation of the bank's material aspects 34 A ssimilating the bank's vision, adopting responsible initiatives and promoting corporate responsibility economic activity is growing faster than the to promote a specialized package of services network of banking services for the Arabicits employees to study, and grants tuition aid to average pace of growth of the economy, with targeted to this group, including pension and speaking population in Israel. In addition to employees. These are among the factors that an emphasis on strengthening technological financial advice, targeted products, and products business solutions adapted to this sector's create the unique work environment at the bank. infrastructures, innovation, and creativity. and solutions designed for families, in order needs, we have met with various parties within to help New Seniors orient and adapt to their the Arab-Israeli community, and we continue The bank dedicates great energy to nurturing Bank Hapoalim is a leader of the digital new reality. Concurrently, the bank is engaged to promote initiatives for the benefit of this and strengthening its relationship with the revolution, investing immense resources in the in working to alleviate the social challenges community, as part of the strengthening of the community in Israel, viewing its significant development of technological infrastructures faced by the senior-citizen population in Israel, bank's relationship with the Arab-Israeli sector. investment in community causes each year and in outstanding professional personnel. The through establishing joint initiatives in the public as a privilege and an opportunity to contribute rapid technological changes have presented sphere with several organizations (non-profits, Bank Hapoalim led the market in financing to the resolution of social challenges. In 2015, opportunities to improve service and to social organizations, and business organizations) projects that promote environmental sustainability the bank promoted and supported hundreds strengthen and empower our customers. In active in this field. this year, as we have done consistently over the of social initiatives and organizations active in recognition of the changes in many of our last few years. Alongside our ongoing activity Israel. The focus of these activities is education, customers' habits, the network of services The bank has also continued to deepen its in areas such as solar energy, desalination, as the means for the promotion of equal offered by the bank has been adapted to their activity in the small-business segment, in and the construction of power plants fueled by opportunities, and financial education, in line needs and preferences. For this reason, in 2015, recognition of the importance of this sector to natural gas, in 2015 we expanded into additional with the core activity of the bank, although a Message from Bank Hapoalim we launched our digital branches, which are among the most advanced in the world. For the Israeli economy and the revenue potential inherent in strengthening small businesses. The areas, as the bank financed the largest project in Israel for the production of wind energy. We range of other causes were also addressed. Part of the contribution and assistance given to Chairman Mr. Yair Seroussi and the same reason, over the last few years we have introduced an extensive range of smart bank held the leading market share in credit for small businesses in Israel in 2015, at 32.3%. Our are currently considering financing additional projects in this field. The practical significance of the various organizations is the volunteer work conducted by employees of the bank in the CEO Mr. Arik Pinto digital tools, designed to help our customers attain better control over their finances. These commitment also takes the form of a stronger value offer, the creation of new products, and infrastructure projects in these areas is to achieve a cleaner environment in the future, for all of us. community throughout the year, as an integral part of the fabric of Israeli society. tools enable customers to receive personalized, continually available guidance and advice for We are proud to present the annual sustainability carried out by the bank within this process processed information and recommendations. this customer segment. The Small Business The achievements mentioned here, and The bank's wide-ranging activity in the area of and corporate social responsibility report of Bank included the creation of new areas: the Innovation Within this process and the promotion of fintech Day tradition has become an integral part of described in detail in this report, are realized sustainability and corporate social responsibility Hapoalim for 2015. The work presented in the Area, and an area dedicated to relationships in general, we are creating collaborations with our activity, involving tens of thousands of Israeli thanks to the devoted efforts of the employees has led to business achievements, and has ninth corporate responsibility report published with the public and with stakeholders. These various stakeholders and organizations for businesses in an initiative that benefits them both and managers of the bank. Our emphasis on earned recognition from analysis firms and in by the bank is an expression of our commitment are not semantic changes. We are approaching the continued development and application financially and in terms of marketing. the promotion of technological innovation in local and international ratings. This recognition to broad circles of stakeholders, and to our this move from a position of strength, but with a of advanced digital technologies in the future. our interaction with customers is accompanied has positioned the bank at the forefront of the relationship with them: our shareholders; our sense of urgency, in the understanding that it is The bank has continued to act to promote by extensive investment in quality of life for the global banking industry in this field. The bank customers – the households and businesses vital for us to prepare and change at this moment We accord high importance to the promotion growth in the Arab-Israeli sector. Economic employees of the bank. Our management tier, is also committed to the ten principles of the that drive the economy; our employees and in time. Excellence in business and technological of financial freedom for our customers, and we development in this sector has attendant more than 50% of which is composed of women, UNGC (United Nations Global Compact), suppliers across Israel; and Israel's community innovation are not enough to maintain our act in many areas, using a range of means, to social consequences with a positive effect on is a source of pride for us and an example to which promotes economic development that and society, in which we operate, from which leadership; we must also be dedicated to social assist our customers in gaining better control the economy and on society. Over the last few other businesses in Israel. Another aspect of the is beneficial to the community and to future we draw our strength, and to which we continue responsibility and to values-driven, human over their future. Towards that end, we process years, we have doubled the number of branches excellence of the bank's employees is the high generations. Within the bank's leadership, to contribute by promoting a wide range of dialogue with the bank's stakeholders. the relevant information for our customers and of the bank in Arab-Israeli towns; three new percentage of employees who hold academic in future years we will continue to work to financial, social, and environmental causes, as offer them the tools necessary in order to access branches targeted to this sector were opened degrees, which soared by approximately 40% promote and deepen sustainability and social part of the realization of the bank's vision and As the largest bank in Israel, in 2015 we and use this information. Access to financial over the last year. We offer the most extensive over the last two decades. The bank encourages responsibility at the bank. leadership in the area of sustainability and social continued to serve our customer base through information is insufficient in itself: it is our role responsibility in Israel. our branches and a range of technological as a bank to serve as the customer's financial channels. Every element of the service provided guide, to equip customers with the proper tools In 2015, the bank continued to implement its to our customers is focused and customized in order to cope with this information, and to strategic outline for 2013-2015, while formulating according to the needs of the various target help them make decisions. Accordingly, we are its strategic plan for the coming years, aimed at groups within the population. This year, we continuing the strategic drive for the population further reinforcing the bank's standing as Israel's demonstrated our commitment to growth drivers group of adults nearing or after retirement, the Yair Seroussi Arik Pinto leading financial institution. The structural change by focusing on population segments whose New Seniors. Over the last year, we continued Chairman of the board of directors CEO INTRODUCTION 4-5 structure, or size of the bank. This report report was submitted for the GRI Materiality was prepared in accordance with the Disclosures Service, and GRI confirmed GRI:G4 Guidelines, at the most advanced the correctness of the locations of the G4 level of transparency (In Accordance materiality disclosures (G4-17 – G4-27). Comprehensive). Most of the data in the report were generated by the information In this edition, we have chosen to include systems at the bank, in accordance with photographs by Israeli artists that portray GRI reporting requirements. Information various aspects of the composition and was collected regularly and routinely texture of Israel's society and community. throughout the year. However, some of the data were collected at the end of The readers of this report, our stakeholders, the reported period. The information is will use it to critique and judge our organized in a comprehensive database performance and the extent to which encompassing data on the reported we have met their expectations. We period as well as multi-year data (see p. are committed to making use of the 12-13). All of the information in the report comments and feedback we receive from is presented through the various indices. our stakeholders in order to learn from Data are presented using comparative them and continue to examine ourselves. analyses referring to the reported period This year's Sustainability and CSR Report and to long-term trends. A small part of is available in Hebrew and English on the the data involves the use of estimates and bank's website, along with an accessible evaluations. Estimates and evaluations, version for people with disabilities, for where used, were diligently checked and convenient and environment-friendly validated, and are clearly noted in the report. distribution and reading. The report does not address CSR impacts of Isracard Ltd1 . Isracard is preparing I would like to thank all of the employees In Israel's open space to publish an independent CSR report, and managers involved in every level of according to the schedule delineated by the bank’s work, who contribute to these the Supervisor of Banks. activities each day, and who helped create this report. Methodology for Message from the Head of Corporate Social Responsibility We recognize the importance of auditing the Preparation and external assurance of our work and of the accuracy of the data accumulated This is the ninth report to be published by social responsibility. Each report focuses and in the community; and improve of this Report: as the plan moves forward. Accordingly, Bank Hapoalim for its stakeholders. Each on different highlights, according to the environmental and social risk management. Measurement, we have decided to continue to maintain report surveyed a full year of activity within key areas of activity in the preceding year. The key initiatives and metrics for the external auditing of the fairness of our our overall sustainability and corporate activity of the bank in 2015, described in Evaluation, and reporting, on four levels: the corporate social responsibility plan. The annual In 2015, as part of the strategy of the bank, detail in this report, are presented in the Control social responsibility implementation Avraham Bar-Ilan reports published since 2007 reflect varied, we continued to identify and realize business following pages. This sustainability and CSR report refers process; the fairness of the report pursuant thorough, systemic, methodical activity. The opportunities in this area, while promoting to the calendar year 2015, and is current to GRI guidelines; the completeness Head of Corporate Social Responsibility sustainability and CSR reports reflect the social and environmental benefits; improve as of the end of the first quarter of 2016. of the report on our carbon footprint; avraham.barilan@mailpoalim.co.il bank’s journey, from the inception of the service and fair, ethical conduct; form During the reported period, there were no and compliance with GRI guidelines for plan to the present day, to instill corporate partnerships with stakeholders in society significant changes in the type of ownership, reporting on substantial subjects. The 1. G4-17 INTRODUCTION 6-7 The best interests of the customer Empowerment of society and the community Making service accessible to Promoting financial freedom Supporting the Economic value for the Community people with disabilities 226 for customers peri-retirement segment bank's stakeholders donations Tens of 10.7 500 Over branches have been made 500,000 customers use the budget thousands of consulting sessions on pensions NIS billion given back to the state and NIS invested by the bank billion accessible, and dozens of management application and finances were held, addressing municipalities, and to suppliers, in various community branches are in process the unique needs of new seniors employees, investors, and the causes since 2004 community Promoting the small business segment Digital banking Poalim Recovery 1.3 Credit in the amount of 32.4 Over 735,000 50,000 Promoting equal opportunities in Embedding corporate responsibility the community considerations in purchasing 50% Over NIS was granted to small businesses; the bank has the leading market share in this segment, at 32.3% billion million customers use the bank's website customers use the bank's mobile services and applications customers participated in the Poalim Recovery program for restructuring of their debts through dialogue with the bank 185,000 adults, adolescents, and children participated in the activities of educational organizations of the bank's suppliers are supported by the bank small or micro-business Volunteering by Environmental risk Encouraging growth in the Credit for environmental products employees of the bank management in financing Arab-Israeli sector in the sustainability sector NIS 120 billion examined and analyzed within environmental risk management 41branches serve the Arabic-speaking NIS 6.63 billion NIS 6.63 billion for projects in solar energy, desalination, natural 3,500 employees volunteered regularly nationwide population, in the broadest gas, and more distribution of branches in Israel In Israel's open space INTRODUCTION 8-9 Employees' quality of life and well-being Living with the environment Paper recycling Electronic waste Promoting workplace College-educated employees Hiring new employees recycling 700 Paperless branch Carbon footprint 10% 64.4% 4,000 150 42.4% diversity tons collected for recycling 28.7 tons collected for recycling employees of the bank of the bank's employees external agency workers Energy efficiency million pages 2.4% come from underhold academic degrees; the were hired as employees employed population bank provides tuition aid of the bank in 2007-2015 saved each year due to reduction of carbon decrease segments for hundreds of employees activities aimed at cutting footprint from 2010 to 2015; in annual each year down on paper use, saving carbon footprint in 2015: electricity cumulative 123,000 trees 61,511 tons CO2eq consumption Promoting women Training and development at the bank of human capital 52.1% of executives are women 43,521 days of study for employees of the bank In Israel's open space INTRODUCTION 10-11 Bank Hapoalim CSR performance Field Metric 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Field Metric 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 General data Investment Number of participants in activities of organizations At least At least At least Bank profile Total revenues (NIS M.) 13,088 13,637 13,664 14,022 14,362 in the supported by the bank in the area of culture and the arts 35,000 40,000 25,000 community Number of employees of the bank Number of recipients of treatment and assistance At least At least At least 10,206 10,124 9,745 9,283 8,898 through the activities of organizations supported by the 420,000 410,000 268,000 Number of branches of the bank 298 298 286 277 267 bank in the area of health care and welfare Best interests of the customer Number of participants in activities of organizations At least At least At least supported by the bank in other social areas 75,000 58,000 65,000 Credit Total credit for small businesses (NIS B.) 22.8 24.3 26.2 29.3 32.4 granted for Additional credit earmarked for small businesses 2 2.15 3.5 3.5 Employee Number of employees of the bank who volunteer 2,700 3,000 3,200 3,000 3,500 promotion beyond the ordinary course of business (NIS B.) volunteering Annual volunteering hours 160,000 110,000 125,000 124,000 148,700 of social/ Cumulative credit for environmental projects and 8.15 6.66 6.63 Employees' quality of life and well-being environmental products (NIS B.) causes Employment Employees under a collective agreement (%) 93.5% 93.2% 93.1% 91.7% 91.3% Promotion Number of businesses participating in Small Business 35,000 37,000 Not profile of small Day measured Diverse Percentage of women at the bank (%) 64.6% 64.6% 65% 65% 64.6% businesses Number of businesses in the CashBack Club employment Percentage of female executives at the bank (%) 49.6% 50.7% 51.7% 51.5% 52.1% 1,000 5,000 7,000 8,000 Financial Number of users of budget management application 240,000 260,000 400,000 ~500,000 ~500,000 Percentage of women on the board of directors of the 33% 33% 33% 33% 33% freedom (cumulative) bank (%) Number of active online accounts 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,200,000 1,200,000 1,300,000 Percentage of minorities at the bank (%) 5.9% 5.2% 5.3% 5.1% 5.4% Service in a Number of users of mobile banking services 600,000 600,000 650,000 650,000 735,000 Percentage of hires from under-employed sectors, of 17% 20% 17% 20.5% multi-channel Number of users of the bank's applications 500,000 610,000 total annual hiring world Training and Percentage of academic degree holders at the bank (%) 56.6% 57.6% 59.5% 62.4% 64.4% Number of active accounts at the call center 700,000 700,000 750,000 700,000 1,000,000 development Number of learning days at the bank 74,300 68,000 56,200 61,400 49,600 General percentage of justified queries – Bank of Israel 23% 26.6% 27.3% 14.4% 9.2% of human data (%) Average hours of learning per employee 54.6 54.1 46.1 43 38.1 capital Processing Percentage of justified queries concerning privacy and 12% 13% 10% 0% 7% Channels for Dialogue sessions for employees with the CEO and 57 45 44 43 28 customer banking confidentiality (%) dialogue for members of management of the bank queries Number of branches serving the Arab-Israeli sector 37 36 36 38 41 employees Percentage of employees who received feedback (%) 99% 99% 99% 99% 99% Accessibility Number of branches in towns with extensive religious 22 22 23 23 20 Living with the environment of service and ultra-orthodox populations to a diverse Number of accessible branches 20 22 22 23 23 Energy Total electricity consumption (kWh) 94,058,465 93,600,417 90,616,904 86,567,004 84,579,103 range of consumption Electricity consumption per m2 (kWh) 300.7 299.7 294.1 284.6 278.4 * Branches with an Accessibility Seal from the Access 110* 107 116 155 226 customers and Israel organization Percent annual change in electricity consumption (year -3.0% -0.49% -3.2% -4.5% -2.3% efficiency Number of ATMs accessible to blind users 70 65 316 316 316 on year, %) Percentage of branches outside central Israel (beyond 45% 45% 45% 40% 35% Diesel fuel consumption (L) 3,516 15,000 11,752 10,840 102,275 the area from Gedera to Hadera; in %) Gasoline consumption (L) 3,574,235 3,440,152 3,448,047 3,537,444 3,599,730 Empowerment of society and the community Consumption Paper consumption (tons) 1,919 1,791 1,668 1,458 1,421 of materials Annual savings in paper consumption (tons) 168 128 123 210 37 Direct Economic value distributed by the bank group to 8,689 9,310 9,800 10,231 10,226 economic stakeholders (operational expenses, salaries and Consumption of ink and toner cartridges 23,399 28,003 21,700 21,370 17,035 value for related expenses, donations and sponsorships, Recycling Paper recycling (tons) 1,067 1,380 987 1,352 700 stakeholders provision for taxes, dividends; in NIS M) and Cardboard recycling (tons) 14 20 18 40 13 Promotion of Percentage of purchasing from Israeli sources 98% 98% 93% responsible responsible Recycling of electronic waste at the bank (tons) 17 15.8 44 28.7 removal of purchasing Percentage of purchasing from small and micro30% 21% 15% waste Recycling of bottles and beverage containers (units) 130,000 150,000 110,000 108,000 101,843 businesses Collection of construction waste (m3) 3,820 3,298 2,526 2,168 2,526 Investment Community donations and investments (NIS M) 47 48 46 47 43 in the Collection of batteries (kg) 470 800 960 280 240 Donations of computer systems (NIS M) 0.92 0.5 0.83 0.32 0.39 community Collection of fluorescent bulbs (units) 8,000 14,000 18,560 6,740 2,680 Number of participants in activities of organizations At least At least At least supported by the bank in the area of education 360,000 160,000 185,000 Carbon Total emission of greenhouse gases (tons CO2eq) 106,593 101,696 94,342 *70,623 61,511 footprint Percent annual change in greenhouse-gas emissions -0.2% -4.6% -7.2% *-25.1% -12.9% (year on year, %) * A retroactively amended figure is presented, based on a revision of 2014 data. INTRODUCTION 12-13 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability at Bank Hapoalim Corporate social responsibility and Organizing Model: ‫‏‏‬EMPOWERING sustainability are a strategic and social THE SOCIETY AND philosophy for managing a business The CSR Flower COMMUNITY while creating economic, social, and The bank's CSR and sustainability perception has been IS IN OUR HANDS environmental value. This section presents formulated into an organizing model: the CSR Flower. the bank's CSR and sustainability The model maps the entire CSR and sustainability field ‫ ‏‬REATING VALUE FOR THE C perception, its organizing model for into a unified cognitive pattern, simple to communicate ECONOMY AND SOCIETY management in this area, and the and absorb, organized, and consistent. The model ‫‏‬Value creation in distant circles of implementation of these values in its activity. presents CSR by organizing parameters and indicators influence from the different content areas and condensing them THE CLIENT'S WELLBEING • Suppliers • Community Bank Hapoalim was one of the first business into a short, simple series in four central categories: IS IN OUR HANDS • Local economy institutions in Israel to decide to apply this customers, community, employees, and environment, approach as a strategic element of its which constitute the four petals of the flower. These ‫ ‏‬LIENTS, PRODUCTS AND SERVICES C operations. The bank views this area as a represent the areas in which the bank's CSR and ‫‏‬Value creation for customers: • A‫ ‏‬nswering the client's needs throughout the life cycle source of business opportunities, which sustainability activities and impact are focused. Each • ‫‏‬Providing accessibility to a variety of services also promote social and environmental category (petal) of the model contains various activities. regardless of time and place E ER LU ‫ ‏‬IVING WITH THE L ‫ ‏‬A N TI benefits, and as a foundation for innovation Each of the four categories is divided into two tiers: • ‫‏‬Service, complaint management and customer V satisfaction TIO and competitive advantages, improvement EA ENVIRONMENT IS ■ Value creation tier – Focused on activity with the • ‫‏‬Green products and services CR CE T of service, fair and ethical conduct, UR external stakeholders of the bank; creation of shared • ‫‏‬Credit based on environmental considerations E SO EMEN IN OUR HANDS management of environmental and social • ‫‏‬Designated service for special populations ‫‏‬R AG business value for the bank and its stakeholders, N R risks, and partnership with stakeholders • ‫‏‬Enriching the financial knowledge M A TIE ‫ ‏‬ESPONSIBLE ENVIRONMENTAL R combined with social and environmental values, of the customers in the community, which position the BEHAVIOUR emphasizing: bank as a leading economic and social ‫ ‏‬anaging logistical resources while considering M organization. The bank works to achieve in1. The best interests of the customer; the environment: Energy efficiency, paper depth implementation of these values based 2. Empowering Society and the Community. consumption, recycling and waste management, ‫ ‏‬MPLOYEES' WELLBEING E water, green building, transportation, working on the highest international standards, using a wide range of methods and tools to cope ■ Resource management tier – Focused on IS IN OUR HANDS environment, ergonomics etc. with the challenges posed by this approach. the intra-organizational activity of the bank, ‫‏‬RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE CSR management and implementation help with an emphasis on management of human EMPLOYEES to achieve results in the business, social, and resources as strategic partners and on the • Dialogue, sharing and transparency environmental spheres that contribute to the bank's environmental conduct: • An arena for personal and professional bank's success and to the expansion of its development positive impact on all of its stakeholders, 3. Employees' quality of life and wellbeing; • Solidarity and friendship both internal and external to the organization. 4. Living with the environment. • Wellbeing of the employees and their family • Equal opportunity INTRODUCTION 14-15 Implementing and Assimilating CSR Values in All Levels of Activity This perception is implemented through a Broad implementation businesses, government agencies, nonpromoting ideas and initiatives through sustainability and CSR plan based on five The various CSR initiatives and projects at profit organizations, academia, analysts, shared abilities. The forums bring together main organizational aspects: the bank are implemented and administered etc. All of the bank's sustainability and CSR stakeholders from a range of public, social, broadly, in a top-down process, with reports are available for download, in Hebrew and business organizations to lead the Structure and authority the participation of many units and and English, in an accessible, user-friendly various initiatives, and to work together to The sustainability and CSR plan is managed encouragement for units to develop bottomformat on the bank's website. promote change, in quarterly meetings. based on the matrix management approach. up initiatives. A large number of projects are Issues on the agenda are discussed at In accordance with this approach, the head being developed in order to realize various Dialogue and collaboration with each meeting, and roundtables are held of CSR is the strategic leader for this area, objectives of the plan. Each new activity is stakeholders2 to enable thinking groups to come up with in coordination and cooperation with the first carried out as a pilot project. Following Over the last few years, Bank Hapoalim has ideas and solutions, as well as opportunities various unit heads. Each unit is responsible the pilot and the process of drawing the developed a range of channels for dialogue for cooperation between leading market for implementing certain aspects under its necessary conclusions, the many projects with various groups of stakeholders, with the players, who can join forces to promote authority, using its resources. Activities of the are absorbed into routine work processes aim of identifying needs and providing an common causes. Virtual meetings are held CSR officer include integration of all actions and procedures, with the aim of achieving optimal response to sustainability challenges through a website designed for that purpose, related to CSR; overseeing methodology, ongoing management comparable to other in the bank's dynamic, complex environment. and direct dialogue is also promoted via tools, and professional support; controls business processes of the organization. In this context, a comprehensive mapping e-mail communications. The uniqueness and reporting; change management and process of all potentially relevant of the forums lies in the partnership among communications in this area; and building Branding, communication, and stakeholders for dialogue and collaboration the different spheres – public, social, and an up-to-date knowledge base. development of awareness was performed. Since then, a wide-ranging business – coming together to form a single In order to support change management network of collaborations and connections entity acting in unison. Processes, metrics, and information and differentiate the various initiatives has been created and continues to form, Measurement is a fundamental element undertaken within the plan, a logo was with clients, employees, government and The CSR zone of the bank's website, of management, allowing goals to be set, designed for the organizing model of the municipal agencies, environmental and at www.bankhapoalim.co.il/csr, is the progress to be monitored, and performance plan – the CSR Flower – accompanied by social experts, non-profit organizations, main window for the public to the bank's to be compared. Improvement of the the slogan, “Social responsibility – it’s in our entrepreneurs and businesses, academia, sustainability and CSR activities. The website measurement infrastructure allows enhanced hands.” In the spirit of this logo and slogan, and more. This web of connections has presents an appropriate level of transparency controls to be applied to the various activities, each initiative launched as part of the plan enabled the bank to expand and extend for stakeholders with regard to events at the and is aimed at promoting efficient, effective was branded and widely communicated to its strategic and business activities and its bank and delivers the maximum possible management of the sustainability and CSR the various levels of managers and workers. sphere of influence, and to strengthen the amount of information, which is essential plan. The sustainability and CSR plan This effort includes the CSR zone of the nationwide network involved in this field, in to dialogue and feedback. is implemented at the bank based on a organizational portal, which presents the the areas of the economy, society, and the fundamental infrastructure including: bank's worldview in this area and serves as environment. the central location for CSR issues. As part ■ Processes that gradually transform new of the communication and implementation The bank runs several forums within the initiatives in this area into routine activities of CSR, a series of training sessions and effort to promote social values in the at the relevant units; talks was developed, covering topics such public sphere, rooted in the bank's vision, ■ Clear metrics for the various issues, as sustainability, healthy lifestyles, safe including the Financial Freedom Forum allowing standardization of the plan and driving, and more. and the Small Business Forum. The forums In Israel's open space analysis of performance over time; are designed to serve as a platform for ■ Extensive information collected in existing The annual sustainability and CSR report is dialogue among partners, identifying joint organizational systems or produced available and accessible to all stakeholders opportunities, finding barriers and ways directly for the purposes of the plan. in the Israeli and international economy: to resolve them, pooling resources, and 2. G4-25 INTRODUCTION 16-17 Stakeholder Relations division The Stakeholder Relations division was established at the bank in early 2016. The division was founded in order to lead an advanced business philosophy based on the creation of shared value for the bank and its stakeholders, with the aim of building sustainable business success rooted in social, human, and environmental values. The guiding principle of the division is Creating Shared Value – Making a Positive Impact! It emphasizes action with a meaningful influence on the environment and on society as a whole, intended to exert a positive effect. Bank Hapoalim has joined leading global organizations in adopting advanced business models with a multidimensional perspective that measure additional parameters beyond the profit line, in order to give expression to the organization's impact on all stakeholders. Selected examples of key stakeholder groups are listed below, with the ways in which the bank promoted dialogue and cooperation with Stakeholder Selected dialogue channels in 20153 them during 2015, of the hundreds of channels with the bank's extensive range of stakeholders: Employees ■ Feedback sessions with all employees of the bank, and midterm objectives tracking sessions with employees – The value of individual development was in the spotlight in 2015, and objectives tracking sessions were transformed into objectives and development sessions; Stakeholder Selected dialogue channels in 20153 ■ Regular roundtable meetings with employees are held by the CEO and by members of the board of management, Customers ■ Promotion of financial freedom and deeper relationships All of the bank's branches hold customer conferences for dialogue and feedback, throughout the year; several times a year, in various content areas; training content and practical tools are developed, for budget management, financial planning, and investments, and made accessible through the website and in meetings ■ Employee union – The union's work with management and employees is characterized by continual dialogue with customers; (updates, feedback, and consultation) and partnership in all key initiatives and everyday processes; ■ Customer conferences provide added value for customers. Each of the branches holds several customer conferences ■ Mobility and transfer processes – The process includes preparation, support, and personal consultation until during the year; an annual regional conference is held for small businesses. Professional lectures are given at staffing and full absorption at the new unit are complete, through ongoing contact; the conferences, on subjects such as pensions, mortgages, and family budgets, as well as external enrichment ■ Dialogue with managers – Regarding manpower needs, organizational changes, annual processes (ranking, sessions on communications, innovation, p ersonal empowerment, and more. A total of 1,100 conferences were bonuses, etc.), and more; held in the bank's branch network during 2015; ■ CSR zone of the organizational portal – Employees are invited to suggest ideas and tips, ask questions, and ■ Small businesses – Bank officials meet with representatives of organizations and groups that promote small request help from various content experts. Some of the ideas and tips are posted in the content sections, with businesses in the Israeli economy; branch managers and bankers strengthen relationships with small businesses credit given to the employees who suggested them. The ideas are considered, and some are implemented; through meetings at the business, unique products, professional conferences, and more; ■ Dialogue with new employees of the bank – Welcome meetings; orientation days; course opening, midterm, and ■ Encouraging growth in the Arab-Israeli sector – Throughout the year, the bank conducts dialogue with business closing sessions for introductions, mutual coordination of expectations, feedback, etc. and social organizations in this community, and leads various initiatives for meetings in Arabic-speaking towns; Suppliers ■ Conferences for the bank's suppliers, attended by hundreds of suppliers from various fields (consulting, ■ Management visits to branches – Division managers from the head office visit branches, or other points of contact transportation, construction, printing, office supplies, food, and more). Professional content is imparted, with an with customers, in order to experience the factory floor and raise questions and issues based on interactions emphasis on purchasing, as well as content with added value for suppliers in the areas of banking, marketing, with customers; and sales promotion; ■ Deeper relationships with selected customers – Management staff at the branches follow defined routines for ■ Communication of the bank's CSR values to the general population of suppliers of the bank through periodic meetings and telephone calls with customers at various points and at customers' life events; letters and the ethical code for suppliers. ■ Client surveys – Customers at the branches and in the various channels are continuously sampled, on a daily Government ■ Meetings and lectures for the exchange of knowledge and insights with representatives of government and municipal basis, uniformly across channels, lines, and branches; 50% of sampled clients are also contacted via telephone and municipal agencies. Joint projects aimed at addressing environmental and social issues are promoted in this context. by a manager at the branch for further learning and improvement; agencies ■ Focus groups – Designed to obtain clarity regarding customers' needs and examine solutions on various matters connected to customer relationships. 3. G4-24, G4-26, G4-27 INTRODUCTION 18-19 Stakeholder Selected dialogue channels in 20153 Community ■ New Seniors – As part of the bank's efforts to promote these issues in the public sphere, it conducted dialogue and with many stakeholders engaged in this area, including the organization Joint Israel; the Israel Association of environmental Community Centers; the Israeli Forum for Diversity Hiring; the non-profit organizations Vehadarta, Milbat, Matav, organizations and Caregivers; the Equal Employment Opportunity Commissioner; business organizations that work with senior citizens; academics; government ministries; representatives of the corporate social responsibility community; and professionals and entrepreneurs in this field; ■ Relationships with non-profit organizations including Adam Teva V'Din the Israel Union for Environmental Defense, Life & Environment – The Israeli Union of Environmental NGOs, Olim Beyahad – Leadership and Employment Excellence for Ethiopian-Israeli University Graduates, Tevet, and others active in the content areas relevant to CSR, in order to receive feedback, exchange knowledge, and offer mutual assistance; ■ Promotion of green businesses – such as the Renewable Energy Association of Israel, Ecommunity, Tashtiot, and others operating in various sectors such as recycling, transition to natural gas, energy efficiency, solar energy, water, etc., through knowledge sharing, assistance, and examination of opportunities for cooperation; ■ Non-profit organizations active in the area of diverse human capital and employment of population groups underrepresented in the job market, such as The Israeli Forum for Diversity Hiring, Kav Mashve – Employers' Coalition for Equality for Arab University Graduates, IT Works – Empowering People, Tevet – Joint Israel, Olim Beyahad – Leadership and Employment Excellence for Ethiopian-Israeli University Graduates, and more, for the promotion of diversity in Israel in general and at the bank in particular, through knowledge sharing and action. Academia ■ Management and professors at universities and colleges, including Tel Aviv University, the College of Management, the Academic College of Tel Aviv Yaffo, and Bar Ilan University; ■ Individual meetings with students for assistance, study, and enrichment on CSR topics; ■ Project for installing recycling facilities and instilling environmental conduct at the College of Management campus and at Bar Ilan University (see details in the Community section); CSR ■ Contact and professional dialogue with Israel's leading business organizations and CSR managers; community ■ Maala – Shared discussion and mutual assistance in facing professional problems and challenges; ■ Lectures on CSR at relevant venues (courses, conferences, etc.). In Israel's open space INTRODUCTION 20-21 Defining Material Aspects GRI:G4 Feedback on the bank's report, dialogue with Since 2008, the bank has reported on its strategic approach, while addressing the external process , with guidance from the stakeholders, and update of material topics 4 its activities and impact in the area of expectations of its various stakeholders. BDO Ziv Haft Sustainability and CSR Group. sustainability and CSR in compliance with Material aspects are defined as areas of A summary of this process is presented During the bank's dialogue with external regarding current trends in the global dialogue focused on examining and the recognized GRI international reporting activity in which the bank has a significant in the diagram below. For further details, stakeholders throughout the year, the bank CSR field and material issues for the establishing the boundaries of the guidelines. All of the bank's sustainability impact on its various stakeholders in the see the bank's two preceding reports. In receives feedback on its sustainability and banking sector. material topics in the area of CSR reports were prepared according to the area of CSR and sustainability, and in which advance of the preparation of the current CSR reporting from various parties. After on which Israeli banks should report. highest transparency level, in compliance with stakeholders influence the bank, within and report, the material aspects and the content the publication of its previous report, the ■ Round table with external Fifteen representatives of academia, the various guidelines. The bank complies outside the bank. This requirement allowed areas presented in the report were updated, bank focused on stakeholder feedback stakeholders – A targeted dialogue the capital market, the Israeli CSR with the current GRI:G4 reporting guidelines, the bank to examine and update the aspect relative to the bank's last report, based on from two main sources for the preparation focused on feedback on the CSR community, organizations representing at the most advanced level of transparency: reported in its sustainability and CSR report. feedback from external stakeholders of of the current report: reports of Israeli banks. This process businesses, private customers, and In Accordance Comprehensive. Accordingly, in order to prepare to comply the bank. This process is presented on the included discussions with stakeholders social and environmental organizations with the GRI reporting guidelines, in 2014 following page. ■ International analysis and rating external to the bank who represent participated. At the end of the process, The reporting framework require the bank the bank conducted a comprehensive drive firms – Dialogue with international various parts of the economy and the stakeholders established the to focus its report on the aspect most to identify and analyze material aspects analysts who are in routine contact society of Israel. Moderated by the following list of reporting topics: material to its activity, in accordance with determined in an integrated internal and with corporations all over the world BDO Sustainability and CSR Group offers the bank valuable insights in the first quarter of 2016, this Process of Defining Material Aspects for the Bank Hapoalim Sustainability and CSR Report High importance topic Bank Hapoalim Stakeholders Diversity of Customer Disadvantaged Ethics and Inclusion of Accessibility Fairness in customers privacy population prevention environmental and social to people with products and and groups of considerations in credit disabilities services Sustainability and CSR International sectors corruption granting and financing perception Review of CSR reports in Local • the bank’s peer group and BDO survey of New aspects and at leading foreign banks stakeholders’ expansion of existing aspects implemented at the bank over the years • Aspects raised in dialogue with international ESG analysis organizations + expectations of reports in the banking sector • Medium importance topic • • Key aspects based Quality of Compliance Supply Diverse Appropriate Corporate Advancement Promotion Focus on activity of the International study on the Maala rating various units relevant to by GRI on stakeholders’ service chain employment work governance of the local of financial expectations of reports each aspect in this sector environment economy literacy and knowledge List of material List of material aspect Low importance topic aspects reflecting representing stakeholders’ strategic focus areas combined expectations of Innovation Environmental Employee training Marketing Community Employee Business and the depth of sustainability reports in the in products aspects in the and development communication investment volunteering continuity implementation banking industry and improvement Material aspects services of operational overlapping efficiency between stakeholders’ expectations and prioritization based on the considerations of the bank 4. G4-18 INTRODUCTION 22-23 In Israel's open space After the various aspects that emerged from ■ The topic of information security and Volunteers) constitute a single topic, ■ Wage gaps between men and ■ Diverse employment – Presentation both sources were reviewed and considered customer privacy was classified as a rather than two. women – A comprehensive effort of additional quantitative data about at the bank, a high degree of congruence material topic. This topic had already ■ Increase in various aspects of was directed at equalizing wages; a the diversity of the employees of the was found between the information been presented in earlier reports, and is a transparency in the report – The summary is presented in the report. bank, not shown in previous reports. presented in the bank's sustainability and material topic at a high level of importance, bank is expanding the following topics ■ Information security and customer ■ Ethics in marketing and CSR report and in the relevant area of the in view of the critical importance of cyber in the report, in certain new respects: privacy – The presentation of advertising – Description of the bank's website, and most of the topics in threats and information-security risks, ■ Fairness to customers – Presentation this topic was expanded, with an work performed to establish ethical the stakeholder feedback. A comparison of which are progressively occupying a of the specialized treatment of emphasis on the principles for rules for marketing and advertising the table above to the list of material topics more significant place in the financial customers experiencing financial protecting customers' privacy. activities, a process conducted during established by the bank, presented on the organization management space. difficulties (Poalim Recovery) and ■ Environmental risk management in the reported period. following page, illustrates this consistency. ■ Community investment – The bank various initiatives for fairness in the financing – Detailed and quantitative The bank updated and expanded several determined that investment in the promotion of customers' financial presentation of this activity over the of the topics in the report based on the community (Poalim for the Community) knowledge. reported year. feedback it received: and employee volunteering (Poalim INTRODUCTION 24-25 List of Material Aspects for Sustainability Reporting at Bank Hapoalim 5 Presentation of material Economic topics for the report in terms In accordance with the CSR Flower model, the material aspects represent four content areas (the best interests of the customer, of social, economic, and empowerment of the community, employees' quality of life and well-being, and living with the environment), which describe environmental impacts 6 impacts on all of the bank's stakeholders. The material topics for the CSR and sustainability report are listed below: uence (Value creati nal inﬂ on tie The diagram presents all of xter r) E the material topics reported 1.  Promotion of customers' financial freedom Providing 12. Investment in the community – Presentation of 9 8 by Bank Hapoalim, based on information, products and tools, individually adapted Poalim for the Community activities, including two aspects: service and advice, education, and financial literacy for support for social causes and donations, as well 67 9 10 the various customer segments. as Poalim Volunteers, the volunteering activity of ernal inﬂue 33 Int manage nce 5 44 ■ The zone of impact – r e c me 2.  Customer diversity and promotion of specific sectors the bank. 18 18 es ou nt ti 11 internal or external – does of the economy Inclusion of the Arab-Israeli and 13. Promotion of a culture of dialogue and (R er) 21 21 22 this topic affect external 15 Ultra-Orthodox (Haredi) sectors; promotion of small openness with employees – Presentation of intra78 13 13 stakeholders, internal and mid-sized businesses; and promotion of the periorganizational channels for dialogue and sharing 20 20 16 stakeholders, or both? retirement ( new seniors ) population. with employees at the bank. 17 17 16 14 14 56 (the external circle versus 3.   Leading financial freedom in a multi-channel world 14. Promotion of diversity, equal opportunities, the internal circle in the Banking services via Internet, mobile, and telephone, and transparency – Promotion of gender and 19 19 diagram). offering customers better access and increased control sector equality, prevention of discrimination, and 12 ■ The zone of impact En over financial management. promotion of diverse employment. vir l – economic, social, cia 4.   Service for a wide variety of customers – Perceiving, 15. Individual development and training – on environmental – does this instilling, and measuring excellence in service for the Presentation of the area of individual training and So me topic create economic, 10 11 various customer segments. development at the bank. social, environmental, or nta 5.   Information security and privacy – Presentation of 16. Promotion of an appropriate work environment l combined value? the area of information security at the bank and the Policies on human capital, remuneration and principles for protecting customers' privacy. benefits, and well-being and caring for employees 6.  Accessibility Making the buildings and branches of in various aspects of the work environment and of CUSTOMERS WORKERS the bank as well as banking services accessible to their lives. 1.   Promotion of customers' financial 13. Promotion of a culture of dialogue and people with disabilities. 17. Management of electricity consumption and freedom openness with employees 7. D  evelopment of products and services for the energy efficiency – Presentation of activities aimed 2. Customer diversity and promotion of 14. Promotion of diversity, equal specific sectors of the economy opportunities, and transparency promotion of environmental sustainability Financing at reducing energy consumption at the bank. 3.   Leading financial freedom in a multi15. Individual development and training for projects that promote the protection of the 18. Management of paper resources – The bank's channel world 16. Promotion of an appropriate work environment. strategic effort to cut back paper consumption in 4. Service for a wide variety of environment customers 8.   Examination of environmental risks in financing its activity (resource consumption). 5. Information security and privacy Management of environmental risks when granting 19. R eduction of environmental impacts – 6.   A  ccessibility ENVIRONMENT financing. Management of environmental protection at the 7. Development of products and services 17. Management of electricity 9.   Business continuity Preparation to maintain bank, and reduction of the bank's environmental for the promotion of environmental consumption and energy efficiency sustainability 18. Management of paper resources continuous business operations at the bank during impact and carbon footprint. 8. Examination of environmental risks 19. Reduction of environmental impacts emergencies. 20. C orporate governance and ethics – Presentation in financing 10. R  esponsible supply-chain management Including of the structure and activity of the board of 9. Business continuity social responsibility and sustainability considerations in directors, and instilling ethics at the bank. ETHICS purchasing. 21. P revention of corruption and money laundering 20. Corporate governance and ethics COMMUNITY 21. Prevention of corruption and money 11. E  xpansion of spheres of influence – Direct and indirect The bank's commitment to the prevention of 10. Responsible supply-chain laundering influence on the economy and society of Israel and corruption; presentation of the activity of the management on various stakeholders, with the presentation of the bank's compliance unit. 11. Expansion of spheres of influence 12. Investment in the community bank's activity in the public sphere. 5.G4-19 6. G4-20, G4-21 INTRODUCTION 26-27 Working to Promote Financial Freedom for All Stakeholders As a business leader, Bank Hapoalim has in order to ensure that customers are the responsibility to promote equal economic familiar with the full picture and with all of opportunities in Israeli society and economic the alternatives open to them, in order to sustainability among its customers. The reach informed, independent decisions. The bank welcomes this duty, and believes in its bank promotes financial freedom in several mission to contribute to the empowerment of areas of its activity, for various stakeholders: the society from which it draws its strength. by providing financial information, raising Every person has different economic needs, awareness, and promoting financial according to the milestones in his or her life, knowledge for customers, employees, and and different financial resources available the community; promoting the growth of to meet those needs. In order to cope with different segments and groups in Israel, such such needs appropriately in the short and as small businesses, the Arab-Israeli sector, long term, it is necessary to obtain a solid and the Haredi sector; through customer understanding of the full range of financial clubs for various target groups at the bank; needs and possibilities, become familiar through multi-channel banking services, with the tools and products offered in this via telephone, Internet, mobile, tablet, etc., area, and achieve optimized matching in offering customers tools and products for order to eventually attain good control and prudent financial conduct; and through balance between needs and possibilities. increased physical and virtual access Proper identification of needs, full information to banking services. On this foundation, regarding financial possibilities, tools, and customers' relationships with financial supporting products, use of advice, and institutions become more balanced and appropriate prioritization make it possible more aligned with their expectations, and to reach good decisions for each time frame they become able to make better economic and maximize financial potential. decisions for each stage of their lives. Bank Hapoalim acts strategically to promote As part of the dialogue conducted by the prudent financial conduct among its bank with additional organizations and customers and in the Israeli public. This groups for the promotion of this cause, effort is congruent with the trends identified the bank initiated the launch of the Israel by the bank in recent years in customers' Financial Freedom Forum. The forum unites needs and wishes, indicating a greater need many participants from the government, for more extensive financial knowledge. The community, and business sectors seeking a bank recognizes that financial knowledge shared platform for conversation, identification and the use of financial tools are essential of opportunities, and initiation of ventures for in order to create financial freedom and the promotion of financial education in Israel. strike a balance between financial needs The forum enables different stakeholders to and abilities, for each customer. The bank join forces in order to consult, discuss, and therefore endeavors to provide information think about solutions in this area. regarding the financial possibilities available to its customers at high resolution and transparency, with maximum availability, adapted to different life stages. A wide range of tools, products, services, knowledge, In Israel's open space and guidance by the bank are offered INTRODUCTION 28-29 onsulting dc a ze Persona service Pension advice Investment advice li nd Credit advice Savings advice Poalim UP – tools for New website – a financial partner for ts a duc nd to increased control and customers. Budget management tools, P ro flexibility in managing including Poalim Like Me, Budget ols current accounts. Management Tool, setting objectives. Applications for Savings tools and products: Dan the Saver, advanced banking Save & Go, the CashBack Club, and the services. Poalim Gold club for senior-citizen customers. Promoting Poalim Recovery | Enriching Parents | Growing Families | Wise l ed ncia ucat na Financial Living | Growth Opportunities | Educational programs at the ORT network of schools | Poalim Young | Dan the Saver summer Fi ion Freedom camps | Bankopedia | Professional training conferences for clients | Employee and retiree volunteers – financial education lessons in The bank promotes the community | Financial planning course for bank employees | financial freedom in Coaching days for employees of the bank. five areas. Extensive details of the financial freedom perception are presented in Specialized Customized professional consulting: Business the Customers credit through Branches, the Poalim Business club for small and e dom for sm section and in the re various funds. mid-sized businesses at the bank, professional all Financial f Community section: businesse consulting (investments, credit, foreign trade, etc.). Provision of a marketing platform: Small Business Day, the CashBack Club, the Small Business Fair, the Small Business s Competition, collaborations with content sites. nancial info Information on financial Information from bankers at g fi subjects through the direct the bank's branches and from Provid ation banking channels (website, the bank's experts on various in rm telephone, smartphones, financial subjects and tablets) In Israel's open space INTRODUCTION 30-31 Examination of the Quality of Reporting on the Bank's Carbon Footprint This examination was performed by the Sustainability and CSR Group at the Routine Process Control accounting firm BDO. The process of and Examination of the CSR examining the bank's carbon footprint is Implementation Process at the Bank based on prevalent principles for carbon The CSR and Sustainability Group at the calculation and marking, developed by BDO accounting firm has guided Bank the Technical Working Group of the British Hapoalim in the implementation of its Government. The data were adapted to sustainability and CSR program for the last Israel based on the Israel Greenhouse Gas eight years. The group’s activities focus on Emission Recording System – Operating monitoring the process and progress of Rules and Reporting Guidelines, issued by the program for sustainability and social, the Samuel Neaman Institute and the Ministry economic, and environmental responsibility. of Environmental Protection in April 2016. BDO consultants’ close work with the bank allows a professional opinion to be provided GRI-G4 (In Accordance – based on an examination of the processes Comprehensive) performed by the bank throughout 2015 and up to the end of the first quarter of 2016. The report was submitted for the GRI Materiality Disclosures Service, and GRI confirmed the correctness of the locations of the G4 materiality disclosures (G4-17 – G427). The report is ‘In Accordance’ with the GRI G4 Guidelines Comprehensive option. Due diligence examination of the report, in accordance with the GRI and Accountability guidelines The external assurance process for CSR Process Controls for Implementation reports is conducted by a third party who was not involved in the writing of of the CSR Plan at Bank Hapoalim the report. The third party ascertains that An external assurance process allows readers of this report to verify the bank's self-report based on an the information presented in the report independent opinion from a professional observer. The expanded assurance process with regard to the is congruent with the three principles set adequacy of the report on sustainability and CSR and the involvement of additional sources of assurance forth in the AccountAbility quality assurance enable the bank to learn from the feedback received from those conducting the process and provide standard AA1000APS and with the GRI due verification of the reliability of the report for stakeholders. The current report underwent four assurance diligence guidelines. ֿ processes, each focusing on a different aspect of the report (for extensive details of the assurance process and methods and the criteria examined, see p. 236). In Israel's open space INTRODUCTION 32-33 Assimilating the Bank Hapoalim vision The Bank Hapoalim Vision comprises ten elements: Over the last years, an ongoing process 2. Committed together – The endeavor to Global, centered in Israel and achieving economic, social, and Developing human capital has been underway to assimilate the create value for our stakeholders and our We are, and will remain, a leading Israeli environmental balance for our own sake and The bank believes that the human capital Bank Hapoalim vision, with the aim of commitment to the cultivation of human bank. Yet in today's world, under conditions for the sake of future generations. The bank of any business organization is one of its expressing the future projected for the bank capital on a path of compassion, integrity, of a globalized economy, a large top-tier believes that the adoption of these principles most valuable assets. The bank considers at its best. The Bank Hapoalim Vision is a openness, and accountability are aimed bank must engage in international activities supports its objectives and increases its its employees to be partners, maintains a clear, powerful, meaningful description of at nurturing a personal commitment to and offer its customers globe-spanning value for the long term. relationship with them based on mutual trust our future as it can and should be. It also our shared journey, in which each person services. Our international operations are and respect, and strives to enable them to provides a structured framework for charting acts responsibly and contributes to the an important growth driver for the long term. Creating value for stakeholders succeed and to provide them with tools for our future course; declares our commitment success of all; The essential mission of a business professional and personal development. to our employees, our customers, and Leadership enterprise is to maximize its value in a all of our stakeholders; imparts meaning 3. In it for the long haul – The drive towards Leadership of the bank is mainly measured way that serves all of its stakeholders: Fundamental principles and a connection with our values to the financial freedom for our customers, by its market capitalization, profitability, and employees, customers, investors, suppliers, humanity, integrity, transparency, objectives and initiatives led by the bank; in congruence with the principles of return on equity, but also by its operating the community, and the general public. The and responsibility and empowers the bank in its leadership sustainability and in encouragement efficiency, brand strength, CSR activities, creation of value is based on four pillars: These values embody the ethical and on the shared path to the challenges of of excellence and innovation, reflects a upholding of sustainability principles, the stability of the bank, which ensures its moral standards and principles that are the the future. Values chosen for inclusion in long-term commitment to improvement contribution to the community, and ability to meet its obligations at any given cornerstones of our organizational culture, the Bank Hapoalim Vision are intended to and empowerment. professional ethics. The bank is strong on moment and to support the development reflecting the bank's way of life and rules create an impact on the following three levels: all of these parameters, and is working to of the economy; sustainable profitability, of appropriate conduct. We will uphold The concept underlying the integration of improve and advance further. balancing risk and returns; promotion and these values in our work relationships with 1. Proud to belong – Our focus on our these three dimensions and the fundamental cultivation of sustainability principles, and each other, and in our connections with customers and our financial leadership motif of the Bank Hapoalim Vision is: Leading Focused on the customer a philosophy of genuine partnership with customers, suppliers, and the community. are a source of pride and foster a sense Growth Together. We are dedicated to responding to the employees and customers. of belonging for our employees; changing needs and aspirations of our customers, during each stage of their Excellence lives, while creating economic value for An organizational and personal stance the bank and tailoring services to different leading to success, and expressing the The Bank Hapoalim Vision sectors: households, private banking, small desire, responsibility, and commitment to businesses, commercial, and corporate. We be better, through resolute and effective To be a leading global financial institution, believe that our focus on our customers is the efforts. Excellence is the ambition to make headquartered in Israel, focused on its customers key to our success over any period of time. the most of our inherent potential, to make and working towards their financial freedom. optimal use of available resources, and to Financial freedom set a high standard for performance. To create value for our stakeholders while This concept represents the freedom and upholding the principles of economical, social, will of our customers and employees to Innovation make good choices, based on their personal Finding and promoting new initiatives that and environmental sustainability. preferences, while taking responsibility for generate business value and competitive To cultivate human capital and encourage and understanding the financial capabilities advantage, through processes that excellence and innovation. and possibilities open to them. encourage employees to raise ideas and to think creatively and innovatively, throughout To base our actions on the core values Sustainability principles the bank. This effort is aimed at improving of compassion, integrity, openness, and These represent and reflect environmentally processes and systems, developing new accountability. conscious business conduct aimed at products and services, and promoting preserving and enhancing existing resources business initiatives. The vision consists of ten values. Practical applications of these values are demonstrated throughout the sections of this report. INTRODUCTION 34-35 Adoption of The bank is committed to its partnership with Maala UN Global Compact Voluntary reporting system on organizations working towards sustainability Bank Hapoalim joined Maala in 2006 as During 2010, Bank Hapoalim joined this greenhouse-gas emissions in Israel Responsible and CSR, and has adopted international a member of the organization’s business UN initiative aimed at promoting economic In 2010, Bank Hapoalim was one of the Initiatives, Promotion standards of responsible conduct: leadership. In ratings assigned by Maala development that is beneficial for the first organizations to join the voluntary for 2015, based on reported data for 2014, community and for future generations. system for recording greenhouse-gas of Partnerships, Global Sullivan Principles of Social Bank Hapoalim was ranked at the top of Since then, the bank has ensured that the emissions. This system is a joint initiative and Transparent Responsibility the Platinum Plus class, the highest rating principles of the compact are implemented of the Ministry of Environmental Protection The bank adopted these principles as early category; it therefore topped the Maala in its activities. The sustainability report and the Manufacturers’ Association. The Reporting as 2004, in the belief that the implementation charts. The bank also appears on Maala's also serves as a COP (Communication on bank updates this data and reports to the of the principles would help achieve greater stock-market index, which consists of all of Progress) for the Global Compact. ministry annually. tolerance and understanding among peoples the public companies rated by Maala and and promote a culture of peace. traded on the TASE. 2016MSCI 2011 FTSE4GOOD VOLUNTARY REPORTING SYSTEM ON GREENHOUSE-GAS 2009 GOOD ENERGY 2007 GLOBAL REPORTING 2004 GLOBAL SULLIVAN EMISSIONS IN ISRAEL INITIATIVE INITIATIVE PRINCIPLES 2014 2010 2008 2006 EIRIS SUSTAINALYTICS OEKOM THE GLOBAL AA1000 LICENSED MAALA COMPACT ASSURANCE PROVIDER INTRODUCTION 36-37 Bank Hapoalim's Sustainability and CSR Performance – International Analysts' Perspective Capital-market analysts, both internationally 2. An examination of the bank's scores The major analyst reviews and international and in Israel, have been including on the various rating scales nourishes indices that include the bank (Sustainalytics, sustainability and CSR components a continuous process of gap analysis FTES4Good, EIRIS, OEKOM, and MSCI) in their evaluation of business firms’ in the management of CSR issues encompass a smaller set of banking and organizations' performance. These and a discussion of ways of improving corporations. It is important to note that components are presented to investors performance on the various parameters. a prerequisite for inclusion in this group of around the world. Over the last two companies is a demonstrated threshold decades, the implementation of corporate The bank examines its performance from of corporate responsibility performance, responsibility has expanded in the Israeli a broad perspective, aligned with the according to standards of transparency and global financial sectors. Consequently, standards defined in this field for the global and quality. Approximately 70-300 such information has accumulated that allows financial sector, in order to understand banking corporations are reviewed (EIRIS financial corporations to be examined and its position relative to banks worldwide. is the only one of these organizations that compared based on their performance Towards that end, reviews of the bank by does not publicly release information about in this field. analysts and based on key international the number of banks included in its review). In Israel's open space metrics are compared. The group comprises a total of approximately Since the inception of the Bank Hapoalim 1.4%-6% of all banking corporations in the sustainability and CSR plan, the bank has The peer group used for comparison to baseline group from The Banker magazine received inquiries from international analysts the global banking industry consists of the (the range of percentages results from the regarding its performance in these areas. banks listed in The Banker magazine. This different number of banks reviewed or rated Percentage of banks (including Bank Hapoalim) covered by each international index/rating, The bank accords high importance to this list contains information about approximately in each case). Of the banks in the peer group from The Banker magazine (~5,000 banks) dialogue, for two main reasons: 5,000 major banks around the world. A second comparison group is the group of banks 1. Dialogue with international analysts who that publish orderly reports on corporate The scores earned by Bank Hapoalim, 1.4% FTSE4Good are in routine contact with corporations responsibility. Approximately 680 financial and its inclusion in all of the various all over the world offers the bank valuable institutions and corporations worldwide rating scales of the organizations noted insights regarding current trends in the published sustainability and CSR reports in 4.0% MCSI ESG above for sustainability and corporate global CSR field and material issues for each of the last three years, on average (2013responsibility, indicate that it ranks with the banking sector. 2015, based on the official GRI database). the 5% of banks at the apex of the 2.7% Sustainalytics international banking sector. 5.8% OEKOM INTRODUCTION 38-39 With suppliers – LOOKING ■ Social responsibility in purchasing – Implementation of the work plan for AHEAD integration of CSR considerations into purchasing processes of the bank and into its interaction with suppliers. The sustainability and corporate social of their lives; and to behave responsibly ■ Poalim Young Continued activity with Investment in the community – responsibility program continues to be a towards the environment. Key directions the target group of young customers, ■ Activity in the public sphere to promote part of the strategic core of Bank Hapoalim. and activities to be pursued by the bank with an emphasis on tools for prudent various social issues, including the The program is ongoing, and encompasses in the coming years: financial management in the early years collaboration with Cisco on research organizational infrastructures, information of their financial activity. and action to promote clusters of and measurement systems, milestones, Stakeholder Relations Area communities in Israel, with an emphasis and controls, constituting an element of ■ The bank established the dedicated area ■ Financial freedom Expansion of on peripheral areas. the bank's long-term vision. As extensively due to the importance it accords to this initiatives and channels for the promotion ■ Investment in the community, through illustrated in the CSR report, structured subject, in order to work with stakeholders of financial freedom: the bank will continue educational projects and expansion of work plans and planned future activities and create shared value for them and for to lead a strategic initiative in the coming activities aimed at promoting financial have been formulated. At the same time, the bank. 2016 will be devoted to building years aimed at promoting the financial freedom in the community. within its emphasis on innovation and this area and its work plans. freedom of its customers and of the entrepreneurship, the bank works to general public. In the bank's work environment – identify original ideas in this field and to For the benefit of the bank's ■ Innovation Area The Innovation Area ■ Diverse employment – Implementation bring these concepts to fruition through customers – began to operate at the bank in 2016. of the multi-year plan for promotion of pilot projects. The projects are designed ■ The bank will continue to promote activity In the coming years, it is expected to the employment of population groups to test the feasibility of the ideas in light of with the various sectors, in strategic collaborate with technology, cyber, underrepresented in the job market. societal, environmental, and economical channels, with responses tailored to and fintech companies on designing ■ Cultivation and promotion of the quality considerations. Following the testing each sector's needs and the creation infrastructures necessary for the of human capital, with a focus on the period, ideas that prove successful on of shared value. This includes: improvement and planning of the future employee. This includes the advancement these parameters are implemented broadly ■ Support for the small-business of banking, based on the customer of women in general, and in management across all units. sector in Israel, as a strategic effort experience both using digital media and positions in particular; encouragement of the bank. in face-to-face interactions. of academic studies; and support for The bank intends to continue to expand the ■ New Seniors Increased activity ■ Promotion of excellence in service, by employees' whole-person well-being. activities conducted within its sustainability with this populati‫ס‬on segment. This instilling the bank's service philosophy, and CSR plan, in accordance with its effort includes services, products, and including the creation of standards for Minimization of the bank's perception and with the material aspects, unique benefits for the peri-retirement processes, measurement and feedback environmental impact – while continually following global progress population, in response to their specific surveys, absorption of structural changes, ■ Cutting paper consumption in this field. This approach is given financial needs, and the promotion of job definitions, process improvement, Implementation of the long-term process practical expression, first and foremost, social issues related to this segment and upgrades of technology. of cutting back paper use (the Paperless in the creation of value for customers in the public sphere. ■ Identification of opportunities for Branch project), including conversion of and in advancement of society and of the ■ Increased activity in the Arab-Israeli financing of banking products in the processes to digital formats in order to community, through business activities sector implementation of the bank's sustainability field. reduce paper use. and through identifying new opportunities plan, which includes addressing ■ Promotion of accessibility of banking ■ Energy efficiency Implementation of for the promotion of economic value specific needs, expanding physical services for people with disabilities continuous processes aimed at energy alongside social and environmental values. and digital services, and integrating Continued implementation of the multiefficiency and reduction of the bank's Concurrently, the bank will continue to employees from this sector, as part year plan, including adaptation of the carbon footprint. In Israel's open space develop the quality of its human capital; of the integration of this community buildings and branches of the bank for to care for its workers, in various aspects with Israeli society. accessibility and accessible service. INTRODUCTION 40-41 THE BEST INTERESTS OF THE CLIENT Meeting Customer Needs This section describes the bank’s business opportunities for the Bank, while Bank Hapoalim relationships with its customers, the contributing to the economy and society. ‎ recognizes that services and products offered to customers ‎As a result of growing awareness of social customers’ needs and by the bank, and the ways in which the and environmental issues, changes are bank identifies opportunities and manages emerging in customer values and needs. aspirations change during risks in the area of social responsibility, in ‎ ‎T he bank's role is to offer a solution different life stages. The a changing business environment. The to them on the financial side and to bank strives to develop banking services respond to emerging demands, ‎‎by offering bank therefore endeavors and products based on a philosophy of financing solutions and various deposits to provide customers creating shared value for its customers and investment products that encourage with all of the financial and its other stakeholders, such as the sustainable consumption and investment community, various participants in the which takes into account the environment information and services economy, the environment, and others, and social issues.‎ that can help them while simultaneously generating economic understand, plan, and value for the bank. The bank works to create value for its customers in the following ways: carry out both long-term Bank Hapoalim recognizes that customers’ ■ Development of responsible products and immediate financial needs and aspirations change during to foster economic and environmental different life stages. The bank therefore sustainability, for our customers and for decisions. The bank’s endeavors to provide customers with all the economy as a whole; view of its customers is of the financial information and services ■ Maintaining a multichannel network derived from a philosophy that can help them understand, plan, and for communication with customers at carry out both long-term and immediate any time and place, with appropriate of sustainability, giving financial decisions. The bank’s view of its accessibility; rise to a relationship customers is derived from a philosophy of ■ Providing optimal service to achieve sustainability, giving rise to a relationship customer satisfaction, and responding designed to encompass designed to encompass a comprehensive to and lear ning from customer a comprehensive understanding of the needs of customers communications; understanding of the and their families over time. ■ Responsiveness to customers’ needs through all life stages; needs of customers and In addition to the above, the changes ■ Solutions tailored to the unique their families over time underway in the business and social characteristics of different customer environment – the rapid technological groups. changes and dynamically changing ■ An appropriate response to all the needs customer demands, the transition to a lowthat emerge as the result of the dramatic carbon economy, shortage of resources, developments in the digital area, social water and soil conservation, global networks and regulatory changes, while warming, and the need to integrate and cooperating with outside suppliers and advance certain sectors of society offer stakeholders.‎ In Israel's open space THE BEST INTERESTS 44-45 OF THE CLIENT Optimal service offered at any place and time, while helping to protect the environment In 2015, Bank Hapoalim was The bank encourages extensive use of its products selected as “the best bank in through online means, thereby improving service quality Israel” by three magazines: ‎ while reducing environmental impact. In today's world of technological change, customers' expectations for ‎Global Finance, Euromoney, innovative, advanced solutions in the services provided by and The Banker. ‎ businesses have increased. The bank invests great effort in immediate adaptation to technological developments, and in the integration of new applications with its products and services. As a result, a multitude of channels is currently available to customers at any place and time, so that essentially all of their routine interactions with the bank can be conducted without visiting a branch. In 2015 continued expansion of the use of computerized and online channels, such as the Poalim by Telephone call center, the Hapoalim Online website, smartphone and tablet applications, the Mail Net service, and more. This trend minimizes the environmental impact of banking products, in that it often eliminates the need for the customer to visit the branch in person (leading to pollution savings) and, obviously, saves paper. The use of bank branches also carries relatively low environmental impact, due to the broad distribution of the branches of Bank Hapoalim and the extensive network of ATMs, self-service stations, and self-service information stations located adjacent to and outside of branches. Customers can visit a branch or use a selfservice station conveniently, with minimal travel and In Israel's open space environmental impact. THE BEST INTERESTS 46-47 OF THE CLIENT On the basis of the bank management’s growth strategy, the bank intends to continue the careful deployment of branches and to enhance deployment in new locations, in line with the needs and characteristics of its customers. In the coming years, the bank will continue to examine the opening of branches in new areas, with a focus on strategic populations with growth potential. The bank is also considering the continued deployment of branches based on an innovative digital concept, in line with the development of customer needs a banker, but who choose not to go to the society, the ultra-orthodox community, measure in the eyes of both the bank and nearest bank branch.‎ small businesses, and additional potential the customer. ‎‎Therefore, the step is carried segments, both large and small. ‎‎The bank is out in an orderly process that includes A ‎ dapting ser vices and ser vice also considering the continued deployment an evaluation of customer needs and deployment ‎ of branches based on an innovative digital adaptation of alternative suitable automated ‎The bank’s plans for the branch network concept, in line with the development of and other services. ‎‎The bank's believes is include the development of new and unique customer needs, demographic changes, placing strong emphasis on the training of formats, expanding banking services, and changes in the competitive environment, bankers, both through specialized courses adapting the deployment locations. ‎T ‎ hese and business potential.‎ and training videos at the branches, with measures are intended to create a dynamic, the objective of helping customers use efficient, and flexible network that is ‎ s mentioned, the bank’s distribution A and carry out transactions on digital adapted to the developing customer needs network is dynamic, and the bank continues channels: ‎‎the app, bank website, ATMs, and market conditions. ‎A ‎ s a result, in the to review the opening of branches based and the Poalim call center – are the array past few years, the bank has purchased on market needs and with the help of available to help customers, showing and developed self-service tools based on an in-house professional body, which them the advantages and capabilities The Bank’s Strategic Deployment of the Network and Services the decision to significantly enhance the is responsible for researching customer of the digital tools and machines. ‎ I‎n number of ATMs at the branches. ‎T ‎ hus, in tastes and needs, which the bank regularly addition, the employees are instructed The basis of the policy is the deep realization ‎A range of formats ‎ with customers’ changing residential or the past year, the bank purchased almost reviews and tests. ‎T ‎ he bank is also closely to do everything they can to help every that customers are the foundation of ‎The bank offers its customers a variety of job circumstances.‎ 150 self-service stations of various kinds assisted by a top international firm, which customer struggling to adapt to the new the bank’s existence and that added branches adapted to the character of the to improve customer service, and intends helps with segmentation of the bank’s reality and to make sure that they have a value, customer satisfaction, and the region and the needs of the customers, Customer relations ‎ to purchase many more such stations over diverse customers and with adapting suitable solution, especially elderly and provision of adequate services are the such as boutique branches for savings ‎The bank branch is an anchor for managing the coming year. ‎‎The bank is meticulously of banking services and the character handicapped customers.‎ main considerations behind every decision. and investment oriented customers, relations with some of the customers. examining the deployment of existing selfof branches to the needs of the various ‎T ‎ herefore, the bank constantly examines central manpower-rich branches for ‎The network of branches is the heart of service stations and installs additional customer segments. ‎‎It is important to T ‎ oday, it is possible to carry out most their needs and adapts its distribution account transaction customers, digital the bank’s distribution system and is the stations inside and outside branches, as note that the competitive dynamics in frequent banking transactions on digital network, in all its diversity, accordingly. ‎ branches that create an advanced banking point of service for customers seeking needed and in line with their increased use.‎ the Israeli banking market are intensifying channels and self-service stations. ‎‎The experience for customers assisted by face-to-face service along with an entirety daily, requiring the bank to be flexible and teams at branches which have been ‎ s part of this effort, the bank makes A professional bankers, mobile branches of advanced tools for carrying out self‎ he main principles guiding the bank’s T change quickly in accordance with market converted to cashless service branches will available to households and small that provide focused geographical service transactions during and after network deployment ‎ conditions. ‎T‎ he network deployment policy assist customers to carry out transactions businesses the widest network of branches solutions with special approval, and bank hours. ‎A ‎ t the same time, the bank ‎On the basis of the bank management’s is therefore dynamic and flexible, based on the various channels available to them. in the Israeli banking system – 245 retail commercial branches that meet the offers its customers digital tools for solving growth strategy, the bank intends to on meticulous research and monitoring of ‎‎At some branches, expert hosts will be branches nationwide – from city centers needs of mid-sized and large business all their banking needs online from their continue the careful deployment of the changing market conditions.‎ placed, to assist customers unfamiliar to the distant periphery – and provides customers. ‎‎The bank is also expanding homes or anywhere else with the help branches and to enhance deployment in with the range of transactions on the to the vast diversity of our customers the the services provided by the branch of mobile devices and advanced apps new locations, in line with the needs and M ‎ ain branch mergers and services digital channels or who struggle to carry most advanced and customized banking network, such as opening pension advice for managing accounts, payments, and characteristics of its customers. ‎‎In the adaptation ‎ them out. ‎I‎n addition to the bankers at the services for their various needs, allowing centers, foreign resident centers, and a investments. ‎T ‎ he bank also operates coming years, the bank will continue to ‎In general, every adaptation of banking branches, reinforced telephone support them to choose the physical location and nationwide network of high-tech centers. call centers, which make it possible to examine the opening of branches in new services to customer needs, such as centers (business/ technical) are also appropriate technology platform to manage ‎T ‎ he bank allows fast and easy transition obtain banking services by telephone for areas, with a focus on strategic populations the merging of branches or adapting the available to customers as well as online their banking activity.‎ between branches in the network in line customers who prefer direct contact with with growth potential, such as the Arab types of services they offer, is an important and app support tools‎. THE BEST INTERESTS 48-49 OF THE CLIENT Working to Promote Financial Freedom for Customers and tablet applications), bankers at the the investments in the account and to be carried out at convenient dates.‎ branches, and the bank's experts in each clearly shows the monthly loan ■ ‎The budget management tool to In line with the financial freedom philosophy ■ Personalized consulting and tools and knowledge adapted to their financial area. payments, so customers can efficiently educate customers about proper budget presented in the introduction to this report, service In accordance with Regulation unique needs. The bank's numerous plan their expenditures. ‎ management, the bank developed the bank promotes its customers' financial of Investment Advice, Investment initiatives in this arena create value for Products and Tools ■ Making ends meet: ‎a tool, which a series of unique tools, with the freedom on five key axes: Marketing and Investment Portfolio businesses in three main areas: credit, to Promote Financial will show the customer in real time objective of providing its customers Management Law-1995, the bank expert consultation and service tailored to his/her expected balance at the end with continuous assistance in managing ■ Financial information Highly detailed provides clients that signed a consulting this sector, and the creation of marketing Freedom ‎ of the month, so they can prepare their finances. ‎‎As part of this effort, the and extensive information is available to agreement, with a consulting service, platforms for businesses. ■ ‎T he new website the customer’s accordingly. I‎f additional income or bank developed online tools for building the bank's customers, through every personalized to the client's needs. This smart financial partner the bank expenses are expected, it will be and managing a budget, which the channel and at all times, regarding their based on earlier familiarity with the has launched its new website, which possible add them to the calculation. ‎ bank customer can use to examine his/ Providing Financial financial assets, liabilities, transactions, client`s needs, preferences and goals; includes a range of digital tools for the ■ My Objectives and Targets: ‎the her financial conduct compared with a and more. This information helps ■ Financial education and literacy As Information smart management of accounts. T ‎ he customer can set savings targets profile of similar customers – and thereby customers to be aware of their financial part of the promotion of financial freedom As part of the bank's effort to enhance new website strengthens the customer and see how close they are to behave more smartly.‎ condition and of the options available to for its customers and for the general financial freedom, it provides its customers experience, providing immediate access meeting them.‎ them; it serves as the infrastructure for public, the bank has initiated efforts with extensive information in various banking that helps customers manage ‎ he bank offers the UP Budget T control, consultation, and prudent life designed for a range of target audiences financial areas. This in order to give their money quickly and conveniently. T ‎ he new homepage also provides a Management Tool , which provides decisions in this area; (children and adolescents, young adults, customers a status snapshot that is The advanced user-friendly interface, full picture of the account, allowing the customers with a daily, up-to-date, ■ Products and tools to promote households, and seniors), according to as complete as possible, in order to the simple and clear language, and the customer to understand more, including:‎ and detailed picture of their income vs. financial freedom Over the last few life stage, aimed at raising awareness enable them to balance their financial new and clear design helps customers ‎a snapshot of the account situation – expenses in a simple, personalized, years, the bank has developed a series and enhancing financial education. Taking needs and abilities in the short and long focus on what is most important to them. with the latest transactions and credit and accessible way. The tool allows the of products and tools designed to help the drive to instill financial freedom to the term. The information includes details of ‎ ‎The new website offers new tools for cards, deposits and savings, loans, and setting of monthly targets. ‎‎At the end of its customers make prudent financial next level, several initiatives of the bank transactions executed by the customer, a smart money management and longmore; the account balance appears each month, customers can obtain an decisions. These tools enable customers encourage changes in behavior and in range of products and tools for financial term planning: ‎ prominently at the top of the homepage. ‎ up-to-date snapshot of whether they to understand and analyze information, financial habits for its target audiences, management, and current market data ■ Income versus expenses: ‎‎a dynamic ‎An overdrawn customer can immediately met or missed the targets. ‎ and to obtain control and flexibility in effectively promoting financial literacy; and trends (e.g. with regard to pensions, comparison of the customer’s income see the difference between his balance ‎One of the important applications of managing accounts and family budgets ■ Promotion of financial freedom for savings, the capital market, the housing and expenses equation over time and his overdraft limit; reminders and the budget management tool is Poalim and in creating long-term savings. The small businesses The bank works market, etc.). This information is accessible allows them to know their situation tasks – reminders of pending payments, Like Me , which allows customers to tools are accessible through innovative to empower and promote the financial to customers through a variety of channels: in real time;‎ checkbooks waiting to be picked up, the compare their expenses with customers digital channels, so that they can be used freedom of its customers in the smalldirect banking channels (the bank's ■ My Investments and My Loans: ‎a status of loans, and so on appear on the with similar financial and demographic at any time and place; business sector by developing financial website, call center, and smartphone convenient display that concentrates homepage. T ‎ he customer can set tasks characteristics.‎ 50 450 5 About ‎ ‎More than ‎ More than ‎ 15,000 people ‎200,000 40,000 customers customersֿ partners in the Israel Financial Freedom families have participated to families families participated in the have entered the Young save in Dan the Saver plans ‎ use the UP Control service Forum meet regularly date in the Growth fourth year of the Growing Poalim parents’ portal Opportunities program‎ Families venture THE BEST INTERESTS 50-51 OF THE CLIENT ■ Dan the Saver offers a series of ■ Up Control in March 2015, the specialized savings products aimed at bank launched a service which assists encouraging parents to save for their customers in monitoring current children's future. ‎‎The goals of the savings charges on their credit card and plans are aligned with each life stage of direct debits for electricity, water, and the child's life, until they reach financial other payments. T ‎ he service sends independence; ‎ the customer a text message when it ■ Tools to increase control and flexibility identifies increased charges compared in the management of current with previous months, enabling the accounts Poalim UP incorporates customer to save time tracking the ‎More than ‎ 500,000 a range of products and services to bills and money in extra cost;‎ help customers handle their money ■ Applications for advanced banking day-to-day, with numerous choices services private and business and high adaptability; ‎ customers can use the range of ■ Up Active a service that allows services and information offered customers to optimize routine account through the bank's applications customers management in a range of areas by to manage many financial aspects setting up automatic actions, without of their lives, at any place and use the budget management monitoring their account status daily. ‎ anytime, and to benefit from unique tool‎. During 2015, 90,000 ‎Customers set up a series of actions services ‎‎using the most advanced clients joined the service in advance; the actions are executed technological capabilities, which offer following approval by the customer. an optimal customer experience and ‎ ‎A ctions include withdrawal from maximum availability.‎ a daily interest deposit when the account balance is negative, deposit T ‎ he applications add smart tools for into a savings plan when the balance proper financial conduct, such as the Personalized is positive, sending an alert when a ability to see the account status and Consulting and checkbook is about to run out and expected expenses through the end ordering a new checkbook, and more; ‎ of the month, without entering the Service ‎ ■ Up Card an international card charged account (the Quick Glance service). ‎ ■ Pension advice the bank offers with money from the customer's ‎In addition, as a bank that encourages pension advice to its customers current account; it is transferrable to smart financial conduct, it developed of every age, with an emphasis on family members, since the account Save & Go, a special savings plan understanding the various aspects holder's name does not appear on for smartphones. The service makes of pensions and with the intention the card. ‎‎The customer can add and savings accessible for as many of managing pension savings for the deduct money from the card to the customers as possible, offering them long term; ‎ account at any time; ‎ an enjoyable customer experience: ■ ‎Specialized, personalized financial ■ Smart UP Allows you to make all ‎ ‎s aving small amounts in a digital advice the bank makes available to current checking account charges on piggy bank, similar to the real piggy its private and business customers a a fixed date each month.‎ bank at home, in order to achieve wide range of expert advisers in different ■ ‎Up On Time a real-time text or email savings targets. ‎ fields, such as investments, credit, and alert service from the bank, for updates savings, ‎‎in order to help them make related to the customer’s account or more informed decisions about various markets, at the customer’s choice; ‎ financial aspects of their lives.‎ THE BEST INTERESTS 52-53 OF THE CLIENT Financial Education and Literacy‎ ■ ‎The Growing Family – a joint project depending on the professional field and initiated by the bank with the Yedioth content. ‎‎The goal of these conferences Ahronoth newspaper and the Ynet is to enhance the financial knowledge website, to mentor families facing of various target groups. ‎‎Dozens such various financial challenges in order to conferences are held each year; this help them learn how to improve their year, a group of volunteers from among economic conduct. The families are the bank’s retirees was trained to give provided with guidance by the bank's training and morning conferences to advisors in areas such as personal senior citizens.‎ financial conduct and financial growth, ■ Taking CTRL – a television project real estate and mortgages, pensions, jointly initiated by Bank Hapoalim and and investments.‎The project serves Reshet Television, which promotes as a platform demonstrating to the proper financial conduct in the digital general public, through the stories of world. ‎‎Four families undergo a financial five families, how consumer habits, conduct workshop at the Bank’s Club economic habits, and financial behavior and at a digital branch. The content in general can be transformed. ‎‎The on Reshet’s website will show the project was held in 2015 for the fourth changes the families underwent and consecutive year;‎ were invited to enter the Taking CTRL ■ ‎Growth Opportunities – the project on Reshet website, where tools and provides tools for families coping with aids for proper family financial conduct a financial crisis by financial education, will be uploaded.‎ navigating a time of change, and growth ■ ‎Young Poalim a broad move through crisis. The families receive to recruit youths and draftees as financial instruction and personal customers, including contacting their guidance, aimed at preventing financial parents. ‎A ‎ s part of the project, a minideterioration and allowing a return to site Parents Teach Children about positive financial activity. ‎ ‎The idea Money was launched, including was sparked by customers' letters to training videos for children and youths, the bank about financial and personal offering tips and tools for parents crises. During 2015, the project to train children of different ages continued in different geographic about handling their money properly.‎ areas for the benefit of households;‎ poalimparents.bankhapoalim.co.il‎ ■ ‎Professional training conferences for customers the conferences cover In Israel's open space various financial content areas and are designed for various target audiences, THE BEST INTERESTS 54-55 OF THE CLIENT Poalim for Recovery The Poalim for Recovery program is undertaken both by the branches and In 2014-2015, the unit greatly expanded designed to meet the needs of customers by the unit in full cooperation with the its activity, and by the end of 2015, it struggling to repay their bank debts. In branches, with a clear division roles and was cooperating with all the bank’s contrast to accepted collection methods, roles and responsibilities. ‎E xpert and retail branches. The program handled Poalim for Recovery is a conceptual change experienced bankers, who underwent more than 50,000 customers during in relations with customers who fail to special training to respond to customers' the year. ‎T‎ he results of the program to meet their commitments. To implement needs, work at both the branches and date indicate significant success for the the change, a special new unit was the unit with an emphasis on commitment process, and positive feedback from established to handle customers struggling to solving the problem and a broad participating customers about the option of to repay their debts, using regular dialogue, perspective of the customer’s needs. ‎ a customized solution for their needs and clarifying needs and difficulties, providing the stabilization of their banking activity, tools, empowerment, and support. ‎T ‎ he T ‎ he unit employs a range of the bank’s in contrast to the exclusive focus on debt, goal is to find a suitable solution, with the tools and service channels. ‎‎The solution ‎along with a substantial 45% reduction customer, through common and respectful that the unit provides includes innovative in the number of customers handled by dialogue, ‎‎according to the customer's aspects – it uses a specially-built system the collection unit (and an even higher banking profile and financial wherewithal. for its operations. ‎T ‎ he system is based on proportion among young customers). ‎I‎n ‎More than ‎ 50,000 ‎‎In this way, the bank helps its customers technology that allows all the parties at the view of these figures, there is no doubt to promote a consensual and structured bank handling a customer to uniformly see that the program has proven itself and solution for handling debt and reduces the relevant data across all the stages of the brings great value to both customers the number of customers handled by process. ‎‎The system provides information and the bank.‎ the collection unit – ‎ ‎all carried out in an at the customer's account level, reflecting atmosphere of patience and mutual trust‎.‎ his/her situation, and allowing to manage and control the relevant data. ‎‎The customer customers The Poalim for Recovery unit is responsible has the option of directly contacting the have participated in the for managing and monitoring the entire banker at the unit who is personally handling In Israel's open space Poalim for Recovery program‎ work process with struggling customers. his case.‎‎The unit is readily available even The bank’s activity on this matter is outside regular banking hours.‎ LOOKING Examining Achievement of Objectives The Poalim for Recovery program is designed to meet the needs of customers struggling to repay their bank debts. In contrast to accepted collection methods, AHEAD 2015 Objectives Poalim Restructuring is gradually Status Completed. Poalim for Recovery is a conceptual change in relations with customers who fail Expansion of the Growth Opportunities initiative expanding through the bank's to meet their commitments. To implement the change, a special new unit was to small businesses, focusing on businesses branches, and is expected to roll out to all branches by the end of 2015; established to handle customers struggling to repay their debts, using regular located along the route of the light rail in Tel Aviv, Ramat Gan and Bnei Brak; dialogue, clarifying needs and difficulties, providing tools, empowerment, and Additional videos are being produced Completed to provide access to information support. The goal is to find a suitable solution, with the customer, through Expanding training presentations to promote and increase financial literacy, for common and respectful dialoguel. In this way, the bank helps its customers to proper financial conduct for additional target different target audiences at various audiences such as senior citizens, soldiers, promote a consensual and structured solution for handling debt and reduces the students and others.‎ life stages. number of customers handled by the collection unit THE BEST INTERESTS 56-57 OF THE CLIENT ‎More than 80% of customers 12 Financial H ‎ undreds of advisers were As part of this effort, Advice trained to provide pension the bank held tens of Centers and financial advice for thousands of pensionand T‎ he deployment people nearing retirement financial consultations with of 12 Pension and age and retirees. ‎ customers, free of charge. ‎ Financial Advice ‎Thousands of specialized ‎More than 80% of customers Centers was training days were who participated in both completed in 2015 invested in this program types of conversations expressed high satisfaction Poalim for Financial Freedom gateway and important lead to the rest of ■ ‎A head of retirement planning ■ ‎Post retirement sessions for longfor the New Senior Citizens the family), a customer club, and benefits, to optimally prepare for retirement, term financial planning, budget control which will give seniors the confidence to with an emphasis on help in realizing and management, and target realization ‎ enior citizens account for approximately S physical or cognitive deterioration. ‎‎In any navigate a complex matrix of needs talk about retirement, ask questions, and pension money in its different forms on the basis of the customers’ needs, 11% of Israel’s population, and the number event, both segments are closely tied to and financial considerations, requiring obtain advice and direction, and adapt to (annuities, capital considerations, assets, current and future cash flow of people aged 65+ is approximately the family: ‎‎the third age – as a supporter; meticulous and comprehensive financial the new reality. ‎‎These services are part of taxes, etc.) and initial financial planning sources when they no longer have 900,000. ‎‎By 2035, this segment of the ‎‎the fourth age – as the supported. ‎ planning. ‎‎T he challenges faced after Bank Hapoalim’s outlook that retirement for retirement; ‎ earnings from work.‎ population is expected to double, and retirement necessitate the creation of a opens a new period in people’s lives, it is already a highly important force in T ‎ his life stage is characterized by dramatic specialized set of services and products enabling them to benefit from their years As part of the objective of developing the Israeli economy. ‎‎The rapid growth changes: ‎‎retirement leads to a drop in designed for this population.‎ of hard work.‎ of the seniors segment will have a major income, expenses shift to align with new businesses with a social benefit component, and impact on the economy, resulting in needs, and financial routines are deeply ‎ s part of the objective of developing A ‎ he program targets three periods towards T in response to the needs of senior citizens, the the development of new markets and transformed. ‎S ‎ eniors need to attain a businesses with a social benefit and after retirement, with an emphasis on bank has launched a broad strategic initiative expansion of existing ones in areas such as new financial equilibrium. ‎‎After retirement, component, and in response to the needs pension and financial advice:‎ leisure, culture, education, and healthcare.‎ many seek to live in the present: ‎‎to study, of senior citizens, the bank has launched a for peri-retirement seniors, the first of its kind travel, and have new experiences; ‎b ‎ ut broad strategic initiative for peri-retirement ■ ‎Customers aged +55 the primary in Israel. ‎ ‎This effort is one of the focal points I‎t is important to distinguish between two they may also be concerned about the seniors, the first of its kind in Israel. ‎‎This goal at this stage is to examine the presenior citizen segments: ‎t‎he Third Age future and strive for control and security effort is one of the focal points for the retirement condition and reduce anxiety for the bank's activity in 2015 and coming begins at retirement, in the 60s, and lasts for their long-term needs. ‎A ‎ t the same bank's activity in 2015 and coming years. at retirement; to see whether they are years. It will encompass unique packages for as long as a person is still physically and time, seniors often wish to support their It will encompass unique packages for ready for the future, to optimize their seniors, including pension and financial advice, cognitively functional, in good health and families by helping their children and seniors, including pension and financial retirement terms for their final years in living an independent life. ‎T ‎ he fourth age grandchildren, serving as the family's advice, specialized products, products the labor market, and to provide a first specialized products, products and solutions for usually begins in the 70s, or even later, with anchor. ‎T ‎ hus, post-retirement seniors and solutions for families (seniors as a look at their post-employment future. ‎ families, a customer club, and benefits THE BEST INTERESTS 58-59 OF THE CLIENT A ‎ s part of this strategic measure, the bank monthly events and permanent benefits and centrality to families and society, b ‎y has initiated and promoted a number of throughout the year. The‎‎ club, which consolidating entrepreneurship in the channels: ‎ automatically includes hundreds of public space through joint activity with ■ ‎P oalim Advisor people facing thousands of bank customers over various entities (non-profit organizations, retirement often discover the scope the age of 65, will be developed into social organizations, and business of their post-retirement savings and a marketplace where suppliers and organizations) in the sector and to assets for the first time, and realize that entrepreneurs can offer specialized promote selected subjects for the new they are insufficient for the standard of services for senior citizens;‎ seniors. ‎‎See the Community Chapter living they planned after retirement. ‎ for further information about the bank’s ‎The bank has launched an innovative ■ ‎P ension advice centers – during response to the social challenges faced advice system, Poalim Advisor, a the year, the bank completed the by Israel’s seniors.‎ special simulation program that maps deployment of the centers for the new all the assets, post-retirement cash seniors population in all geographic flows, and needs (including unexpected expenses), and analyzes income and areas; ‎ ■ ‎Specialized customer conferences for LOOKING expenditures. ‎‎On the basis of the simulation, the bank starts a dialogue with the customer, to enable him/ the new seniors population, including lectures on planning financials upon retirement;‎ AHEAD her to handle their current situation ■ ‎Wide marketing measures in March, In 2016, tens of thousands of and plan for the future, including the the bank initiated a campaign to raise additional pension and financial setting of appropriate financial targets awareness about seniors in general, advice sessions are planned.‎ and offering solutions to realize them;‎ with reference to the bank’s business ■ ‎P ension and financial advisor measures and various social aspects training in order to provide a suitable related to senior citizens. ‎‎The program advisory response to senior citizens, a launched a month-long digital campaign Examining Achievement comprehensive training program has with Google that included customer been instituted for hundreds of advisors, surveys, newspaper ads, and the of Objectives who underwent specialized training and opening of a senior customers’ hotline. personal mentoring sessions built by the In June, the campaign was launched 2015 Objectives Status bank for this purpose, ‎‎in order to adapt across a range of media channels; ‎ professional and behavioral content to ■ Entrepreneurship competition for Pe n s i o n a d v i s i n g Completed. senior citizens, with an emphasis on seniors to help retirees achieve their centers: The bank long-term financial planning;‎ ambition to found new ventures; ‎ plans to increase the ■ ‎Poalim Gold Club benefits for the ■ ‎Encouraging start-ups to develop number of pension bank’s new seniors customers. ‎‎The products and services for seniors out advising centers to 12 customers’ club offers discounts and of a wish to encourage businesses during 2015. sales in retail, leisure, recreation, and and entrepreneurs to enter this highentertainment. ‎The bank is also seeking potential market.‎ to create special insurance for club members travel insurance without In addition to the advantages mentioned medical underwriting in most cases above, and as part of the program, Bank and a cancellation option, as well as Hapoalim decided to help advance the personal accident insurance. ‎ social challenges that Israel’s seniors ‎Customers will also benefit from special face, in recognition of their importance In Israel's open space THE BEST INTERESTS 60-61 OF THE CLIENT In Israel's open space In accordance with the values embodied by the Bank Hapoalim vision, the bank This extensive activity is aimed at enabling businesses to grow and has worked diligently to enhance and promote its small-business customers' expand, while coping with challenges, across all life stages of the business, financial freedom.The recognition of the importance of small businesses has led and to provide equal opportunities to all population groups in both the to the creation of special programs, over the last four years, aimed at responding central and the peripheral regions of Israel to a wide range of these businesses' needs Working to Promote Financial Freedom Granting credit ‎ for Small Businesses ‎ he bank grants credit to small businesses, T Growth fund, a specialized fund for customers at any time on the bank's as part of its routine activity, both within its small businesses, which has granted website, via mobile, or at branches, The small-business sector, which provision of personalized, professional to grow and expand, while coping with credit portfolio – the largest in the Israeli NIS 1 billion in credit with special terms without additional collateral and without contributes about half of Israel's gross service close to every business in Israel. challenges, across all life stages of banking system, and through funds that to date; a joint NIS 250 million fund with bureaucratic procedures. ‎C ‎ redit is domestic product and provides jobs for Within this effort, Bank Hapoalim is the business, and to provide equal specialize in credit for small businesses. ‎ the Manufacturers Association of Israel approved in real time, cutting down 43% of the Israeli job market, is one of the committed to supporting and promoting opportunities to all population groups ‎The bank creates collaborations through for bank customers and association the time needed for credit applications pillars of the Israeli economy and one of small businesses, as a foundation for in both the central and the peripheral dialogue in the public sphere:‎ members; and cooperation with the and approvals to just minutes and its key growth drivers. In recent years, in growth of the Israeli economy as a whole. regions of Israel. The knowledge and Koret Foundation to provide special offering an immediate response for accordance with the values embodied by The recognition of the importance of small services offered in this area are based ■ Establishment of targeted aid funds loans to micro-businesses;‎ businesses, to address challenges or the Bank Hapoalim vision, the bank has businesses has led to the creation of on the bank's core capabilities and on for businesses – the bank operates to finance routine operations. ‎‎The bank worked diligently to enhance and promote special programs, over the last four years, organization-wide processes. This activity a number of funds: ‎‎the state-backed ■ ‎The Instant Credit for Businesses has granted NIS 1.9 billion through this its small-business customers' financial aimed at responding to a wide range of consists of several key elements: Small and Mid-Sized Businesses Fund, service – unique credit solutions service to date.‎ freedom, through the development of these businesses' needs. This extensive which has granted more than NIS 2.5 for small businesses. ‎ ‎T his quick financial tools and services and the activity is aimed at enabling businesses billion in credit to date; the Poalim for and simple service is available to THE BEST INTERESTS 62-63 OF THE CLIENT ‎Credit to small the bank has granted ‎Personalized Consulting and Service ‎ businesses: ‎ NIS 30 million In order to provide financial assistance I‎n line with the needs of small businesses, the bank has initiated a variety of customized services and information to enhance the financial freedom of this sector. ‎ ‎T he bank has deployed ■ ‎P rofessional banking solutions and special benefits experienced expert advisors assist businesses with information based on financial and economic research in Israel ■ ‎B e n e fi t s f o r W o m e n O w n e d Businesses in August 2015, in cooperation with Jasmine, an NGO that promotes businesses owned by Jewish and Arab women, the bank to Women-Owned Businesses, the bank specialized business branches and tailored to the needs of the business, initiated a special offer and credit at 32.4 has granted them NIS 30 million in credit trained bankers to provide services to in areas such as: ‎i‎nvestment advice special terms for members of WE small businesses at these branches. ‎ and foreign trade; a desk specializing Connect International, an organization through the Poalim for Growth fund ‎The bank has also developed innovative in mid-sized businesses operates that promotes women in business; ‎ business management services through in the bank’s dealing room. ‎ T ‎ he ■ ‎Poalim Business Club a club for small direct channels and digital platforms, and bank has also expanded branch and mid-sized businesses, which lowers NIS billion its experts offer information about different aspects in a business’s life;‎ managers' authority to grant credit to these businesses. This process the business management costs by thousands of shekels a year, and offers ‎in 2015, the bank granted a total of NIS 32.4 the bank has extended ■ ‎Broad deployment of specialized helps business customers receive special benefits to business owners;‎ approximately business services in addition to the rapid response to credit applications, billion in credit to the small business sector, 3.5 deployment of specialized business through an efficient procedure without including approximately NIS 20.8 billion in branches, the bank has classified superfluous bureaucracy‎;‎ 80 anchor branches at the Retail ■ ‎Current-account benefits for small consumer credit and approximately NIS 4.6 NIS billion Banking Division, which provide which businesses in the setup phase billion for construction and real estate by provide wide range of solutions to small in order to assist small businesses Over the past three years, the bank businesses, and has designated expert across all life stages and enhance the small businesses has extended approximately NIS business bankers at 240 branches, who survivability of new small businesses in work specifically for small businesses – Israel, for the fourth year, Bank Hapoalim 3.5 billion in credit through a range the widest deployment in Israel;‎ has offered the Easy Start Package to of special funds in addition to its 32.3% ■ ‎Innovative channels for business small businesses in their first two years regular course of business account management the bank has of existence. The package provides an developed a range of innovative services exemption from current-account fees for the management of business for businesses in the setup phase and operations, at any time and place. ‎ offers new business owners assistance ‎Hapoalim Online Business is an area of with their first steps;‎ the bank's website tailored to business ■ ‎Special delivery and distribution Credit to small Total Credit to Small Bussinesses (in billions of NIS) needs, which offers a range of financial activities that can be carried out simply benefits for businesses in foreign trade in June 2015, Bank Hapoalim, businesses: ‎‎ and quickly. ‎T ‎ he bank's proprietary mobile and tablet apps for business in a special collaboration with FedEx Express Israel, launched an exclusive customers offer a steadily growing package of benefits for the bank’s small Bank Hapoalim is the largest lender to 2013 26.2 range of transactions and information, business customers. ‎T ‎ he bank's small small businesses in Israel, with a 32.3% allowing owners to manage various import-export business customers market share. ‎‎In the past year, Bank 2014 29.3 financial aspects of their businesses receive a 15% discount on FedEx rates and respond in real time;‎ and other special benefits.; ‎ Hapoalim increased its credit reserves for small businesses by approximately 10% 2015 32.4 THE BEST INTERESTS 64-65 OF THE CLIENT Marketing Platform and Promoting in the Public Sphere T ‎ he bank assists small businesses to ■ ‎Promoting women in business in deal with the challenge of publicity and August 2015, as part of Bank Hapoalim’s advertising, faced by every small business. focus on promoting women in business, ‎‎The bank has initiated and established the bank and Channel 10 jointly several marketing structures and channels launched Women, a new series, in to help promote the exposure of small which the bank was a main sponsor, businesses across the country – Small promoting women in business. The Business Day, the CashBack Club, bank also sponsors a special section Business Fairs, and more. ‎ on Nana10 website. ‎‎Additional joint ventures for promoting women in ■ ‎S mall Business Day ‎ tens of business:‎ ‎I n July 2015, the bank thousands of businesses and hundreds also promoted a series of articles in of thousands of customers participated cooperation with the Saloona website to in the fourth Small Business Day in encourage women to found businesses early 2016;‎ and successfully manage them; ‎ ■ ‎Poalim CashBack Club in 2012, the ■ ‎Israel Small Business Forum the bank launched the largest customers' forum’s goal is to reinforce the small club in Israel, providing all customers business sector in Israel by creating who use the bank's credit cards with a meeting place for stakeholders in cash rebates to their current accounts the business, community, and public on purchases from thousands of sectors. ‎ ‎T he forum held quarterly businesses. ‎ ‎Over 8,000 small and meetings in 2015. ‎ mid-sized businesses nationwide participate in the program,‎‎enabling them to benefit from a broad marketing platform reaching a large number of customers, ‎t‎ hrough a range of media channels, within and outside the bank; ‎ LOOKING AHEAD In May 2016, the bank and Clal Insurance will launch Poalim Fund for Businesses, a new NIS 8 billion credit fund for small businesses. ‎T ‎ he new fund will help small businesses grow by granting credit at special terms, including a faster underwriting processes and just 25% in collateral.‎ In Israel's open space THE BEST INTERESTS 66-67 OF THE CLIENT Serving a Diverse Clientele Markets Served by the Bank The activity of the Bank Group is segments are presented according Segmentation of Borrowers conducted via six principal operating to characteristics stipulated by the In 2015, total credit to the public segments. The division into operating Supervisor of Banks: the Households amounted to approximately NIS 278.5 segments is based on the types of Segment, the Private Banking Segment, billion, a 5.5% increase over 2014 ‎(For a products and services or on the types the Small Business Segment, the summary of the development of balanceof customers included in each of the Commercial Segment, the Corporate sheet balances of credit to the public segments. The board of management Segment, and the Financial Management by operating segment, see p. 55 of the of the bank uses this division to make Segment (for segment definitions financial statement for 2015). decisions and to analyze the group's and details, see the bank's financial business results. The operating statements for 2015) In Israel's open space Credit to the public by segment of activity, 2015 The Arab-Israeli sector is growing, and Bank Hapoalim attaches great strategic importance to its business activity in the coming years. The bank is committed to the sector’s continued development and growth. ‎ ‎The bank’s expansion of its deployment in and offering of products and 14.5% Private banking services to the sector is based on recognition of the national importance segment 27.3% of integrating the country's diverse communities in the labor market and 14.1% Corporate Households segment economy, and the development of the periphery. segment Working With the Ultra-Orthodox and Arab-Israeli Sectors 11.7% 30.1% Small business segment Bank Hapoalim accords high importance to customer segments within the retail expansion of its deployment in and Commercial segment to cultivating a stronger relationship with banking area, and it continues to expand offering of products and services to its customers in the Ultra-Orthodox its community and business activities in the sector is based on recognition of 2.3% Financial Management, and other adjustments and Arab-Israeli sector, in the view that these sectors. the national importance of integrating these communities are catalysts for the country's diverse communities in growth of the Israeli economy. Based Financial Freedom and Encouraging the labor market and economy, and the on this perspective, and as part of Bank Growth in the Arab-Israeli Sector development of the peripheral areas. ‎ Hapoalim's vision and strategy, the bank ‎T he Arab-Israeli sector is growing, An Arabic-language website is available continually endeavors to create value and Bank Hapoalim attaches great to the bank's customers, which provides offers and develop services tailored to strategic importance to its business changing information about the bank’s the specific needs of these customers. activity in the coming years. The bank current and new products and services: Over the last few years the bank has is committed to the sector’s continued ‎‎www.bankhapoalim.co.il/arabic‎ achieved a leap forward in marketing development and growth. ‎‎The bank’s THE BEST INTERESTS 68-69 OF THE CLIENT In 2015, the bank launched its Always The ultra-orthodox sector ‎ with You message with several special ‎The bank has 20 branches in towns including loans for yeshiva students, to the ultra-orthodox sector in 2015 and added-value initiatives, products, and with large religious and ultra-orthodox engagement loans, wedding loans, taught at schools in the community. ‎ services for the sector, including: ‎ populations. ‎‎The bank offers a specialized home purchasing loans, loans for ‎ ■ ‎C ustomized activity to promote package of services and products to children's weddings, and holiday loans. Living Wisely small businesses on Small Business ultra-orthodox customers. ‎B ‎ ranches of ‎The bank operates a website targeted a project held for a third consecutive year, Day on Small Business Day, the the bank operating in the ultra-orthodox at ultra-orthodox clientele at www. providing guidance to ultra-orthodox bank organized workshops for small sector have been adapted to these bankhapoalim.co.il/bsd. ‎‎The site serves families on prudent economic habits businesses and gave these businesses customers' needs, respecting their ultra-orthodox and observant customers and sensible management of household 8,500 adapted material in Arabic to promote way of life. The branches’ appearance, and is adapted to the norms of these budgets. ‎‎The bank collaborates with their businesses; ‎ the videos displayed on screens at the communities. ‎C ‎ ustomers can use the HaModi'ah, the leading daily newspaper ■ ‎A plan to expand the consulting branches, and marketing material have website to access their accounts, receive in the ultra-orthodox community, on the network at branches and to encourage been adapted to the customers.‎ routine banking information, and execute project. ‎ ‎The five participating families savings and investment portfolio various transactions.‎ receive guidance from branch managers management has been drawn up. ‎ ‎ he bank's activity in the ultra-orthodox T and from a team of expert advisors from ■ ‎A special solution for housing sector in recent years has resulted in ‎In 2015, the Read & Succeed program the bank and from the newspaper, who credit has been developed, which offers a response to the barriers to new customers initiatives, development, and adaptation of products and services designed to for the ultra-orthodox sector operated successfully for the sixth consecutive provide them with tools and knowledge for prudent financial behavior. ‎‎This effort obtaining mortgages in the Arab-Israeli T‎ he bank won about 8,500 new complement and respect the ultrayear. ‎‎In addition, the financial education was covered extensively in weekend community;‎ orthodox way of life: ‎a ‎ range of loans program for youths, in collaboration editions of HaModi'ah, and garnered customers and opened three new ■ ‎A ctivities to further strengthen suited to customers' needs, matching with ORT Israel, which the bank has a high level of success and publicity in and deepen relations with the branches ‎‎in Kafr Yasif, Ar’ara, and our observant customers' life stages, supported in recent years, was adapted the ultra-orthodox community.‎ community workshops on family Dir el-Assad budget management for households were organized and sponsorship was given conferences and committees for: ‎‎women, physicians, and architects; LOOKING Examining Achievement of Objectives 26 donations were made to numerous NGOs that support the handicapped, organize holiday meals for customers AHEAD 2015 Objectives Status 5 new branches are planned In 2015, the bank opened three new (Ramadan and Christmas) with the The bank will continue to work with the Arabto open in Arab-Israeli branches in Arab towns and villages: participation of bank executives;‎ Israeli community, sponsoring professional towns and villages in 2015; Kfar Yossef, Ar'Ara and Deir al -Assad. ■ ‎Youth activity special activity was conferences, activity to promote small Two more branches will be opened held to encourage youths to join businesses, activity adapted for youth, branches during the first quarter of 2016. Poalim Young, which offers benefits to and expand investment advice and digital youths. Hundreds of computers have empowerment for the sector; ‎ Over the coming year, During the year, there were dozens been donated to schools, scholarships The bank has 26 Branches in Arabconferences on financial of conferences and sponsorships have been awarded, and Dan the Israeli towns and an additional In the ultra-orthodox community, the bank conduct and other topics for professional conferences for Saver summer camps were arranged will be held routinely for physicians, architects, management in towns; ‎ 15 branches are located in mixed is planning digital empowerment activity Arab-Israeli customers. and leadership conferences and and the promotion of special added-value ■ ‎In addition, Bank Hapoalim, in towns or adjacent to Arab towns. ‎ products and services; ‎ The bank will also sponsor women's employment. In addition, cooperation with ORT Israel, supported various professional there were holiday dinners (Iftar on ‎During the first quarter of 2016, two creating a financial education program conferences in this sector. Ramadan and Christmas), which were for youths. In 2015, the plan was more branches will be opened In 2016, the Read & Succeed program and attended by hundreds of customers translated into Arabic and is being the adapted website for the ultra-orthodox and senior bank officials. taught in Arab-Israeli schools.‎ community will move forward.‎ THE BEST INTERESTS 70-71 OF THE CLIENT Committed to Customer Satisfaction Customer service approach at Bank Hapoalim is an expression of organizational commitment to customer satisfaction. This approach refers to internal customers as well as end users. The approach is broad-based and integrative, and covers the breadth of the bank's operations. Service is a value exemplified across the entire organization and through all processes, beyond direct, immediate interaction with customers. The direct encounter with both internal and external customers is the initial stage in the service cycle, based on the information that is collected and processed. The analysis of this information makes it possible to draw conclusions, learn, and improve, contributing to the development of work processes that improve the level of service. This service cycle enriches the value offer for various customers, creates a flexible organizational framework open to feedback, and expresses the bank's organizational commitment to customer satisfaction. Service from an OrganizationWide Perspective The organizational commitment to service and to increasing the number of satisfied customers is Customer service reflected in all levels of the bank’s activity from upper approach at Bank management to the lowest-level employees. Service Hapoalim is an expression processes pertaining to the organization as a whole can be classified into three levels: of our organizational ■ Organization-wide culture level A focus on commitment to customer organization-wide activities designed to foster a culture satisfaction. This approach of service. These activities include formulation of a service philosophy, improved measurement capabilities, refers to internal customers organization-wide implementation, and creation of as well as end users.The work routines and remuneration methods; ■ Division partnership level Divisions of the bank not approach is broad-based in direct contact with customers provide support for and integrative, and covers business activities and back up the activity conducted at the breadth of the bank's the points of contact with customers. Service is perceived as a key pillar of the promotion of an organizational operations culture supportive of and focused on better business performance. Activities in the area of service are therefore a key route to organizational success; ■ Client area level The service philosophy is an essential aspect of the promotion of customer satisfaction and enhancement of customers' relationship with the bank. In Israel's open space THE BEST INTERESTS 72-73 OF THE CLIENT Customer Satisfaction Survey 2015 Banker civility and politeness 9.34 Professional knowledge 9.18 Understanding Customer Needs 8.61 Satisfaction from the branch atmosphere 8.55 Dedicating time and attention for customers 8.72 In Israel's open space 0 2 4 6 8 10 Customer surveys Service activities at Bank Hapoalim are Service Philosophy culture including the change in function of its contribution to the bank's ■ ‎Hosting units during 2015, the project at branches: ‎‎tens of centered on the following three elements: As part of the construction of the bank's values, approach, and organizational customers and leadership. continued, with the aim of improving 1. The service philosophy, which sets service strategy and commitment to identity; processes and measurement inter-organizational service, by enhancing thousands of customers a uniform standard for internal and improve customer service, an intrasurveys, incorporation of structural The following main processes were familiarity among employees and various who received service at external service processes; organizational service philosophy was changes, job descriptions, process carried out during 2015: headquarter units, and in order to the bank's branches were 2. Lateral and vertical implementation of formulated. This effort involved the improvement, adaptation of metrics, ■ ‎Gemba: managers share closely improve internal dialogue;‎ sampled in 2015 service processes based on uniform construction of processes for instilling and technology upgrades; and the headquarter division managers visit Direct channel standards designed to realize the the philosophy, creating infrastructure business perspective integrating branches and other points of contact Customer surveys at customer surveys: bank's service philosophy; for management in this area, and service into core activities, continually with customers in order to experience Mishkan (Hapoalim 3. Service performance measurement, promoting the formation of a supportive improving the quality of services “the production floor”, raise questions Mortgages): ‎ ‎thousands ‎ t‎ housands of which allows the bank to collect organizational culture. Internal service ranked low on the intra-organizational and issues arising from interaction customers who use of customers who contact detailed information from its internal is being absorbed into the annual work service survey, initiating new services, with customers, and suggest places the direct channels Mishkan are sampled and external customers and use this plans of the divisions of the bank, and regularly examining the mission where small improvements can result offered by the bank are information to improve service. on three main axes: organizational and roles of each division as a direct in major changes. ‎ each year sampled each year THE BEST INTERESTS 74-75 OF THE CLIENT ■ ‎Each bank division receives close ‎ easuring service ‎ M ■ ‎Satisfaction measurement was also support to improve the service it offers ‎D uring 2015, comprehensive and conducted among Platinum bank internal and external customers. In extensive measurement was undertaken customers.‎ 2015, the service headquarters and on several channels and points of the divisions coped with restructuring, contact with customers:‎ I‎nstilling service ‎ changes on the internal customer ■ ‎The service experience is measured ‎In 2015, Bank employees and managers side, and the necessary changes based on various parameters – were provided with practical tools across that resulted. customers at branches and in the a range of methods and channels, various service channels are uniformly designed to instill an organizational I‎n addition, routine processes continued sampled daily, on a regular basis, culture reflecting the bank's customer during the year, such as ‎‎the internal throughout the year; ‎ value. ‎ service review, various measurement ■ ‎C ustomers' feedback is regularly ■ ‎H undreds of training days were processes, and the internal service provided, on a weekly basis, directly conducted at branches;‎ campaign.‎ to the branch, including the ability to ■ ‎Service metrics and service language contact the customer for learning and were integrated into branch work improvement purposes.‎ A ‎ bout 50% of routines; ‎ ‎t‎ his year, the bank held 1,074 sampled customers receive a phone ■ ‎S ervice workshops were held at call from the branch manager for selected branches;‎ continued learning and improvement;‎ ■ ‎Managers were trained to motivate and ■ ‎Feedback studies are also conducted, mentor employees during meetings based on the type of service and with customers; ‎ service channel used by bank ■ ‎In line with the instructions of the Bank conferences customers, in order to continue to of Israel, training was carried out on create customized value;‎ creating value in sales meetings; ‎ at the branches ■ ‎The sampling of customers by text ■ ‎Staff officers advised on improving message surveys, shortly after their service at branches; ‎ and 16 visit to a branch, was expanded this ■ ‎The head and senior team of Retail year. ‎T ‎ he questionnaires allow for rapid Banking routinely hold quarterly personal feedback about the service meetings with customers at branches, experience. ‎ ‎The branch management and top service bankers were honored; ‎ teams receive a daily summary of the ■ ‎Outstanding service employees at regional feedback;‎ ■ ‎In 2015, for the first time, an individual branches and headquarter units are periodically rewarded, ‎i‎n order to conferences / specialized satisfaction measurement was carried out on consulting promote instilling service values and emphasize the service aspect of conversations at the branch;‎ everyday activities.‎ more than 3,000 customers In Israel's open space ‎ oalim Host value-adding customer conferences year P ‎All bank branches hold customer conferences several times a year. A regional conference is held annually for business customers and for new senior customers. ‎‎Lectures are given on a range of issues: ‎‎pensions, mortgages, and the family budget, along with external enrichment lectures on c ‎ ommunications, innovation, participated personal empowerment, and other topics. THE BEST INTERESTS 76-77 OF THE CLIENT 3% decrease in complaints 24,700 Inquiries from law-enforcement The customer contact center* processed agencies: The customer contact 7,871 inquiries in 2015, of which approximately center processed approximately 5,947 complaints. The number of complaints 24,700 inquiries from lawdecreased by approximately 3% for the year, enforcement agencies in 2015 in comparison to the preceding year In Israel's open space Responding to The customer contact center processes processing, when it is found that the incoming contact (including complaints) branch has the ability to provide the Inquiries and Requests from customers through all channels: best and quickest solution. Others are The customer contact center operates mail, Internet, fax, telephone, etc. All parts processed by the center, which replies in accordance with Proper Conduct of of the bank devote focus to processing to the customer when its investigation Banking Business Directive 308A of complaints, with high alertness and is complete. If necessary, the branch or the Bank of Israel, which took effect on awareness to accurate and appropriate the business function is also issued with April 2015 ,1. The directive formalizes response to complaints, promptly when recommendations for improvement and the obligation of a banking corporation they arise. The service philosophy of the instructions for action aimed at avoiding to address customers' inquiries in a customer contact center is transmitted similar incidents in the future. fair, reliable, and efficient manner, and to the employees of the bank through Organizational learning Occasionally, is designed to provide uniform rules the Poalim Campus, intra-organizational the processing of an inquiry reveals for addressing and reporting inquiries communication, and lessons learned. implications beyond the individual throughout the banking system. customer, such as recurring events at The directive establishes detailed rules Processing of Inquiries – various units, problems in organizationwith regard to the existence of the From Localized Resolution to wide procedures or work processes, and unit, the ombudsman at its head, the Organizational Learning more. These inquiries are presented to ombudsman's authority, the procedure Processing of customer inquiries the business functions at the bank for for processing customer complaints Every contact, whether it is a request or learning and improvement of the relevant (including timeframes), and detailed a complaint, is addressed in consultation procedures and processes. When an In Israel's open space reporting to the board of directors, with the business functions relevant to inquiry is classified as systemic, the management, the public, and the the issue raised by the customer. Some process and progress of resolution is Supervisor of Banks. inquiries are transferred to a branch for monitored in a formal procedure. * A decision was made to classify data on inquiries differently in 2015. Customer inquires and inquiries by law-enforcement agencies are therefore presented separately in the report. THE BEST INTERESTS 78-79 OF THE CLIENT 8.4% Percentage of justified requests Bank of Israel data Information about In this context, as a leading business advertising, ‎w ‎ hich are in addition to 2015 9.2% Banking Products organization in the Israeli economy, the and go beyond the legal and regulatory 11% bank exercises caution in its advertising, compliance and the adopting of accepted and Services marketing, and sales promotion, and ethical rules (such as the ethical rules 14.4% The bank is subject to laws that impose applies several levels of rigorous screening of the Second Television and Radio Percentage of justified complaints: 2014 15.4% transparency and disclosure requirements and controls. All messages published by Authority). The statement of principles Of the total number of complaints concerning information to be delivered the bank conform to the law the first and emphasizes cooperation with advertising 27.3% recorded at the bank, only 8.4% 2013 to customers on banking products most essential level. In addition, the bank agencies which are committed to the 22% and services. Bank Hapoalim strictly consults with experts on the essence, ethical rules mentioned above. ‎‎The were found to be justified; in adheres to the directives, which apply content, and style of its advertisements, statement includes ethical principles, such 26.6% these cases, the bank apologized, 2012 to all products and services, through according to the service or product as r‎ esponsibility, fairness, transparency, 21.4% performed the necessary designated mechanisms subject to and the target audience. The third level customer confidentiality, accessibility, 23% controls and audits. Fundamental consists of internal controls applied by and customization to different clienteles remedies, and compensated 2011 26.1% principles underlying consumer-protection the bank's experts in this field, including and sectors.‎T ‎ he statement is available the customers if necessary. The directives: disclosure duty (transparency) further review of the preceding two stages. on the corporate responsibility section percentage of justified complaints 2010 25.7% Bank Hapoalim towards customers; protection of of the bank’s website.‎ 25.3% customer rights to receive advice and In 2015, the bank drew up a statement decreased this year, compared Banks average service from the bank. of ethical principles in marketing and with the preceding year (9.5%) The data are relative to the average of the five major banks in Israel (Hapoalim, Leumi, Discount, FIBI, and Mizrahi-Tefahot). Examining Achievement of Objectives In 2015, the bank drew up a statement of ethical 2015 Objectives Status principles in marketing and advertising, which Customer survey via text message: A new measurement channel will be introduced in 2015 in Completed. order to monitor customer satisfaction in the retail-banking network. Within half an hour of the are in addition to and go beyond the legal and end of the customer's interaction with a branch banker, a brief satisfaction survey will be sent to the customer by text message; regulatory compliance and the adopting of accepted ethical rules. The statement includes Organizational analysis: In 2015, the various service surveys will be cross-referenced with the Completed. organizational climate survey, in order to allow analysis from a broad perspective of all intraethical principles, such as responsibility, organizational bottlenecks. This process will serve as a diagnostic tool in two key areas for managers: the satisfaction of their internal customers, and the level of commitment of their employees to fairness, transparency, customer confidentiality, various aspects of service. The diagnosis will enable managers to prioritize intra-organizational and external service processes in which their units need to improve; Service incident investigation: As part of the continual process of learning and improving service, incidents related to service will be investigated, including in supportive areas of the bank. During the Completed. accessibility, and customization to different year, each area of the bank will focus on several significant negative service incidents in the value chain and will draw conclusions based on a structured process. These lessons will subsequently be clienteles and sectors integrated into a work plan or improved process. The conclusions in aggregate will also be examined from a broad perspective by the service unit, in order to learn about applicable systemic improvements; Service coaches: A team of service coaches for each area will be established in 2015, as another Completed. intra-organizational tool for the improvement of service. The service coaches representing each area of the bank were selected meticulously and received relevant professional training in service. The service coaches will be available to all units of the bank to give lectures and run activities on service. THE BEST INTERESTS 80-81 OF THE CLIENT Privacy and Information Security Bank Hapoalim accords high importance circuits, in order to ensure that the bank's of each project and system. As a large The bank and its employees may not ‎‎Access to information about the bank’s Bank Hapoalim became the first to information security, and invests systems are properly protected from and complex organization, the bank transfer information about the customer’s clients found on the bank’s computers is organization in Israel to be certified extensive technological and human penetration, unauthorized access, or maintains tens of thousands of databases, account, business, conduct, and other permitted solely to bank employees and under the international cyber security resources to maintain the confidentiality harm. Information-related projects at the in different locations and technologies. matters with respect to agreement solely for the purpose of their work, and only standard ISO 27032, in a complex and privacy of customers' information and Bank are accompanied from their inception Business and/or technological actions between the bank and the customer. ‎ by employees authorized for this purpose certification process conducted by the of banking information on the Internet, by an information-security team that are recorded and documented in the by the relevant parties at the bank. ‎‎The bank's information technology area. The through the use of highly advanced ensures strict compliance with informationorganization's databases. The bank strictly ‎ he bank’s obligation to keeping banking T bank uses orderly procedures to protect certification under the new informationsecurity methods and some of the security rules, protection of the privacy of maintains a large number of physical, confidentiality is not limited to the period customer confidentiality pursuant to the security standard is in addition to the strongest encryption systems available. information, and the restriction of access administrative, and technological controls when ties or legal relations exist between Protection of Privacy Law, which details older certification under the leading Information security complies with the to information to authorized personnel only. (such as encryption, limited authorizations, the bank and the customer, but also apply to the conditions for keeping and protecting information-security standard ISO 27001. directives of the Bank of Israel and with Security events in IT systems are referred in monitoring tools, protective tools, and the unlimited period following the closing of information and the transfer of information the Protection of Privacy Law, 1981, and real time to an expert center of informationmore) in order to protect all aspects of the customer’s account or his/her decease. between public bodies.‎ other laws, as relevant, in order to protect security personnel, and addressed and information, including its confidentiality, the information-technology system and documented from the initial stage of the completeness, and availability. The minimize information security risks. This event to its completion. Relevant events information collected is in accordance area is managed at the bank by the are also referred to the audit department. with the requirements in the regulatory information systems and cyber defense Material incidents are reported to the directives governing face-to-face and division, which reports to the head of board of management and the board of electronic contact with customers, as information technology. The information directors. The bank routinely conducts well as information required for customer security department ensures that its staff, resilience tests and information-security verification when executing transactions both internal and external employees, surveys of its systems, in order to ensure via electronic means. Information is consists of the best professionals with that information security is maintained at retrieved by electronic applications, as the knowledge, experience, and authority all times and complies with the strict rules required for the customer's business with in the field of information security, and established in this area. the bank's systems. Most information is regularly conducts training, enrichment, accessible to customers for viewing only, and awareness programs. The bank continually works to enhance with the exception of specific instances of privacy, to the extent possible, including management of account beneficiaries, in Information security in the bank's systems through regular surveys by neutral third transfers via the bank's website. is maintained on several levels and parties and case-by-case monitoring Bank Hapoalim accords high importance to Inquiries concerning privacy information security, and invests extensive and confidentiality technological and human resources to maintain the 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Number of 92 77 78 30 18 43 confidentiality and privacy of customers' information requests Number of 14 9 10 3 0 3 and of banking information on the Internet, through justified requests Percentage of 15% 12% 13% 10% 0% 7% the use of highly advanced security methods and In Israel's open space justified requests some of the strongest encryption systems available THE BEST INTERESTS 82-83 OF THE CLIENT Leading Financial Freedom in a Multi-Channel World Bank Hapoalim is dedicated to assisting of different customer groups: a site for computers and the Internet, to access its customers with the full range of private clients; a site for retail business the website comfortably and to gain financial aspects of their lives. In view clients and clients of the corporate the benefits of online banking, saving of this commitment, the bank offers its banking area; an English-language site the inconvenience of visiting a branch. customers full availability and accessibility for business clients; a mortgage site; The new website, is aimed at providing of banking information and financial an English-language international site a response to the accessibility needs of services, through a variety of service designed for non-residents; a site for people with disabilities. interfaces: an extensive network of global private banking (BHI) clients in branches and a range of direct channels English, Spanish, Russian, and French; available at any place and time. Activity a marketing site in Russian and Arabic in the various service channels is based for residents of Israel; and a site designed on the bank's strategic philosophy of for the ultra-orthodox sector. promoting innovative banking services This year, the new while examining and responding to Bank Hapoalim’s Internet activity is website was launched 1.3 customers' evolving needs, with an based on the principle of customer emphasis on an advanced customer advocacy. Customer advocacy is part for private customers, experience. Beyond the advantages of of an advanced philosophy centered on bringing a new level of convenience and time savings, these customers' needs and financial freedom, customer experience, services also save travel and fuel, thereby with the following foundations: preventing pollution. In 2015, the bank ■ Full transparency regarding the terms, depth of information, continued to lead the Israeli banking prices, and properties of products and a range of tools industry in direct services and channels and services; meeting international standards. ■ Thinking from the customer’s for proper financial Million perspective and offering solutions tailored to unique customer needs; conduct. The new site is the customers’ Number of Hapoalim Online ■ Granting customers complete, easy customers active on The bank's website offers a comprehensive control in managing their financial smart financial partner: the bank's website package of services for its customers. activity on the bank’s website. it uses interactive The financial freedom philosophy is tools to offer personal the foundation for construction of Accessible Website advice, insights, and these services, which include extensive information and self-service options, The bank’s marketing site is accessible customized solutions designed to provide customers with to users with disabilities. The website full control and prudent choices in their meets the Level II accessibility standard, that enable them to banking activity. Services are offered complying with all requirements. The obtain a snapshot and through a uniform, convenient, usergoal is to enable people with motor take smart decisions friendly interface, at www.bankhapoalim. disabilities affecting their hands, impaired co.il. The bank also offers a range of vision, or cognitive disabilities, as well as about their financial secondary sites tailored to the needs people who experience difficulty in using situation In Israel's open space THE BEST INTERESTS 84-85 OF THE CLIENT Hapoalim Online in 2015 The bank launched the following services funds, provident funds, advanced study Examining Achievement of Objectives as part of its innovations in 2015: ‎ funds , and managers insurance. It also provides an accumulation forecast 2015 Objectives Status ■ The new website this year, the for retirement: up-to-date balance, As part of its leadership in online Completed. new website was launched for capital savings, and the expected banking, in 2015 the bank will begin private customers, bringing a new monthly annuity. ‎The service also allows implementation of a large-scale level of customer experience, depth customers to schedule a meeting project to build a new website, of information, and a range of tools with a pension adviser for the smart on a new Internet platform. The for proper financial conduct. The planning of pension savings based on Bank Hapoalim website will new website offers immediate and the customer’s needs;‎ serve as a smart financial partner accessible banking, helps customers for customers, guiding them in manager their money quickly and easily ■ ROLUP CONT the service sends text everyday decisions and in planning on an advanced user-friendly interface, messages about unusual bill amounts for the future. Innovations on the in simple and clear language with a new and debit orders, such as ‎‎double billing new website will include: and clear design. ‎‎The new site is the on a credit card, or an unusually large ■ A new home page, allowing customers’ smart financial partner: ‎‎it cable television or internet bill; ‎ each customer to focus on the uses interactive tools to offer personal content important to him or her; advice, insights, and customized ■ ‎Application for a loan from the credit ■ A variety of new displays, helping solutions that enable them to obtain line on Internet for Businesses customers easily understand a snapshot and take smart decisions understanding the needs of business their financial position; about their financial situation;‎ customers, they have been given the ■ A personal profile summarizing option of independently applying for all of the information important ■ ‎Pensions on the bank's website a loan from their approved credit line for customers to remember: the service enables customers in through Poalim Internet for Businesses passwords, areas of activity, the relevant segments to obtain a or by mobile phone, without the registration for banking services, snapshot of all the pension information need to go to the branch and sign and more; on the website – balances in pension documents;‎ ■ Reminders payments waiting, arrival of checkbooks, loan status, etc; ■ Ta s k s i m p o r t a n t t a s k s BE Online can be set up to help with account management, such as This year, the bank launched BE Online, a value offering which allows payment reminders, scheduling customers to exclusively manage their bank accounts online or via mobile, appointments with bankers, without current account fees. ‎ ‎This value offering is suitable for customers and more; interested on basic banking services (current account transactions without ■ New tools for smart money capital market services or Mishkan) at reduced rates. ‎B ‎ E Online customers management; carry out banking transactions, including the opening of the account, on The new website, built with the digital channels, such as self-service stations. ‎C ‎ ustomers may also deposit assistance of an accessibility checks, order credit cards, open deposits and savings plans, and obtain consulting firm. loans via direct digital channels – without the need to go to the branch. ‎‎BE Online customers can obtain banking service by email and technical support service from a human responder at a specialized call center.‎ In Israel's open space THE BEST INTERESTS 86-87 OF THE CLIENT Bank Hapoalim is the leader in digital view their account balance, credit without inputting identification details. watches. ‎‎The new app allows bank innovation, and represents the cutting card debt, and amount available ‎ ‎T he service makes savings more customers with Apple-supported edge in digital account management for immediate credit. ‎C ‎ ustomers accessible: ‎‎it is possible to put aside smartphones to see their up-tosolutions in Israel. The bank offers its can also receive updates on their an amount from NIS 1 to NIS 500, date account balance and pending customers the most extensive range of investment portfolios in the capital similarly to the familiar piggy bank. ‎ expenses through the end of the mobile applications – applications that market and even save while on the ■ ‎ Look at My File widget the month on the watch screen on their make life easier, for purposes such as go in a digital savings fund – without widget allows investors in securities wrist, without inputting their account account management; rapid trading the need to input passwords or to get updates on changes in their identification details. on the capital market via smartphone switch screens. ‎T ‎ hese services personal portfolios without inputting and iPad; a digital wallet that saves are in addition to the geographicalidentification details or entering the valuable time; an application for managing based information nearby branches bank app. ‎‎If necessary, customers The bank won three business accounts from anywhere; and and ATMs, and so forth.‎ can go directly to trade (which requires an application that allows customers ■ ‎Foreign currency transactions by identification) and give buy and sell titles from Global to maintain sound financial conduct the account management app at orders by smartphone;‎ Finance : Digital while traveling abroad. The bank's the end of the year, the bank launched ■ At a Glance allows to see information initiatives of recent years have made a service that allows its customers about the account without entering it; ‎ Banking Leader in advanced technological solutions to obtain detailed information about ■ Poalim Wallet app a package Israel; Best Direct available to customers, helping them their foreign currency accounts and of payment, transfer, and purchase Banking Value manage their accounts on the go using use the app to carry out conversion services by smartphone. ‎In 2015, innovative applications that make financial transactions between currencies. ‎ the apps services were expanded Proposition in the management easier and simpler. ‎Thus, customers can constantly track to include the following innovations: ‎ Middle East; and movements and balances in their ■ ‎UP Card charging charging the Poalim on Mobile and Tablet in 2015 ‎ accounts, easily buy foreign currency card directly from the app; ‎ SMS Banking ■ ‎T h e s m a r t p h o n e a c c o u n t when they are overseas, and convert ■ ‎H opOn use of a simple and Leader in the In Israel's open space management app In 2015, the bank foreign currency back into shekels convenient solution for paying the Middle East continued to upgrade and expand its upon their return from vacation; ‎ bus fare directly by smartphone, mobile account management app, ■ ‎The identification revolution for without cash; ‎ ‎which offers a unique personalized entering online accounts the ■ ‎W e a r a b l e ' s t h e P o a l i m Bank Hapoalim is Hapoalim Mobile banking experience and includes bank has launched a series of SmartWatch app was launched for the leader in digital and Tablet rich and diverse information and a advanced innovative means for Apple Watches and Samsung Gear range of banking activity, such as fast identification for entering an innovation, and In a dynamic competitive environment that loan application, deposit in a deposit account using fingerprint only. Voice 735,000 represents the cutting shapes customers' expectations, Bank account, and depositing checks. ‎‎New identification will become available Hapoalim is committed to offering its clients applications have been launched:‎ in 2016. ‎ edge in digital account the most advance banking service, on every ■ ‎U p g r a d e o f t h e a c c o u n t management solutions platform and through any channel they management app an advanced S ‎ pecial password-free services ‎ choose. The bank aspires to serve as the version of the account management Special password-free services have been in Israel. The bank customer's smart financial partner and to app has been launched, which launched in order to expand the value offers its customers the offer added value in a wide range of financial organizes in a single place a range proposition for mobile access on the go: most extensive range of and consumer arenas. The bank accords of services for the customer’s day■ ‎S a v e & G o o n t h e a c c o u n t mobile applications extremely high importance to products that to-day activity. All the services and management app a digital savings ‎ o. of customers using the N can accompany customers continuously, transactions are accessible on account that allows customers to save and can be used at any time and place primarily smartphones today, and other a one place, on a smartphoneadapted display. ‎ ‎E ven before small amounts of money in a special mobile savings plan while on the go, bank’s mobile services and apps‎ products and formats in the future. entering the account, customers can through a fast and simple process THE BEST INTERESTS 88-89 OF THE CLIENT Poalim by Telephone 1,000,000 A variety of special apps‎ budget and how much they have left ■ ‎Capital market app the app allows to ■ ‎App for the young the bank launched to spend through the end of the trip;‎ issue trading orders quickly and easily, Poalim by Telephone is a service Poalim by a special app for youth as part of its and offers a great deal of capital market channel offering a wide range of account accompaniment of future generations ■ ‎P oalim for Business app a information, ‎‎including graphs, up-totransactions. The service is accessible telephone – entering the world of banking; ‎ special app for the bank’s business date information on indices and stocks, around the clock, allowing all customers, number of active ■ UP Overseas app a special customers, enabling them to manage decision-making support tools and including those with disabilities, to receive smartphone app, which organizes their business account anywhere, market analysis, and a display of the professional service without visiting a customers overseas travelers' expenses, helping anytime. ‎‎The app allows the approval portfolio by investment instrument. The branch. A voice response system is them properly manage their finances. of transactions awaiting approval, app uses touch screen capability. ‎‎The available 24 hours a day for information ‎It provides overseas travelers an trading in the capital market, and app also offers investors intuitive and and various transactions. Services offered interface where they can create a list obtaining extensive information convenient trading in foreign securities through the voice response system of purchases, set a budget for the about the business account. ‎T ‎ he along with extensive information about include: 22,000,000 trip, and document all expenditures app allows company officers to the world’s major stock exchanges during the trip in real time, including immediately respond to the company and decision-making support tools ■ Poalim Voice An innovative service, N ‎ o. of annual the amount of the purchase, the place, or business’s day-to-day operations, – smart graphs and comparative the first of its kind in the Israeli banking conversations and a photo. ‎‎The app allows overseas even if they are out of the office and capabilities between foreign securities system, allowing Poalim by Telephone travelers to know at any given moment offline, turning mobile into a real and various indices. callers to identify themselves and – Poalim by where they stand with respect to the work tool;‎ manage their accounts using voice telephone ‎ only, without the need to memorize a password or key in digits. Customers can conduct a simple, convenient, intuitive conversation with the bank, Examining Achievement of Objectives T‎ he bank won the title to receive extensive information or carry out account transactions, all 2015 Objectives Status Best Mobile Banking App through speech; The bank plans to launch another mobile feature designed Completed. at WEBI 2015‎. to encourage savings in 2015. In order to encourage ■ Callback This service makes it prudent financial conduct, the bank intends to offer this possible to hold the customer's tool in response to customers' need to save even small place in line for the call center. amounts, including when the cost of living is high. The Customers hear a recording offering application will make savings accessible to as many the possibility of disconnecting the customers as possible, and will encourage customers call while the system keeps their to save small sums on the go, in a unique savings plan place, until the banker returns the call, for the mobile app, without logging in to their accounts. thereby saving time for the customer; ■ Voice response in Arabic and Russian The Arabic-language and Russian-language voice system provides account information to customers; In Israel's open space THE BEST INTERESTS 90-91 OF THE CLIENT Branches The branch channel offers customers ■ C l a r i fi c a t i o n o f n e e d s a n d to the following principles: ‎d ‎ evelopment of the bank 267 branches, in the most addressing complex information of the branches network in line with broadly deployed nationwide network and execution Meeting in customers’ developing needs; the of the Israeli banking system. Bank person supports an orderly, inopening of three digital branches a Hapoalim has branches throughout depth discussion to understand significant breakthrough in the bank’s Israel, from city centers to remote regions. the customer's needs and present leadership in digital channels; expansion Although most of the services provided by appropriate solutions, with the of branches in the Arab-Israeli sector and the branches are also available through assistance of the bank's information expansion of the scale of transactions other means of communication with the systems and experts; and services which can be carried out bank, the physical encounter between the ■ Customer relationships Face-toat self-service stations and the transfer customer and the bank has a meaningful face meetings help nurture bonds of technical activities that do not require contribution, mainly in the following areas: with customers by maintaining the the customer’s presence at a banking ■ The human dimension Fostering continuity of the relationship and operations center. a relationship of trust between the improving the level of service. banker and the customer, and allowing listening and support Network deployment ‎ for the customer's needs at the ‎D uring 2015, the bank continued to highest level; manage its branch network according 5 5 6 Distribution of the 4 21 22 branches of the bank 14 10 22 11 6 6 Central back offices 15 15 20 17 22 22 Business branches 17 14 Boutique branches 246 247 244 249 Hapoalim Express branches Traditional branches 241 245 As part of the process of expansion of the services offered to customers, Express Branches were converted into traditional branches during 2013; these branches therefore appear in the traditional branches category and are not listed separately since 2013. The same applies to Boutique In Israel's open space branches since 2015. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 THE BEST INTERESTS 92-93 OF THE CLIENT help customers get acquainted with the ■ Business branches Specialized range of new products‎.‎ branches have been established exclusively for mid-sized and large T ‎ he digital branches were also designed to business customers, as part of the reduce the use paper. ‎T ‎ hus, for example, Bank Hapoalim branch network, if it is necessary to sign a document, it forming another element of the will be shown to the customer on a tablet service package provided by the computer, allowing a digital signature, and bank's Corporate Banking Area. the signed copy will be sent by email. ‎‎The These branches provide a skilled, bank appointment scheduling app should high-quality service experience save time spent waiting in line, and when across all aspects of routine banking the customer is identified by smartphone activity, offering professional solutions as entering the branch, the bankers will and improving response time and know to approach him and offer him availability to customers. The service service. ‎‎The digital branches will provide offering created by the bank at these all banking services to private customers branches focuses on personal service (except for mortgages), some through customized to customer needs, self-service and other by expert bankers. ‎ full availability including opening ‎The branches also offer customers private hours suited to business clients, rooms for consultancy meetings, during professional service by experts, and which customer can see the financial data updates and initiatives for clients. The that the adviser is mentioning on a large service package was constructed screen in the room. A video call with the based on a comprehensive process bank’s financial advisers can also be made of learning from customers about from the customer’s home. ‎ their needs and expectations. The branch network sets a new standard ‎‎Specializations ‎ for innovative, excellent, proactive ■ ‎Pension advice centers in 2015, service, responsive to each business the bank opened five pension customer's unique needs, and for the advice centers nationwide providing connection of all systems serving the pension advice, as part of the effort client. Another significant change was In Israel's open space to strengthen its customers' financial carried out at the business branches future. ‎‎The centers offer professional in 2014, in which branch managers pension advice;‎ were granted credit authority, so that Poalim Digital – the digital branch‎ ■ High-tech units in 2015, the bank customers can be referred to them ‎In 2015, Bank Hapoalim launched the offering a wide range of new direct banking A ‎ s part of the characterization process choose to go to a bank branch when they established eight high-tech units from the business centers to receive first digital branch in Israel, as part of its transaction that do not currently exist.‎ and construction of the new branches, seek professional financial advice or need to expand the services offered to service. The branches will handle all multichannel service concept, which is the bank carried out a study to obtain to carry out complex banking transactions. start-ups and established technology aspects of credit for the business intended to improve the service experience I‎n contrast to brick-and-mortar branches, an in-depth understanding of the main ‎‎However, in most cases, they expect an companies;‎ clients assigned to them. and make banking services accessible the digital branch is characterized by the advantages that digital customers expect advanced digital environment, which will ■ ‎Foreign resident centers service to customers, giving them a simple and use of digital self-service stations and from their bank branch. ‎T ‎ he main items provide them the banking experience they for foreign residents has been convenient interface with the bank. ‎T ‎ he tablet computers carried by the branch’s found were efficiency, the saving of time, expect. ‎‎On the basis of these needs, concentrated at eight expert centers/ launch was part of Bank Hapoalim’s bankers for paperless banking activity. ‎‎The a stronger human response, and better digital branches were built to support statemain branches to improve the service comprehensive move to be the leader in first branch was opened in Tel Aviv, the banking experience. ‎T ‎ he study also found of-the-art digital systems and an expert offered them and the professionalism Israeli banking in the new digital age by second in Haifa, and the third in Rehovot.‎ that even the most digital customers still banking team which will be available to of the employees in this area;‎ THE BEST INTERESTS 94-95 OF THE CLIENT Promoting accessibility As part of its service philosophy and Over the years, the bank has continually access to a desk, comfortable waiting corporate social responsibility values, and consistently worked on a systemic, seats with armrests and restrooms the bank sees accessibility for disabled integrated accessibilization process, adapted for disabled persons, and more. persons as an essential issue and including physical accessibilization of its An accessible service station is available business obligation, and endeavors to buildings and branches, to customers at each of the accessibilized branches, fulfill every disabled customer's basic as well as employees; technological and offering comprehensive service. These right to receive the full range of its services virtual accessibilization; and adaptation stations are staffed by employees who as independently as possible, or with of its service philosophy to customers can provide service to customers in the full support, while maintaining their dignity. with disabilities. This process has been range of the bank's products and services. Disabilities may involve mobility, vision, conducted based on dialogue with the 226 hearing, cognition, or the weakening of relevant stakeholders and professionals, various functions, as a result of old age or and with the guidance of the Access Israel a permanent or temporary incapacitation. foundation. The bank routinely reviews The bank has the duty to adapt and create relevant legislation and advanced options specialized solutions for various types of available for accessibilization, and strives needs and disabilities, and to customize for improvement and adaptation. services to ensure that customers with disabilities are served in an optimal manner, consistent with the service offered to the Accessibilization at Bank Hapoalim Accessibilization of branches and accessible general public. This duty is grounded both in regulations and in the standards buildings The effort includes a thorough examination branches the bank has set beyond its regulatory of all obstacles and barriers that customers a‎ s of the date this report was obligation it applies to both physical and with disabilities face when entering the written, there are 226 branches virtual service channels. Further to the branch from the street and inside the bank's ongoing activity in the area of branch, and finding solutions for smooth, with the new accessibility accessibility, an orderly plan is in operation continuous movement and accessible standard from NGO Access for gradual implementation of the new service. This begins with wide reserved accessibility regulations, in compliance parking spaces, and continues with Israel. ‎‎These branches have with the timeline established in these ramps to bridge height differences, Step Hear, Call Hear, inductive regulations, including at the branches wide entrances to the branch, sufficient loopsets, and other aids. ‎‎A and buildings of the bank as well as on its space for movement inside the branch, website. This process will be completed appropriate signage, a wheelchairtotal of 84% of the bank’s by November 1, 2017. accessible service station, comfortable branches are accessible As part of its service philosophy and corporate social responsibility values, the bank sees accessibility for disabled persons as an essential issue and business obligation, and endeavors to fulfill every disabled customer's basic right to receive the full range of its services as independently as possible In Israel's open space THE BEST INTERESTS 96-97 OF THE CLIENT All accessible branches have: Accessible service stations Accessible parking or a letter Accessible and Suitable signs pursuant to service accessibility sent by registered mail to convenient entry as required by regulations (an accessible the municipality to prepare (about 70% of branches law station for all banking) accessible parking.‎ are accessible) Every accessible station An elevator, escalator, Call Hear / Step Hear Accessible has an inductive loopset; or lift platform at every system at the branch toilets every branch has several branch where they need accessible stations to be installed In Israel's open space Below are descriptions of the various ■ ‎Induction loopset – a device to improve ■ Accessible ATMs for visually impaired Virtual channels and interfaces The variety of channels and technologies meets the Level II accessibility standard, facilities at branches to help people with the dialogue with an auditory impaired customers a solution that integrates Over time, the bank has worked to integrate makes it possible to overcome limitations complying with all requirements disabilities: ‎ customer, enabling him to hear through an earpiece connected to a socket and enhance technological innovations in on mobility, hearing, or vision, making (approximately 99% of the pages within his hearing aid only the banker providing on the ATM, voice commands to its service offering, to enable customers all of the bank's products and services the website are Level II accessible). ‎T ‎ he ■ ‎S tep Hear a voice-activated him service, without background noise.‎ activate the keyboard in accordance to receive the full range of its services accessible to disabled persons. However, bank plans to make accessible all its navigation system to provide voice with the functions wanted by the and products, at any place and time: accessibilization of service interfaces in websites and apps that are available to direction for the visually impaired, ‎ s of the date this report was written, A customer. ‎I‎nstructions are provided through the call centers, online via desktop these channels for some customers still customers, pursuant to the accessibility helping them find the branch entrance there are Step Hear and Call Hear in four languages: ‎‎Hebrew, English, computer, on smartphones of every presents a challenge, such as in the case standards.‎ door and accessible ATMs; ‎ devices at all accessible bank branches. Russian, and Arabic.‎ kind, on tablets, etc., using convenient, of cognitive, visual, or auditory impairments ‎‎The devices will be standard equipment advanced interfaces. Beyond the benefits (e.g. in a call to a call center representative), ■ Call Hear a device to alert the for all branches that qualify for the to customers and to the environment difficulties using the mouse, keyboard, designated banker at the branch’s new accessibility seal, ‎‎as well as at all due to savings on travel, time, paper or touch screen and clearly identifying accessible station that a visually branches that are renovated. ‎I‎nductive consumption, this approach represents information on the screens. impaired or limited mobility customer Loopsets are installed at all accessible a leap forward in allowing customers with is at the branch entrance; ‎ stations at the branches;‎ disabilities to use banking services in the The bank’s marketing site is accessible way they find most convenient. to users with disabilities. The website THE BEST INTERESTS 98-99 OF THE CLIENT Precentage of Accessible Branches by Geographic Area 300 97% 81% 2% 75% 75% 71% 68% 66% 98% 61% 59% Accessible ATMs 42% a‎ s of the date this report was Accessible ATM's written, there are more than Percentage of branches with accessible ATMs 300 accessible ATMs Northern Haifa The Sharon Tel Aviv Central Southern The Negev Jerusalem the business Head Area Area Area Area Area division Office Percentage of branches without accessible ATMs at 98% of the branches A page on the bank's portal aggregates provide them with suitable and adequate manages his account or a banker at Examining Achievement of Objectives all of the information on accessibility services. ‎The tutorial is mandatory for all Poalim by Telephone, and ask them LOOKING 2015 Objectives Status AHEAD at the bank's buildings, as well as bank employees.‎ to read the email out loud; ‎ basic guidelines for serving people 194 branches of the bank (including Completed. 226 branches have with disabilities, information regarding T ‎ he bank makes available to customers ■ ‎Translation into sign language it regional administrations), or about been turned accessible. accessibility on the bank's website, and an the option of accessing information in is possible to schedule a meeting at 70% of the total, are planned to be explanation on ways of serving people with accordance with their requests and needs:‎ the branch with a translator into sign There will be approximately 270 accessible accessible by the end of 2015; various disabilities, such as visual, hearing, ■ ‎R eading aloud of forms at the language for complex financial matters branches in 2016, 83% of all of the bank’s or cognitive impairments, during routine customer’s request, a branch banker that require lengthy discussion. ‎ branches (including headquarters and business centers) 234 buildings of the bank, or about Completed. Over 226 structures operations. ‎‎News and procedures related will read aloud the relevant forms. ‎ 70% of the total, are planned to be have been turned accessible, but to the accessibility of buildings and of ‎Audio files of long forms, such as the ■ ‎Accessible printing at the customer’s accessible by the end of 2015. because of reduction in branches, service were communicated to employees form for opening an account, have been request, forms will be provided in they stand for 70% of the bank during 2015. ‎‎Employees have undergone uploaded onto the bank’s website;‎ accessible print or Braille, in coordination structures. personal and computerized training on with the branch that manages his/her providing service to people with disabilities. ■ ‎Email accessibility if a customer account.‎ ‎‎The bank has prepared a tutorial to help cannot read an email sent by the bank, better understand customer needs and he/she can contact the branch which THE BEST INTERESTS 100-101 OF THE CLIENT Adaptation of Self-Service Stations for Additional Uses ATMs offer cash withdrawals, balance inquiries, cash and check deposits, payments into certain deposits, and more, and are widely and extensively 584 ATMs Envelope-free cash deposits: During the year, approximately 30 older distributed throughout Israel. The The bank has the most ATMs were replaced and bank's relative share of total ATMs in Israel is greater than its market share in extensive distribution of new 20 ATM's were added. the Israeli banking sector. The ATMs' ATMs in the Israeli banking The new ATM's allow interfaces in four languages Hebrew, system, with 584 ATMs direct deposits of cash into Arabic, English, and Russian. 497 at the bank's branches accounts, without the need In Israel's open space and 87 in Customer Courts to use an envelope Hapoalim Self Distribution of self-service devices Service Self-service transactions as a percentage of total transactions The self-service stations (ATMs), 72 Cash deposites Check deposites Cash withdrawls 140 211 available throughout Israel, operate independently of branch opening 184 118 93% hours and allow customers 100% to execute a wide range of 231 606 72% 74% transactions at their convenience. 614 635 Self-service stations save time, 574 605 2015 hassle, and resources, and enable 528 the bank to provide better, more 87 2014 50% advanced service. Customers are 108 105 87 2013 increasingly using the self-service 86 88 2012 channels to perform transactions previously conducted through 2011 bankers. Starting in 2010, funds 478 486 482 474 497 0% 453 Adcan machines can be deposited for third parties 2010 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Check deposite and into savings plans through these stations. ATMs in Customer Courts 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 ATMs in bank courts THE BEST INTERESTS 102-103 OF THE CLIENT Developing products and services to promote environmental sustainability 6.63 Mankind is at a critical crossroads due product manufacturing processes; financial planning and management, in to the ever-expanding gap between Incentivization and acceleration of order to promote its customers' economic supply and demand. Most environmental groundbreaking technological innovation in sustainability. In addition to its internal The bank has set a strategic resources are being used faster than they the energy industry; Creation of sustainable environmental efforts, the bank has set can be renewed in nature, and meanwhile consumption patterns and consumer a strategic objective of being a leader in objective of being a leader in offering increased consumption of nonrenewable behavior in line with sustainability values; offering financing solutions to its clients NIS financing solutions to its clients for resources (such as fossil fuels, metals, Water: management, transport, recovery, for projects that promote environmental and more) is causing severe shortages. In societal terms, the world's population is purification, and desalination; Rising of the challenging of producing and supplying concerns: renewable energy (solar thermal energy, photovoltaic energy, geothermal billion projects that promote environmental concerns: renewable energy (solar growing and developing, adopting wasteful food to a growing population while reducing energy, pumped storage, cogeneration As of the end of 2015, the thermal energy, photovoltaic energy, consumption patterns, and creating wastage in the process, and more. stations, wind turbines, transition to natural an even greater strain on the existing gas etc.), energy efficiency, water and more. bank has granted credit in a geothermal energy, pumped energy resources. These and other trends call Bank Hapoalim recognizes the strategic The new activity follows the accumulation cumulative amount of NIS storage, cogeneration stations, wind for a worldwide systemic change, based inevitability of the necessary change, of the necessary professional knowledge 6.63 billion for environmental turbines, transition to natural gas etc.), on several strategic activities: and the resulting opportunities. Action is and an in-depth examination of goals and therefore being taken on all levels of the consequences. projects and products. energy efficiency, water, and more. Development and implementation of activity, both internally and externally. In resource-efficient business processes, its outward-oriented activities, the bank including in the areas of reuse and is working to impart knowledge to its recycling; Emphasis on highly efficient customers and offer tools for responsible Breakdown of credit for environmental products 17.6% Solar energy 11.6% 10.8% Green building Thermosolar power stations 22.2% 6.8% Desalination Water purification 2. 8% t ur bines wind .8% ion using il i t ie s 0 t c oduc en t f a r gy pr t e t r eat m 0. 5% 26.3% E n e W a s ciency Power stations Energy effi 0.4% fueled by gas wer station Biogas fueled po Cogeneration stations 0.2% In Israel's open space THE BEST INTERESTS 104-105 OF THE CLIENT Promoting wind energy ■ ‎P romoting Israel’s solar energy Public Utilities Authority – Electricity. ‎‎ power to Israel Electric Corporation. The ■ ‎Desalination Bank Hapoalim is the the Hiriya landfill outside Tel Aviv. RDF The bank financed Israel’s first wind industry Bank Hapoalim has joined Construction of the 3.15 million sq.m. bank is also financing the 140 megawatt lead financing institution for desalination is solid fuel made from waste, which energy project a 21-megawatt farm at forces to promote the new solar energy Ashalim solar power station in the Negev combined cycle cogeneration natural plants, financing approximately 80% is used as fuel in cement production Ramat Sirin and Ma’aleh Gilboa. ‎‎The bank industry by taking an entrepreneurial began in 2015, ‎‎and half of the project gas and diesel power station, next to of Israel’s desalination industry. T ‎ he at Nesher Cement Enterprises. ‎‎The was also appointed to lead the financing approach and becoming an active was completed by the end of the year; ‎‎ the Soreq desalination plant, and the bank led the financing for ‎‎the Derech facility will treat around 1,500 tons of the 102-megawatt Emek Habacha partner in giving the industry a push. ‎ ■ ‎N atural gas power stations 120 megawatt natural gas Nesharim Hayam Desalination plant at Palmachim of domestic waste a day, about half wind farm project, and ‎‎ it is in talks with The bank continues to provide financing Bank Hapoalim is the largest credit power station at the Nesher cement and its expansion and the Ashdod the waste dumped at Hiriya, ‎‎which top developers in the industry to draw solutions for the solar energy industry aggregator for the 840 megawatt Dorad factory in Ramla; ‎‎ Desalination plant, ‎‎and was a partner is converted into 500 tons of RDF a up a financing package for additional for all customer segments on the basis independent natural gas power station, in the syndicate financing the Hadera day. ‎‎To maximize recycling, advanced wind farms.‎‎ of the arrangements published by the built south of Ashkelon, ‎which delivers and Soreq desalination plants; separation technology will be used to ■ ‎Green construction Bank Hapoalim is separate organic waste from dry and financing numerous green construction commercial waste;‎‎ projects nationwide;‎ ■ ‎Water purification Bank Hapoalim is ■ ‎Waste treatment plants Bank financing several companies operating H a p o a l i m i s fi n a n c i n g s e v e r a l wastewater purification facilities. Most companies that operate responsible of the treated wastewater is used for waste treatment facilities (sorting, agriculture; ‎ separation, and recycling). ‎A sorting ■ ‎Energy efficiency Bank Hapoalim and separation and refuse derived fuel is a partner in the financing of several (RDF) production facility was built at energy efficiency companies.‎ Biogas power stations ‎‎ Bank Hapoalim is involved in the financing of two biogas power stations at Beer Tuvia and the Hadera Paper factory. ‎‎Biogas is produced from digestion or anaerobic (oxygen free) fermentation of organic materials, such as ‎‎ kitchen waste, animal waste, municipal waste, pruned tree waste, agricultural residuals, and sewage. ‎‎Biogas mainly consists of methane and carbon dioxide. ‎‎ Methane is a natural colorless and odorless flammable organic compound that is a major component of natural gas. ‎‎Biogas power stations are small, usually between 600 kilowatts and 5 megawatts. ‎‎ Pursuant to the biogas power stations arrangements of the Public Utilities Authority – Electricity, Israel Electric Corporation is committed to purchasing the entire output of the power station 24-hours a day for 20 years from the start of operations and obtaining a permanent license. ‎‎ LOOKING The bank intends to continue to examine financing solutions in the areas described AHEAD above, including the transition of the Israeli economy to the use of natural gas and financing for Israeli institutions and operators in this industry. In Israel's open space THE BEST INTERESTS 106-107 OF THE CLIENT Examining environmental risks in financing Pursuant to the directives of the Supervisor Risk Management thresholds; procedures for transaction of Banks regarding exposure to and approval processes; and control systems. management of environmental risks, Bank Method of the Bank The bank has approved a model for Hapoalim established a working committee Group environmental risk management in to formulate recommendations regarding financing. The model links the various environmental risk management policies Risk management at the bank is performed environmental risks, as defined by the and methodologies. The committee enlisted based on a global view of its activity in Supervisor of Banks, to the business the assistance of external specialists and Israel and of its branches abroad, with sectors to which the bank's clients belong. examined existing methodologies at banks due attention to the activity of banking The model, which is based on equalization elsewhere in the world. subsidiaries. Risks are managed separately principles, categorizes different sectors by each banking subsidiary in the group, of economic activity by risk level (high, Methodology for according to policy formulated by each intermediate, low). The bank is assisted by Management of company’s board of directors and an environmental consultant, as necessary, presented to the board of directors and to analyze environmental risks in specific Environmental Risks to the Bank. Some risks are hedged during credit applications. in Financing risk management. Financial and operational risk assessment and control are performed All of the relevant personnel of the bank The objective of the environmental risk based on a uniform methodology at the were given training in this area (a total of management system is to identify, specify, level of the group, with guidance from 100 senior-level employees, including and manage environmental risks in its the risk management area, taking into customer relationship managers). The key areas of activity, based on a uniform, consideration the unique characteristics bank's system for the management of approved methodology, in accordance of each subsidiary's activities. environmental risks in financing is applied with the following principles: to all infrastructure projects and realEven before a general policy had been estate projects over NIS 50 million, and to In Israel's open space ■ Management of environmental risks from formulated, the bank began to apply credit above NIS 200 million. This activity the perspective of the overall exposure environmental risk management processes continued in 2015. of the bank to each specific risk; when financing major infrastructure projects. ■ Management of credit risks through assessment and management of the A prerequisite for specific financing of such projects is an examination of the project’s Business continuity exposure to environmental risk in the impact on the environment. Clients are In 2015, the bank In order to protect the bank's business emergencies, and update action plans it the first bank in Israel to obtain this corporate credit portfolio, assessment required to prepare an environmental examined and analyzed continuity and survivability in the event of based on globally prevalent methodologies. certification. The certification followed of environmental risk and its effect on survey, which is examined for the bank a disaster or malfunction, in accordance comprehensive tests conducted by the credit risk in new credit applications by an external consultant. The consultant the environmental risk of with the Bank of Israel's Directive 355, In addition, the bank conducts annual Israel Standards Institute at the business that meet predefined criteria, and ensures that the project complies with all credit totaling Business Continuity, and Directive 357, emergency drills covering both operational continuity management unit, with the management and monitoring of of the requirements set forth in the permits approximately NIS 124 Information Technology Management, the scenarios and complex business full participation of all areas of the bank. exposure to environmental risk at the granted by government agencies. bank maintains continual preparedness scenarios, with the participation of the Concurrently with the improvement and level of the overall credit portfolio and billion (a rate of based on detailed action plans, working various units, from the level of branches, upgrade of its emergency preparedness in at the individual level; The bank's system of environmental 46% of the bank procedures, and periodic drills, as specified administrations, units, and divisions to Israel, the business continuity plans of the ■ Management of market risks managing risk management in financing currently in the system of emergency procedures. the level of the board of management bank's subsidiaries in and outside Israel exposure to environmental risks in encompasses the organizational analyzed relevant credit of the bank. and of its overseas branches have also direct investments by the bank (in the components necessary for efficient requests) As part of its emergency preparedness, been adapted. The bank continually works proprietary portfolio and in general); and effective management in this area, the bank performed a lateral process T h e b a n k's b u s i n e s s c o n ti n u i t y to improve its emergency preparedness ■ Management of operational risks including a policy formulated and approved to establish policies, define reference management system was approved by system, in order to address deficiencies, adapting operational systems to at the level of the board of directors; scenarios, map and analyze critical the Israel Standards Institute, in 2014, as including physical flaws and issues with regulatory changes on environmental organizational structure; a model for the processes and the resources required conforming with the requirements of the information systems and human resources, matters. classification of the risks, including control to ensure such processes during international standard ISO 2230, making resulting from various scenarios. THE BEST INTERESTS 108-109 OF THE CLIENT POALIM FOR THE COMMUNITY The economic impact of the bank reaches ■ Continual volunteering by employees Influencing beyond its direct positive value, which is of the bank; primarily aimed at its shareholders and ■ Donations and sponsorships. Through the State and investors; it also takes the form of taxes, all of these activities, the bank expands local procurement, and employment. In its sphere of influence and promotes Society of Israel addition to its routine business, the bank social and environmental values in considers itself an integral part of the society and in the community. As Israel’s largest bank, Bank Hapoalim community, and is committed to advancing is a powerful economic institution with and empowering the community. The Economic Impacts a strong influence on Israel’s economy practical expression of this philosophy is The direct economic impacts of and society. This section of the report the bank’s community investments, on a the bank are reflected in its annual reviews the broad economic impact of number of dimensions: earnings, as well as in its contribution Bank Hapoalim, and describes its added ■ A range of community activities, based to the national economy through taxes, value and its extensive efforts devoted to on dialogue and collaborations with local procurement, employment, and promoting Israeli society and communities. organizations in every sector of society; community donations. The following table presents key data regarding the bank’s financial performance and the added value it generates (based on the bank’s consolidated financial statements, in millions of NIS): 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 In Israel's open space Profit from financing activities 7,496 7,884 8,415 8,423 8,684 8,929 Total income (financing profit + 12,827 13,083 13,637 13,664 14,022 14,362 operating income) As Israel’s largest bank, Bank Hapoalim is a Operating costs 8,333 8,410 8,886 9,024 9,140 8,790 powerful economic institution with a strong Wages and related expenses 4,709 4,847 5,130 5,434 5,300 4,934 Donations and investments in the community 44 47 48 46 47 43 influence on Israel’s economy and society. The economic impact of the bank reaches beyond its Shareholders’ equity 22,406 23,662 26,561 28,834 31,361 33,032 direct positive value, which is primarily aimed at Dividends paid to shareholders of the bank 270 276 448 569 its shareholders and investors; it also takes the Interest to debt or bond holders 1,627 1,956 1,925 2,065 1,361 1,058 form of taxes, local procurement, employment Provision for taxes (tax benefit) on operating profit 1,328 792 1,230 1,271 1,729 2,097 and empowering the community Provision for doubtful debts 1,030 1,202 987 874 425 475 EMPOWERING SOCIETY AND 112-113 THE COMMUNITY 10.79 The following table describes the financial 267 added value of the bank, which includes gross wages (including related items), taxes, earnings, and more (in millions of NIS). This value reflects Bank Hapoalim the bank’s contribution to the Israeli economy, as a large organization in economic interaction billion $ maintains a network of with many stakeholders (employees, suppliers, 267 branches (as of the The total economic value that was the community, government agencies, etc.). end of 2015), distributed Bank Hapoalim pays state and municipal restored to the various stakeholders of taxes, and receives no financial assistance or support from the state. the bank, stood at $10.79 billion brunches throughout Israel. 30% Economic value of the Bank Hapoalim Group, in NIS millions Breakdown 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 are located in National Economic value created by Total income (including extraordinary 12,827 13,088 13,637 13,664 14,022 14,362 Priority Areas, and the group income) approximately 35% Economic value distributed Operating and other expenses 7,654 7,735 8,174 8,350 8,502 8,129 of the branches are to stakeholders by the (including municipal tax; excluding group (operating and other expenses plus depreciation) Wages and related expenses of the outside the Gedera-toHadera central region brunches provisions for taxes and 4,709 4,847 5,130 5,434 5,300 4,934 (within operating and other expenses) dividends) (as of the end of 2015) Donations and sponsorships (within operating and other expenses) 44 47 48 46 47 43 Provision for taxes (tax benefit) 1,328 792 1,230 1,271 1,729 2,097 Dividends declared 0 270 276 448 569 A Nationwide Employer Total 7 8,982 8,527 9,404 9,621 10,231 10,795 Bank Hapoalim maintains a network of 267 branches. Consequently, the bank employs and the other, for reasons including social branches (as of the end of 2015), distributed an equal proportion of residents from responsibility considerations, is in the Economic value Difference between the group’s 3,845 4,556 4,233 4,043 3,791 3,567 throughout Israel. About 30% of the branches peripheral and central regions. northern town of Nesher. The central back retained income and its operating and are located in National Priority Areas, and office (Matab) is located outside Tel Aviv, other expenses, provisions for approximately 35% of the branches are Bank Hapoalim operates two call centers in the Beit Dagan area. The central back taxes, and dividends outside the Gedera-to-Hadera central and a central back office, which provide office in Beit Dagan also operates through * Of expenses, in the component of salary expenses, the bank paid the state a total of NIS 736.8 million in taxes on wages and employer contributions in 2015. region. Branch employees and managers approximately 1,500 jobs. One of the call regional offices throughout Israel, located In addition, the component paid by employees to the state out of their wages totaled NIS 751.6 million (income tax on employees' wages and deductions from usually reside in the vicinity of the branch. centers is located in central Israel, at the in Beer Sheba, Nesher, Givat Olga, Hatzor employees' wages). This component contributes to the economy through the direct payment of income tax as well as through employees' demand and expenses. The sum of both amounts is NIS 1.48 billion. This is in addition to corporation tax paid by the bank in 2015, in the amount of NIS 2.09 billion. In 2015, the Bank Recruitment procedures are identical for all industrial zone in the Azor Regional Council, Haglilit, and Jerusalem. paid property taxes for its buildings throughout the country, the amount stood at NIS 242 million. 7. G4-22 – In previous reports, the bank reported dividends declared. Beginning with the current report, the bank reports actual “dividends paid”; this figure is therefore included in the total economic value paid by the bank to stakeholders (in contrast to the “dividends declared” figure, which was not included in this amount). The change also affects data regarding the economic value distributed by the group, and consequently also data regarding the economic value retained. These are restated retrospectively in this report, for the relevant years in which dividends were distributed by the bank. EMPOWERING SOCIETY AND 114-115 THE COMMUNITY 93% Approximately Responsible Supply Chain Breakdown of Bank Hapoalim procurment in 2015 (financial expenditure) Management Profile of the Bank's Supply Chain The operational activity of Bank Hapoalim, suppliers of varying sizes (large, midof procurement as a banking organization, is based on sized, small, and micro businesses), 29% a supply chain that consists of a pool operating throughout Israel and in Construction,real estate, 17% and maintenance of buildings Human resources, of suppliers of goods and services, additional countries. Approximately 93% professional services, and properties at Bank Hapoalim is comprising thousands of companies in of procurement at Bank Hapoalim is from and consulting 12% the areas of logistics, technology, and suppliers who are located in Israel and from suppliers who are consulting. Contractual engagements employ workers here. Other located in Israel and were executed with approximately 1,100 suppliers from this pool during 31% employ workers here 2015. The bank's supplier pool contains Technology and 7% communications d e li ve ry d s e c u re p in g ,a n o n ,s h ip Tra n s p o rt a ti Office supplies,prindng,and mailing 4% The five main categories in the bank's information services, professional literature, of the purchased items; separation of supply chain, which in aggregate account and more. Procurement in each of the authority is practiced in the critical stages for 88% of its total annual procurement, are: additional groups does not exceed 4% of the procurement process (such as of the total procurement volume. establishing demand, selecting suppliers, 1.C onstr uction, re al e state, and and payment); authorizations are set up maintenance of buildings and properties; Procurement at Bank Hapoalim is on the bank’s information systems; and 2. Projects, acquisition, and maintenance managed by the corporate procurement information and decisions in each stage of technological and telecommunication unit, which serves as the integrative of the process are documented on these infrastructures; administrator of all procurement activities systems, which based on advanced 3. Human resources, professional services, and manages interfaces with the bank’s technology (ERP). All of these practices and consulting; supply chain. The complete procurement are aimed at improving the efficiency and 4. Transportation, shipping, and secure process consists of the following stages: quality of procurement management, deliveries; specification of requirements, publication allowing control and conclusions, and 5. Office necessities, printing, and mailing. of a call for bids, examination of bids and preventing conflicts of interest. selection of winners, execution of the In addition to these five categories, contractual engagement, and payment additional purchasing groups are of suppliers. The process is defined, aggregated under the category others, uniform, and orderly; clear parameters such as advertising and sales promotion, are established to examine the quality In Israel's open space EMPOWERING SOCIETY AND 116-117 THE COMMUNITY Responsible Procurement As part of a comprehensive philosophy of corporate responsibility, the bank is in advanced stages of the implementation of a formalized plan for embedding corporate responsibility within purchasing operations. The goal of this plan is to expand the approach to third-party risk management in allocating the bank's resources, and to act according to norms for responsible conduct in the areas of fair and equitable employment, fair business practices, protection of the environment, and promotion of opportunities in the area of green purchasing. The bank communicates this purchasing approach to its suppliers, and encourages them to adopt the same norms. The plan is based on an in-depth analysis of the purchasing patterns and characteristics of suppliers of the bank, and is being implemented according to the responsible purchasing policy. This policy establishes the following principles and guidelines for the management of supplier relationships: In Israel's open space The bank is in advanced stages of the implementation of a formalized plan for embedding corporate responsibility within purchasing operations. The goal of this Promotion Transparency Mitigation and Fairness and Nurturing Partnership Dialogue and plan is to expand the approach to third-party risk management in allocating the of small and prevention of protection of long-term and creation of bank's resources, and to act according to norms for responsible conduct in the peripherally environmental human rights relationships reciprocity shared value located damage areas of fair and equitable employment, fair business practices, protection of the businesses environment, and promotion of opportunities in the area of green purchasing The implementation of the policy was adapted to the customary practice at the bank in contractual engagements and to the Basic Rules for Suppliers' Conduct in 2014, the rules have been enclosed specific requirements applicable to certain nature of the different suppliers: In 2013, the bank formulated basic rules with every contract of the bank and are suppliers, according to area of activity, a for the conduct of suppliers in contractual proactively distributed to the entire group process was planned and infrastructures Responsible procurement policy engagements with the bank. The rules are of suppliers from time to time. were set up for the inclusion of a corporate based on the values in the bank's vision responsibility appendix when beginning Mandatory and on norms detailed in the bank's ethical Embedding CSR Principles in a relationship with a new supplier. In Voluntary code of conduct. The basic rules are Supplier Agreements addition, a process was initiated to apply Mandatory criteria adapted Mandatory criteria for all Preference criteria (additional quality designed to clearly and simply elucidate Following the formulation of a list of corporate responsibility performance to the unique nature of each suppliers (required norms of parameters) used to evaluate bids in the bank's expectations with regard to the general requirements applicable to all criteria to relevant suppliers bidding in an conduct of the suppliers with which it has suppliers (also presented in the CSR RFQ process. procurement category responsible conduct) significant contracts working relationships. Further, beginning section of the bank's website) and a list of EMPOWERING SOCIETY AND 118-119 THE COMMUNITY Promoting Small Businesses in the are clients of the bank were mapped. The bank proactively contacted these photography shops, advertising firms, production studios, and more. During 2015, the Purchasing Division worked to raise Supply Chain Bank Hapoalim recognizes the importance businesses, and posted a survey on its website targeted to them, in order to In practice, approximately 15% of the awareness of the inclusion of corporate responsibility bank's purchasing in 2015 was from small of small businesses to the progress of the Israeli economy, and promotes these promote consumption from the suppliers through special offers for employees of and micro-businesses; they constitute considerations in purchasing, within and outside the bank approximately 50% of all of the suppliers businesses in its procurement processes. the bank. Businesses participating in this engaged by the bank in 2015. The bank engages small suppliers when project include restaurants, clothes shops, possible, in view of its size and nationwide integration of people with disabilities, and policy was publicized on the bank's Green Procurement reach. The Purchasing Division helps the more. When possible, the bank also grants website, in Hebrew and English. One of the In 2015, as in previous years, the bank bank connect small suppliers, who may not be clients or suppliers of the bank, As part of the assistance provided continued to examine alternatives for precedence to socially conscious suppliers in procurement gift baskets and flower subjects raised during visits to suppliers is the supplier's social contribution and environmental procurement of products with other suppliers, due to its extensive purchasing activities. to small businesses in 2015, the such as envelopes, wood-free paper, bouquets for its employees and clients. The activity with the suppliers continued involvement. double-sided printers, recycled toner As part of the assistance provided to small businesses in 2015, the Purchasing Purchasing Division participated in cartridges made in Israel, LED lights, etc. on the basis of this database during 2015. Promotion of Professional Knowledge for Suppliers of Division participated in the bank's drive to support small and micro-suppliers in the bank's drive to support small Empowerment of Socially Conscious Suppliers Raising Awareness of Responsible Purchasing the Bank In the course of their routine work with the area affected by construction work on the light rail system in Tel Aviv. Within and micro-suppliers in the area During 2014, the bank built up a pool of During 2015, the Purchasing Division suppliers, the bank's purchasing staff social suppliers who organize activity days worked to raise awareness of the inclusion imparts professional knowledge to the bank's Small Businesses Project, in collaboration with the CEO's office, affected by construction work on to promote team spirit, for various units of of corporate responsibility considerations the suppliers in areas such as internal the bank. This list mainly consists of small in purchasing, within and outside the improvements in efficiency, cost savings, the Retail Banking Area, the Purchasing Division, and the Employee Union, the light rail system in Tel Aviv businesses from central and northern Israel bank. As part of this process, a video and more. Purchasing staff members also whose activity embodies social values about purchasing was produced and give talks on responsible purchasing for approximately 8,000 small businesses and content, such as employment of atdistributed to the employees of the bank, various stakeholders (suppliers, non-profit in the light rail construction zone that risk youth, assistance to people in need, and the bank's responsible purchasing organizations, etc.). Breakdown of Procurement extent Breakdown of the bank's suppliers (by size of business) (by size of business) 11.1% 85.5% 3.4% 20% 32% 48% Micro Small Large Micro Small Large EMPOWERING SOCIETY AND 120-121 THE COMMUNITY Protecting the Rights of Contractor Employees Working on the Premises of the Bank To supply its needs, the bank enters into 2011, based on the existing processes at agreements with various contractors for the bank, the infrastructure was adjusted to the provision of security, cleaning, and the provisions of the law, which took effect cafeteria services, through employees of the in June 2012. This move included updates contractor who are assigned to the bank. of the bank's procurement contracts, the In order to ensure the protection of these establishment of a system for inquiries by workers’ rights, the agreements between contractor employees at the bank's human the bank and the contractors stipulate the resources division, and the appointment obligation of the contractors to provide the of a supervisor responsible for ensuring following to their employees, among other the protection of the employees' rights matters: minimum wage, and all other rights and response to their inquiries during their granted to workers in Israel under the labor employment on bank premises. laws; social benefits; prevention of harmful employee turnover, and due disclosure to As part of its efforts in this area, the bank their rights. This infrastructure was created collaborates with Hilan, which monitors in order to prevent harmful employment, the terms of payment by suppliers to their and has been in place at the bank for years employees. During 2015, controls were as part of its CSR approach. applied by Hilan at all of the employment contractor companies engaged by the In 2012, with the implementation of the Law bank (ten suppliers). for Increased Enforcement of Labor Laws, In Israel's open space 21 Processing requests Ethical Code for External from external contractor Contractor Employees employees Within the process of instilling social responsibility, Examining Achievement of Objectives the bank formulated an ethical code adapted for external contractor employees who work on 2015 Objectives Status LOOKING its premises in the areas of security, cafeteria enquiries services, and cleaning. The content of the code The process of integrating mandator y Completed AHEAD is communicated to all contractor employees requirements into contracts with the bank's 73 employed at the bank's facilities. These employees suppliers will continue in 2015; of external contractor 64 receive and read the code, and sign the code A pilot project for the integration of voluntary Completed document. The bank receives a report of the employees were completion of this process from the company In 2016, the bank will add criteria in a significant RFQ will be completed a corporate responsibility during 2015. After drawing conclusions and employing the workers, signed by the general processed using the 21 manager of the company. The content of the appendix to the process of examining the implementation of the process A decision was made to setting up a relationship with in this RFQ, a decision will be made regarding include social responsibility Human Resources code is distributed in Hebrew, Russian, Arabic, and Amharic. As of 2011, all new and existing a new supplier. the method of laterally integrating these criteria criteria in major RFQs, where relevant. Division system suppliers are required to communicate the content into RFQs. of the new code, annually, to every employee during 2015 2013 2014 2015 they assign to the bank. EMPOWERING SOCIETY AND 122-123 THE COMMUNITY ‎ xpansion of the Bank's Sphere of E Influence in Israeli Society ‎ T ‎ he forum was attended by representatives I‎n its efforts to promote sustainability and changes that occur upon retirement NGOs and businesses), which engage Beyond the financial aspects it promotes CSR values, the bank works to expand its (reduced revenues, change in expenses in a variety of issues, such as:‎ of local authorities, the Local Government sphere of influence to Israeli society and that vary according to the needs, the need Center, the Joint Distribution Committee, for this population, the bank helps senior ■ ‎Third age employment and encouraging the public arena ‎‎by implementing social to live an active life alongside concern for entrepreneurship in this sector; ‎ Israel Association of Community Centers, citizens meet their (non-financial aspects businesses addressing senior citizens and environmental values in ever-widening the long term and support of the family as a target audience, academia and of) social challenges.‎T ‎ his is part of the circles. ‎‎The bank is guided by two essential all result in a new set of considerations).‎ ■ Preventing falls in the fourth age (the principles: ‎‎dialogue, and the creation ‎Beyond the financial aspects it promotes fourth age is the period in which health government agencies, NGOs working Bank's comprehensive view of its role in of shared value. T ‎ he bank conducts for this population (listed in detail in the begins to deteriorate);‎ in various areas concerning senior promoting solutions for this population dialogue with stakeholders in order to Customers chapter of this report), the citizens, representatives of the corporate understand their needs, provide accurate bank helps senior citizens meet their (non■ ‎Preventive health in the third and fourth responsibility community, professionals through various initiatives in the public ages;‎ and appropriate solutions, and optimize financial aspects of) social challenges.‎‎This and entrepreneurs in the field. A ‎ s part of sphere which pose a challenge on the ■ ‎In-home services for fourth-age senior the forum, a roundtable discussion was its activity, with the aim of influencing a is part of the Bank's comprehensive view citizens; ‎ national level as well wide variety of population groups within of its role in promoting solutions for this held on the main issues preoccupying this Israeli society and contributing to the population through various initiatives in the population.‎‎The forum held a discussion ■ ‎Promoting business initiatives for the public good. Based‎‎ on this dialogue, public sphere designed to promote senior on mapping the key challenges in these senior citizen market; ‎ the bank has initiated a broad range of citizens' quality of life and their bond with contexts.‎ ■ Raising awareness to the needs of programs and projects, with inter-sector their families. It also stems out of a desire caregivers (family members caring for collaboration, to promote various causes to address newly created social issues in Israeli society and create shared value which pose a challenge on the national the elderly) in the third age; ‎ Promoting employment the senior citizen sector for the bank and for stakeholders in the level as well. ‎ ■ ‎Reducing the digital barrier among social, environmental, and economical senior citizens.‎ R ‎ etirement marks a milestone in one's The challenges regarding retirees' workload; need for recognition and spheres. ‎‎Selected initiatives of the bank ‎ he initiatives promoted by the bank T career.‎‎When reaching retirement age, employment are varied:‎ a sense of community; difficulty in in 2015 are described below.‎ in the public sphere are designed to The following are the key initiatives the they are discharged from the employment coping with the experience of being raise awareness and provide practical bank is promoting in this area: market.‎‎Many are discharged involuntarily, ■ On the demand side:‎‎ Employers screened when absorbed into the labor Activity for senior solutions to social challenges faced by and a significant portion would like who do not believe in the abilities of market; dealing with prejudice by some Dialogue with stakeholders citizens in the public this population.‎ ‎T he bank's anchors Senior Citizens Forum‎ to continue working.‎ ‎F or retirees, pensioners to be relevant ; fear of employers.‎ for consolidating its initiatives in the employment is much more than a place employing senior citizens (issues of domain ‎ public sphere are derived from serving I‎n 2015, the bank held a meeting with of work (an extra source of income, rights, legislation, etc.); fear that retirees The bank's approach to addressing the A ‎ s part of a Bank Hapoalim's strategic move as a major roll in the economy, its large numerous stakeholders as part of its a sense of belonging, meaning and will replace the younger generation challenges inherent in promoting senior to promote the senior citizen population market share in the senior citizen sector, activities in the public sphere aimed at self-determination, involvement in the and a sense of obligation towards a citizens' employment is innovative.‎T ‎ he in Israel, the bank launched a package its business activity with this population promoting selected issues for the benefit community, creating social circles).‎ generation whose career is still ahead; prevailing attitude of most professional of unique services and products in line and its relationships with a variety of of the senior citizen population in order ‎Beyond the personal benefit for retirees, employers' expectation to pay retirees entities in this field focuses on the supply with the challenges facing this population.‎ businesses and stakeholders, as well to improve the quality of life for people their work also contributes to the economy significantly lower wages. ‎ side (in an attempt to produce names of ‎Based on the bank's perception of its as its business capabilities.‎‎The bank's in the third and fourth age (and for their as a whole they become productive and, retiree candidates for potential jobs in role as supporting customers in various activities are carried out in collaboration relative-caregivers) while benefitting the at the same time, can create demand in ■ On the supply side:‎‎The desire for existing work places).‎T ‎ he bank examined financial life milestones, and in line with with a variety of entities (associations, entire economy.‎ various markets.‎ flexible work in terms of hours and the issue and found that there are few work EMPOWERING SOCIETY AND 124-125 THE COMMUNITY places that are able to offer a significant ‎ elow is an outline of the initiatives and B ‎ he project currently operates in the Hod T entrepreneurial program, five projects were different needs at this age is the medical ‎ ccording to market analysis carried out by A number of jobs to retirees.‎A ‎ s a result, projects by target market:‎ Hasharon and Kfar Saba area as a local pilot selected for further activity.‎‎These ventures field, including the paramedical field.‎A ‎ t the the bank, it seems that there is significant the projects promoted by the bank (in experiment; if it develops, it will be expanded advanced into the incubator stage.‎ same time, there are many retirees who information on the subject, but it's not collaboration with its partners) attempt The household market to other areas.‎‎After an initial period of several ‎This stage allows to provide continued have worked in these fields their entire sufficiently accessible to the public it is to address the employment of retirees The Senior Venture ‎ months, dozens of retirees have already been individual support to entrepreneurs, in lives, and have the necessary professional inconvenient, cumbersome, and does not by creating a relevant market:‎C ‎ reating The project is designed to create a assigned jobs at households, which were order to launch the product / service in skills but are now outside the labor force.‎ support the natural process of searching new demand, exposing latent demand market environment which encourages found to be in demand for such services.‎ its respective area.‎A ‎ t this stage, they ‎In order to address these two aspects, the for information.‎T ‎ hus, caregivers have n ‎o and needs.‎T ‎ hese new markets will serve (currently) latent demand for services received further guidance, which was bank is examining the idea currently in clear and focused real time information as for specialized employment for retirees.‎ among households (services which require Creating self-employment resourcesbased on a combination of practical its initial stages of matching the needs to the individual problem they face.‎ ‎A s part of this approach, emphasis such flexibility that they are unsuitable encouraging micro-enterprise at group work and individual support.‎O ‎ ut of of the elderly with professional retirees in is placed on a community model of for regular service providers for whom retirement age ‎ these five participants, four have launched the same community who can provide ‎ he bank, in cooperation with NGO T employment and activities, on fair pay, on this is a main source of income) and ‎This is a special-purpose initiative designed active businesses.‎‎The four businesses them with in-home paramedical services.‎ Caregivers, is initiating a proactive solution a supportive environment for retirees and to match that demand with a database to promote capabilities and skills of senior received additional individual guidance, in the form of an online database containing on understanding their specialized needs, of retirees qualified to provide services citizens and help them offer products and which mainly includes marketing support Preventing Falls Among the Elderly‎ information on all aspects relevant to relativeas compared with standard businesses (after they have undergone a professional services to market and sell them as selfto increase their ability to reach target F‎ alling among the elderly may be critical caregivers.‎ ‎The difference compared to or service providers.‎ screening process).‎‎The project is aimed employed or as small businesses.‎T ‎ he goals audiences and expand the businesses and cause faster deterioration in their existing information is that it will be sorted at operating as a community model, with of the program are:‎ according to the goals they set themselves.‎ physical condition at a high cost to the by focused problems and offer a workflow T ‎ he bank supports projects which focus emphasis on fair wages, and at creating ‎The program will be expanded in 2016 as economy, due to the significant treatment for solving them.‎‎For each subject, the ■ To address the needs of people aged 60 and on creating demand in three key markets:‎ a supportive environment for retirees and part of a School for Entrepreneurs and in and rehabilitation expenses.‎‎The bank, in various stages of handling the problem up who are interested in entrepreneurship;‎ an understanding of their needs.‎ collaboration with the Israel Association collaboration with MATAV (an association will be outlined, with a focus on a simple ■ The household market;‎ ■ To convey an innovative message, whereby of Community Centers.‎ for care and welfare services) and other and up-to-date user experience.‎‎Starting T ‎ he project was established as part of a ■ The small business Market;‎ people in this age can be active and vital professional entities, is promoting an in 2015, the bank undertook, along with dedicated incubator Hub Tel Aviv with ■ The market for the elderly living in their to the economy;‎ The small business market ‎ initiative to reduce and prevent falls through its partners to the project, to map out the a business partner, at the bank's initiative own homes (in the fourth age).‎ and with its support and collaboration.‎ ■ To further their contribution to the ‎Due to its size, a small business does not two courses of action.‎ ‎T he first is to knowledge according to content areas and a economy offering retirees to become have the necessary resources to employ strengthen balance and posture among the comprehensive content database was built.‎ productive and active consumers in the workers on a regular basis (in fields elderly in their homes, ‎through professional The bank's approach to addressing the market among other things, by creating such as:‎a‎ ccounting, marketing, legal training of the elderly's caregivers and I‎n 2016, the bank expects to advance and legitimacy for significant activity even at counseling, etc.). The bank is supporting directing them how to prevent falls.‎T ‎ he develop an online work interface, to allow challenges inherent in promoting senior the promotion of a platform which would second direction is ergonomic in-house the information system to be accessible this age. citizens' employment is innovative.‎‎T ‎ he bank create a marketplace where professional care, for fall prevention by handling the to the general public.‎ T ‎ o this end, a dedicated program was created retirees will offer a range of services to obstacles in the home and removing them examined the issue and found that there for retirees, since entrepreneurs at this age small businesses in areas that are needed with the assistance of relative-caregivers.‎ are few work places that are able to offer a need a different professional environment, by small businesses but which they are ‎The project is in the planning stages.‎ Reducing the Digital significant number of jobs to retirees.‎ ‎As a for various reasons:‎‎Their dilemmas and unable to fulfill on their own. ‎‎The project risk management is different; their pace, is currently at the stage of mapping the Barrier Among Senior result, the projects promoted by the bank objectives and way of measuring success needs of small businesses through dozens Promoting Solutions Citizens ‎ (in collaboration with its partners) attempt to is different; and their considerations and the of depth interviews, to understand the address the employment of retirees by creating core needs fulfilled by their small businessesservices required by small businesses.‎ for Caregivers ‎ ‎ any older people experience isolation M may differ as well.‎ T ‎ here are about one million caregivers from the world around them, reflected in a relevant market:‎‎Creating new demand, ‎The Elderly Market in Israel taking care of elderly family extensive time alone at home.‎I‎n addition, exposing latent demand and needs.‎‎ T ‎ he program began as a pilot experiment The Fourth Age‎members.‎‎T ‎ he challenge is due to the the lack of knowledge required to use with dozens of participants, and was held The H ‎ ome Care Project ‎ fact that caregivers are usually thrown available digital technologies (mobile in cooperation with the media Mako ‎The vast majority of elderly in the fourth into this situation without prior experience, phones, the Internet, tablet computers, website, Keshet and the Israel Association age (over 90%), are cared for by others preparation and knowledge (as to all etc.) results in a barrier to use.‎T ‎ he bank, of Community Centers, garnering extensive and live alone in their homes.‎‎O ne of aspects of the problem from which in collaboration with entrepreneurs, media coverage.‎‎With the conclusion of the the main areas in which the elderly have the elderly family member is suffering).‎ supports the advancement of a digital EMPOWERING SOCIETY AND 126-127 THE COMMUNITY platform where the younger generation in technical skills and creative thinking, who of which have helped in setting a minimum The Social-Environmental-Economic areas of corporate responsibility and The bank began to install the Solar Trees an elderly person's family will be able to dedicate their time to help.‎ tuition that allows the enterprise to continue Project for Collection and Recycling sustainability. in 2014. Benches were set up next to the assist them by streaming digital content its activity from a business standpoint; a of Electronic Waste, with Employment charging stations, which are located in to their TV screen at home.‎‎The proposed T ‎ he bank collaborated with TOM in an comprehensive marketing plan including of Persons with Disabilities Solar Trees are solar-powered stations central areas where students congregate solution includes connecting a device event attended by more than one hundred assistance in campaigns and in the Bank Hapoalim initiated a pioneering social on academic campuses that allow twelve during the day. The stations provide a to the elderly person's home TV screen volunteers engineers, programmers, characterization and recruitment of staff program for systemic treatment of the mobile phones and tablets of various response to the familiar need to charge which would allow their family members to graphic designers, caregivers, physical for the project.‎S‎ o far, hundreds of people collection and recycling of electronic waste, kinds to be charged simultaneously, using the batteries of mobile devices, offering a stream content from the Internet (according therapists and people with special needs.‎ have signed up for courses offered by metals, and appliances, in collaboration energy generated by solar panels. The service to students while also promoting to the elderly person's preferences) ‎T he event was held in the format of Medicine for the People.‎ with municipalities throughout Israel. The initiative was created by students at the an environmental message (use of the directly to the TV screen using the family's Makathon a development marathon program includes design and development Novus innovation center, in the College solar panel), as well as a technological Facebook group.‎T ‎ he interface will be lasting 72 hours focused on products for of collection receptacles made in Israel and of Management's School of Business message, and creating a place for students simple to operate.‎I‎n this manner, the people with special needs and the elderly.‎ supplied by the bank to the municipalities; Administration. As part of the ongoing to meet. Solar Trees were installed at a enterprise could help connect the elderly ‎Makathon participants focused on 14 placement of the receptacles in city collaboration with the college's Corporate variety of academic institutions throughout person to content and to the life around challenges; the event included a special centers; organization of collection and Responsibility Center for the promotion Israel during 2015, as well as in public them, reducing the technological divide development track for products for older recycling processes; and communication of an environmental and social agenda, spaces in the city of Holon. As of the date barrier and leveraging it to strengthen people, supported by Bank Hapoalim.‎ of the program to residents of the towns. the project was developed jointly with the of preparation of this report, a total of 15 intergenerational family relationships.‎T ‎ he Collection from the receptacles and bank's CSR Division. stations have been set up. project is in its pilot stage creation of an ‎ Medicine for the People Venture disassembly of the waste are performed easy-to-use prototype.‎ ‎The project was established with the aim by Ecommunity, which employs disabled 850k of increasing access to higher education workers. The bank thereby creates ‎Below are a series of additional initiatives studies for the general population, so as shared value and responds to both an and social projects promoted by the bank to provide access to preparatory courses environmental need and a social need. The in the public sphere:‎ for academic programs even to those who program is available to a total of 850,000 cannot afford them (such as:‎‎psychometric residents, through 130 receptacles in their Cooperation with the TOM Project tests, preparatory tests for medical school, towns. Dozens of tons of waste have been The Development of Creative and Affordable Solutions for Older People‎ The TOM project (initiated by the Reut improving matriculation exam scores, etc.).‎ ‎Currently, applicants for higher education are forced to pay thousands of shekels for residents collected for responsible recycling within this project since 2012. Institute) develops creative solutions for psychometric exam preparatory courses.‎ The program for Solar Trees Project everyday challenges, with which people ‎The project enables candidates to take Within the drive to expand its environmental are faced constantly (e.g., an ironing board the psychometric course at a fee that is Collection and Recycling and social impact to the general public in that would allow an elderly person to iron hundreds of precents lower than market of Electronic Waste Israel, the bank is conducting a joint effort while sitting down or a solution to ease prices for such courses. ‎ with a range of academic institutions to the pressure on fingers when using the is available to a total promote activities that generate shared phone or a computer keyboard).‎‎TOM's ‎ ank Hapoalim, in collaboration with HUB B environmental and social value. This uniqueness is its ability to bring together Tel Aviv, has provided the association's of 850,000 residents, initiative is based on the principle of the need knowers , the ones who have these needs, and those who care for founder with a comprehensive support environment.‎T ‎ his support included a through 130 receptacles dialogue with stakeholders, in which the bank maintains ongoing relationships In Israel's open space them and help them, and volunteers with thorough financial plan, the conclusions in their towns with various academic institutions in the EMPOWERING SOCIETY AND 128-129 THE COMMUNITY Poalim for the community Committed through Our Strategy and Vision Creating Strategic Partnerships Bank Hapoalim As part of the Bank Hapoalim Group’s those who are underprivileged. In the Bank Hapoalim exercises its community ■ Long-term projects, rather than technology schools, Insights Education vision, strategy, and corporate values, the spirit of this business philosophy, the involvement through nationwide projects, temporary action; Association, museums and the National exercises its community bank is committed to an active, leading role bank conducts a varied and extensive including projects targeted to geographic, Parks Authority during Passover project, ■ measuring the project according to involvement through in the community, alongside its business range of community-oriented activities in economic, and social peripheries, with effectiveness in attaining its objectives, the Batsheva Dance Company, the Israel nationwide projects, leadership and economic initiatives. This the form of social involvement, monetary expert assistance in the understanding of with conclusions drawn and implemented Philharmonic Orchestra, and the Israel AIDS involvement is implemented through Poalim donations, and large-scale volunteer community needs. These projects strive Task Force. The bank also collaborates with including projects for the Community (Registered Non-Profit activities with the participation of both to realize the underlying philosophy of the throughout the course of the project; a large number of non-profit organizations targeted to geographic, Organization), as part of an advanced management and employees. Community principles of sociocommunity development. ■ Strategic partnerships with additional on unique projects in their respective fields. managerial approach. The bank holds that activity is an important factor in developing The distinction between aid and socioparts of the community, including Notable organizations include the College economic, and social professional partners, rather than standan organization that operates within the employee pride and cohesion. As noted, community development is an important of Economic Growth, Hayim, Etgarim peripheries, with community and draws both its employees the bank’s community-oriented activity one; such development is based on the alone projects. (Challenge), Paamonim, Latet Israeli expert assistance in and customers from within it should is organized within the Poalim for the following principles: Humanitarian Aid, Beit Issie Shapiro, ELEM take a leading role in the advancement Community foundation. Ms. Shelly Amir, The bank maintains strategic partnerships Youth in Distress in Israel, Beterem Safe the understanding of and improvement of conditions for all head of community relations at the bank, ■ Focus on a core issue closely related with a range of leading community Kids Israel, The Council for a Beautiful community needs members of the community, especially is responsible for this activity. to the bank's essence and crucial to organizations. These include collaborations Israel, and Be-Atzmi – Employment for Israeli society; with the ORT network of science and Youth at Risk. EMPOWERING SOCIETY AND 130-131 131-131 THE COMMUNITY 500 Cumulative donation of half a billion NIS 2004-2015 (NIS millions) 43 47 Cumulative donation 48 46 Annual donation 47 NIS 44 499 million 363 409 456 Cumulative donation 268 315 of half a billion NIS, 224 2004-2015 2002-2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 43 Monetary and Equivalent Community Investments Assistance to the numerous organizations As in previous years, the foundation made supported by the bank is delivered through contributions in many different areas in the Poalim for the Community Forum 2015, including education in general, and NIS million (there is no donations of other units at financial education in particular; culture and the bank). The Forum, which consists of arts; welfare and health care; and other senior executives of the bank, manages social causes. The bank does not donate all of the bank's donations according to money or equivalents to political parties, the banks' criteria established in the policy of the politicians, or political institutions. Bank investment in the In Israel's open space Poalim for the Community Foundation Hapoalim’s investment in the community (Registered Non-Profit Organization). amounted to NIS 43 million in 2015. community in 2015 Donations of Computers Donations of Computer systems (NIS thousands) Breakdown of Bank Hapoalim donations budget, 2015 Recognizing the great importance of technological investment for 2008-10 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 the education and advancement 2,554 921 500 831 361 393 of children and youth, the bank donates computers and related NIS 6.7 equipment each year. Donations 27% Culture 14% Health care, food of computers are managed by the technological procurement center. In 2015, the bank donated million and arts and welfare approximately 655 computer The monetary value of the donations of 43% 7% systems and auxiliary equipment, computer systems by the bank in 2007-2015 ng Education eeri at a value of NIS 393 thousand. lo ye e s vo lunt is approximately NIS 6.7 million Emp Contribution to various 9% social fields EMPOWERING SOCIETY AND 132-133 THE COMMUNITY Results of Community Investments in 2015 As part of its investment in the community, improvement in students’ scores, as in the last couple of years, the bank dropout prevention, students who has continued the process of examining continue to college, etc.). the activity of the non-profit organizations that receive its support. This included an ■ Organizations in the fields of examination of the organizations' areas of health care, welfare, culture, and activity and goals, their target populations, arts This group consists of two their methods, and the results of their types of organizations: organizations activities (outcomes and effectiveness). engaged in remedying essential The goal of the process is to obtain a welfare or health-care problems status snapshot of the current field of (such as assistance to distressed and ongoing influence of the bank on Israel's disadvantaged population groups), society and community. The process was which contribute to society by offering performed through a survey and through a venue for appropriate treatment dialogue with the major foundations, of the problems they have chosen which account for about 50% of the to address; and organizations that bank's total annual community investment. promote culture and arts, and would Main conclusions of the review: find it difficult to exist without support. The survey found that organizations ■ The decisive majority of the organizations in this group primarily measure present their area of activity, goals, outcomes, which serve as the key methods, and participating population metric for examining the results of in an orderly manner; their activities. ■ In the context of measuring the outcomes ■ Approximately 80% of the foundations of the organizations supported by the sur veyed earmarked the bank's bank, the organizations can be divided contribution for specific projects or into two groups: programs within their activities; ■ Educational activity – Organizations ■ Of the activities and projects surveyed, active in this field help participants approximately 65% are targeted maximize their individual potential specifically to participants in geographical and leverage their abilities for a and social peripheries (foundations in better future, through education which 50% or more of activity is targeted and learning. The review found that to peripheral regions). In about 45% all of the organizations operating of the foundations surveyed, 70% of in this area measure their outputs activity is targeted to peripheral regions. (the number of participants and The other foundations target various the volume of activity), and the population groups, according to the large majority also measure the type of activity, encompassing all parts effectiveness of their activities (e.g. of Israel, including the peripheral regions. In Israel's open space EMPOWERING SOCIETY AND 134-135 THE COMMUNITY Promoting Education and Financial Education in the Community The key focus of the community activities of the bank is education. The bank invests in The key focus of the community several long-term projects, as well as a variety of other projects aimed at supporting learning in activities of the bank is education. educational institutions, academic institutions, and informal education organizations. The bank invests in several longIn 2015, the bank invested in dozens of non-profit term projects, as well as a variety of organizations and community groups active in the area of education, which helped more other projects aimed at supporting than 185,000 people (of which approximately two-thirds were students, children, and learning in educational institutions, adolescents) in hundreds of institutions, in dozens of communities throughout Israel. academic institutions, and informal The bank's contribution helped approximately 60,000 adults, children, and adolescents directly. education organizations In Israel's open space Promoting Education 185, 0 00 Initiatives and Projects A Password for Every Student Main examples of the bank’s investment in As part of its support for the 325 10,189 education are described below: integration of technology into 72,833 education, in 2011 the bank joined the educational initiative Students Students people From Three to Five A Password for Every Student, Bank Hapoalim, through the ORT Alumni In 2015, 325 students Since the launch of the which combines education and Students Association, is participating in the effort to help participated in this project, 10,189 students today's technology as a way of and teachers students with lower socioeconomic backgrounds activity, at 20 schools have participated, in acquiring learning and developing participated in the improve their academic achievements in throughout Israel 1,260 groups abilities. Within its support for this program in 2015, at In 2015, the bank invested in dozens of nonscientific and technological subjects. Poalim project, the bank has adopted ten 206 schools from Three to Five is designed to promote a schools in communities needing profit organizations and community groups vision of social change, in which geographically special reinforcement, throughout active in the area of education, which remote communities in northern and southern Israel, for a period of three years. helped more than 185,000 people (of which 7,700 About 53% of the About 25% of the Israel are brought closer to academic centers, program's students program's students began The goals of the project are to with a substantial increase in the number of who were given support the school year at risk create a technological infrastructure approximately two-thirds were students, students from these areas who take matriculation before a matriculation of demotion to a lowerallowing all users to work and children, and adolescents) in hundreds level academic grouping. examinations in mathematics and sciences. examination learn using a central portal, from Students of institutions, in dozens of communities The aim of this effort is to help reduce social achieved an average Thanks to the program, any location; to implement a view The direct support of inequalities. The project includes students in improvement in their demotion was prevented of the school as a computerized the bank helped the throughout Israel. The bank's contribution scores, relative to for 32% of the students, grades 9 through 12 from Israel’s Jewish, Arab, organization; and to create program reach more helped approximately 60,000 adults, scores prior to and they remained in the Bedouin, and Druze communities. a computerized educational than 7,700 students the program higher groupings. environment in the school. at 19 schools children, and adolescents directly EMPOWERING SOCIETY AND 136-137 THE COMMUNITY Read & Succeed Ben Gurion Heritage Institute Starting in 2004, the Poalim for the Community project in the Arab-speaking sector and in the 2,110 An educational institution dedicated to Forum has led a focused initiative aimed at Haredi (ultra-orthodox) sector as well, in formats communicating the heritage of David Ben changing the reading habits of Israeli children and adapted specifically for these communities. Read & 21,000 77,000 Gurion. The institute works in many areas youth. This project continued in 2015. The Read Succeed also includes mobile libraries, operated in derived from this heritage: Zionism and & Succeed project includes a public informational cooperation with the Key Books Foundation. This participants Jewish identity, sovereignty, excellence in campaign, distribution of books, funding of project consists of mobile lending libraries housed society, leadership, development of the Negev In 2015, 2,110 story hours throughout Israel, activities during in trucks that travel throughout Israel, allowing participants registered region, and more. The institute has several Students Visitors National Book Week, and collaboration with the children and youth to enjoy a wealth of children’s units that operate specialized programs for The institute conducted a Over 77,000 for the 9 mobile Children’s Channel and other media. As in recent theater, creative writing workshops, lectures, story libraries operating various groups: children and youth, teachers, wide range of educational visitors years, the bank continued the Read & Succeed hours, and enrichment classes. throughout Israel defense industry employees, new immigrants, programs for approximately came to the tourists, and the general public. 21,000 students in 2015 site in 2015 Insight in Education The bank is involved in the initiative Insights in Education, founded with the aim of supporting school 11,488 1,200 principals and enabling them to effect an educational and social transformation in their educational institutions. The initiative focuses on public schools in urban peripheries and in geographical peripheries of Israel, in recognition of their importance. The Students Students 280 The number of students The direct support of the project helps principals develop a perspective of participating in the various bank aided the operation social leadership and entrepreneurship, in order activities, including of programs for more than to provide a comprehensive response to students' students who received 1,200 students at a range academic, social, and emotional needs, building emotional therapy, reached of schools in peripheral up the schools as a central anchor in the lives of 11,488 in 2015. region. students and the surrounding communities and as a source of inspiration. Action committees have been formed for this project, and collaborations have scholarships been established with the Ministry of Education, The average percentage of students who earned a full municipal authorities, industrial companies, the matriculation certificate in participating high schools reached defense industry, the third sector, academia, and 73% in 2015, an increase of more than 10% compared to 2012 a large number of volunteers. (before the launch of the initiative). The bank provided assistance in funding approximately 280 12,000 4,000 FIRST FIRST is an international non-profit organization scholarships for dedicated to encouraging adolescents to study science and technology. The organization’s flagship college students from Students Students event is an annual competition in which participants various sectors of Children aged 6-18 The bank supports from all over the world present technological participate in this program. a project targeted to projects created by teenagers, with the guidance of Israel in 2015 Over the last 10 years, the children aged 9-14 a team of instructors and volunteers from the local number of students involved (grades 4-9), which community. This is the sixth year in which the bank in FIRST activities grew from reached over 4,000 has supported this initiative, within its ambition to 360 to 12,000 students in 2015 In Israel's open space promote technological education in Israel. EMPOWERING SOCIETY AND 138-139 THE COMMUNITY Promoting Financial Financial Education in Secondary Dan the Saver – Teaching Savings Chasdei Lev Schools at the ORT Network Within the drive for financial education for The Chasdei Lev organization has set Education in Society 74% 35% Bank Hapoalim, in collaboration with the the bank’s customers and for the next the goal of creating a better financial and and in the Community ORT Israel Development Center, offers a generation, aimed at making a better personal present and future for families program of study for secondary-school economic future possible for them, based in the Galilee region, through stronger of families of families In an effort to students designed to provide personal financial education, teach skills that on the awareness that childhood habits become the habits of a lifetime, the bank is economic resilience. As a social and professional organization, Chasdei Lev that completed the program in participating in the 2015 will reduce the gap between organization's programs will promote education, students will need as independent adults, leading a financial education effort targeted promotes the construction of economic their income and expenses by increase their income by and impart the tools and knowledge to children and parents. This project is resilience for Israeli households, through approximately NIS 2,000 within approximately 30% within and accordingly to necessary to make sound personal designed to reinforce and promote the three key programs, each designed for a one year one year its financial freedom financial decisions. The program consists of fifteen hours of instruction, with a value of savings for parents and children. Activities aimed at parents focus on different target group: Positive Family – an economic empowerment program allow them to support themselves with and clear thinking on these subjects, perception, the bank blend of face-to-face teaching and virtual encouraging savings, by evoking positive for families caught in a cycle of poverty dignity, and in many cases may lead aimed at raising a new generation with an learning, in ten self-contained modules nostalgic memories, while maintaining and financial distress; Economic Growth to economic collapse; and Shekel – a awareness of the significance and value have given rise to covering subjects such as investment, innovation and a value offer to benefit College for employed and self-employed financial education program supporting of prudent economy. savings, income, smart consumerism, the client. Activities for children focus on people who earn wages that do not education on values, understanding, several projects, some money and means of payment, personal creating a positive experience at their first unique, designed to budget management, bank accounts, and encounter with a bank, and building a the capital market. beneficial, empowering relationship. The advance financial bank maintained and enhanced the Dan the Saver brand during 2015 through an education in the experience-based online children’s club, community: Dan the Saver World, which includes games Enriching Parents and educational activities for children (at Bank Hapoalim has undertaken a acquiring their first concepts of money, plan for children aged 5-8 regarding basic Approx. www.danpoalim.co.il), and through Dan goal of working to promote financial savings, and more. It is therefore important concepts for prudent financial conduct, 5,000 Students the Saver summer day camps held in more than 30 towns throughout Israel for children from various sectors. education for young children, preteens, and adolescents. Young children in preschool and elementary school are to provide them with the tools for future management of their economic lives. The bank created a presentation and a lesson as part of the Enriching Parents project, in which parents teach classes at their children’s schools. participated in the Approx. 68,000 program in 2015, in 208 groups, at 47 schools Approx. 20,000 children Paamonim Foundation 20 have participated in Dan the 60% of families that received The foundation promotes balanced, Saver day camps over the last individual financial guidance responsible financial lifestyles for families, five years over the last few years attained and works to strengthen the personal people financial balance within three annual hours financial responsibility of families and In 2015, the foundation helped years. More than 10,000 families Each participating class Over 8,000 children participated individuals and to boost their ability to approximately 20,000 people in Israel have reached financial received 20 annual in dozens of Dan the Saver day conduct a stable, balanced economic through workshops and lectures, balance over the last few years, hours of instruction on camps, in over 30 towns, during life, thereby helping to reinforce Israel's and provided individual counseling with the help of Paamonim financial education the 2015 summer vacation social and economic resilience. sessions to 6,800 families guidance and workshops EMPOWERING SOCIETY AND 140-141 THE COMMUNITY Promoting Culture and Arts At least The perception of Poalim for the Community places special emphasis on culture and arts. The bank provides assistance to outstanding cultural institutions dedicated to leadership and excellence, focusing on institutions Batsheva Dance Company The dance company runs a project for morning performances at schools, holding approximately 50 performances each year for students across the country. The performances are organized jointly 25,000 people that have initiated community efforts to with the National Culture Program,an arts bring culture and arts to a wide range of education program in which all students In 2015, at least 25,000 different audiences. The bank also works in grades 1-12 are exposed to each of the people attended cultural and to make cultural events accessible to canonical art forms – an inspiring model underprivileged children and adolescents. for bringing a young audience closer to artistic events supported the arts. by the bank. The bank's Several examples of the bank’s investment contribution directly 20,000 in culture and arts (of the dozens of initiatives and projects in which the bank aided the participation of is involved), are described below: approximately 23,000 people students Poalim for Culture and Nature Within the effort to promote in Israel culture throughout Israel, for a Israel Philharmonic Orchestra Since 2005, Poalim for the Community wide range of audiences, the The orchestra runs the Maf teach has conducted a special project each Batsheva Ensemble held 32 (Key) program, in which children and performances for approximately Passover, in which all Israelis are invited adolescents gain exposure to classical 20,000 students in 2015 to visit a variety of sites throughout Israel, music through in-person meetings with free of charge during the holiday week. orchestra musicians and in concerts, in Bank Hapoalim believes that closeness various locations in Israel. to our heritage and culture is of the Cameri Theater utmost importance, and has therefore The bank’s aid to the theater includes over 20,000 resolved to make it possible for parents tickets donated to various population and children throughout Israel to travel groups throughout Israel that are usually during the holidays and enjoy a variety of unable to attend performances, thereby sites all over the country at no cost, while helping to make culture and arts accessible promoting culture and arts. to all segments of Israeli society. children Over 20,000 children, adolescents, and people of all ages, with 480,000 1,000 an emphasis on peripheral communities, participated in this program in 2015 people tickets visited dozens museums and As it has done each year, the theater other sites free of charge, donated 1,000 tickets, inviting people The bank's contribution sponsored by the bank at its who are not able to attend theater supported the participation of In Israel's open space initiative, during the Passover performances routinely, according to more than 2,000 children and holiday in 2015 target groups selected by the bank adolescents in the program EMPOWERING SOCIETY AND 142-143 THE COMMUNITY Promoting Welfare and Health Poalim for the Community is involved in At least 268,000 a wide range of community activities and invests in welfare programs and in aid to health-care institutions. people In 2015, at least 268,000 people received treatment and assistance in the areas of health care and welfare in Israel Israeli Art Exhibition for the Israel AIDS Task Force through organizations supported by the bank. The bank's The inner space of the bank’s head-office contribution directly helped approximately 11,000 people building is reminiscent of a museum, with open galleries on every floor. For several years, the bank has organized art Ezra Lemarpeh exhibitions in this building in order to raise This non-profit organization, headed by Rabbi 145,000 funds for important causes. The exhibitions Elimelech Firer, has a wide range of activities and are professionally curated, so that the services for patients, aimed at enabling both patients building is transformed into a museum and their families to resume their lives and return to for the duration of the show. The bank work. In addition to medical advice and rehabilitation people leverages its network of community and services, the organization runs activities for children In 2015, the organization business relationships to draw stakeholders who are sick and for their families, including medical, helped 145,000 people and contributors to the exhibitions. educational, and emotional support for children and receive advice, treatment, families; the Elder Brother program, which offers and medical support. The This exhibition, in memory of Leah Rabin, home visits and help with schoolwork; birthday bank's contribution helped one of the earliest supporters of the battle celebrations; making wishes come true; and more approximately 1,800 people. against AIDS, was held for the seventeenth year at the bank's head-office building. Artwork donated by hundreds of artists was 60,000 displayed. All of the funds raised through Latet the sale of the artwork at this event are An Israeli non-profit humanitarian aid organization, devoted to the Israel AIDS Task Force. founded to help reduce poverty for the creation of a better and more justice society, by assisting families 2.7 population groups in distress, encouraging mutual accountability and giving in civil society, The foundation serves as and spearheading a change in national priorities. an umbrella organization, million NIS Programs run by the organization include a collaborating with 150 A sum of NIS 2.7 million was local non-profits and nutritional security initiative; aid with food and collected at the exhibition held by organizations, which helped medications for Holocaust survivors; Latet Youth, the bank in support of the Israel approximately 60,000 developing leadership and social initiative in families throughout Israel AIDS Task Force adolescents; Latet Future, for the development during 2015. Approximately of micro-enterprises among populations living 5,400 families received The Israel AIDS Task Force held on the borderline of poverty; Hunger Free assistance from the more than 90 workshops for City; and efforts to raise social awareness and foundation as a result of the approximately 17,550 adolescents change policies. bank's donation. In Israel's open space EMPOWERING SOCIETY AND 144-145 THE COMMUNITY at least Promoting Additional Social Causes Poalim for the Community also invests in a range of additional areas, fostering various social and environmental values such as support for organizations that promote equal opportunities, organizations promoting employment in underemployed 65,000 In 2015, at least 65,000 people participated in programs and projects related to various people population sectors, environmental groups, community causes in Israel, initiated by the organizations for the empowerment of women, and more. non-profit organizations supported by the bank. Key examples of the bank's investment in additional social causes: ■ Non-Profits Exhibition – For the ■ Etgarim In 2015, the Etgarim ■ Promoting employment Betenth year, the bank invited the Israeli foundation helped approximately 5,700 Atzmi The Mifne-Massar program In Israel's open space public to buy holiday gifts sold by adolescents and adults with special for unemployed women from diverse non-profit organizations that offer needs, such as physical, sensory, population segments (Arab-Israelis products handmade by children, and mental disabilities, maximize their and Jewish Israelis, single parents, adolescents, and adults with disabilities individual potential, expand their abilities, and women aged 45+) achieved 71% LOOKING Examining Achievement of Objectives AHEAD or special needs. The exhibition is and participate in the community through success in job placement and/or used to develop resources for the challenging activities in nature; occupational training for its participants, 2015 Objectives Status organizations, as a platform for exposure who numbered 333 in 2015. The of the organizations’ activity to various ■ Promoting employment Olim Employment for Empowerment program Poalim for the Community will continue to focus Completed. stakeholders and the general public, and Behayad – A non-profit organization for financial guidance and workforce Poalim for the Community will continue to on education, with an emphasis on financial as a model that can serve other business working to reduce unemployment among entry as means of emerging from focus on education, with an emphasis on education and education for prudent financial organizations seeking to promote Ethiopian-Israeli college graduates by poverty, targeted to families referred financial education and education for prudent behavior, while also continuing to promote community causes. All income from offering job opportunities suited to their by municipal social services, achieved financial behavior, while also continuing to strategic projects of the bank, such as Read & the sale of these products is dedicated skills. 128 people participated in this 70% success in placement in jobs and/ promote strategic projects of the bank such Succeed, the Passover project, the Non-Profits to the activity of the foundations. The program in 2015. 86% of the program’s or occupational training (approximately as Read & Succeed, the Passover project, Exhibition, and more. exhibition was held at the Poalim graduates are currently employed in 2,900 families in the last four years). the Non-Profits Exhibition, and more. Campus in Shefayim, with 35 nonsuitable positions; profits participating; the proceeds were transferred to the organizations in full; EMPOWERING SOCIETY AND 146-147 THE COMMUNITY Volunteering Volunteering in 2015 Summer Youth As part of the promotion of the values of have participated in a project promoting the The bank has established a nationwide activities are varied, with numerous Volunteer work is performed through Volunteering to Promote doing and giving, 1,400 children of bank realization of Holocaust survivors' rights. network of volunteers, encompassing community partners; employees can integrative management and an orderly Financial Education employees aged 15-18 participated in a Employees in the Jerusalem area worked thousands of its employees from various choose a continuous activity throughout organizational structure, consisting of the The bank's volunteering efforts emphasize wide range of community activities during on this project, visiting survivors' homes, parts of the country. The frequency and the year, or specific events where they following functions: financial education, in alignment with the summer vacation (in accordance with explaining their rights to them, and filling type of volunteer work vary widely among can contribute according to their abilities. its core activity. Within this effort, bank the Youth Employment Law, 1953). Summer out forms on their behalf. Participating ■ Senior manager – Appointed within the units, including weekly, monthly, or Among other efforts, employees of the employees volunteered in several areas Youth is an initiative of Poalim Volunteers in employees received certificates at a the bank to hold overall responsibility quarterly activities, activities held on bank volunteer with children and adults in 2015: collaboration with the employee union, the ceremony held during the year. for management of this area; holidays, and activities on Good Deeds with special needs; work with Holocaust human resources division, and the Poalim Day. The bank's broad geographical survivors; mentor soldiers with no family in ■ Steering committee – Provides ■ Lectures on financial education Campus, funded by the bank. The project Volunteer Activity Management deployment makes it possible to respond Israel; mentor women who are victims of strategic support for the new structure and family budget management – enables employees' children to learn about System to the needs of local communities and violence; provide assistance and training through the exposure and selection Given for various target audiences by and absorb the value of giving, through A specialized computer system was volunteer for a wide range of activities, so for the promotion of employment; adopt of models and of potential strategic employees of the bank. In addition, activities aimed at helping various population set up in 2013 to manage the bank's that the local branch becomes a center for centers for children and for the elderly; partners in the community; formulates within the activity of the non-profit groups in Israeli society. The participants volunteer system. This system enables social improvement and aid during times assist at group homes for children at policies for recognition and appreciation organization Shiur Acher ( A Different learn about the underprivileged parts of employees who volunteer to enter of distress. Employees and executives risk and at foster homes; package and of volunteers, marketing of the activities Lesson ), hundreds of employees of Israeli society and experience volunteering information regarding their activity, making volunteer in their spare time, some privately distribute food to people in need; and in the organization, and recruitment of the bank taught classes at schools for one week. Six six-day sessions of this it possible to measure the aggregate and independently, and some with the give talks throughout Israel on sensible volunteers; throughout Israel on financial and other project were held during the summer. volume of employee volunteering. The leadership of the bank, in collaboration financial behavior for adolescents, families, ■ Core social leaders – 46 leaders subjects; parents and retirees gave Each session opened at Poalim Campus system also serves as a platform helping with the various foundations. Volunteer students, soldiers, and seniors. selected by division/region heads, lectures to children in the Enriching with an introduction to content areas employees who wish to volunteer near responsible for promotion of the Poalim Parent program; related to Israeli society and experiencetheir homes find an appropriate venue, Volunteers program and its goals and based enrichment, including instruction on through a user-friendly search interface. The bank's broad geographical deployment ■ The Children's Bank – The Children's volunteering, and learning about the value Registration of employees on this system objectives in their division/region, makes it possible to respond to the needs of development and management of Bank's were established in 4 villages of financial freedom and about managing continued in 2015. and boarding schools for young children youth bank accounts, and later progressed local communities and volunteer for a wide partnerships and volunteering programs at risk, which serves hundreds of to practical volunteer activities. range of activities, so that the local branch on the regional and local level with Approximately 3,500 community partners, motivation of children. Children who receive an becomes a center for social improvement and employees, and management and allowance can deposit it at the children's The employees' children were praised bank, check their balance at any time, and honored by the foundations and aid during times of distress. Employees and guidance of the network of social buy products at the village store, and community partners, who welcomed leaders; executives volunteer in their spare time, some pay with a magnetic card issued to the activity and initiative of the bank's ■ Social leaders network – 410 leaders them. The bank provides the children management and the sense of partnership privately and independently, and some with the selected by department and branch with their first banking and financial and values demonstrated by the leadership of the bank, in collaboration with the heads, serving as a direct liaison to all employees and leading the volunteering experience; participants. Many of the adolescents employees various foundations expressed satisfaction with the experience Volunteered on a regular, drive at the level of the units and ■ Promotion of entrepreneurship – and a desire to continue volunteering after branches. Employees of the bank give lectures completing the program. ongoing basis in 2015. on writing a business plan and advise Overall, 39% of the bank's teenagers on business ventures Realization of Holocaust at schools, within the Premium survivors' rights employees volunteered on Entrepreneur and Taasiyeda projects. In recent years, employees of the bank a regular basis EMPOWERING SOCIETY AND 148-149 THE COMMUNITY ‫הליהקהו הרבחה תמצעה‬ 1,500 4,700 More than students Within the Shiur Acher Bank employees were trained employees On Good Deeds Day, 100 lectures program, 60 courses on to instruct new held for the eighth on financial education financial and other subjects drivers, as part time in 2015, more and household budget were taught at 44 schools, to than 4,700 employees management were 1,500 students, by more than of the Or Yarok volunteered in a wide given by volunteers 400 bank employee volunteers program range of activities from the bank Approx. 120,000 gift packages Thousands of employees participated in volunteer 148,700 hours of community volunteer work The bank and its employees performed 148,700 hours of community activities during the volunteer work in 2015 (this includes approximately 45,000 hours holidays, in areas such as devoted to community activity by employees' children in the childcare centers, elder care, hospitals, and more, summer program). More than 6,000 employees were involved, and distributed 120,000 including in one-time activities. Approximately 25% of the hours gift packages volunteered by employees were paid for by the bank In Israel's open space Volunteering Number of regular Regular volunteers, of total hours volunteers bank employees LOOKING Examining Achievement of Objectives 148,700 3,500 AHEAD 2015 Objectives Status 125,000 124,000 Volunteer activities in the area of financial freedom for a Completed. In 2016, the bank will begin measuring range of target audiences will be expanded during the 3,200 33% 39% 3,000 the effectiveness of volunteer activities, year, and will include various non-profit organizations. 32% both for employees who volunteer and for community partners; The Children's bank The Children's banks will be set Completed. up at three group homes for at-risk children during 2015. Talks on sensible financial behavior for Activity to benefit Holocaust survivors will continue in Completed. seniors, adolescents, and students will 2015, through participation in the project for realization 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 be given at the request of non-profit of rights, as well as volunteering on an individual basis organizations, community centers, and at activity centers. Volunteer hours include employees' children's activities. companies, and branches of the bank. Summer Youth – 30,000-45,000 hours of activity annually EMPOWERING SOCIETY AND 150-151 THE COMMUNITY HUMAN CAPITAL APPROACH The bank applies longterm considerations of sustainability and social responsibility to the management of its human capital. For the bank, its employees Rating on List of Best Workplaces are key stakeholders; In a survey conducted by BDI in 2015 to rank the 100 best its relationship with workplaces in Israel, Bank Hapoalim placed ninth. The Bank has maintained its standing as one of the top ten best them is conducted on a workplaces in Israel over recent years. This accomplishment firm foundation of true reflects the bank's commitment to its employees and its growth and partnership In Israel's open space achievements in the area of social responsibility. Human Capital Approach The bank applies long-term considerations rights listed in the UN Convention (UNGC, ■ Equal opportunities and the prevention The bank's philosophy is that the most attentive preparation for retirement, labor laws. The bank also ensures that its of sustainability and social responsibility UN International Bill of rights, UN int of discrimination; successful way to manage human capital, as well as ongoing relationships with employees do not exceed the amount of to the management of its human capital. Covenant on Economic, Social and in the best interests of the organization retirees, who remain part of the family overtime permitted by law. The bank asks ■ A wide range of opportunities for For the bank, its employees are key Cultural Rights and UN Guiding Principles and its employees, is through genuine of employees of the bank. its employees to use the full amount of personal and professional growth and stakeholders; its relationship with them on Business and Human rights) and the partnership. The bank recognizes that vacation days owed to them each year. development, generating shared value is conducted on a firm foundation conventions of the International Labour as an employer, it must consider its Responsiveness, flexibility, assistance, This approach helps the bank achieve the for employees and for the bank; of true growth and partnership. The Organization (ILO), inter alia issues of employees' wellbeing and wellness, as and support, from a broad perspective goal of satisfied employees who are able bank promotes a responsible work freedom of association and collective ■ Concern for the wellbeing of employees well as their enrichment, growth, and on employees' lives, are vital elements in to function to their full potential and who environment while ensuring compliance bargaining, prevention of discrimination and their families, including aid and empowerment, and works to achieve fostering the desired relationship between view the bank as a desirable, preferred with the law regarding the terms of and inequality and more. support during times of change or crisis; the optimal synergy between each the bank and its employees. This includes workplace where they seek to remain. employment of its employees and other ■ An excellent working relationship, employee's individual development and a balance between work hours and workers on its premises. Furthermore, According to long-standing tradition, dialogue and partnership maintained the needs of the organization, across all leisure time. The work week at the bank the Bank respects and acts in light of the work environment at the bank is between management and the employee stages of the work cycle: from recruitment, consists of fewer hours than the number universal norms of securing employment characterized by: union. to training, promotion, and orderly and of weekly work hours established in Israeli EMPLOYEES QUALITY OF 154-155 LIFE AND WELL-BEING Presenting Information on Employees 8,898 44.4 18.5 8 employees The average age of The average duration of of the bank in 2015 employees of the bank service of employees of the bank is 18.5 years Education No academic degree Academic degree Total Age group Age distribution 64.4% B.A. M.A. Ph.D. 18-21 14 14 0.2% 22-30 355 422 82 1108 9.7% In Israel's open space 31-40 522 1,275 745 3 2,545 28.6% 41-50 737 1,039 910 8 2,694 30.3% Upward trend in percentage of degree-holding 51-60 1,247 605 371 5 2,228 25% employees at the bank of employees who hold 60+ 296 177 83 2 558 6.2% 64.4% academic degree 62.4% Total 3,171 3,518 2,191 18 8,898 100% 59.5% The percentage of employees who hold 57.6% academic degrees rose from 62.4% Education distribution 35.6% 39.5% 24.6% 0.2% 100% 56.6% to 64.4% in 2015. 479 employees were The table shows that the percentage of employees who hold academic degrees (segmented by age) is very high in the 22-50 age group, in accordance with the upward trend in higher education in Israel, beginning in the 1990s and through the following decades, in contrast to the percentage for employees over the age enrolled in academic degree programs of 50. The percentage is lower for employees aged 22-30 than for those aged 30-50, due to the fact that some of the younger employees are still in the process this year, with tuition financed by the of completing their academic degrees, or have not yet begun their planned studies. bank through a joint fund of the board of 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 management and the employee union. Approximately 38.6% of the bank's *The upward trend in the percentage of degree-holding employees continued at a greater pace in 2015. This achievement reflects an ongoing long-term positive trend of rising proportions of degree holders at the degree-holding employees have master's bank, due to factors including the bank's encouragement of employees to study towards undergraduate and graduate degrees, through tuition aid and added vacation days for examinations. Overall, from 1997 to the degrees or higher. This group constitutes 8 .The number of employees is excluding employees who are on maternity leave and bed rest during pregnancy, external employees and Employees of subsidiaries. end of 2015, the percentage of degree-holding employees at Bank Hapoalim rose from about 26% to 64.4%. 24.8% of all employees of the bank EMPLOYEES QUALITY OF 156-157 LIFE AND WELL-BEING Ratio of bank`s employees to Supervised employees at the bank 469 91.3% 95.9% 8.7% 7.6% 6.4% 13.4% 12.6% 12.4% 9.9% 9.5% Maternity leave Collective agreement of the bank`s employees 92.4% 93.6% 469 employees took maternity The bank recognizes its employees' are employed full time' 87.6% 90.1% 90.5% 91.3% 86.6% 87.4% leave in 2015, while 463 returned right to unionize and conduct while 4.1% are employed to work following maternity leave. collective negotiations. The collective in part-time positions Employees returning from maternity agreement applies to the decisive leave usually resume their previous majority of employees of the bank Supervised employees positions. Any position change if made, (91.3%), excluding those employed 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Bank employees done in coordination with employee under personal contracts 219 93.6% Employee turnover, 2013-2015 (employee departures and hiring's) Year Age Departure Hiring Absorbing external employees Female Male Total Female Male In 2015, the bank hired 219 external workers as regular Total Internal and employees, accounting for 66% of all employees hired 2015 Up to 30 195 57 252 165 69 234 external employees: by the bank during the year. Overall, the bank hired 31-50 107 70 177 45 49 94 93.6% of employee positions approximately 4,000 external workers in 2008-2015. 50+ 163 110 273 2 1 3 were of the bank, while 6.4% The percentage of external workers decreased from were of Supervised external workers 18.8% to 6.4% between 2007 and 2015 Total 465 237 708 212 119 331 2014 Up to 30 55 208 263 238 79 317 Distribution of employees by type of employment agreement 31-50 71 102 173 60 69 129 Permanent employees Temporary employees Senior employees Total 50+ 300 156 456 3 6 9 Total 426 466 892 301 154 455 2015 Collective contract 81.8% 9.5% 91.3% Personal contract 0.13% 7.2% 1.3% 8.7% 2013 Up to 30 198 72 270 245 97 342 31-50 119 81 200 40 26 66 50+ 212 134 346 2014 Collective contract 80.93% 10.82% 91.75% Personal contract 6.98% 1.26% 8.25% Total 529 287 816 285 123 408 In recent years there is a trend of a reduction in the bank's overall headcount, In view of the restructuring processes carried out by the bank 2013 Collective contract 80.7% 12.4% 93.1% Personal contract 0.2% 5.5% 1.2% 6.9% EMPLOYEES QUALITY OF 158-159 LIFE AND WELL-BEING Promoting a Culture of Dialogue and Openness Bank Hapoalim considers its employees at forging closer relationships with to be full partners who contribute to all employees and giving management a business and organizational processes. stronger connection to events on the Employees become partners in promoting ground; and Executive Chats open the bank's endeavors through organizationtalks held by members of the board of wide communication on all levels: dialogue management with groups of employees Activity of the Organizational between managers and employees, and from different units of the bank, in a Portal in 2015 4 direct communication between the various variety of positions, representing a range units. Direct dialogue between managers of the bank's units. These meetings and employees enables employees continued during 2015; to feel connected with organizational ■ Employees instill the vision of the bank million objectives. Lateral dialogue between units The project of instilling the bank's vision, Number of pages helps organization-wide processes move initiated in 2010, represents a process viewed monthly forward with flexibility and efficiency. The of renewal and growth as well as a 174,000 range of methods applied at the bank to declaration of the bank's commitment achieve these aims includes face-to-face to universal social values, towards its meetings, use of the organizational portal, business environment and its community. promotion of a culture of sharing and A detailed plan was constructed for innovation, and processes of feedback, leadership of this process by managers assessment, and drawing conclusions. Employee queries and its application to the bank as a The bank also works to encourage the whole, from senior management to via the portal wisdom of the crowd and a culture of 500 each and every employee. Following social dialogue by providing a comment the official organization-wide launch section for news items posted on the In Israel's open space of the vision in 2011, the process of organizational portal, as well as through instilling the vision continued in 2015, surveys, webinars, forums, etc. through various aspects of the bank's Content expert employees activity: instilling the vision at the areas Strengthening of the bank, integrating the values of the who manage sites within Employees become partners in promoting the bank's endeavors Relationship vision into learning and training materials, the portal through organization-wide communication on all levels: dialogue with Employees and communication of the bank's 250 vision to employees and managers. between managers and employees, and direct communication between ■ Management-employee encounters – Implementation of the Doing Good A series of different types of meetings Model of the Arison Group at the bank the various units. The range of methods applied at the bank to achieve have been held between the bank's began during 2015, in a small-scale pilot these aims includes face-to-face meetings, use of the organizational management and employees: breakfast project. The model will be implemented Knowledge items posted portal, promotion of a culture of sharing and innovation, and processes meetings with CEO Zion Kenan, aimed throughout the bank in 2016; on the portal daily of feedback, assessment, and drawing conclusions EMPLOYEES QUALITY OF 160-161 LIFE AND WELL-BEING In Israel's open space ■ The organizational portal – The portal through the range of tools available on and development are held about six is a venue for everyday realization of the portal. The bank's organizational months after the feedback sessions. These dialogue, transparency, and sharing. portal has earned recognition in Israel as processes continued to be performed Since the launch of the portal in June best practice in the areas of knowledge routinely in 2015. The value emphasized in 2006, it has become a key arena for management and intra-organizational 2015 was individual development – followintra-organizational communication and communications; up sessions on objectives were changed 35 244 99% for conveying messages within the bank. to objectives and development meetings; The portal provides the ability to manage ■ Feedback and evaluation processes – and access organizational knowledge Each year, managers provide feedback to ■ Organizational innovation – Innovation (work processes, rights and obligations, employees on their individual performance is one of the most significant values information about the employee union, at their positions. The performance promoted at the bank. The wide range of Employee-CEO encounters Employee-management Feedback and evaluation etc.) and professional knowledge evaluation process takes the form of a activities related to innovation is aimed, (processes, data, and suppor ting dialogue between the manager and the first and foremost, at creating value for 35 breakfast meetings with encounters 99% of the bank's employees information); a professional desktop – a employee, and supports a number of customers through innovative thinking CEO Zion Kenan have been From the launch of this initiative participated in an evaluation gateway to business activities through goals, including employee development, originating both within and outside the held (4 in 2015). Approximately to December 2015, 244 One Hour process in 2015, based on their which employees can reach all of the coordination of expectations, and organization. The benefits reaped from 1,150 employees participated Executive Chat Meetings were performance in 2014. Mid-year organization's systems and applications; improvement of performance. The these processes are reflected continually held by members of the board of and an infrastructure for organizational process helps empower and nurture in the launch of services and products these meetings follow-up talks to check progress sharing and dialogue among employees employees, and promotes excellence. The that grow from within the organization management with groups of bank on objectives and choose directions through forums, surveys, comments, and performance evaluation process consists or through collaboration with external employees (24 meetings in 2015). for development were held with participatory activities. As a result, the bank of an examination of the employee's parties. Innovation processes are led by Approximately 2,575 employees 70% of employees has achieved improvement in employees' performance over the last year and the Strategic Management Center in the participated these meetings; professional skills, increased synergy formulation of the main objectives for Corporate Strategy Area, in congruence between the head office and the units on the coming year, including professional with the objectives and values of the bank, the ground, stronger organizational identity as well as personal objectives. Midyear with a future-oriented perspective. among employees, and genuine dialogue talks to track progress on the objectives EMPLOYEES QUALITY OF 162-163 LIFE AND WELL-BEING The sixth consecutive Annual Innovation implemented in various areas, including Conference was held in 2015, as part customer experience enhancement, the of the ongoing efforts to instill a culture capital market, and payments; the bank of innovation. This year's conference has invested in six early-stage companies; focused on promotion of the Open and collaboration agreements have been Banking approach, which encourages the signed with leading accelerators with the development of innovative services offering aim of promoting fintech companies. high added value to customers through collaborations with entities outside the In another significant effort dedicated to the organization that combine the advantages promotion and development of the Israeli of all of the involved parties. The two-day start-up community, the bank held the event at the bank's Shefayim campus BankApp competition for the development was attended by 250 managers and of financial applications using banking employees from a range of bank units. information, for the second time, during the Participants experienced a wide variety fourth quarter of 2015. The bank offered of content, including the bank's view of its access to an unprecedented, rich variety pivotal role in the promotion of the start-up of banking information to entrepreneurs community in Israel. and developers from various fields for the invention of new services and products, In 2015, the Fintech Unit of the bank's or improvement of existing ones. The Strategic Management Center continued to competition was based on Open API, a collaborate with the Information Technology unique interface developed by the bank In Israel's open space Area and with Poalim Capital Markets on for the development of applications an initiative to promote, adopt, and invest in based on banking information. BankApp promising financial technology companies. provides fertile soil for the invention of creates a space for the exchange of ideas, Poalim for Good The goal of this activity is to expose the bank groundbreaking financial applications, knowledge sharing, consultation, mutual The goal of the Poalim for Good drive, which The effort to instill each month's value influence and ability to take an active to innovative technologies in the financial thanks to the confluence of information learning, and collaboration with numerous is based on the Arison Group's Doing Good included activities expressing that value, part in the bank's sustainability efforts. industry being developed outside the bank, and banking capabilities with the creativity organizations from a wide range of sectors Model, is to instill practice-based values for such as the Non-Profits Fair during the At the bank's initiative, electronic waste and to gain a competitive advantage by and speed of start-up entrepreneurs. of the Israeli economy. Most participants positive action at the level of the individual, month of the value of giving, Good Deeds and unneeded clothing from employees' absorbing these technologies, as part of Participants in the competition were are senior managers who are innovation the environment, and the community. An Day during the month of the value of homes were collected and recycled during the value offer for the bank's customers. granted professional guidance by senior leaders at their organizations; they come ongoing, organization-wide, experiencevolunteering, etc., as well as communication the period of the traditional spring cleaning Representatives of the bank meet with employees of the bank and of the to the forum to share the challenges and oriented process was conducted at the through videos and interactive games in before the holiday of Passover. Within this financial technology start-ups and examine investment and high-tech industries in successes they have experienced in bank during 2015-2016 to increase all bank which the prize was a monetary amount project, 2 tons of electronic waste were the innovativeness of their ideas and Israel, aimed at responding to all of the embedding innovation processes within employees' exposure to and awareness of donated by the winning units to the causes collected at branches throughout Israel and their potential added value for the bank. needs of a start-up taking its first steps. their organizations with the other members, the Poalim for Good values and to increase of their choice, all produced specifically transferred for responsible recycling, and Companies offering an interesting product and to learn efficient ways of promoting positive action within and outside the bank, for this project. 1.2 tons of clothes were given to the nonare examined in depth, on the business Another drive for the promotion of a culture innovation that benefit the goals of the by creating motivation to take action, in profit organization Pitchon Lev. Thousands and technology dimensions, and some of innovation within and outside the bank is organization. The forum, which has drawn various forms. During the many months of For example, during the month devoted to of employees of the bank participated in are selected for practical testing at the the Inter-Organizational Innovation Forum, strong demand and a continuous stream the project, a selected value was highlighted the value of sustainability, the emphasis was the project. bank. Since the foundation of the bank's led by the bank for the fourth year. This of new participants, held two meetings each month, according to the organizational on informing and connecting employees to Fintech Unit, new technologies from ten initiative, generated by the Innovation in 2015. calendar. Values included financial freedom, the systemic management of sustainability Israeli start-up companies have been Unit in the Corporate Strategy Area, sustainability, and volunteering. issues at the bank, as well as on employees' EMPLOYEES QUALITY OF 164-165 LIFE AND WELL-BEING 19,000 Promoting Diversity, Equal LOOKING Opportunities, and Transparency proposals AHEAD Non-Discrimination Equality in Wages to employees in specific positions, due to individual characteristics such as seniority, In the “I Care” initiative, introduced as part of the innovation Continued development and more extensive use of the From the Bank Hapoalim ethical code: and Terms added benefits for parents of children, Portal on the Go – addition of content; development of The bank treats its employees fairly and drive, any employee in any position who identifies an activity In general, salaries and terms of overtime, etc. screens and sub-applications for specific population without discrimination. The policy of the bank employment for bank employees are that can be streamlined is invited to formulate a proposal, groups; expansion of usage to all employees of the bank; is to employ, promote, and make decisions determined according to a role book. which is submitted and processed in an organized procedure. regarding employees based on pertinent The role book, which is available on the Equal Opportunities – A total of 1,876 proposals were submitted by 900 employees Renewal of the organizational portal, including considerations, such as qualifications and organizational portal, contains information Gender and Sector in 2015. From the launch of this program in 2009 to the end of redesign of the home page and portal UI and UX performance, with no discrimination due regarding the terms of employment and Data on the employment of women at 2015, 19,000 proposals were submitted by 6,000 employees, to improve the user interface, and reorganization of to religion, race, sex, age, political views, entitlements granted to employees at each the bank indicate that the percentage of the content and navigation tree on the main portal. sexual orientation, disabilities, etc. The bank rank and position. The publication of the of which approximately 7% are being implemented. female managers at the bank as a whole does everything in its power to implement role book contributes to transparency in is on an upward trend. The pool of female this policy. Any claims of discrimination wages and allows control over the terms of employees with management potential brought before the responsible parties are the wages. The bank raised the minimum (at the first tier of management) is large, Examining Achievement of Objectives addressed by the bank immediately, in order monthly wage for its employees, in one and has a positive effect on the growth to investigate the allegation. No complaints step, to NIS 5,000, beginning in April 2015. 2015 Objectives Status of talented female managers and on the of discrimination found to be justified were rising proportion of women in senior filed at the bank in 2015. Launch and implementation of the Portal on the Go (with a new name) – Launched in August 2015. Equal Wages for Men management. The bank strives to promote The mobile application will contain news and useful content for employees, 4,500 employees of the bank have registered for workplace diversity and hires employees including for access from home, such as information regarding employees' the service to date. Transparency from and Women from a variety of sectors and population rights during pregnancy and maternity leave, rights of employees on prolonged Employees can use the application to make Basic wages and related terms are groups, as part of its human-resources sick leave, information for parents of children with special needs, information suggestions through the I Care feature, Step One established at the bank according to management policy. The relationship built between an employees' position and rank, based on about support for aging parents, and more. The portal also contains benefits recommend new customers to the bank, employee and the bank during his or her the role book, regardless of gender. This An officer responsible for the prevention of for social and leisure activities, and the Poalim Travel forum, where employees see who is celebrating a birthday, and view first days with the organization forms the method is used to construct the wage sexual harassment in the workplace has can share experiences and tips; obituaries. Planned: An organizational directory foundation for their work at the bank over system and calculation charts. The bank been appointed at the bank. Channels and information about branches' progress in the years to come. The bank accords high performed a review of remuneration at all for communication with her, as well as sales activities. importance to employee satisfaction during levels of the organization, and found that the bank's regulations on this matter, are Specifications and setup of the Colleague Portal – The portal will enable Specifications for adaptation to the bank's the orientation period, and emphasizes wages were equal for men and women, posted on a topic page in the organizational groups of employees with shared interests to discuss them and share content infrastructure are still in progress. respectful individual attention and full at all positions and ranks. Obviously, there portal. This topic is refreshed annually and knowledge. This solution, managed using Connections by IBM, will be fully explanation and information about rights are certain differences in total wages paid using a specialized tutorial. integrated with the portal and will serve small knowledge communities as a and obligations, as well as a personal gift space to promote dialogue among members, in order to learn from each other's for the employee's home and a detailed The bank is leading a diversity initiative, based on an experience and thereby improve work processes, improve customer response orientation package. The bank provides times, and promote the business. The Colleague Portal will eventually replace new employees with information regarding understanding of the advantages of diversity on the level outdated tools, such as the Staff Rooms and Forums; terms and processes related to their work, of the business, its values, and the organization. Within Deeper and broader intra-organizational dialogue through new tools and A digital news program was launched in as well as useful information on all matters the vision of the bank, it is committed to the inclusion connected with the beginning of their channels – An online news program, uniform message sheets, recruitment of September 2015, and is broadcast to employees employment. New employees are invited of a range of different population groups in congruence mid-level executives as communication agents, and more; every two weeks through the portal and through Portal on the Go. to initiation conventions and orientation with their representation in society. This is justified both days, to receive an explanation of their in business terms and in terms of the bank's commitment The effort to promote innovative initiatives that create value for the bank's Completed designated position and of what it means customers will continue; to work at the bank, and to gain familiarity to the society of Israel. More than 1,200 employees from with the bank's organizational culture and sectors underrepresented in the job market are currently The drive to promote and instill an organizational culture of in-house and external Completed expectations. innovation will continue, with the aim of achieving continual improvement. employed at the bank EMPLOYEES QUALITY OF 166-167 LIFE AND WELL-BEING 52.1% Women-men wages Greater examination was Working to Include Population Groups Underrepresented in the Job Market conducted comparing men's wage to women's wage of at all levels in The bank is leading a diversity initiative, society of Israel. The bank encourages and absorption process, as necessary: the bank. There was no difference: based on an understanding of the recruitment and absorption of employees activities designed to instill a diversity the average women's wage rate advantages of diversity on the level of the business, its values, and the from population groups underrepresented in the job market, as part of its hiring policy; approach in the bank's management culture as part of its leadership philosophy; of employees of the bank stands of executives at the bank are female, organization. Within the vision of the bank, more than 1,200 employees from these and structuring of work processes and at 99.91 % of men's wage versus 34% in the labor market it is committed to the inclusion of a range of sectors are currently employed at the collaborations with non-profits specializing different population groups in congruence bank. As part of the long-term work plan in empowerment and integration of 65% 5.4% 2% 20% with their representation in society. This formulated by the bank, several processes underrepresented population groups in is justified both in business terms and in are being promoted in this area, including the job market. terms of the bank's commitment to the focus and adjustments in the recruitment Percentage of female Minority Bank employees from the of the employees from employees at the bank employees Ultra-Orthodox sector underrepresented 65% of the employees of constitute 5.4% constitute approximately 2% groups were hired by the bank are women, versus of the bank's of the bank's total employees the bank in 2015 approximately 47% in the manpower (estimated) labor market in Israel Promoting Workplace ■ Recruitment Available positions are involvement of bank employees from advertised in Arabic on the bank's the Arab-Israeli sector, who help through Diversity Arabic-language website. Positions contact with potential employees and Encouragement of Employment of Male specifically designated for Arabic with community leaders; and Female Employees from the Arabspeakers are also advertised on the Israeli Community careers page of the bank's website ■ Screening Evaluation centers targeted Within the promotion of diversity at the (in Hebrew), and on online job boards. to the Arab-Israeli community were held bank, a systemic effort has been devoted to Relevant non-profits and organizations in Northern Israel and in Haifa during the encouraging the employment of employees in the area of employment, such as Rian year, for easier access to candidates. from the Arab-Israeli communit y, Centers, Kav Mashve, and others, are The evaluation sessions were led by encompassing various processes in the also contacted. A significant element Arab-Israeli psychologists; branch employment life cycle: of the recruitment process is the managers from this sector and humanresources representatives participated. Candidates had the option of taking skills The bank won the Dov Lautman Diversity in tests in Arabic. Human-resources staff Business Award in 2015, in the main category. who conducted individual interviews for The award was given for the bank's initiative to candidates, as well as all participants in the screening process, were trained in include Arab-Israeli employees with academic multicultural interviewing. The screening degrees. The initiative is aimed at the creation process also includes an interview with of infrastructures, opportunities, training, an Arab-Israeli branch manager; tools, and the general development of this population group, as part of the bank's strategic plan for growth in the Arab-Israeli community. In Israel's open space EMPLOYEES QUALITY OF 168-169 LIFE AND WELL-BEING Proportion of women in management positions ■ Training – The Poalim Campus thinks in the Management Training Track over training sessions were held for the mentors, 2010-2015 ahead about adaptations and emphases their early years at the bank, including to impart practical coaching skills. The Segmentation of hiring of needed in various professional courses, meeting with them at the end of their program was launched in early 2016, and e m p l o y e e s f r o m u n d e r2015 7% in cooperation with the head of Arabfirst year of work; will continue through July 2016. employed population groups 2014 7% Israeli outreach at the bank and external In 2015, approximately 14% of total 2013 7% experts who consult on this subject as ■ Promotion – As the bank opened Encouraging Employment of Ultranecessary. A course coordinator from branches serving the Arab-Israeli Orthodox Workers employees hired were Arab-Israeli, 2012 27% 2011 33% the Arab-Israeli community who is community, a need emerged for highly As part of the drive to encourage hiring from 2% were Ultra-Orthodox, 2% were of Members of the board management 2010 33% thoroughly familiar with the challenges qualified and experienced employees the Ultra-Orthodox (Haredi) sector, the bank Ethiopian descent, and 2% were people facing these employees provides from this community to staff a range collaborates with a range of stakeholders with disabilities continual support according to needs of positions at the branches, creating and helps to promote this issue in the public that emerge. A targeted plan was an opportunity for promotions to sphere of the Ultra-Orthodox community 2015 51% created to gain familiarity with the unique management positions, such as branch and in the community's media outlets. For 2014 49% Hiring of employees from 2013 31% characteristics of the course participants manager and division heads. The example, the story of an employee hired and of their potential customers, with new branches opened in Arab-Israeli by the bank's Me'ah She'arim branch in the Arab-Israeli community 2012 28% the aim of optimizing future business communities have been staffed in full, in Jerusalem was published in the Haredi Over the last few years, the percentage 2011 26% Senior results. The bankers' training includes accordance with the requirements (such newspaper Mishpacha ( Family ). The of Arab-Israeli employees hired, of the executives 2010 24% workshops on behavior skills adapted as an academic degree and the skills employee was hired for the Banking total employees hired by the bank, has to Arab-Israeli society, given by an necessary for each position). Management Training Track in January external consultant from this community. 2015, through the Kivun Center, which risen significantly, particularly in the 2015 53% A Hebrew-Arabic dictionary of banking Targeted Mentoring Program for supports Haredi employment in Jerusalem. leading professional tracks offered 2014 53% terms is available to course participants the Development of Young ArabIn his interview for the newspaper, he said: by the bank. In 2014-2015, 20% of 2013 53% and to all employees of the bank. Israeli Employees The screening process is certainly not employees hired in the bank's flagship 2012 51% Meetings are held with Arab-Israeli In 2015, a targeted mentoring program easy, and requires a lot of patience, but in 50% opinion leaders and with business was developed, in collaboration with my experience it is always worthwhile to Management Training Track were ArabMiddle 2011 management 2010 37% firms that employ large numbers of Tevet – Joint Israel, for young Arab-Israeli try. It is also important to know that the fact Israelis, as well as 47% of employees Arab-Israeli workers, in order to obtain academics employed at the bank with that you are Ultra-Orthodox not only does hired in the Banker Training Track deeper understanding of their needs the potential for future development. not hurt your chances of success – the (personal bankers). 2015 52% and respond appropriately; The program's mission is to support opposite is true, often it actually increases 2014 53% empowerment and personal growth, with them, because in the end when you meet 2013 53% ■ Guidance – The Human Resources an emphasis on the adoption of effective one-on-one for a job interview you discover Division provides guidance and conducts practices at the bank for the maximization that stereotypes are only stereotypes. Female Male Total 2012 52% meetings with the employees during of individual abilities. Mentors are branch 2011 53% Board of directors* 4 11 15 First tier their training period (at the beginning, managers motivated to volunteer for the management 2010 53% middle, and end of the course), and program and willing to guide an employee Senior executives 24 63 87 is available for any questions after through a significant development process 0% 20% 40% 60% Middle management 1,304 1,156 2,460 training is completed. The division also and serve as a stable, inviting source of Employees 4,423 1,928 6,351 monitors the development of bankers advice. When the program opened, two Total employees 5,751 3,147 8,898 * Members of the board of directors are not employees of the bank. EMPLOYEES QUALITY OF 170-171 LIFE AND WELL-BEING Segmentation of minority employees Employees 82% Middle management 13% 5% Senior executives In Israel's open space Encouraging Employment of The Minister of the Economy signed an hostile acts. Extensive efforts are also Workers with Disabilities Over the years, the bank has invested the expansion order in September 2014, applying these directives to the Israeli devoted to hiring people with disabilities through relationships with the Rehabilitation LOOKING Examining Achievement of Objectives necessary resources and carried out any adjustments that are called for in the work economy as a whole. In 2015, the bank’s Human Resources Committee approved Division of the National Insurance Institute; the Ministries of Welfare, Health, and AHEAD 2015 Objectives Continued implementation of the diversity Status Completed environment when new employees with the appointment of the hiring coordinator Defense; employer support centers at approach at the bank – The In House Art exhibition physical disabilities are hired, or in the event as the function responsible for the the Center for Integration of People with Integration of the diversity philosophy with for employees and retirees of the bank will focus of changes in employees' health. Thus, the employment of people with disabilities. Disabilities in the Ministry of the Economy; the Shari Arison Doing Good Model – A drive on this theme; a content page on this subject to be bank provides disabled employees with an In addition, a human-resources policy has the Rehabilitation Division; numerous to communicate and instill diversity is planned posted to the organizational portal; relevant news appropriate work environment that enables been approved by the Human Resources placement organizations that specialize in for June 2016, within the value We Are All One, items to be published on the organizational portal; them to function to their full potential. In Committee and updated on the portal. employees with disabilities; the Service for using videos, a quiz game, and more, aimed at some cases, the bank assigns employees According to the policy: the Blind; the Accessible Work portal; the creating closeness, tolerance, and a more fair Promotion, integration, and acceptance – Completed to a position in which their disability is not Employment Service; Beit Ekstein; Elwyn; and balanced society; Incorporating diversity management in courses an obstacle, in order to enable them to ■ Employment or promotion of people Migdal Or; and more. and training programs; continuing the series of continue to work at full capacity. with disabilities who are qualified for the dialogue sessions with workers representing Encouragement of employment of people position and who have similar skills to different sectors; forming a mentoring program; with disabilities – Development of a program An agreement concerning the employment those of other candidates will be granted Employees with disabilities publishing information and useful tips on the to embed this goal, including writing an internal of people with disabilities was signed by precedence; organizational portal; The bank has conducted an procedure, publishing information on the the Histadrut labor federation and by ■ When recruiting employees from initial mapping of employees portal, holding conferences for executives, (Refers to an objective from the 2013 report) Completed. employers in June 2014. The agreement outside the bank, the hiring coordinator public relations, experience-based learning, Formulation of an outline for a mentoring establishes two obligations for employers: will contact at least three different with disabilities, according to and additional means of raising organizational program – For selected employees, to support Targeted mentoring ■ Proper representation of employees with organizations specializing in the the criteria in the new expansion awareness, in cooperation with Access Israel and their adjustment to the bank and promotion to a program for Arab-Israeli disabilities, as a percentage of the total: placement of people with disabilities. order, and is formulating a plan the Center for Integration of People with Disabilities range of positions in the long term. at least 3% of the company's employees; employees launched. ■ Appointment of an officer responsible The bank currently employs hundreds for promoting the employment in the Ministry of the Economy. for the employment of people with of employees with disabilities, most of workers with disabilities disabilities. caused by illness, traffic accidents, or EMPLOYEES QUALITY OF 172-173 LIFE AND WELL-BEING 230 Course evaluations – Performed in 230 course sessions, with 3,000 employees participating Personal Development and Training The bank cultivates a culture of learning and and further, to the branches and to each objectives, feasibility, satisfaction, 92% Participant satisfaction – 92% of invests in professional and management employee's workstation. The Campus personal/professional development, and participants rated their satisfaction training to empower its employees and is a key partner in a range of strategic connection. The average KPI score serves with the training as high or very high managers. Most of the bank's professional processes at the bank, from the initial as an index of the general effectiveness 90% and management training is conducted stage of examining needs, through the of the course. Another measurement is through the Poalim Campus. The Campus development of training methods, team performed sometime after the course, to serves as the central arena for changedevelopment, and implementation of evaluate absorption and implementation generating learning, leading to personal, changes, to testing their effectiveness of the knowledge and skills learned in organizational, and professional growth, after implementation. During process training, and the extent of change in the Achievement of KPIs (effectiveness with the goal of ensuring professional development, the Campus uses all of the employee's behavior following participation and managerial excellence for the bank's tools at its disposal, integrating a range of in the program. This post-completion evaluation) – 90% of participants employees and managers. The Campus methods, such as online learning, use of evaluation makes it possible to assess rated achievement of these contains the Banking School, the Personal videos and simulations, use of the portal, the extent of support received by the objectives as high or very high and Managerial Leadership Center, and frontal instruction. employee in implementing the skills, tools, the Learning Solutions Development and processes learned during training, and 100 Unit, the Banking Portal and IntraT he Ca mpus routine l y as se s se s the main barriers to such implementation organizational Communications Unit, the effectiveness of its courses and and absorption. This feedback enables and the Organizational Development Unit. development programs, field training the Campus to improve the quality and programs, and training sessions within precision of its training programs. The The Campus serves the combined goals systemic projects. The assessments Campus also works to map employees' Over 100 computer-based learning of fulfilling employees' desire to learn are conducted using questionnaires knowledge gaps, with the aim of identifying modules were developed during 2015 and develop and the bank’s need for administered at the midpoint and end the main areas of missing professional high-quality workers, and promotes an of the course, aimed at measuring and knowledge and designing focused training 203 organization-wide culture of ongoing evaluating the effectiveness of learning programs to close the gaps. An ongoing learning. This learning-oriented approach processes. Several key performance process of mapping knowledge gaps is emphasizes the ambition to decentralize indicators (KPIs) are established within conducted at the bank. learning to the regional administrations, this process, such as attainment of 203 branches joined the Poalim Restructuring effort in 2015 and The Campus routinely assesses the effectiveness of its courses and participated in professional training development programs, field training programs, and training sessions within in this area 100 systemic projects. Another measurement is performed sometime after the course, to evaluate absorption and implementation of the knowledge and skills learned in training, and the extent of change in the employee's behavior following participation in the program. This feedback enables the Campus to More than 100 units and managers improve the quality and precision of its training programs attended training on the Team Leadership approach In Israel's open space EMPLOYEES QUALITY OF 174-175 LIFE AND WELL-BEING Annual training activities 2015 In addition to the activity of the Poalim addition, a new position with the title of staff attending professional training 590 Campus, several of the bank's units Integrator has been added at the call sessions at their branch given by conduct on-the-job training processes centers, to oversee the maintenance managers of other branches where and other internal training activities of call-center employees' knowledge. the new approach had already been designed to impart specific professional implemented. All of the bankers also Number of course knowledge relevant to the unit and improve Poalim Campus 2015 attended a workshop designed to help 49,600 employees' capability and performance. The activities held at the Campus in them internalize the necessary behavior sessions at the Campus These training activities are conducted 2015 included the following: changes; at the following units: ■ High-Tech Bankers – The Poalim ■ Campus in the Field – The transition Campus developed new courses this 82% ■ Central back offices – The central to learning at the units continued year, in collaboration with the Retail back offices conduct basic training for during 2015, with full support from the Banking Division, aimed at offering all new employees, to familiarize them Poalim Campus in the development of different, innovative service to highwith the range of activities performed at learning materials. A new instrument Total days of learning (including subsidiaries the centers and impart basic knowledge. was introduced this year, for mapping tech customers. Eight retail branches Percentage of position-specific training were designated as branches serving and external personnel) Advanced training for experienced individual knowledge gaps. Each high-tech companies during 2015. In programs* / professional training** employees is designed to create employee receives a personalized the training process, bankers from the specialization in specific knowledge knowledge supplementation program, 43,521 business departments of each branch areas. In addition, brief professional based on the results of the mapping. were presented with professional content training sessions are conducted each New lesson plans on a range of subjects aimed at building extensive knowledge year for all employees, to refresh were written during the year and made 18% relevant to high-tech customers, in order professional content and teach skills available for use by the regions in training to improve the quality of the banking needed to work with new software; their employees, in order to expand their response in this sector; knowledge and eliminate any knowledge ■ Poalim by Telephone – The Poalim by gaps. Computer-based learning on ■ Digital branch – Two digital branches Percentage of managerial/ Telephone call center also maintained the learning system continues to serve of the bank opened in the last quarter Days of learning (bank employees only) behavioral training programs*** a training center until the end of 2015, as the key component in maintaining of 2015. The branches are designed to which took in new bankers after employees' professional skills. A new serve customers who primarily conduct their banking activity via digital means. 38.1 they completed their basic training learning tool was introduced this year: at the Poalim Campus. At the unit, telephone seminars. All employees of At these branches, customers perform the employees received additional the Retail Banking Division participated all actions available in digital form 66%/34% internal training aimed at imparting in conference calls accompanied by a independently; bankers are expected knowledge about business processes presentation to explain new procedures to provide added value at each significant and new banking products (mortgages, and credit sale skills; nexus in the customer's financial life. loans, etc.) and refreshing their existing Bankers carefully selected for the digital women men**** knowledge. In addition, as part of the ■ Embedding the Poalim Restructuring branches completed an innovative course involving extensive digital learning. Average hours of learning per employee Training programs by gender process of developing human capital process – Absorption among bankers in at the call centers, training sessions personal banking at the retail branches Most of the training was conducted via were conducted to improve employees' continues. This process refers to a tablet, like the work at the branch. In The data on average annual learning hours per employee (38.1 in 2015 versus 43 in 2014) stems from improved measurement, rather than a true individual skills and service skills. As change in bankers' approach to the addition to extensive banking knowledge, decrease in training volumes. The figure for 2014 included data for employees of subsidiaries and external workers, whereas the figure for 2015 of 2016, responsibility for support and collection of customers' debts, with a the bankers also received instruction on includes data for bank employees only. Average learning hours including employees of subsidiaries and external workers stood at 46.9 in 2015. learning at the call centers has been focus on rehabilitation of the customer financial education, enabling them to * Including infrastructure courses and senior executives' courses. transferred to team managers, who have instead of on debt collection. 203 hold dialogue with greater added value ** Including training sessions such as banking coaching days, courses on information systems, and professional banking courses been given the appropriate training. In branches joined this effort in 2015, with with their customers; that do not constitute job training. *** Including coaching days, executive development programs, and afternoon Campus courses. **** The segmentation of training by gender indicates almost full correlation between these data and the general proportions of women and men at the bank. EMPLOYEES QUALITY OF 176-177 LIFE AND WELL-BEING ■ Consultation for senior-citizen customers – retail branches, 20 business branches, and 15 Poalim Campus activity Within the decision to offer more in-depth services head-office department heads joined the program. average number of learning hours to customers aged 55 and older, the bank invited The program stresses team management, the Examining Achievement of Objectives these customers to pension and financial advising empowerment of individuals, development, and per employee sessions focused on the post-retirement period. leveraging team capabilities; All of the bank's 620 advisors were trained for this Employees 2015 Objectives Status ■ Afternoon Campus – A survey of bank employees, process, including strengthening of their skills in 2011 38.9 The execution of several projects at the Poalim Campus conducted for the first time in 2015, asked them to interacting with customers in this group, in order 2012 39.4 will begin during 2015: choose the subjects they were interested in studying to provide significant added value for sensible 2013 38.3 in the afternoon. 20 different courses opened in financial conduct; Poalim Restructuring – Nationwide Completed response to the survey, on subjects including 2014 36.8 rollout of this effor t through ■ Team Leadership – Implementation of this program language studies (English, Spanish, Arabic, and 2015 39.0 behavioral change at 230 branches at the units of the bank continued during 2015. 40 Chinese), interior design, and nutrition. within six months; Advising older customers – Based on Completed First-tier management the board of management's decision 2011 32.0 to provide more in-depth service to 2012 40.4 customers of the bank aged 55 or 2013 37.7 older, the bank plans to reach out to 2014 18.2 these customers to offer pension and 2015 21.3 financial advisory sessions focused on planning for retirement. In advance of this process, training days have been planned to strengthen pension Branch/Department managers advisors, as well as behavioral training 2011 19.3 days designed to enhance financial 2012 33.2 advisors' ability to communicate with 2013 25.2 this customer segment; 2014 14.2 2015 34.8 Mapping knowledge gaps – The Completed process of mapping knowledge gaps in the Retail Banking Area using the learning system launched during the Senior executives last quarter of 2014. The goal of this 2011 9.0 process is to map gaps in various areas 2012 14.6 among branch workers, and provide 2013 3.0 an immediate response to close any 2014 15.1 gaps discovered. 2015 6.8 0 10 20 30 40 In Israel's open space EMPLOYEES QUALITY OF 178-179 LIFE AND WELL-BEING Promoting Appropriate Work Environments 53,000 Mashab queries Outstanding employees Insurance Policies, Funds, and Employees are entitled to discounts on in general and for shareholders of 53,000 queries to Mashab were documented in The selection of outstanding employees expresses Benefits for Employees bank-account fees, subsidized loans, the Bank in particular. In accordance 2015, from 9,900 employees. During the year, management's appreciation for these employees' Bank Hapoalim pays wages to its spreading of debts into installments, and with this objective, wages for officers, Mashab complied with an SLA of responding contribution to the accomplishments of the bank. employees in accordance with personal loans tailored to personal milestones: executives, and employees are derived or collective employment contracts signed moving to a new home, buying a vehicle, from a scale of ranks, which offers the to 91% of contacts by the end of the following Outstanding employees are chosen for their skills with each employee. In addition to wages, children's weddings, and more. possibility of promotion and reflects the business day. Since the establishment of and for a combination of qualities based on a range employees enjoy a wide range of benefits, authority and responsibility of each level Mashab in 2010, over 273,000 queries have of criteria, such as striving for excellence, colleague under agreements with the employee Performance Rewards in the organizational hierarchy. Variable been made by 16,000 employees and retirees relationships, teamwork, and more union and pursuant to their personal The bank’s remuneration policy is consistent remuneration for senior executives contracts, as relevant. Employees receive with the directives of Amendment 20 to the consists of components including an comprehensive insurance coverage, Companies Law, 1999 (the Companies annual bonus contingent on the financial including pension insurance (starting on Law ) and with Proper Conduct of Banking performance of the bank, based on profit the first day of employment at the bank), Business Directive 301A, Compensation adjusted for risk, and the bank's cost Excellence in Service to Employees ■ Support center for employees in disability insurance, life insurance, personal Policy at Banking Corporations ( Banking of capital; the bonus is also determined The Mashab Personal Service Center crisis – Assistance, care, and advice; The Mashab accident insurance, health insurance, and dental insurance. In addition to the Corporation Compensation Directives ). The remuneration policy reflects the bank's based on achievement of quantitative and qualitative measurable personal serves as the centralized destination for employees' and managers' queries information, mediation, and help exercising rights within the bank or in the Personal insurance coverage described above, additional safety nets are available to ambition to compensate its employees and managers for their work and for their performance objectives; on various matters related to human resources, aimed at improving satisfaction community, for personal or family issues such as care for elderly parents, care for Service Center employees during times of crisis: contribution to the bank, and to retain ■ To promote a remuneration structure and strengthening connections. Mashab children with special needs, parenting serves as the them over the long term, with appropriate that prevents damage to labor relations was established with the aim of bringing guidance, health problems, bereavement centralized destination ■ The Malki Foundation – A voluntary incentives and linkage of their best interests at the bank; human-resource services to the next level, and coping with grief, communicating fund, administered as a non-profit with those of the bank and its stakeholders, ■ To adjust remuneration to the nature and provides service to all employees and with occupational doctors, work-related for employees' and foundation financed by employee in congruence with the bank's long-term of activity, responsibilities, and skills of managers of the bank. Mashab consists crises, preparation for retirement, coping managers' queries donations, which provides financial goals, work plans, and policies. The employees and managers, such that of three functions: with emergencies, and more. coverage for employees in the event of remuneration policy is consistent with remuneration is determined following on various matters serious illness or similar occurrences; the Bank's vision, strategy, work plans, consideration of the employee's ■ A service center for online and telephone The Elah (Bank Employees Credit) system, related to human ■ The Mutual Assistance Foundation – This and risk appetite. The policy is designed education, skills, expertise, professional queries from employees and business available to employees in recent years, resources, aimed at foundation is financed by management's to maximize the bank's value, while experience, and achievements, as partners on matters related to human offers loans to eligible employees of the budget, and is designed to assist emphasizing stability and the interchange well as the employee's position, resources; bank through a quick, simple, user-friendly improving satisfaction employees who encounter financial between achieving returns and taking risks. areas of responsibility, and previous ■ An operational system to support work procedure on the bank's website. The and strengthening difficulties and family or financial crises; wage agreements. Remuneration for processes derived from queries on hotline for contractor workers employed on connections ■ Management and employees' joint Objectives of Employees' and functions of the organization involved in matters related to human resources, the premises of the bank operated routinely fund – The bank manages the joint fund Executives' Remuneration Policy supervision and control is determined in areas such as attendance, maternity (for data on queries by contractor workers, for management and employees, with ■ To motivate officers and senior executives based on standards which take the leave, unpaid leave, employee loans, see the Supply Chain subsection in the the employee union. Employees' and to work to create long-term economic importance and sensitivity of these roles monitoring of missing data on Community chapter). management's resources are used to value for the Bank and its stakeholders, into consideration. employees, employment certifications, finance activities related to well-being in a manner that strengthens the visas, eligibility for mobile phones, Four workshops on financial knowledge and assistance for employees and connection between remuneration and cafeteria points, daily expense for employees and their spouses were retirees. the creation of value for the stakeholders allowances, and more; held free of charge again in 2015. Options EMPLOYEES QUALITY OF 180-181 LIFE AND WELL-BEING The bank allocates resources to activities that promote healthy lifestyles, such as subsidized medical testing; lectures on healthy lifestyles, good nutrition, and exercise; organizing and coaching a wide variety of sports teams for employees, and participation in sports competitions for workplaces; workshops on quitting smoking; and more conferences were held for specific target environment, such as how to sit, how to ■ Healthy lifest yles – Individual groups; examples include employees adjust chairs, how to use accessories, consultation sessions were held for receiving tenure at the bank and graduates etc., as well as instruction on exercises employees who chose to participate of the management training program with during work, answers to frequently asked regarding transitions to a healthy lifestyle one year's experience at the bank. questions, and more. and healthy nutrition, using the Body Reset method; A new service launched for employee Promoting Healthy Lifestyles ■ Ergonomic guidance and development and empowerment, Career The bank allocates resources to activities consultation – Interested employees Tip, enables employees to consult that promote healthy lifestyles, such as were given ergonomic guidance with senior executives at the bank on subsidized medical testing; lectures on and consultation by experts, at their development and career questions. healthy lifestyles, good nutrition, and workstations; Employees experiencing transitions to exercise; organizing and coaching a wide ■ Subsidies for sporting events – different units and positions within the bank variety of sports teams for employees, Employees participated in subsidized were given individual guidance by a staffing and participation in sports competitions spor ting events, such as walks, coordinator at the HCDC, including facefor workplaces; workshops on quitting marathons, biking events, and the to-face meetings, individual preparation smoking; and more. The bank also offers Wheels of Hope race; for professional interviews, interview employees and their families assistance ■ Good nutrition – A ten-session tracking, support, and advice, until the with the cost of membership at sports workshop on good nutrition was held staffing process was complete, with full and fitness clubs, comprehensive health for employees within the afternoon for self-service online applications were ambitions. To realize this philosophy and the Human Capital Development Center absorption at the new unit. Departing insurance, organized walks, and more. Campus classes; expanded in various areas of human foster employee growth, development, (HCDC) handles hiring of new employees, employees met face-to-face with a human■ Poalim Health on the international resources, such as supplements for work and empowerment, the HCDC provides a through a range of different hiring tracks. resources representative and received an Poalim Health portal – The Poalim Health zone was hours missed due to pregnancy, job-related comprehensive, current operational status aid package including career advice and This joint effort by the Human Resources, launched on the organizational portal travel reports, and more. snapshot of capabilities and skills, while Several processes took place at the Human job-search guidance. Advising, and Resources Area and the for overseas branches and subsidiaries, advancing employees through individual Capital Development Center (HCDC) Employee Union, aimed at promoting with relevant content in English, including Creating an Organizational instruction and occupation changes. during 2015, in the spirit of organizational An Ergonomic Work Environment healthy lifestyles for employees, is a tips, articles, and recommendations. Map at the Human Capital Hundreds of employees experience innovation. In the area of recruitment, One of the many facets of caring for significant new step towards expansion of Development Center mobility each year at Bank Hapoalim, innovative screening and diagnostic tools employees is to ensure a healthy, the range of activities at the bank helping The bank is committed to providing as they are assigned to new positions or were used to staff positions. In addition, a appropriate work environment. This is to encourage health for employees and a setting conducive to its employees’ promoted. Employee mobility takes place continued emphasis was placed on diverse achieved through ergonomics. Information their families. This activity continued in personal and professional development; within a supportive, values-driven work human capital. As part of the hiring process, on ergonomics is accessible to employees 2015. Activities during the year: the Human Capital Development Center environment that encourages workers to welcome conferences and orientation days on a page dedicated to this subject in the HCDC serves this purpose by creating a enrich their knowledge and experience, were held for new employees, to strengthen CSR section of the organizational portal. ■ Quitting smoking – Workshops point of contact between the organization’s in congruence with the business needs of their connection with the organization. In The page contains professional information on quitting smoking were held for needs and employees’ professional the bank. In addition to mobility processes, the area of employee retention, professional and rules for working correctly in an office employees; EMPLOYEES QUALITY OF 182-183 LIFE AND WELL-BEING LOOKING AHEAD The expansion of the Elah system to additional types of loans available to eligible employees will continue during 2016; A program for caring for employees who are sick will be implemented during 2016, and the well-being program will be expanded; Part of the drive to encourage good health was an Medical examinations for employees over the effort to rebrand the stairwells in the Rubinstein age of 30 are planned to continue during 2016; Tower head-office building. All of the stairwells in Workshops on quitting smoking and the building were redesigned, beginning with the ergonomic consultations will continue in 2016; lobby, using visual motifs from various sports. The design also included elements aimed at inviting Continued encouragement of physical exercise – TRX exercise groups for employees employees into the stairwells. The goal of this will open throughout Israel; project is to encourage employees to use the stairs Lectures on various health-related subjects and to exercise, within the creation of a healthy will be offered to employees during the year; work environment; to create an unconventional articles and tips on health will be added to atmosphere of innovation and creativity the dedicated page of the portal. Caring for Employees during for employees involves ensuring that the across Israel, reduced-price or subsidized Examining Achievement of Objectives Organizational Changes conditions of their employment are not tickets to cultural and entertainment events, As a dynamic business organization in impaired as a result of the change. discounts on hotels and vacations, holiday 2015 Objectives Status a competitive environment, the bank gifts and gifts for personal occasions, The expansion of the Elah system to additional types of loans available Development continues, following legal carries out organizational changes and Employee Union various types of insurance for employees to eligible employees will continue during 2015; approval. adjustments that sometimes take several The Employee Union is first and foremost a and their families, medical examinations, aid months. Such changes are communicated strategic partner and a key stakeholder. The funds, assistance for families in mourning, Plans to support employees in need will be constructed, in order to A program for caring for employees suffering to and coordinated with the various work of the management with the Employee assistance during crisis, and more. The care for employees who suffer prolonged illnesses or work accidents, from prolonged illnesses has been developed, stakeholders. In some cases, not only do Union follows a pattern of ongoing dialogue national union heads the pyramid of and for employees in financial distress; and is in advanced stages of implementation. units undergo change, but employees are (updates, feedback, and consultations) local unions, which are organized into Medical examinations for employees over the age of 30 are planned Completed also reassigned to different positions. In and partnership in all key actions and regional unions. Branch managers in each during 2015; these situations, the appropriate training processes in the day-to-day running of the region have a regional union as well as and instruction are provided in order to bank. The roles fulfilled by the Employee representation in the national union. The Workshops on quitting smoking and ergonomic consultations will Completed prepare the employees for their new roles, Union include protecting every employee's national union consists of representatives be offered to employees in 2015; and support is offered through all stages rights and obligations; developing cultural, of the regions (including branches and the Employees will receive subsidies for individual consulting sessions Completed of the transition and absorption. Under instructional, and social activities; and head office), with representation proportional on moving towards healthy lifestyles and healthy nutrition; the bank's labor constitution, in all cases organizing mutual assistance among to the size of the region. The national union of transfer of employees to a different employees. The numerous activities of the operates on the basis of association articles, Frontal and online lectures on various health-related subjects will Completed position, the employee must be given at union for the wellbeing of employees include accessible to all employees in a dedicated be offered to employees during the year; articles and tips on health least one month’s advance notice. Caring summer day camps for employees’ children section of the organization's web portal. will be added to the dedicated page of the portal. EMPLOYEES QUALITY OF 184-185 LIFE AND WELL-BEING Caring for Employees of the bank benefit from an extensive special occasions, insurance plans, distress, or bereavement. Intervention and ■ Financial planning workshops – financial aid, and tuition aid for employees assistance are also offered, as necessary, Financial planning workshops are offered array of wellbeing services in many different areas. Employees’ and their children. to employees' family members or to the to employees of the bank, consisting of surviving family of deceased employees. These services provide appropriate solutions for six sessions, including two individual Whole-Person Any employee can request assistance guidance sessions and instructional Occupational Wellbeing a broad range of employee needs, from leisure The bank supports employees in times of directly; the service is confidential. meetings, as well as a lecture on activities and healthy lifestyles to enrichment Wellbeing need, and offers assistance in response pensions by the bank's pension advisors. to personal, financial, and health needs, Work-Life Balance for employees and their families, professional The goal of the workshops is to spark behavioral and financial changes while as a reflection of the value of humanity The bank's management and employee assistance in times of personal or family crisis, and imparting knowledge and tools for better Wellbeing Services and as a practical expression of the union accord great impor tance to Employees of the bank benefit from an bank's vision. The bank's two wellbeing employees' quality of life and to the more. Wellbeing services complement the wages financial management. The workshops extensive array of wellbeing services in officers assist employees coping with balance of work life with family and leisure and various benefits given to employees cover content including examination many different areas. These services distress, crisis, or change in their personal, life, along with employees' enrichment, of the existing financial situation and provide appropriate solutions for a family, or occupational life, and help them empowerment, and growth. Most of issues to resolve, budget and expense broad range of employee needs, from resume their routines, in situations such the bank's employees are entitled to an management, identifying and addressing leisure activities and healthy lifestyles as prolonged illness, disability, financial annual vacation day quota higher than the amount required by law. The bank also workshops, language courses, coaching financial threats with the potential to to enrichment for employees and their grants additional paid leave on holidays workshops, mediation workshops, Adler disrupt the process, and more. Over 200 families, professional assistance in times and personal occasions, including Purim, method classes for parents of adolescents, employees of the bank have participated of personal or family crisis, and more. Tisha Be'Av, May 1st, weddings, weddings and more. in the workshops. Participants' feedback Wellbeing services complement the of sons and daughters, birth of a child, indicates high levels of satisfaction wages and various benefits given to mourning and memorial days, days off Promotion of Financial Freedom for with the content, the coaches, and the employees. Services are offered on to study for examinations, and more. The Employees behavioral changes achieved; two levels. Individuals receive improved bank practices a shortened work week of The drive to instill the bank's financial ■ Financial Freedom Week campaign benefits, guidance and support, and a 40.5 hours. In many positions, workday freedom philosophy among its stakeholders on the organizational portal – The range of available activities to improve beginning and end times are flexible. Work and the concern for employees across the Marketing Administration, in collaboration wellbeing, strengthen their sense of at the branches ends in the early afternoon life cycle encompasses the promotion of with the Poalim Campus, held a weekbelonging, and position the bank as a three days a week. financial freedom for employees of the bank long campaign to encourage financial leading organization and employer. The Bank employees are offered a wide range as well. This endeavor includes: freedom in December 2014, during which bank as a whole conducts organizationof social, cultural, and leisure activities at extensive information was provided, daily wide activities, and mobilizes for employees attractive subsidized prices, including sports■ Coaching days on sensible financial tips were posted, and a behavioral and the community at special events. center memberships, fitness clubs, swimming behavior for employees of the bank – survey was conducted each day. A pools, hikes and walks, subscriptions to The bank has held dozens of coaching different topic was selected as a focus for A page in the wellbeing services section cultural institutions throughout Israel, theater days for employees, with the aim of each day of the week, including the need of the organizational portal, set up in performances in Tel Aviv, the Good Movie raising awareness of this issue and of to change behavior on the path towards collaboration with the employee union, Club, and short vacations. its importance, providing knowledge financial freedom, budget management, offers employees of the bank a wide range and tools to improve financial conduct, financial conduct in families and with of special offers and discounts. Employees Life Cycle Workshops and expanding the circle of employees children, smart consumerism, savings, are also offered discounts and subsidies The bank is committed to being a familywho participate in activities aimed and pensions. Employees were invited on leisure activities, such as fitness clubs, friendly employer, and therefore offers at promoting financial freedom at to participate actively by suggesting tips swimming pools, subscriptions to cultural employees support in their family roles and the bank. The coaching sessions and responding to surveys. A virtual institutions, performances, theater, and duties as parents of children, children of focus on misguided financial habits, discussion with Alon Gal (a famous more. aging parents, spouses, and more. In this procrastination, responsible family israeli life coach) was held in the middle Another component of wellbeing services context, the bank offers life-cycle workshops, communication, budget management, of the week. The level of response to the is a range of benefits offered through such as a parental authority workshop, and the development of personal campaign was high. Another campaign a joint fund of management and the defensive driving classes, couples' responsibility and engagement; is planned for 2016; employee union: gifts for holidays and In Israel's open space EMPLOYEES QUALITY OF 186-187 LIFE AND WELL-BEING ■ Learning Hour for employees of the quarterly basis since the beginning of and to transmit important information bank – The Poalim Campus produced a one2014, in two versions: one for the members regarding developments in this field in hour learning module on financial freedom of the bank's internal Financial Freedom Israel and worldwide; for bank employees. The Learning Hour Forum and the senior management tier ■ Employee guidance and presents a series of everyday events that of the bank, and a corresponding slightly mentoring – Approximately 30 bank raise questions for discussion and shared abridged format for stakeholders in the employee volunteers were trained during thinking about optimal financial conduct. public, social, and business arenas involved 2015 to mentor employees who are This activity is supported by a targeted in the bank's efforts to promote financial experiencing difficulties in managing content area on the portal, where learning literacy in Israel. The newsletter provides their household budgets, over a sixexperiences can be shared; a venue to communicate the extensive month period; activities conducted by the bank's partners ■ Communication of activities to ■ Individual training passed on to employees – The Financial Freedom customers – The Poalim Campus Newsletter has been distributed on a added a financial education learning module to the digital branch banker course, aimed at providing these bankers with the capability to conduct a high-quality session with added value Event for bank retirees for their customers. Inclusion of this The In House Art As part of the continuing relationship module in additional courses in the area annual exhibition between the bank and its retirees, of personal banking is being considered. was held for the tenth time, to a gala event was held in their honor, display a wide range of artwork by to show appreciation for their many Poalim Service Center employees and retirees of the bank years of contribution to the bank. The The Poalim Service Center offers a unique event was attended by approximately package of services to bank employees 500 retired employees of the branch and their families, 24 hours a day. Among network and the head office, whose other matters, the center helps employees contact the police in cases of home service at the bank ended during the burglaries, tows cars after accidents, and In Israel's open space preceding two years provides initial assistance and references to the appropriate professionals for Caring for aging parents malfunctions of household systems. The CSR Division of the bank and The bank's support structure Examining Achievement of Objectives the Occupational Well-Being Unit The support provided by the bank in LOOKING 2015 Objectives Status offer employees comprehensive information to assist with the complex the event of death or catastrophe experienced by bank employees Preparing for Retirement and Keeping in Touch with Retirees The bank’s obligations in respect of AHEAD Budget management tips enclosed with pay slips – Distributed The bank is promoting an initiative in which several every two responsibilities involved in caring includes an extensive range of retirement plans, compensation, and tips on sensible financial conduct in various areas will months for aging parents. This information pensions are fully covered by pension plan A campaign to promote financial freedom will be services to aid and accompany the be enclosed with employees' pay slips. For example, during 2015. assets. The bank cares for employees held for employees in February 2016, including is presented in a dedicated zone of employee's family over the long special activities at the Poalim Campus, training employees could receive practical advice on savings, Planned to and employees' spouses approaching pensions, imparting good financial habits to children, continue in the portal, to help employees gain a term (assistance for bereaved family sessions, and events; retirement age by offering preparatory budget management, and more; 2016. better understanding of the subject members, psychological or socialcourses and workshops regarding and suggest practical tools for making work help if necessary, help in realizing retirement, and maintains continuous A 3D Dan the Saver game for employees will be Continued efforts to raise awareness, make knowledge Ongoing. the right decisions, saving time and benefits and insurance policies, and contact with retirees. This includes launched and installed at central locations in bank more accessible, and provide employees with guidance, support, financing, and cooperation buildings, to encourage smart consumerism and as the first step in improving individual financial conduct resources, and most importantly, to more). Managers have been appointed with the retiree union, which organizes to raise awareness. and spreading this approach to wider circles. aid them in providing their parents with and trained as casualty officers, for trips and leisure activities and arranges the best possible care each area and region of the bank monetary assistance in times of need. EMPLOYEES QUALITY OF 188-189 LIFE AND WELL-BEING LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT Setting Environmental Policy its employees, and will initiate and In recognition of the bank's social From Consumption ·E xamination of environmental effects environmental impacts by various means. responsibility and the importance of participate in community projects. throughout the life cycle of the resource, This approach is implemented through sustainable environmental policies, Bank Management taking all types of impact into consideration the bank's environmental management The bank recognizes the added value Hapoalim has formulated a comprehensive, associated with the implementation to Resource (pollution, global warming, resource system, which was certified under the formalized policy in this area. The policy of this environmental policy, on two Management scarcity, etc.). international management standard ISO was delineated by professional bodies main levels: The bank views consumable materials 14001 during 2012. Bank Hapoalim is the and constitutes an integral part of the as resources to be managed from an The bank involves its employees in this first financial institution in Israel to attain ■ The integration of environmental values organization-wide certification under this bank's strategy: environmental and business perspective, process through internal changes in with the economic values of efficient standard. In late 2015, the bank renewed its rather than as an inevitable but undesirable environmental practices, as well as through ■ The bank views environmental protection use of logistical resources, creates component of its routine expenses. the attempt to maximize the impact of all documentation for the standard, so that it as a social value, managed as an integral shared value for the profit line of the Consequently, key environmental of its environmental efforts in the hope is now in effect until 2018. Bank Hapoalim component of its social responsibility; bank’s financial statements and for the resources consumed by the bank are that its employees, who with their families also takes responsibility for the indirect ■ The bank recognizes that natural environment; environmental impact of banking products. managed according to the following number in the tens of thousands, will resources are an asset belonging to ■ A policy of environmental responsibility become agents of change in their own The Clients chapter discusses these parameters: the public, the community, and future makes it possible to improve the work communities. Towards that end, the environmental effects, with an emphasis generations, in accordance with the environment, contributing to better ·Creation of a measurement infrastructure bank strives to supply its employees and on services and products that promote principle of sustainable development; quality of life for employees at work and allowing monitoring of trends and their families with information and tools sustainable development and generate higher workplace satisfaction. identification of areas needing improvement; designed to able more environment friendly environmental value for the economy and ■ The bank seeks to achieve the proper balance between economic development ·Establishment of a multi-year comprehensive behavior, in driving, recycling, saving the general public, while also maximizing The bank's environmental policy is work plan; energy, and more. This effort expands financial value for the bank's customers. and environmental protection in its presented on its website. business decisions; ·Validation of forecasts from the planning the bank's sphere of influence, so that Obeying the Law stage and analyses of variance in its environmental impact expands from ■ The bank complies with environmental The bank is aware of its legal duties in performance for learning purposes; the internal environment of the bank to regulations and laws, and adheres to the connection with environmental protection ·Implementation of initiatives aimed at the external public arena. directives of environmental protection and prevention of environmental damage, increasing efficiency; organizations; This section extensively reviews the and acts accordingly. No substantial fines ·Partnership with employees, internal bank's material environmental impacts ■ The bank diligently endeavors to prevent or sanctions have been imposed upon the professional functions, and external (energy consumption and paper use), environmental damage; bank for violations of environmental laws stakeholders in the implementation of as well as the reduction of its additional or regulations during 2015. localized initiatives and formal work plans; ■ The bank is committed to managing its environmental impact in a manner that ensures continual improvement, by setting measurable targets and monitoring the achievement of its Bank Hapoalim was certified under the international objectives; management standard ISO 14001 during 2012. In ■ The bank will continually measure its late 2015, the bank renewed its documentation for impact on the environment, and will strive the standard, so that it is now in effect until 2018 to understand ecological consequences and make decisions accordingly; ■ The bank will collaborate with other companies and public entities to promote environmental causes; ■ The bank will work to assimilate environmental education among In Israel's open space LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 192-193 2.3% The bank's total power consumption in 2015 the bank's head-office buildings and large branches. In 2015, the percentage of the bank's power consumption sourced from Dorad increased to over half of the annual total (approximately 52%). The transition to Dorad has lowered the bank's energy costs and reduced the environmental impact of systems (chillers) at the bank's head-office buildings and the VRF systems at the branches continued during 2015. Biothermal Energy Retention Sheeting Installation Pilot In 2015, within the process of improving decrease by 2.3% its power consumption. energy efficiency, the bank examined an innovative energy-saving solution in which compared with 2014 Energy Efficiency lightweight biothermal sheets are installed Command and Control Systems on branch ceilings. The sheets help maintain The bank uses computerized command and a constant temperature in the branch and control systems to monitor and control all retain coolness from the air-conditioning of its energy consumption; these systems system even when the building doors are provide alerts of significant problems, and opened and closed, leading to savings of In 2015, the percentage of the bank's power consumption sourced from Dorad increased to over half of the annual total (approximately 52%). The transition to Dorad has lowered the bank's energy costs and reduced the environmental impact of its power consumption controls consumption of air conditioning 20-30% on air-conditioning costs. The pilot and lighting based on the presence of project in 2015 was conducted at the Rosh employees and customers in each building. Haayin branch. Installation of the energyThe systems have been installed at all of the saving sheets at additional branches is bank's facilities, and are operated based planned in the future. on a fixed regime according to work hours at each branch or building. The systems Transition to Efficient Lighting were installed at all new branches opened As part of the ongoing long-term process In Israel's open space during 2015. of installing efficient lighting in the bank's buildings, all lighting fixtures in the parking Installation of Efficient Air garage at the head office on Yehuda Halevi Power Electrical power is a key resource used at the bank. The basic assumption is that in T h e c e n tr a l p r i n c i p l e i n e ffi c i e n t management of electricity consumption energy consumed at Bank Hapoalim comes in the form of electricity (with the exception Conditioning Systems The bank is installing new chillers with a Street in Tel Aviv were replaced, in a move from fluorescent lighting to efficient LED Consumption enterprises that operate in an office setting, just as in industrial operations, electricity by offices is coordinated timing of air conditioning and lighting systems and of fuel consumption) which supplied by the Israel Electric Corporation. There are no higher COP (coefficient of performance), as well as VRF (variable refrigerant flow) lights. This followed a similar replacement at the Rubinstein Tower in 2014, where a Management should not be seen as an uncontrollable expense or as a necessary evil. Electricity of computer operation, according to employee presence, to the extent possible. additional suppliers of energy for the bank which produce energy renewable sources. air-conditioning systems, which will lead to savings of about 38% on energy and profitable return on the investment has been demonstrated. Both parking garages have and Energy should be managed as a resource, with rigorous analysis of power consumption The collection and analysis of as much data as possible allows organizations to During 2014, the bank began to receive maintenance costs (20% of the savings are in power consumption), relative to other sensors that turn the lights on only when cars are entering or exiting, generating Efficiency over the course of the day, week, and year, and with comparisons among buildings. identify excessive consumption and find the optimal solution. Virtually all of the electricity from Dorad, a natural-gas-based power supplier. Dorad supplies electricity to systems, for replacements and installations; The process of replacing the air-conditioning additional savings beyond the 70% saved by the LED lights. LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 194-195 101 Printing centers 11,000 telephones IPT switches: Installed at 333 branches 1,850Fax2Mail 10 New air-conditioning systems: The bank continued to A total of 101 printing centers and sites to manage telephony through The application is accessible install the most power-efficient systems to replace older airhave been installed at the bank; a centralized computer system, saving to approximately 1,850 users conditioning systems in its buildings during 2015. The bank the project of transitioning to employee travel. 11,000 telephones are throughout the bank has installed approximately 10 VRF systems each year the printing centers has been currently covered by the new technology. completed The project is completed. Transition to printing centers and double-sided lead to savings of about 40% on paper consumption at Green IT consumption for cooling, optimal utilization landline communications management the bank's headquarters units, and reduce toner The bank also works to achieve energy of server resources, reduced maintenance, by allowing digital management through saving and efficiency by thoroughly and savings on physical space. Main a centralized computer system. This consumption. The installation will progress over the examining the possibilities for green activities carried out during 2015 in the connection eliminates the need for course of 2014-2015, and is expected to lead to information technologies at its branches area of green IT: local switchboards at each branch and annual savings of approximately 11 million pages and offices. Energy efficiency is one of the ■ Transition to printing centers and allows internal calls between system parameters in the procurement tenders double-sided printers – The bank users to be performed free of charge, (about 40% of current consumption) as well as for IT equipment. Equipment with more is gradually replacing desktop and without using the phone network. In significant financial savings efficient power usage earn added points department printers, fax machines, addition, the phones allow users to dial in IT tenders, motivating bidders to supply scanners, and photocopiers with through their computers and to access more advanced equipment. In addition, the integrated devices, operated using an a directory of all telephone numbers in hardware and communications division employee card reader, with double-sided the organization. The transition to an does not rely on manufacturers' information printing capabilities. Printing centers IP switchboard improves the bank's only regarding the performance of the lead to savings of about 40% on paper control over its communication system various components, and running the consumption at the bank's headquarters and saves power consumption due to necessary tests on server hardware units, and reduce toner consumption. the elimination of local switchboards. and software, printers, and peripheral The installation will progress over the equipment at a laboratory set up for that course of 2014-2015, and is expected to Additional savings on power consumption purpose. The tests allow for products to lead to annual savings of approximately in computer use are achieved at the bank be examined in greater depth, and serve 11 million pages (about 40% of current through a system that turns off personal as a preliminary stage to pilots in the field consumption) as well as significant computers at the end of the workday and to generate more reliable forecasts. In financial savings; through the use of a fax-to-mail / mail-to2013, the bank completed the project fax application. of converting physical servers to servers ■ IP telephony The bank is gradually based on virtual consolidation technology. transitioning its landline communications The servers allow savings on power to an IPT system. The transition enhances In Israel's open space LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 196-197 Bank Hapoalim is more efficient in power consumption in Management and Measurement of similar size and designation at the bank, and with 2014. Average consumption per square comparison to banking industry* Power Consumption compare multi-year trends in consumption meter decreased by 2.2% compared with The bank maintains a power consumption per square meter and per employee. The 2014. The decrease in 2015 mainly resulted Bank Hapoalim 110 database, which is routinely updated to database also makes it possible to identify from the ongoing energy efficiency processes Banking industry reflect structural changes in the bank's trends of improvement and increased undertaken by the bank. In addition to properties as a result of addition, closure, efficiency, and to locate properties with a the contribution to the environment, the 100 rental, or change in designation. The risk of inefficiency or malfunction. downward trend in electricity consumption database enables the bank to examine the has financial implications in the form of 91.4 90 monthly and annual consumption patterns Data on the bank's total power consumption cost savings. of each property, compare it to buildings of in 2015 indicate a 2.3% decrease compared 82.7 80 Power consumption at Bank Hapoalim 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 70 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Change vs. 2014 * Gadir Engineering Ltd. analyzes power consumption at business firms, among other activities. Starting in 2006, the company has issued an index of power consumption in the banking sector. The index presents the relative multi-year change in power consumption at Bank Hapoalim and at other banks; the reference Total (KwH) 94,058,465 93,600,417 90,616,904 86,567,004 84,579,103 -2.3% point (100%) is the volume of consumption in 2006. As shown in the diagram, power consumption at the bank has grown more efficient over the last eight years. The index does not factor in changes in the area of the banks' properties or power consumption in buildings shared by the banks with other entities (branches Total (GJ) located in shopping malls, or premises shared by banks and government agencies, other businesses, etc.).. 338,610 336,962 326,221 311,641 304,485 -2.3% Bank area in sq. m. 312,787 312,316 308,909 304,184 291,512 -4.2% Consumption per 300.71 299.7 294.1 284.6 *278.4 -2.2% square meter (KwH) LOOKING Examining Achievement of Objectives AHEAD * Power consumption per square meter was calculated based on total consumption of 81,165,743 KWh. This total does not include the bank's consumption at 2015 Objectives Status the Rotem site (approximately 3.4 million KWh), as this site is a unique backup facility with unique consumption patterns that are not characteristic of average power usage at the bank. Outdated fluorescent bulbs in the parking garage Completed. of the head-office building on Yehuda Halevi Fax2Mail Expanded to approximately Street will be replaced by LED lighting in 2015; Bank Hapoalim total power consumption Power consumption per square meter 650 new users, for a total of 2,500 users throughout the bank; Fluorescent bulbs will be replaced by LED lighting The project was (KwH) (KwH) on several floors used by workers at the Rubinstein postponed to the Tower head-office building; beginning of 2016. Installation of biothermal energy retention The bank will continue to install efficient airCompleted. 94,058 93,600 300.7 sheeting – The bank plans to expand this 299.7 project to additional branches during 2016. conditioning systems in its facilities. 294.1 90,616 86,567 284.6 84,573 278.4 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 198-199 Reduction of Energy Consumption in Transportation The direct and indirect environmental impact of Bank Hapoalim in the area of transportation is primarily fuel consumption and emissions resulting from fuel burning, derive from the bank's vehicle fleet and the internal system for transportation between branches and facilities of the bank. The bank is working to reduce its fuel consumption, and consequently to cut back air pollution, by various means. These include: ■ Limiting the vehicles chosen for the vehicle fleet to those with a pollution rating of 8 most of the vehicles at the bank, have lower pollution ratings; ■ Conducting a dialogue with employees through the organizational portal – publication of articles and recommendations concerning safe, efficient, careful driving; ■ Encouraging employees to commute by bicycle – The bank encourages employees at the head office to ride bicycles to work, by providing showers and bicycle parking spots. In addition, a large proportion of banking services are consumed digitally or over the telephone, eliminating the need for customers to visit a branch, which leads to reduced travel and air pollution. Data on Bank Hapoalim vehicles 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Number of 1,329 1,288 1,238 1,188 1,106 vehicles in leasing fleet Annual fuel 3,574,235 3,440,152 3,448,047 3,537,444 3,599,730 consumption (in liters) Mileage in 10.1 10.5 11 11.8 10 kilometers per liter (based on manufacturer data) Number of hybrid 23 27 22 19 22 vehicles in the fleet In Israel's open space LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 200-201 Management Paperless Branch The main activities conducted within the and contributes to savings of some 15 million pages per year. The rapid retrieval of Paper Paperless Branch project in 2015 are reviewed below: capabilities will also make it possible to respond more promptly to customers' Resources ■ Digital signatures and use of touch screens in customer service – The queries requiring a search for documents; Paper is one of the main raw materials implementation of digital signatures for ■ Digital branch – Transactions that can consumed during the routine operations teller transactions was completed during be signed digitally have been expanded of the bank; as such, this resource 2015 at all of the bank's retail branches. to additional content areas, covering is managed in an effort to cut back The transactions included in this effort 90% of private customers' activity. The consumption and increase recycling. are cash deposits and withdrawals, expansion has been applied initially at the The drive to reduce paper consumption check deposits and withdrawals, addition digital branches, but is also planned at all at the bank continued during 2015. to or withdrawal from a deposit, bank retail branches. The annual paper savings Special attention has been devoted to fully transfers, payment of bills, and orders and are expected to reach approximately 17 maximizing the potential for automation delivery of checkbooks. Customers who million pages; of formerly paper-consuming processes. receive face-to-face service from bankers This important achievement has primarily are shown details of the transaction ■ Green accounts – This initiative has been been made possible by the Paperless on a touch screen, and they sign the expanded to face-to-face transactions Branch strategic project. The project, form digitally. At the conclusion of the signed digitally. When customers execute which has been led by the LEAN Unit transaction, the customer receives a a transaction with a banker and sign at the Corporate Strategy Area since printed confirmation and the documents digitally, a copy of the transaction is sent The various initiatives introduced by the 2009, entails analysis of the bank's paper are saved digitally on the bank's computer to them via direct channels (Mail Net, Paperless Branch Unit have led to annual 150 consumption and of the possibilities for system, instead of the previous practice e-mail, or a printout), according to the savings of about reduction or elimination of forms and of retaining hard copies of documents. preferences in their accounts; reports, both for internal needs and in mail to customers. This transition saves time on document filing, allows rapid retrieval of documents, ■ Transactions not in the presence of million pages the customer – Automatic printing of a of paper customer copy of transactions executed Paper consumption at the bank (in tons) and approximately by bankers without the presence of the customer has been canceled. This change NIS 32 million In Israel's open space is expected to eliminate unnecessary 603 printing of double copies for transactions executed when the customer is not present, Paper for mail to customers Collection of paper for recycling (in tons) 394 usually at the initiative of the branch; 445 Paper for internal use 355 Blank A4 paper 2,017 ■ Printing centers – has been reorganized, with better efficiency. The process 1,067 1,380 987 1,352 348 700 encompassed printers, photocopiers, fax 2,015 1,527 328 machines, and scanners, with a transition 359 1,461 380 399 from personal printers for each employee to 1,659 1,306 central printers, aimed at achieving savings 1,204 1,048 822 821 in paper, electricity, maintenance costs, and toner cartridges, as well as secure, 248 271 265 259 261 256 201 controlled printing. Paper savings at the 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 head office have reached approximately 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 45%, or NIS 1.3 million annually. LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 202-203 37 tons 50% 13 tons 589 thousand customers 123,000 Cumulative savings in paper consumption, trees saved measured since 2007 (the baseline Paper consumption Paper consumption for internal use at Cardboard recycling Mail Net: 589,000 customers use year), reached 8,088 tons. This figure is Consumption at the bank the bank was down by 50% in 2015 as 13 tons were collected by this service. The number of users equivalent to preventing approximately decreased by 37 tons in 2015 compared to 2007 (the baseline year); the bank and transferred grew by 13.5% in 2015, relative to relative to 2014, an annual paper consumption for mail to customers for recycling in 2015 the end of 2014 123,000 trees from being cut down for decrease of 2.5% decreased by 34% in the same comparison the paper industry Mail Net Bank Hapoalim aims to streamline and to reduce its paper consumption. This in a mailbox linked to their online account. reduce mailings to customers. Under effort includes consolidation of messages, Every customer registered for this service LOOKING Examining Achievement of Objectives AHEAD various regulatory consumer protection reduction of mailings where possible, contributes to average savings of 45 mailed 2015 Objectives Status directives, the bank is required to send and environmental mail initiatives such pages annually. mail to its customers, at specified times, as Mail Net. The Mail Net service enables Establishment of a paperless digital Completed. containing the details specified by law. registered customers to receive account Paper and Cardboard Recycling branch, allowing customers to sign all Within this requirement, the bank is working notifications through the bank’s website, The bank collects and transfers paper Expansion of digital signatures into content documents using touch screens. waste for recycling: paper no longer in use areas added during the year will be completed (documents, forms, etc.) is regularly and at all branches of the bank; Sending a copy of a transaction performed Completed. Increase in rate of Mail Net users and active users systematically collected and transferred for with a banker to the customer's personal of the bank's website recycling by a specialist external company. e-mail address (instead of handing them As part of this effort, each employee has Green accounts will be implemented in a selfa hard copy). 1,281,000 Active website users a bin designated for paper collection. service format allowing customers to send 1,234,000 589,000 Completion of the installation of printing Completed. Cardboard containers are also collected themselves printouts and receipts from machineMail Net users 519,000 centers at all headquarters units of the bank. 942,000 at the head-office buildings (Rubinstein, aided transactions, via e-mail or Mail Net. 862,000 456,000 Yehuda Halevy, and Rothschild). Cardboard 810,000 754,000 441,000 is collected and compressed, and then 407,805 301,345 transferred for recycling. Transition to Recycled Paper At the beginning of 2011, the bank made the transition to green A4 paper for its printers and copiers. The green paper is made in Israel, using a combination of 50% recycled fibers and 50% ordinary 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 fibers (original cellulose). LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 204-205 Green Construction: Construction projects carried out by the bank in 2015 used environment-friendly elements such as efficient air-conditioning units, energy-efficient lighting, shading to save energy used for air conditioning, and acoustic ceilings to prevent noise pollution employees will become agents for change possible elements of green construction to in their own right. In accordance with this these sites, although the properties involved worldview, the bank aspires to rigorously may not meet accepted green construction manage its direct environmental impact, standards. As part of this process, the with employee involvement whenever bank has started to install environmentnecessary, after the infrastructure for friendly carpets in several buildings. The appropriate environmental conduct has carpets are manufactured in compliance been established. The bank engages with international environmental standards. employees in these processes, based The bank has made a decision to use on the philosophy that their participation environment friendly carpets in all future is essential for success. In addition, the installations at its properties. bank seeks to extend its influence on environmental conduct to employees' communities; with their families, the bank's employees are a force for change Turning Waste into numbering in the tens of thousands. a Resource and Towards that end, the bank strives to supply its employees and their families Preventing Pollution with information and tools to enable them Environmental trends of recent years have to be greener, in driving, recycling, saving highlighted the fact that one person’s waste energy, and more. is another’s resource. Population growth creates pressure on ecological systems, making it difficult to meet demands for Promoting Green 28.7 In Israel's open space Construction The bank has adjusted all of the purchasing specifications used for the construction of Reducing Production and service processes in banking have a minor direct environmental environmental issues systemically, based on the international standard ISO 14001. requirements of the law as well as with norms in this area. its office buildings and branches to align with green construction principles. It is tons Electronic waste Additional impact, as the bank's activity is essentially administrative and the service it provides The system formalizes organized work processes in the various interfaces used at The bank involves its employees in this important to note that significant number of branches are located in shopping malls 28.7 tons were collected and Environmental to its customers is digital by nature. Nonetheless, Bank Hapoalim strives to the bank for environmental management, addressing all milestones and the process both through internal changes in environmental practices and through the and commercial centers not owned by the bank, where the bank cannot alter the removed from the recycling receptacles at the bank Impact minimize the additional environmental impact of its activity. The bank manages completion of processes. Controls are applied to ensure compliance with the attempt to maximize the impact of its overall environmental activities, in the hope that its infrastructures of the buildings. However, the bank intends to bring as many as LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 206-207 2,526 Cubic meters of 6,470 Fluorescent bulbs 17,035 Ink and toner cartridges 240 kg of Batteries 101,843 Beverage bottles and cans 19 sacks of Medications Construction waste During 2015, 2,680 kg The bank's printers and 240 kg were collected and 101,843 bottles and cans 19 sacks of expired 2,526 cubic meters of of bulbs were collected fax machines used 17,035 removed from the bank's were collected at the bank medications were collected waste were removed from and evacuated ink and toner cartridges buildings for safe burial for recycling from the receptacles at the construction sites bank for proper disposal natural resources such as metals, wood, ■ Collection of electronic waste – Bank deposits are transferred to the unit's water, fossil fuels, and more. In addition, Hapoalim strictly maintains responsible, employee union and used to finance without proper treatment, waste pollutes orderly disposal of disused computer various social activities, donations, etc. the environment and damages soil, water, equipment. Computer equipment not and the air, while contributing to global suitable for donation is transferred for Instilling the Habit of Recycling Electronic waste Ink and toner Construction waste warming. These and other insights highlight responsible recycling and disposal each at the Bank recycling (tons) cartridges (units) collection (m3) the importance of a methodical approach year. All mobile devices no longer in use The bank has developed a series of 21,700 21,370 2,526 2,526 to the future of the materials and products are returned to the supplier for responsible receptacles for waste collection and 2,168 44 17,035 that we consume, after they have been disposal. All other disused electronic recycling at its buildings, with an emphasis used. Bank Hapoalim mapped the types equipment is transferred to Ecommunity, on high quality and design. This effort 28.7 15.8 of waste generated by its operations, which specializes in electronic waste is based on the concept of turning and subsequently examined the most recycling and employs workers with waste into a resource, and on the idea environmentally beneficial methods of disabilities. Head-office employees can that design sells. The process is being 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 treating such waste: bring electronic waste from their homes conveyed to employees through intrato the collection center at Rubinstein organizational communication, in which ■ Reuse of a resource or of its components Towers in Tel Aviv; the bank encourages its employees to (either in its existing condition, or after ■ Responsible disposal of construction collect and recycle waste. The receptacles improvement); waste – The bank includes a contract offer a convenient, accessible destination ■ Recycling of the resource by external clause in its agreements with construction for removal of waste in the workplace, parties, who convert it into raw material and renovation contractors working at contributing to manufacturing and reuse and then reinsert it into the production its branches and buildings requiring processes, in addition to the reduction Recycling of bottles and beverage Battery collection (kg) process; the responsible removal of waste to a of environmental damage. Recycling containers (units) ■ Responsible disposal through collection licensed facility. The aim is to fully prevent receptacles are available for paper, 960 and transfer to a licensed site (prevention construction waste originating with the electronic waste, fluorescent bulbs, bottles 110,000 108,000 101,843 of environmental pollution). organization from reaching unlicensed and cans, batteries, used clothes, and sites or open fields; medication. The waste is collected and 280 240 The bank promotes the collection and ■ Collection of bottles and cans – treated by licensed operators. responsible disposal of waste through the Systematic recycling in collaboration with 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 following activities, among others: the ELA recycling corporation. Refunded LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 208-209 a significant decrease of approximately Measuring 35% the Carbon of the Footprint carbon Bank Hapoalim recognizes the phenomenon of global climate change, and therefore monitors the key elements footprint that contribute to greenhouse-gas emissions. In 2010, Bank Hapoalim joined the voluntary greenhouse-gas reporting The carbon footprint for 2015 (61,511 tons system of the Ministry of Environmental Protection. Since CO2eq) indicates a significant decrease of that time the bank has reported to the recording system in accordance with the established methodology. In addition approximately 35% over the last two years to energy consumption (electricity and transportation), (from 94,324 tons CO2eq in 2013), mainly as the bank monitors indirect sources of emissions, such as a result of the transition to Dorad electricity, paper production, branch construction, waste treatment, air travel by employees, and more. For a control report on which is produced from a cleaner fuel mix, annual carbon footprint data, see page 240. in environmental terms Carbon footprint measurement scopes Emission of Substances that Damage the Ozone Layer The bank uses five main types of airconditioning systems: split air conditioners, Scope 3 central air conditioners, VRF systems, 16,962 18,745 15,525 Scope 2 cooling towers, and chillers. The older Scope 1 systems use Freon gas, which is permitted 17,811 by law, but may be harmful to the ozone Volume of emissions in CO2 tons layer. The bank is working to replace these existing air conditioning systems with 12,700 systems that use only environment-friendly 70,409 68,286 10,980 gases. The air-conditioning systems of all of 73,614 63,668 the bank's properties in aggregate contain between 20-30 tons of coolant gas, of 48,424 which more than 85% is the environment 41,733 friendly R-410a. During leak repairs and routine maintenance in 2015, the coolant gas in the air-conditioning systems was 19,386 19,562 12,557 12,863 9,510 8,798 supplemented by approximately 50 kg. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 In Israel's open space LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 210-211 12.9% Total carbon footprint of Bank Hapoalim in 42.4% Multi-year reduction of carbon footprint: From Bank Hapoalim total carbon footprint (in tons CO2eq) Carbon footprint per square meter (in tons CO2eq) 106,593 0.34 0.33 2015: 61,511 tons CO2eq (including all three 2010 to 2015, the bank reduced its carbon 101,696 94,342 0.31 aggregates), a decrease of 12.9%% from 20149 footprint by 42.4%. 0.23 70,632 61,511 0.2 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Carbon footprint and relative contribution of elements to the total value vehicles 13.7% paper 6.8% construction 6.2% power consumption IT deprection 67.8% 2.7% 1.7% air flights 1.02% other ˇ generators 0.51% | water 0.19% | ink 0.13% | coolant gases 0.12% | hotel stays oversea 0.07% In Israel's open space Carbon footprint data (in tons of CO2eq) Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Change vs. 2014 LOOKING AHEAD Total Examining Achievement of Objectives 106,593 101,696 94,362 70,632 61,511 -12.9% Per employee 10.44 10.05 9.68 7.61 6.91 -9% 2015 Objectives Status The Bank aims to reduce greenhouse gas The Bank aims to reduce greenhouse gas Completed. Per square meter 0.34 0.33 0.31 0.23 *0.20 -13.0% emission intensity of its operations, and set emission intensity of its operations, and set a *The carbon footprint per square meter does not include the bank's consumption of electricity at the Rotem site, as this site is a unique backup facility with goal of reducing emissions intensity on a scale a goal of reducing emissions intensity on a unique consumption patterns that are not characteristic of average power usage at the bank. scale of 1% each year during the next four of 1% each year during the next four years. years. Moreover, in the future, the Bank aims Moreover, in the future, the Bank aims to keep to keep an 0% increase in GHG emissions an 0% increase in GHG emissions intensity of intensity of its operations. its operations. 9. G  4-22 – Total carbon footprint data presented for 2014 were retroactively amended in this report. The figure for 2014 was 81,749 CO2eq; however, this calculation did not account for the lower emission coefficient of electricity sourced from Dorad, which supplies power derived from natural gas. Instead, all power consumption was included based on the coefficient for electricity from the Israel Electric Corporation. The amended figure for 2014, 70,362 tons CO2eq, is used throughout this report. LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 212-213 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE, ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE Instilling the Ethical Conduct Code Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption In 2004, Bank Hapoalim adopted an and external parties, suppliers, and bank, in order to allow a single independent As a banking organization at the heart of directors and management to the level corruption and bribery and on receiving or ethical code that addresses the values of competitors; function to oversee all of the reports. Bank Israel's business and economic community of each individual employee, including giving gifts or benefits, with the aim of making accountability, trust, integrity, and respect. employees who suspect any violation and as a player in the international business the adjustment of existing mechanisms a clear and unequivocal statement to all of The code defines the relationship between ■ Promoting the environment, society of the bank's values and norms by any arena, Bank Hapoalim is committed to an and work processes. the bank's internal and external stakeholders employees and their environment the and community in Israel Deals other employee can use several methods active role in the international fight against regarding its policy in this area. bank, other employees, customers, and with the bank's social involvement, to discuss and report their thoughts: corruption. The bank has been proactive in preventing (From the bank's policy on corruption. For the community. The ethical guidelines environmental responsibility, employee telephone, e-mail, written letters, or the corruption and bribery for many years, in a details on the prevention of corruption at stress employees' respectful behavior quality of life and welfare services and anonymous channel on the organizational Bank Hapoalim recognizes that variety of contexts. The bank has a system the bank, see section 3.6 of the bank's towards their environment and the bank's its customers' wellbeing. portal, which is available during all hours corruption and bribery are a harmful comprising content, processes, controls, and ethical code, on the bank's website. Also commitment to treat employees fairly and of activity. To ensure that employees who threat. The bank strongly rejects procedures designed to prevent corruption see further details about lines of defense respectfully. In 2009, the bank updated An organizational structure has been submit reports are protected and do not corruption and bribery. The bank is and bribery. Key sections on this subject at the bank later in this section, under the the code, with renewed phrasing and established with the aim of promoting suffer any harm as a result of the report, committed to implementing its policy in have been added to the bank's ethical code, heading Compliance. ) expanded content, and the code became a culture of conduct congruent with the a process and procedure have been this area, from the level of its board of reflecting its position on the prohibition of ethical code. The structure encompasses developed and approved by the board 95% a global ethical code. In 2010, the code was officially launched for employees. work processes and reporting channels of directors in order to safeguard these of the bank's Employee inquiries regarding ethics A learning module on ethics was The process of assimilating the code was in this area. Within the new structure, the employees and maintain their anonymity. employees were responded to and addressed translated into English and added to conducted on three organizational levels: head of the Human Capital, Advising, and completed a routinely. Eight inquiries from the bank's international portal the individual level, the level of leading Resources Division was appointed as the In order to increase the effectiveness of bank's ethics officer. The role includes: the response to any ethical issues that m an da t or y employees and managers were forums, and the organizational level. The process aimed to reinforce the status of arise during the course of the bank's tutorial on ethical dilemmas and processed in 2015, concerning the A discussion of ethical issues and the the code as a significant element of the ■ Management of learning and guidance operations, a shared interface is routinely possible responses during the year conduct of managers, a relationship proper course of action was integrated bank's organizational culture. The ethical processes; operated during the year for audit staff, with the son of a customer, the behavior code is divided into four sections: ■ Discussing ethical issues raised by risk management staff, and the head of into various banking courses purchase of a product/service employees through the various channels the ethical code. The interface is aimed at One case of embezzlement was from a customer, and an employee ■ My work at the bank Defines the at their disposal; learning and applying lessons learned, and relationship between the bank and its ■ Discussing cases of violation of the code. optimizing the response to various issues, addressed at the bank in 2015, in evaluation. All of the inquiries were Regular messages to the bank's employees; the relevant procedures at the Bank, and accordance with the bank's regulations. addressed in accordance with the employees on the organizational portal In addition, a head of ethics was appointed the content of the code, and is maintained As a result of the incident, the employee's bank's regulations and with the placed special emphasis on rules of ■ Customer relationships Defines the at the Poalim Campus, from the Leadership in addition to routine audit activities and work at the bank was terminated ethical code conduct for receiving work-related gifts relationship between the bank and its and Organizational Development Unit. The the lines of defense at the Bank. customers of the bank; responsibilities of the head of ethics include Examining Achievement of Objectives LOOKING helping to instill the code. The channels for ■ Relationships with external parties, reporting on ethical issues were changed 2015 Objectives Status AHEAD suppliers, and competitors – Defines in 2013. Responsibility for this area was the relationship between the bank transferred to the chief risk officer of the All employees of the bank will Completed. study the updated tutorial on the ethical code in 2015, as 95% of the employees In order to increase the effectiveness of the response to any ethical Develop a new tutorial on ethics for all employees of the bank; part of a month-long campaign of the bank completed issues that arise during the course of the bank's operations, a shared to raise awareness in this area; the program. Include training on conflicts of interest in most banking courses; interface is routinely operated during the year for audit staff, risk The content of the ethical code Completed. management staff, and the head of the ethical code. The interface is Develop a kit on ethics discussions for managers; will be incorporated into the various banking courses, and aimed at learning and applying lessons learned, and optimizing the a module will be developed for Update and refresh the ethics page on the portal. response to various issues management courses. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE, 216-217 ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE Chart of the Bank's main holdings* The Bank The bank`s profile Banks Overseas Credit Cards Other Financial Services Bank Hapoalim was founded in 1921 specializing in each sector; middle-market The Bank Hapoalim by the central institutions of the Jewish firms are served by seven business centers 100% Bank Hapoalim (Switzerland) 98.2% Isracard 100% Poalim Capital Settlement ( the Yishuv ) at the time the located throughout Israel. All clients of Group operates in all Zionist Histadrut and the Histadrut General the Corporate Banking Area receive areas of banking in 100% Bank Hapoalim (Luxembourg) 100% Poalim Express Federation of Hebrew Workers in Eretz operational banking services through a Yisrael and incorporated as a limited network of 22 business branches. The Israel through two main 69.8% Bank Pozitif Turkey company under the Companies Ordinance. Retail Banking Area serves households, units. The Corporate private-banking clients, nonresidents and The Bank is a banking corporation and Banking Area serves The chart includes the principal companies held directly by the Bank or indirectly through private subsidiaries under the full ownership of the Bank. The whollyholds a bank license under the directives small businesses, through the branch of the Banking Law. In 1983, within an network; operates services through the most business clients. owned subsidiaries through which the companies in the above chart are held do not appear In the chart. For the purposes of this chart, a principal company Is a company engaged in business operations which in the opinion of the Board of Management of the Bank is a principal company In the Group, and In which the arrangement formulated between the Israeli direct channels (Internet, telephone, and The Retail Banking Area Bank's investment is at least 1% of the shareholders' equity of the Bank, or the Bank's share of whose net operating profit (loss) attributed to shareholders of government and the banks, the shares of mobile), and oversees consumer credit the Bank exceeds 5% of the net operating profit (or loss) attributed to shareholders of the Bank (similar to the criterion established in Public Reporting Directive and mortgages. The Retail Banking Area serves households, No. 662 of the Supervisor of Banks regarding the statement of data on principal subsidiaries in financial statements of banking corporations). the Bank were brought under state control, and it was fully privatized in 1997, with the operates through 245 branches, including private-banking clients, controlling interest transferred to the current traditional branches and advanced digital nonresidents and small controlling shareholders and others. branches, which provide the full range of banking services. businesses Bank Hapoalim Group In addition to its banking business, the and outside the Bank, for use in Israel subsidiaries. The bank group also operates States, while expanding its service package Activity in Israel Bank Group also engages in related and overseas, and clears transactions in the households sector and in the and improving its capabilities in the areas of The Bank Hapoalim Group operates in all activities, mainly in the areas of credit executed using its credit cards as well as commercial sector in Turkey. In its privateproducts, marketing, and customer service. areas of banking in Israel through two main cards and the capital market. In the credit externally-issued cards. The Bank Group's banking activity, the bank group provides units. The Corporate Banking Area serves card sector, the Bank Group through a capital-market activity includes providing its high-net-worth customers abroad with Ownership Structure most business clients: large corporations subsidiary (the Isracard Group ) issues, services for the execution of trading advanced professional products and and Legal Organization are served by head-office sections operates, and markets credit cards, within transactions in securities (brokerage), services, including investment products The holder of the permit for control of the securities custody services, currency and global asset management. Corporate bank, near the date of publication of the trading and derivatives services, research banking overseas encompasses credit financial statements, is Ms. Shari Arison. and consulting, services for financial for local and foreign borrowers, including Her stake in the bank is held through Organizational Structure of the Bank asset managers, investment portfolio through credit granted for the business several trusts that have holdings in Arison management, investment banking and activities of the bank’s customers; the Holdings (1998) Ltd., which holds shares Chairman of the board issuance underwriting and management. acquisition of participation in credit comprising approximately 20.1% of the organized by leading banks abroad; bank’s share capital near the date of Board of directors Activity of the Bank the provision of credit to borrowers with publication of the financial statements, CEO Group Overseas an affinity to Israel; and investments in which constitute the “controlling interest” Alongside its activities in Israel, the Bank bonds. As part of its international activity, of the bank (as defined in the control Chief internal Chief legal auditor advisor Group also operates overseas, in the the bank maintains relations with foreign permit issued by the Governor of the private-banking sector and in the corporate banks around the world (hereinafter: Bank of Israel). sector. This activity encompasses Israel, correspondent banks ). The main focus Spokesperson Secretary Marketing, Service, and CSR Unit of the bank's strategy is the development Europe, the United States, Canada, and Latin America, by means including and expansion of its Global Private Banking branches, representative offices, banking activity and of its commercial banking subsidiaries, and asset-management (middle market) business in the United Corporate Risk Information Human Financial International Financial Corporate Retail Strategy Management Technology Capital, Unit and Banking Markets Strategy Banking Area Area Area Advising, and Chief Information Area Area Area Area Resources Accountant Unit Area CORPORATE GOVERNANCE, 218-219 ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE The Functions of the Board of Directors and the Board Committees Governance an executive at the bank. Directors are controlling shareholders have received As a part of the banking system in Israel, selected pursuant to the directives of Israeli a control permit from the governor of Bank Hapoalim operates in a broad law the Companies Law, 1999, and the the Bank of Israel. Details regarding legislative environment including primary derived regulations; the Securities Law, the appointment of directors pursuant legislation, standards, and regulations with 1968; and the Proper Conduct of Banking to the control permit are provided in the which the bank is obligated to comply: the Business Directives of the Bank of Israel Periodic Report of the bank for 2007; Banking Ordinance, the Bank of Israel Law, as well as the bank's codex. The directors' ■ Article 16 of the Articles of the Bank the banking laws concerning licensing duties under the law are uniform for all (which were approved by the general and customer service, the rules of the types of directors; the basic duty is to act meeting of the shareholders of the bank governor of the Bank of Israel, directives in the best interest of the company. These (the Articles of the Bank )) establishes of the Supervisor of Banks, and more. duties include: duties of care, fiduciary the procedure for the appointment of These factors regulate the bank's activities duties, corporate governance duties, directors. Pursuant to Article 16B of the on various levels, including requirements with respect to its capital and ways of The Bank Hapoalim Board of Directors operates in managing capital, exercise of internal and external auditing, and the areas in which accordance with corporate governance guidelines the bank is permitted to engage. According established by law, including the Proper Conduct of to the Companies Act, shareholders can Banking Business Directives of the Bank of Israel and the suggest discussion issues for the next general meeting. Employees are able SOX Act. The bank implements all of the directives set to appeal to the board according to the forth in the legislation, standards, and regulations with bank's procedures and legal requirements. regard to preventing conflicts of interest within the board The Board of Directors: avoiding conflicts of interest, and other Articles of the Bank, directors shall be Composition, Activity, duties applicable to boards of directors, appointed by a resolution of the general by law and pursuant to the directives of meeting; however, notwithstanding and Committees this article, the board of directors the Bank of Israel. The Bank Hapoalim Board of Directors may appoint an additional director or operates in accordance with corporate Appointments of directors at Bank additional directors from time to time, governance guidelines established by law, Hapoalim are approved by the general provided that any such appointment including the Proper Conduct of Banking meeting of the bank and by the Bank of is performed in accordance with the Business Directives of the Bank of Israel Israel, in accordance with the directives directives of the voting agreement and the SOX Act. of the law and with the Proper Conduct between the shareholders of the of Banking Business Directives, including The bank implements all of the directives company who are entitled to appoint the following: set forth in the legislation, standards, directors, etc. (Article 16C of the Articles and regulations with regard to preventing ■ The Companies Law (section 57) of the Bank). The composition of the conflicts of interest within the board. As states that the appointment of external board of directors is subject to the part of the separation of duties required directors shall be approved by the provisions of the Companies Law, between management in practice and the general meeting; Directive 301, the Articles of the Bank, formulation of policy and supervision, the ■ As described in Article 24 of the and the Board of Directors Procedures. board's chairperson does not serve as Periodic Report of the bank for 2012, its CORPORATE GOVERNANCE, 220-221 ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE The financial expertise and professional the committee's work. The board members specific urgent or critical matter. Pursuant by the board of directors of the bank on The Functions of the Board of Directors and the qualification of directors are evaluated receive from time to time trainings in the to Section 99 of the Companies Law, such November 26, 2013 (the Board of Directors by the board of directors. The range of Board Committees field of risk management. In addition, the issues are added to the board of directors' Procedures ). This refers to all materials considerations include the director's directors are free to address the appointed agenda. Section 44 of Proper Conduct related to the activity of the bank or the education, experience, and knowledge During 2015, the board of directors of the The reports and discussions include both management member, if they seek to of Banking Business Directive 301 states assets of the bank, and to all documents of in areas and issues related to the activity bank continued its work of formulating status reports on the bank's progress in this broaden their knowledge in a certain field. that the board of directors' agenda should the bank that the directors require in order of the bank, as detailed in the Companies strategy, policy, and fundamental principles area, under its CSR plan, and discussion and governance processes within the bank group include, among other matters, any subject to fulfill their duties. Regulations (Conditions and Tests for for the activity of the bank in Israel and approval of future work plans. In addition to Concurrently, the bank is working to improve that a director or the CEO has asked the Directors with Accounting and Financial overseas, while establishing guidelines on the discussions by the plenum of the board of and instill corporate governance processes chairperson of the board to include in the With regard to business matters, directors are Expertise and Directors with Professional various matters, in accordance with the directors, the activity of the members of the within the bank group. agenda a reasonable amount of time before entitled to request clarification or additional Qualification), 2005. Applications to appoint requirements of updates in legislation and board of directors of the bank is conducted the meeting convenes. Similar directives information in meetings of the board of a director, with a declaration filled out by in accordance with Directive 301 of the through the committees. The bank examines Control of the application of proper are set forth in Article 19A of the Articles directors or its committees (section 57 of the director, pursuant to Proper Conduct Bank of Israel. As part of this process, the and evaluates the quality of risk management corporate governance at the bank is of the Bank. Decisions made in an urgent Directive 301). Directors who wish to exercise of Banking Business Directive No. 301, board of directors set forth policy for the on an annual basis, within the ICAAP. As discussed in meetings of the Corporate meeting held via remote communications their right to receive information required are sent to the Supervisor of Banks for activities of subsidiaries in Israel and abroad, part of the ICAAP, the bank also works to Governance Committee, held each are affirmed in the next meeting of the board for the fulfillment of their duties as directors review; the appointment of the director limits for exposure to various risks, bond continually improve the absorption and quarter. The committee discusses and of directors or of the committee. shall submit the request in writing through is subject to advance approval by the issuance, share capital issuance, execution quality of the risk management process. The makes recommendations to the board of the chairperson of the board of directors. Supervisor of Banks. and realization of fixed investments, and the risk management and control committee of directors regarding policies, procedures, Pursuant to section 2.14 of the Board of Directors interested in receiving clarification execution of buyout offers and mergers. the board of directors receives annual and and guidelines designed to instill corporate Directors Procedures, the board of directors or materials regarding matters discussed, The performance of the board of directors quarterly reports that are adequate in order governance principles in the work of the shall hold a discussion at the earliest or scheduled for discussion, by the board is evaluated in accordance with section The board of directors addressed the to monitor, control, and assess risks, as board of directors and its committees, possible time of the exceptional events of directors or any of its committees may 59 of Directive 301 and section 9 of approval of the quarterly and annual required by the Proper Conduct of Banking and to enable the bank to comply with listed therein (outside the regular scheduled contact the CEO or the relevant member the Board of Directors Procedures. The financial statements; dividend distribution Business Directives. Selected Indicators from the appropriate corporate governance reports). Sections 6.3.2, 6.3.5, 6.3.6., and of the board of management at the bank, effectiveness of the work of the board of policy; the organizational structure of the field of corporate responsibility are part principles, as adjusted to legal directives, 6.3.7 of the Board of Directors Procedures provided that the query does not concern directors is evaluated every two years, the bank; establishment of policy on of the bank's risk management perception. including establishment of the bank's policy establish the way to convene a meeting of a business venture or business matters of for the board of directors' internal needs. manpower, salaries, retirement terms, and and supervision of the board of management the board of directors in exceptional and specific customers, or certain investments The board of directors has appointed an the remuneration system for employees This is reflected in their inclusion in audits and the subsidiaries of the bank, as required urgent cases. Section 6.6.6 of the Board of of the bank. external attorney to work with the secretary and senior executives; and supervision and and regular reports, such as BSC , SOX by the Proper Conduct of Banking Business Directors Procedures establishes directives of the bank in overseeing this process control over ongoing business operations and more. Directives of the Bank of Israel. for transmitting materials regarding an issue Directors also have the right, in special cases, and analyzing the findings, in order to executed by the board of management and added to the agenda in an urgent meeting. to receive external professional counsel evaluate the effectiveness of the work of the the congruence of these operations with The risk management and control committee The board of directors usually meets twice Urgent matters are raised as necessary and/or external professional assistance, at board of directors. The board of directors the policies of the bank. of the board of directors receives annual a month. The committees of the board and/or at the request of the chairperson the expense of the bank, if the coverage of discusses the findings that emerge from and quarterly reports that are adequate in of directors usually convene between of the board of directors / directors / CEO, the expense is approved by the board of the evaluation process. The plenum of the Board of Directors receives order to monitor, control, and asses risks, these meetings; some committees meet according to need and the importance of the directors (section 266 of the Companies Law and discusses routine reports regarding as required by Proper Conduct of Banking every week. Thus, any urgent and/or issue. As important and urgent matters are and section 53 of Directive 301). The plenum execution plans in the area of sustainability business Directives. significant matter can be discussed at raised routinely, as described above, such of the board of directors, or the appropriate and corporate social responsibility at the any time. The directors can also raise occurrences are not counted separately. board committee, shall discuss and decide bank, including all activities described in Among the board members of the bank issues for discussion, in coordination with upon the need to engage an external this report. The chairperson of the bank's there are directors with expertise in risk the chairperson of the board of directors. Directors' rights to receive information consultant in order to receive professional Board of Directors serves as the director management, including a director who In particularly urgent cases, the board of and to consult with various parties in the assistance. Such a discussion shall address responsible for sustainability and CSR, and served in the past as the bank's risk directors is convened to discuss the issue course of the fulfillment of their duties have the questions of whether the counsel can be is charged with promoting this area on the manager, an expert in credit risks and other that has arisen. Urgent meetings are held been established in accordance with the provided by internal parties within the bank, strategic level. The bank has a chief CSR experts. The bank's board of directors has remotely if necessary, as permitted by the law, including the Companies Law, 1999 the purpose of the consultation, the extent officer who is the operational manager in decided on 19.7.2007 to establish a board regulations of the board of directors, in (the Companies Law ); Proper Conduct of the work, and the schedule. this area, and who interfaces with all of the of directors committee for risk management order to conduct an immediate discussion of Banking Business Directive 301 of the relevant functions within the organization and control. The committee is comprised of an issue. Pursuant to Sections 98-99 Supervisor of Banks, Board of Directors and reports to the board of management of 6 members, who received trainings and of the Companies Law, 1999, directors ( Directive 301 ); and the procedures on the and the board of directors. acquired extensive experience as part of are entitled to demand a discussion of a work of the board of directors, approved CORPORATE GOVERNANCE, 222-223 ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE 195 15 31 As of the end of 2015, the number of directors with accounting and Composition of the board financial expertise and professional qualification, based on their of directors – gender education, skills, and experience, in accordance with the requirements 4 11 15 of the Companies Regulations, is 12; one director is a director with professional qualification. The number of directors with accounting and financial expertise and professional qualification who are meetings members of the board The board of directors of Bank meetings of the board 31 meetings of the plenum of the members of the audit committee of the board of directors is 6, in of the board committees Hapoalim consisted of 15 members, board of directors were held in 2015 accordance with the requirements of the Companies Law, 1999, and were held in 2015 including 5 external directors, as (for further information regarding the regulations. As of the end of 2015, 4 women and 11 men are on women men total defined in Proper Conduct of Banking the activity of the board of directors the board of directors (for further information about the members Business Directive No. 301 of the Bank and the change in the structure of of the board of directors, see the financial statements, p. 426-427). of Israel, and 2 additional external the committees, see the financial directors, as defined in Section 240 statements, p. 413-417). of the Companies Law On February 11, 2014, the general meeting reflects the authority and responsibility of among other matters, with reference to of shareholders of the bank adopted the each level in the organizational hierarchy. the volume and types of the risks that bank's remuneration policy for officers, in Variable remuneration for officers, senior the bank is willing to undertake. The accordance with Amendment 20 to the executives and other key employees in the achievement of objectives of the work plan, Companies Law, 1999, and in accordance bank shall consist, among other elements, including capital adequacy targets, and the with Proper Conduct of Banking Business of an annual bonus contingent upon the achievement of a surplus return over the Directive 301A of the Supervisor of Banks financial performance of the bank, based required cost of capital, set the threshold of November 19, 2013 ( Proper Conduct of on risk-adjusted profit and the cost of for the distribution of bonuses. This Banking Business Directive 301A ). On June capital of the bank; the bonus shall also be objective is also achieved through a ceiling 22 2014, the bank approved another section determined according to the achievement on variable remuneration, and through of its remuneration policy, concerning its of measurable quantitative and qualitative postponement of the payment of part of other employees, as well as remuneration individual performance targets. 50% of the annual bonus, which is contingent on plans based on its remuneration policy the annual bonus shall be spread over the bank's performance in future years, ( Remuneration Policy and Remuneration three years, in order to compensate for so that executives are exposed to the Plans, respectively, and as amended unsatisfactory performance during that consequences of materialization of the from time to time). Main objectives of the period, if any, and paid in share-based risks that they take, and their remuneration remuneration policy: instruments; decreases if or when risks materialize. ■ To adjust the remuneration to the bank's ■ To motivate officers to work for creating vision, to the overall strategic plan of the In accordance with the new remuneration long-term economic value for the bank bank and of its secondary units, and to the policy of the bank, the total cost of and its stakeholders, in a manner that work plan derived from the strategic plans. remuneration of the CEO shall exceed the strengthens the connection between Accordingly, remuneration incentives median total cost of remuneration of other remuneration and the creation of value shall also be matched to the long-term employees of the bank by a factor of no more for the stakeholders in general and for objectives formulated in the strategic plan than 33.5 (this calculation was performed shareholders of the bank in particular. In and in periodic work plans; in accordance with the principles of the accordance with this objective, employees' ■ To adjust total remuneration to the risk remuneration policy, based on the return pay is derived from a scale of ranks, which appetite of the bank. The annual and on equity for 2012 and data on employees offers the possibility of promotion and multi-annual work plans are constructed, of the bank for 2012). In Israel's open space CORPORATE GOVERNANCE, 224-225 ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE Compliance and Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Activities The responsibilities of Bank Hapoalim's chief Upon the establishment of the Chief These controls are applied on two levels: compliance officer are derived from Proper Compliance Officer Unit, the bank's Board A. Controls by business functions, Conduct of Banking Business Directive No. of Directors established a new group-level according to the relevant issue and process. 308, the Prohibition of Money Laundering compliance policy for the bank. The new policy Other controls executed by the units are and Terrorism Financing Law, and Proper sets forth rules regarding all of the component controls of processes related to existing Conduct of Banking Business Directive areas of the prohibition of money laundering customers and these customers' activity, No. 411. The chief compliance officer unit and compliance with consumer protection as well as internal processes at the bank; encompasses the compliance department directives. The policy emphasizes corporate B. Controls by compliance officers and and the anti-money laundering department, control and the interaction with subsidiaries enforcement trustees at the business units; as well as two additional units. The first is and branches outside Israel, based on Proper ■ The second line of defense consists of the international compliance unit, which is Conduct of Banking Business Directive No. controls applied by regional, divisional, and responsible for ensuring compliance and the 308, the Money Laundering Prohibition Law, area compliance officers and enforcement prohibition of money laundering at the bank's the Terrorism Financing Prohibition Law, trustees at the business areas; offices outside Israel. Compliance staff at and Proper Conduct of Banking Business ■ The third line of defense consists of the bank's overseas branches now report Directive No. 411. cont rols applied by the Chief Compliance directly to this unit, on both the professional This policy took effect at the end of December Officer and Securities Enforcement Unit, and the managerial level. 2010, and was expanded recently, in January and controls applied by the Control Unit The second unit is an administrative unit 2016, and adjusted to the requirements of in the Advising Division. (operations, coordination, and control), which the new directive. assists the chief compliance officer with Compliance Training the execution of systemic and operational In order to comply with the directives of the An internalized understanding of the need assignments. law and with the group-level compliance for fair business conduct and the need to policy, the Chief Compliance Officer Unit identify any unusual activity by customers The Chief Compliance Officer Unit's activity conducts activities including identification of is critical to compliance risk; a range of In Israel's open space is supervised through three channels: main exposures and risk areas; procedural, measures are therefore used to promote this ■ The Board of Directors’ committee on qualitative, and quantitative controls applied awareness, including instructional content risk management and control and Basel to compliance with directives that regulate and tools integrated into bankers' training 93% II implementation; the relationship between the bank and its and work processes. The Chief Compliance Officer Unit No substantial fines or ■ The Board of Management committee customers and to the prohibition of money The following resources are available to held visits and training activities at substantial non-monetary on compliance, headed by the CEO; laundering and financing of terrorism; operation employees who wish to consult or report 15 branches (5.6% of the branches sanctions were imposed on ■ Quarterly and annual reports to the of a structured system of controls applied to on relevant matters: bank's Board of Directors of the bank, compliance with securities law; development of ■ The network of branch/regional/ of the bank) and at relevant bank the bank for noncompliance the CEO, and the heads of the divisions. training and knowledge management systems divisional/area compliance officers; units in 2015. During the visits, with laws and regulations The reports include updates on the main on the organizational portal; infrastructure ■ The Subjective Reporting System; the chief compliance officer in the area of products exposures and risk areas in the group; progress on work plans and activities surveys; analysis of new products and services; and system development. ■ The compliance site on the banking portal; managers and employees reviewed activities relevant to and services (consumer Within an annual learning process using tutorials these branches that pose a risk protection directives) executed, including controls, mapping ■ A call center for American clients and of knowledge gaps, organizational Monitoring and Control Processes foreign residents; on the prohibition of money laundering, in in the area of compliance. An during 2015 (for details of learning, technological and other The control system at the bank group ■ A regulatory issues support center; accordance with the requirements of legislative emphasis was placed on the material legal proceedings projects in this field, reports submitted to consists of three lines of defense, some ■ A system for queries and feedback on amendments, 91% of managers and employees declared money policy and on to which the bank is a party, the Israel Money Laundering Prohibition of which encompass more than one the banking portal; completed the course and test. In addition, 93% the procedure for forms to be see note 26D on p. 322 of Authority, violations, and reports of component of control, as detailed below: ■ Communication with the professional exceptional events. ■ The first line of defense consists of the units by e-mail or telephone; of managers and employees completed an annual signed by foreign residents and the financial statements controls applied by the units themselves. ■ A system for anonymous queries. learning process using tutorials on compliance. American customers. for 2015). CORPORATE GOVERNANCE, 226-227 ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE GRI-G4 Content Index and Global Compact COP Report General Standard Description Page External Assurance GC Principle Disclosures UNGC10: Strategy and analysis The UN Global Compact initiative anchors international and corporate partnerships, therefore promoting G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization 4 Yes.. See NR* p. 238 developing markets, commerce, technology and finance in a beneficiary way for economies, communities G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 26 yes NR and future generations around the world. Joining the initiative is a statement of commitment to promote and Organizational profile implement the ten principles of the UN universal act on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. G4-3 Name of the organization. 218 yes NR Below is a list of the 10 principles : G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 218 yes NR G4-5 Location of organization's headquarters. 218 yes NR Human Rights G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major 219 yes NR 1. Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2. Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form. 219 yes NR G4-8 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/ 218-219 yes NR beneficiaries). Labour G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization. 68,113,156 yes NR 3. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right G4-10 Total workforce by employment type 159ֿ,169 yes NR to collective bargaining; G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 159 yes 1,2,6 4. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; G4-12 Description of the main elements of the supply chain in relation to the organization’s primary 116 yes NR 5. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and activities, products, and services 6. Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, ownership or supply There is no yes NR chain Significant changes Environment G4-14 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the 192-193 yes 7 7. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; organization 8. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other 36 yes 1-10 initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses 9. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. G4-16 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international 36 yes 1-10 advocacy organizations Anti-Corruption Identified material aspects and boundaries 10. Principle  10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. G4-17 List of all entities included in the consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. 7 Yes.. See NR p. 238 An organization which joins the initiative, agrees to act in accordance to the above principles. So far, business G4-18 Description of the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries 22 Yes.. See NR p. 238 organizations from more than 130 countries around the world have joined the initiative. Participating companies G4-19 List of all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content. 26 Yes.. See NR are required to report annually on the progress made in promoting the universal principles in its operations. p. 238 G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization 27 Yes.. See NR p. 238 * See under Message from the Chairman and CEO. 10. Link to the UNGC formal website: http://www.unglobalcompact.org/ No specific requirement of COP. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE, 228-229 ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE General Description Page External GC General Description Page External GC Standard Assurance Principle Standard Assurance Principle Disclosures Disclosures G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization 27 Yes.. See NR G4-41 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided 221 yes NR p. 238 G4-42 Description of the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, 222 yes NR G4-22 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the 114,212 Yes.. See NR approval, and updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, reasons for such re-statement p. 238 policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts.ŸŸ G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement There is no Yes.. See NR G4-43 Description of the measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s 222 yes NR methods applied in the report Significant p. 238 collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics. changes G4-44 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly with 222 yes NR Stakeholders engagement respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 20 Yes.. See NR G4-45 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and 222 yes NR p. 238 management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 16 Yes.. See NR conduct, and principles. p. 238 G4-46 Report the highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s 222 yes NR G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by 20 Yes.. See NR risk management processes for economic, environmental and social topics. stakeholder group p. 238 G4-47 The frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social 222 yes NR G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the 20 Yes.. See NR impacts, risks, and opportunities. organization has responded to those key topics and concerns p. 238 G4-48 The highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s 4 yes NR Report profile sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered. G4-28 Reporting period for information provided 7 yes NR G4-49 Description of the process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body. 223 yes NR G4-29 Date of most recent previous report Third Quarter, yes NR G4-50 Report the nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest 223 yes NR 2015 governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them. G4-30 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) annual yes NR G4-51 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, 224 yes NR G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 7 yes NR and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization's performance G4-32 Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen In accordanceyes NR (including social and environmental performance). Comprehensive G4-52 Description of the process for determining remuneration. 224 yes NR Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option G4-33 Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance Board of yes NR G4-53 Report how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration 224 yes NR for the report directors and G4-54 The ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each 224 yes NR executive country of significant operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees managers are (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country not involved in G4-55 The ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid 224 yes NR this process individual in each country of significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual Governance total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country G4-34 Governance structure of the organization 218 yes NR Ethics and integrity G4-35 Description of process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics 222 yes NR G4-56 The organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 34,216 yes 1-10 from the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees. G4-57 The internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and 217,226 yes NR G4-36 Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with 222 yes NR matters related to organizational integrity responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, and whether post holders report G4-58 The internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful 217,226 yes NR directly to the highest governance body. behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity G4-37 Description of processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance 224 yes NR body on economic, environmental and social topics G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 225 yes NR G4-39 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. 221 yes NR G4-40 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the 221 yes NR highest governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE, 230-231 ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE General Description Page External GC General Description Page External GC Standard Assurance Principle Standard Assurance Principle Disclosures Disclosures Economic Performance G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions 212 yes 7,8,9 G4-DMA 113 yes NR G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 210 yes 7,8 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 113 yes NR G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight Those yes 7,8 emissions are G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to 108 yes 7 not relevant climate change. Employment G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. 188 yes NR G4-DMA 154-155 yes 1,2,6 G4-EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. 114 yes NR G4-LA1 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group 158 yes 6 Indirect Economic Impacts G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time 180 yes NR G4-DMA 114 yes NR employees G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public 58,124,130 yes NR G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave 158 yes 1,2,6 benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. Labor/Management Relations G4-EC8 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of 62,68,114 yes NR impacts. G4-DMA 160,184 yes 2,3 Procurement Practices G4-LA4 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is 184 yes 2,3 specified in collective agreements. G4-DMA 116 yes NR Training and Education G4EC9 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations 116-117 yes NR of operation. G4-DMA 174 yes 6 Materials G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. 176 yes 6 G4-DMA 192 yes 7,8 G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability 177 yes 6 of employees and assist them in managing career endings. G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 202-204, yes 7,8 208-209 G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by 162 yes 6 gender. G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. 202-204 yes 8,9 Diversity and Equal Opportunity Energy G4-DMA 167 yes 1,6 G4-DMA 194 yes 7,8,9 G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category 156,171 yes 1,6 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 198 yes 7,8,9 according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside the organization is not material Energy yes 7,8,9 Equal Remuneration for Women and Men consumption outside is not G4-DMA 167 yes 1,6 material G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant 167,169 yes 1,6 G4-EN5 Energy intensity 198 yes 7,8,9 locations of operation. G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 198 yes 7,8,9 Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 46,86, yes 7,8,9 G4-DMA 122 yes 1,2,6 94-95,204 G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria 122 yes 1,2,6 Emissions G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and 122 yes 1,2,6 G4-DMA 210 yes 7,8 actions taken G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1) 210 yes 7,8 Non-discrimination G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas emissions (scope 2) 210 yes 7,8 G4-DMA 167 yes 1,2,6 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (scope 3) 210 yes 7,8 G4HR 3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 167 yes 1,2,6 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity 212 yes 7,8 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE, 232-233 ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE Process Audit for General Description Page External GC Standard Assurance Principle Disclosures Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining G4-DMA 184 yes 1,2,3 Implementation of the CSR G4HR 4 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to 184 yes 1,2,3 Plan at Bank Hapoalim support these rights Local Communities An external assurance process allows readers of this report to verify the bank's self-reporting, based on independent opinions from professionals. The bank has G4-DMA 124,130,148 yes NR decided to expand the control process with regard to the fairness of the report on G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact 124,130,134,148 yes NR sustainability and CSR. The expansion of these processes and the involvement of assessments, and development programs. additional sources of assurance enable the bank to learn from the feedback received G4-SO2 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. 104 yes NR from those conducting the process and provide validation of the reliability of the G4-FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type. 70,115 yes NR report for stakeholders. The current report underwent four assurance processes, G4-FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people. 68-71 yes NR each focusing on a different aspect of the report: Anti-corruption ■ The CSR and Sustainability Group at BDO Ziv Haft performed routine process G4-DMA 216-217 yes 10 controls and examined the CSR implementation process at the bank11; G4-SO3 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. 227 yes 10 G4-SO4 Communication and training on anticorruption policies and procedures 216,226 yes 10 ■ The Quality Assurance Center for Corporate Responsibility Reports who operates within the Corporate Social Responsibility Institute at the Academic Center of Law G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 217 yes 10 and Business, carried out a due diligence report on the reporting; Compliance ■ The quality of the reporting of the bank carbon footprint an assurance was carried G4-DMA 226 yes 1 out by the CSR and Sustainability Department of the BDO Ziv Haft Consulting G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non227 yes 1 and Management Group; compliance with laws and regulations. Product and Service Labeling ■ The report was submitted for the GRI Materiality Disclosures Service, and GRI G4-DMA 28,31,68,81 yes 8 confirmed the correctness of the locations of the G4 materiality disclosures (G17-4 – G27-4). The report is ‘In Accordance’ with the GRI G4 Guidelines – G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures 81 yes 8 Comprehensive option. G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning There were no yes 8 product and service information and labeling incidents in 2015. G4-PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction 72 yes 8 Compliance G4-DMA 226 yes 1 G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the 227 yes 1 provision and use of products and services. Product Portfolio G4-DMA 28,31,50,58yes NR 62,104-107 G4-FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size and by sector. 68 yes NR G4-FS7 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social benefit for each 64 yes NR business line broken down by purpose. 11. Consultants in the group collected the data processed for this report. This opinion therefore focuses on the work process at the bank. In order to maintain independence, the examination for the purposes G4-FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific environmental benefit for 105 yes NR of assurance of the report in compliance with GRI requirements was performed by an independent each business line broken down by purpose. third party, The Quality Assurance Center for Corporate Responsibility Reports. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE, 234-235 ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE BDO Ziv Haft: Process Control for CSR Plan Implementation at Bank Hapoalim of solutions for challenges facing the senior-citizen sector. in this report, the bank achieves shared value for itself and This is the tenth year in which the Corporate Social Responsibility were being absorbed into the activity of the units of the bank, Over the last three years, the bank has conducted significant its stakeholders. and Sustainability Department of the BDO Consulting and and whether an ongoing learning process was occurring as a processes aimed at establishing dialogue with stakeholders; Management Group has accompanied Bank Hapoalim in result. The control process also encompassed an examination it should continue on this path. ■ Promotion of implementation of aspects of corporate implementing its sustainability and CSR program. The group’s of the method of development and implementation of new responsibility in additional core activities – Within the core activities focus on monitoring the process and progress of the issues arising from reports by the various units ■ Achieving shared value – The implementation of banking banking activity, we recommend an in-depth examination of program for sustainability and social, economic, and environmental . products and services involving social or environmental the integration of ESG elements with the bank's investment responsibility. BDO consultants’ close work with the bank allows (C) E xamination of the results of implementation of the elements continued during 2015. The bank has significantly activity, as an additional investment channel for customers a professional opinion to be provided based on an examination of program (effectiveness of absorption) In this stage, expanded its Poalim for Recovery drive, which focuses on and as part of risk optimization in the management of the the processes performed by the bank throughout 2015 and up to we examined the ways in which the bank had improved its customer-centric care for customers experiencing financial bank's proprietary portfolio. the end of the first quarter of 2016. During this period, the bank performance on the various metrics, led new initiatives at the distress, reaching a wider group of customers. The bank continued the implementation and absorption of sustainability various units for activity in this area, developed new banking has expanded and rolled out products and services (e.g. ■ Broader and deeper objectives in the bank's CSR reports – and CSR values. products, and created dialogue with stakeholders, while the expansion of pension advising and financial planning As a CSR leader among banks in Israel, with a nine-year record broadening its influence to the Israeli public. The examination services) as part of a strategic effort to provide financial of annual reports, we recommend that the bank expand its Description of the Process we conducted at this stage enables us to complete the circle guidance and advice to the population group of senior reporting on objectives and goals (and on controls) in the area The group performed process controls with regard to the areas of process controls, in that it examined the relevance of the citizens, before and after retirement; increased the volume of CSR, to include longer-term medium-range objectives, in of activity of the bank, designed to ascertain that progress is information and metrics generated during the CSR program of credit for small businesses; and extended the reach of addition to the annual objectives presented in the report. being made in the implementation of the CSR and sustainability for each of the issues implemented at the units of the bank, its services for the Arab-Israeli community. Concurrently, plan. As part of these controls, the bank's progress in three and the effectiveness of the implementation relative to the activities continued within the lateral Financial Freedom drive, The foregoing review contains several points which in our opinion strata of activity was examined, as the basis for feedback on the goals set in advance. described extensively in this report, as well as financing should be maintained and reinforced in order to improve the implementation of the plan: for the promotion of products related to environmental implementation of the plan and preserve the bank’s leadership Findings, Conclusion, and Recommendations sustainability. Through these actions, and others described in this area. (A) Update and optimization of the information infrastructure The assurance process encompassed an examination of the bank’s and metrics for corporate social responsibility conduct in the implementation and absorption of its sustainability management Consultants in the department examined and CSR plan. The process controls allow the bank to receive the CSR management system at the bank, as an area in feedback and evaluation of its practices, and to delineate future The Corporate Social Responsibility Department which integrative management is essential. We examined the objectives accordingly. The results measured in these activities BDO Consulting Group feedback and learning of the CSR Administration in connection reflect this progress. However, we would suggest four areas for May 2016 with the activity of the various units, the summarization of the bank to maintain and reinforce: results, collection of information, and process optimization. In addition, we reviewed the processes of deriving information ■ Strengthening dialogue with stakeholders – During 2015, the and processing the information into current metrics for the bank continued its dialogue with stakeholders. The key process examination of the bank's performance in the various areas in this area is the change in the bank's overall organizational and in comparison to the goals and objectives set by the bank. structure. Within this change, the Stakeholder Relations Area was established – a positive and unique milestone in the banking (B) Instilling CSR and sustainability values in core activities industry and in the Israeli economy in general, allowing the bank and in the various units We examined the process of to centralize the management of its interfaces with external organizational change emerging as part of the implementation stakeholders. Meanwhile, the bank continued to hold regular of CSR at the bank. In this context, we examined the relevance forums with various stakeholders (business organizations, and added value of the various issues for the activity of the non-profit groups, and public institutions), on subjects such units. We also examined the manner in which these issues as financial freedom, small businesses, and the promotion CORPORATE GOVERNANCE, 236-237 ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE Quality Assurance Declaration Bank Hapoalim Sustainability Report 2015 Introduction The Corporate Responsibility Institute is an independent public entity dedicated to the This report, in the tradition of a deep organizational commitment to corporate social responsibility, promotion of the corporate social responsibility approach. The institute operates within the presents several notable developments. First and foremost, the effort of Bank Hapoalim to identify academic center of Law and Business, a private law and business college (recognized by the the needs of the older age group in the Israeli population (referred to in the report as the New Council of Higher Education in Israel). The institute's activities include organizing professional Seniors ) and to provide service adapted to this segment is of high importance, and worthy meetings; writing reports, studies, and market reviews; adapting global applied methodologies for of emulation by the business sector as a whole. In addition, the foundation of the Stakeholder use in Israel; and more. Transparency and the accountability of corporations for their social and Relations Area is one of the most significant organizational changes carried out in this field, environmental impact constitute one of the institute's core issues. In July 2016, Bank Hapoalim essentially positioning corporate responsibility at the core of the bank's business operations. asked the institute to perform a quality assurance process for its 2015 CSR report. This is the fundamental purpose of the CSR approach: to embed these principles in the core of the business. The quality assurance process was performed by Mr. Liad Ortar, head of the institute. In addition to this position, Mr. Ortar is a researcher who publishes articles on sustainability reporting, a lecturer Key Remarks at universities in Israel and abroad, and a central figure in the field of corporate responsibility This report, the ninth CSR report published by Bank Hapoalim, is a part of the movement towards and transparency in Israel. adoption of sustainability reporting throughout the banking sector in Israel, in accordance with the requirements of the Supervisor of Banks. The report adopts the G4 reporting guidelines of It is hereby declared that the institute receives payment to cover the time invested in this the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), and complies with the extensive reporting format known as process. Beyond that, neither the institute nor Mr. Liad Ortar (who performed the assurance) Comprehensive. I hereby declare that the report by Bank Hapoalim complies with the required have business consulting relationships with Bank Hapoalim, and the quality assurance process scope of reporting and disclosure at this level. was independent. During the course of the quality assurance process, a draft of the report was examined, and several work sessions were held to clarify various issues. Some of these issues The following are the key recommendations for the continued progress of reporting at Bank have already been addressed in the current report; others may be included in future editions. Hapoalim: • Expansion of information sources in the process of determining the material issues to be Work Method reported – As justly noted in the report, Bank Hapoalim is one of the largest and most influential Quality assurance for CSR financial corporations in Israel. Accordingly, the bank can be expected to examine macroand reports is a process aimed micro-economic policy documents published by official national agencies such as the Ministry primarily at improving the of Finance, the Bank of Israel, and the OECD, in addition to global and local research. Policy quality of the output through documents by non-government organizations should also be taken into consideration. Such professional feedback. For the documents can provide a more complete description of social conditions, making it possible to avoidance of doubt, quality assurance constitutes an integral part of the reporting process. The identify the economic challenges faced by Israeli society. It is plainly evident that successfully objective is for any professional comments that arise during the working process to be absorbed coping with these challenges will require the banking system to be an integral part of the effort. as quickly and as correctly as possible. The process for this report was performed in accordance • Implementation of social responsibility in the investment arm and in the non-financial with the principles of the AA1000 Assurance Standard of the AccountAbility organization. Liad corporations held by the group – Bank Hapoalim is a shareholder of several non-financial Ortar is a licensed examiner for AccountAbility. In accordance with this standard, the report was corporations. Although its stake in these corporations is usually low, in view of its public significance, examined for its fulfillment of three key principles: Bank Hapoalim should exert a positive influence, in the spirit of corporate responsibility, to the 1. Inclusiveness – Fully addresses the topics from the reporting process and encompasses a extent possible. wide range of stakeholders. 2. Materiality – Addresses the material subjects in the activity of the company. Sincerely yours, 3. Responsiveness – Reports on subjects raised by stakeholders. Liad Ortar, Director This report was found to fulfill these principles appropriately. The depth and scope of the report Corporate Social Responsibility Institute are highly impressive, on a par with reports by leading global banks. academic center of Law and Business CORPORATE GOVERNANCE, 238-239 ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE Carbon Footprint Work Method Components in the Calculation of the Carbon Footprint of the Bank Our work is based on prevalent principles for carbon calculation Notably, of the total carbon footprint data of the bank for 2015, ■ The bank monitors and calculates greenhouse-gas emissions caused by electricity and marking, developed by the technical work group of the British 10,980 tons CO2eq are classified as Scope 3 (voluntary reporting). consumption, use of the vehicle fleet, consumption of paper and ink, emission of government. The data were adapted to Israel based on the Israel Excluding Scope 3, the carbon footprint would stand at 50,531 Refrigerant gases, purchases of electronic equipment, new construction and renovations, Greenhouse Gas Emission Recording System – Operating Rules tons CO2eq. employee flights and hotel stays, and water consumption. and Reporting Guidelines, issued by the Samuel Neaman Institute ■ The bank monitors and measures the reduction of greenhouse-gas emissions at source and the Ministry of Environmental Protection in March 2016. Summary of Findings achieved by recycling paper, cardboard, ink, electronic waste, and soft-drink bottles. Emission coefficients used for these calculations are national Significant changes in the composition of emissions: ■ The preceding reports of the bank presented the reduction of greenhouse-gas emissions figures published by professional entities such as the Public at source as a result of direct banking; however, a decision was made not to include Utility Authority – Electricity, the Central Bureau of Statistics, and ■ Power consumption: Decreased by 2.3% this year, adding this information in the presentation of the bank's carbon footprint in this report. This the Samuel Neaman Institute, which is linked to the Technion. to the multi-year trend towards reduced consumption. In component is difficult to quantify, due to the lack of thorough research on this subject Consumption data were supplied by the bank, at its responsibility. addition, the proportion of power generated more cleanly, and the inability to measure and assess the true savings in paper consumption, in environmental terms, used by the bank rose significantly, transporting of paper through the entire supply chain to the online-banking customer, Calculation and Reporting of the Carbon from 34% of total electricity consumed in 2014 to 52% in emissions resulting from customers’ use of the Internet, and in particular the reduced Footprint of Bank Hapoalim 2015. The reduced consumption, together with the greater number of visits to the bank using private vehicles. Furthermore, emission cutbacks In 2015, the bank continued to improve its carbon monitoring and consumption of power produced using natural gas, led to a are based on the principle of additionality – i.e., an addition relative to the ordinary reporting, further to the transition to analysis of its carbon footprint decrease of approximately 7,000 tons CO2eq in the carbon business scenario. Given that the use of electronic banking today is a business as according to the prevalent international standards, effected during footprint, accounting for about three-quarters of the bank's usual scenario, it does not have the property of additionality. 2008-2014, and the reports to the Israel Greenhouse Gas Emission total reduction in 2015, as compared to 2014. ■ It should be noted that extensive activities with environmental and social significance Recording System beginning in 2010. Bank Hapoalim was one ■ Refrigerant gases: The use of Refrigerant gases decreased described in this report are not reflected in quantitative terms in the calculation of of the first organizations in Israel to report its carbon footprint. significantly compared to 2014, due to reassessment of the reduction of the bank’s carbon footprint. The collection of fluorescent light bulbs, The total carbon footprint of Bank Hapoalim in 2015 was 61,511 Refrigerant gas refills in the bank's air-conditioning systems, including mercury removal and safe disposal, as well as the separate collection and tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2eq). Greenhouse-gas as well as the continued gradual transition from the more disposal of batteries, contribute to the reduction of various pollutants and toxins in emissions from the bank's routine operations mainly derive from harmful Refrigerant 22 to Refrigerant 410. employees’ environment, in waste-disposal facilities, and in the environment in general, electricity consumption at the head-office buildings and branches ■ Fuel consumption: Total consumption increased by 1.8% but do not reduce the emission of greenhouse gases. (67.8%), the vehicle fleet (13.7%), paper consumption (6.8%), and as compared to 2014. ■ The bank does not measure greenhouse-gas emissions from employees' travel in private construction work (6.2%). The carbon footprint decreased by 9,121 ■ New construction: Emissions fell by 13%, due to a decrease vehicles, production of solid waste, advertising, travel by suppliers and customers, tons CO2eq between 2015 and 2014, following an update of the in construction work at the bank, as compared to 2014. consumption of disposable plastic, gardening services, and cleaning services. figure for 2014, to 70,362 tons CO2eq. In the last report, the figure ■ Paper consumption: Emissions decreased slightly as ■ Beyond the activities within the bank, a noteworthy effort is the significant expansion for 2014 was given as 81,749 CO2eq; however, this calculation compared to 2014, by 2.3%, as a result of paper savings. of the project for separation of electronic waste, initiated and operated by the bank, did not account for the lower emission coefficient of electricity ■ Sewage: The responsibility for emissions resulting from the to additional Israeli towns; there is no doubt that this worthwhile project contributed sourced from Dorad, which supplies power derived from natural treatment of sewage for the bank's employees was transferred to higher public awareness and more accessible recycling in this area. gas. Instead, all of the bank's power consumption was included to the purification plants, in accordance with the directives of based on the coefficient for electricity from the Israel Electric the Emissions Reporting System. Corporation. The amended figure for 2014, 70,362 tons CO2eq, is used throughout this report. The reduction of greenhouse-gas The Corporate Social Responsibility Department emissions in the bank's operations has progressed continuously BDO Consulting Group over the last few years. A substantial cutback of approximately May 2016 35% in the bank's carbon footprint has been achieved in the last two years, mainly as a result of the transition to power supplied by Dorad, which produces electricity from a less polluting fuel mix in comparison to the Israel Electric Corporation. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE, 240-241 ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE In this report, we have chosen to include photographs by Israeli artists that portray various aspects of the composition and texture of Israel's society and community. Photographs: Sharon Gabay PP. 9, 11, 17, 21, 29, 32, 39, 42, 44, 61, 62, 63, 67, 69, 73, 75, 78, 87, 88, 96, 106, 110, 116, 119, 123, 130, 135, 144, 151, 162, 173, 175, 178, 200, 206, 211, 225, 227 Dubi Tal, Albatros -pp. Cover photo, 47, 57, 76, 79, 99, 102, 104, 109, 133, 157, 161, 203, 213 Ido biran pp. 84, 90, 137, 143, 147, 152, 154, 168, 186, 189 Noa Sharony pp. 6, 30, 41, 139, 165, 190, 197 Ruth Yehoshua pp. 54, 193 Graphic Design: Studio Merhav
