Sasol’s 2016 Communication on Progress on the United Nations Global Compact Sasol’s 2016 Communication on Progress on the United Nations Global Compact The UN Global Compact is an international initiative that addresses human rights, labour, environmental and corruption issues through a commitment to 10 principles derived from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organisation’s Declaration of the Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, and the United Nations Convention against Corruption. Sasol has been a signatory to the UN Global Compact since 2001. The table below provides a brief overview of our implementation of the 10 principles. Best practices that meet the 21 Global Compact Advanced Criterion are included throughout this document. More detailed information is available in our Integrated Report 2016 (IR) and online sustainability reporting 2016 (SR). This submission is intended as a stand-alone document and covers the period 1 July 2015 to 30 June 2016. Although this COP statement itself has not been assured by a credible third party, key aspects of our sustainability reporting have been assured; an independent assurance statement is included in our online sustainability reporting. Our sustainability reporting from which this information is drawn has been informed by the GRI G4 guidelines. The company profile and the context in which we operate can be found on the company’s website (www.sasol.com). In our detailed GRI Reference table a response is provided to all the GRI criteria. Implementing the ten principles into strategies and operations Sasol’s group executive committee (GEC) formally adopted sustainable development as a group-wide strategic business objective in 2000. Since then, we have taken steps towards integrating sustainable development principles into our activities, in the expectation that a commitment to sustainable development yields a competitive advantage. Governance of sustainable development issues and how we embed activities into our business clusters and functions is covered in detail in the review of our governance framework for sustainable development, provided in our archived Sustainability Report 2015 (Criterion 1). We continue to work towards improved performance with respect to our sustainability metrics; we publicly declare targets for safety, transport incidents, energy efficiency and GHG emissions. These targets are described in our IR and supporting SR. We recognise that our impacts extend beyond our operations and have thus increased our focus on the entire value chain in recent years. We require all suppliers and contractors to comply with our Code of Ethics (Criterion 2); we have published a significantly revised code of ethics, which includes more detailed specific provision for human rights issues. Additional details on our human rights activities are provided in the ethical behaviour and human rights section of our SR. Sasol’s sustainable development performance is aligned with mitigating the key risks facing the group. Our IR outlines the principal risks facing Sasol and shows how these risks have been used to identify our material matters. Inherent in this process is an understanding of our stakeholders’ interests and their expectations (Criterion 21). A summary of the priority sustainability interests of our stakeholders is provided in our IR. Our performance in managing our material matters is described in our IR. Our approach to corporate social investment can be found in our SR review on delivering social value. We focus our efforts primarily in four key areas: education and skills development, environment, community development, and employee volunteerism (Criterion 16). In terms of ensuring fair labour practices, we have policies, procedures and frameworks in place governing grievance mechanisms, and the management of unethical conduct and any transgression of the Sasol Code of Ethics. Management and employees have access to these policies, procedures and frameworks via multiple channels such as Sasol’s intranet site. The reporting of unethical conduct and transgression of our Code of Ethics is enabled through Sasol’s EthicsLine, a confidential and independent system through which any employee can anonymously report suspected transgressions of the Code. Sasol maintains its performance management and remuneration frameworks, designed to reward employees for their performance, giving equal emphasis to delivery and behaviour. Our structured performance management and appraisal process is geared to support our values-driven, high performance culture. Every operating model entity’s incentive scorecard sets minimum targets for safety performance, financial results and employment equity in our South African operations. The Remuneration Committee of the Board reviews and approves the design principles and group targets for all incentive schemes annually. The organisation also continues to measure levels of employee engagement through our internal Heartbeat survey; actions arising from the survey are implemented. We engage at all levels of government in order to contribute to the formation of sound public policy. We engage directly with government, as well as through industry bodies such as the South African National Business Initiative (NBI) and Business Unity South Africa (BUSA). Sasol views its contribution to public policy as critical in supporting the UN Sustainable Development Goals (Criterion 17). More specifically we have collaborated with government regarding water resource management. We partner with the Vaal River Strategy Steering Committee and the Water Sector Leadership group in order to understand our role within the National Water Resource Strategy. At a local level we partner with various municipalities to increase capacity, repairing household leaks and reducing municipal unaccounted for losses (Criterion 18). The joint CEOs’ letter addressing Sasol’s commitment to the UN Global Compact and the 10 principles is provided separately (Criterion 19). The Sasol Board assumes ultimate responsibility for sustainability strategy, with three board committees (the Risk and SHE committee, the Nomination, Governance, Social and Ethics Committee, and the Audit Committee) assisting with this undertaking (Criterion 20). 2 Sasol United Nations Global Compact 2016 Communication on Progress Global Compact Principle Brief COP Statement Reference on Sasol website 1. Support and respect We believe that the underlying principles of the Universal A general review of our the protection of Declaration on Human Rights inform our business practices and human rights approach is international human procedures, and are embodied in our company values and our provided in our Sustainability rights within their guide to our Code of Ethics. Our policy on respecting human Reporting (SR) review of sphere of influence. rights is included in our recently revised Code of Ethics. Human Ethical behaviour and human rights principles are incorporated in Sasol’s labour relations rights. policies, our safety, health and environment (SHE) policies, and our corporate social responsibility policies (Criterion 3). Our internal due diligence process requires that country risk assessments are performed before entering any given country. These assessments include screening for potential human rights non‑compliance or violations. All investment agreements go through this screening process. We plan to roll out a practical and effective company-wide human rights management system aimed at enhancing compliance, training and awareness, and further integrating human rights issues into our compliance and ethics systems across the company. We recognise that further work is required to strengthen our compliance and risk management practices on human rights issues within the company (Criterion 4). 2. Make sure their own We adhere to this principle through our compliance with A general review of our corporations are not all applicable legislation and our One Sasol SHE Excellence human rights approach is complicit in human approach requirements (whichever is more stringent) in the provided in our SR review rights abuses. regions in which we operate. As we expand our business of Ethical behaviour and activities into new regions, we recognise that further human rights. monitoring may be required to provide full assurance that there is no potential for complicity in human rights abuses. To manage these risks, we are committed to providing human rights awareness and training programmes, integrating human rights issues more formally in our project and country risk assessment, and developing mechanisms for human rights awareness-raising, communication, monitoring and assurance. Sasol contracts include compliance to ethics and code of conduct as a key requirement for doing business with Sasol and, where required, we encourage suppliers to implement their own code of conduct. A recently conducted external study concluded that Sasol was not directly complicit in any human rights abuses (Criterion 5). 3. Freedom of We recognise the right of employees to collective bargaining Details on our labour association and the and freedom of association in accordance with all relevant local relations activities, and the effective recognition labour legislation. This commitment is clearly communicated percentage of employees of the right to to all employees. We regularly review and update our employee who are members of trade collective bargaining. relations’ policies in line with business and legislative unions, is provided in our SR requirements to promote healthy employee relations. We have review of Developing and ensured that our human resource policies and procedures empowering values driven, are consistent across all our operations globally. This includes high-performing people. provision for consultation with unions, works councils and employees in accordance with relevant local labour legislation. We have a committee, with participation of employee-elected representatives, which is responsible for hearing, processing, and settling disciplinary cases and employee grievances. (Criterion 6). Sasol United Nations Global Compact 3 Global Compact Principle Brief COP Statement Reference on Sasol website 4. The elimination of all All labour is sourced from the open labour market; employees A general review of our forms of forced and are provided with labour contracts in accordance with relevant human rights approach is compulsory labour. labour legislation, and are free to resign at any time. We do not provided in our SR sections withhold wages or bonuses and we pay employees in a timely on Ethical behaviour and and regular manner. All workers are allowed to leave company human rights and premises during breaks and at the end of their shifts, and Preferential procurement workers in company housing may freely enter and exit their and supply chain accommodation at any time. Our risk management and management. stakeholder engagement processes expose our levels of risk with respect to labour principles (Criterion 7). Through the implementation of our supplier engagement plan we review the practices of suppliers and contractors. We also conduct due diligence investigations in respect of prospective transactions, contracting parties and business partners. We have not detected any significant issues relating to incidents of forced or compulsory labour. 5. The effective Sasol does not make use of child labour in any of its operations. A general review of our abolition of child We ensure that we do not employ workers under 15 years of age human rights approach is labour. for full-time work, 13 years of age for light work and 18 years of provided in our SR review of age for hazardous work. We recognise that there could be a Ethical behaviour and human trade-off in some developing countries where a policy of not rights and Preferential allowing child labour deprives families of access to an income procurement and supply and food. We do not support child labour, but should we invest chain management. in these regions we would focus on developing programmes that assist with educating children and also look after their families. We monitor and ensure our compliance with the labour legislation in each of the countries within which we operate. Through the implementation of our supplier engagement plan, we review the practices of suppliers and contractors (Criterion 8). We also conduct due diligence investigations in respect of prospective transactions, contracting parties and business partners. We have not detected any significant risks of child labour being used. We train and provide opportunities for school leavers, who are all people of age within ILO requirements. 6. The elimination We are committed to embracing a culture of inclusion and to A review of our employment of discrimination driving employment equity goals and enhancing diversity across equity performance is in respect of the group. In our South African operations we have set clear provided in our SR. employment and targets to address past inequalities. In our organisation, occupation. diversity signifies all aspects of peoples’ differences including race, religion, gender, disability, culture, sexual orientation, nationality, thinking and skills. We continue to implement our Diversity 10-Point Plan, which provides a set of qualitative measures designed to enable the achievement of our diversity objectives, including the recruitment, development and retention of candidates from under-represented groups, as well as measures to enhance gender equity. Our focus on empowering women and improving their representation at all levels of the organisation continues to be realised through our women empowerment strategy and Sasol Women’s Network. The group’s recruitment process provides for people with disabilities, both in terms of employment opportunities and appropriate facilities (Criterion 6, 7 and 8). 4 Sasol United Nations Global Compact Global Compact Principle Brief COP Statement Reference on Sasol website 7. Support a A precautionary approach to environmental management The principles underlying the precautionary informs our SHE policy and is evidenced, for example, by our precautionary approach approach to implementation of environmental impact assessments and inform many of our activities. environmental management plans, due diligence reviews, product stewardship Our activities in challenges. initiatives and risk assessments, and the application of the One implementing these Sasol SHE Excellence approach Requirements. The SHE centre is principles are described responsible and accountable for implementation of the SHE throughout our online SR, policy and co-ordination of activities across the company. with specific examples A specific example of our approach is the strategic decision to provided in the scale back the rollout of our proprietary coal to liquids (CTL) environmental sections. technology. CTL is a very carbon intensive process and we believe our energies are better focused on our lower impact gas to liquid technology. Our sustainable development report includes targets relating to greenhouse gas emissions, water, Responsible Care® and volatile organic compounds (Criterion 9). 8. Undertake initiatives Our commitment to this all-encompassing principle is evidenced A review of our to promote greater in the nature of our SHE policies, programmes and targets, our environmentally related environmental commitment to implementing initiatives such as Responsible material issues is presented responsibility. Care®, and in the continuing improvements we have made in our in our SR. environmental performance, as reported in this report. Our business units have approved management plans outlining how they propose to meet our globally applicable One Sasol SHE Excellence approach requirements (Criterion 9, 10 and 11). We have audited systems in place to measure, monitor and report annually against our own performance targets and indicators of performance, and we report annually against each of the GRI environmental indicators. 9. Encourage the Our company has been built on the basis of pioneering research A review of some of our development and development into innovative technologies. Recognising the activities in this area is and diffusion of challenges of operating plants and equipment that are subject provided in our IR section on environmentally to increasing demands for improved resource efficiency and Research, Technology and friendly technologies. reduced emission intensity, we continue to invest in research Mega Projects. and development and new equipment and practices aimed at minimising our environmental footprint. 10. Work against Our commitment to combating corruption is embodied in our A general review of our corruption in all its Code of Ethics (Criterion 12). Enforcement of the code is approach to promoting forms, including facilitated through the establishment of an ethics forum and ethical behaviour is provided extortion and bribery. ethics reporting telephone lines, and the inclusion of the code in our SR review of Ethical within employee performance appraisal. Our sustained behaviour and human rights. investment in fostering ethical and fair business practices includes the involvement of a number of appointed ethics ofﬁcers and champions, and engaging with suppliers on our Code of Ethics and good procurement processes (Criterion 13). In our annual sustainable development reporting we report on the outcomes of our internal ethics line, as well as on progress in our ethics governance practices (Criterion 14). In our detailed online GRI Reference table a response is provided to all the GRI criteria. Sasol United Nations Global Compact 5 United Nations Global Compact CEO Water Mandate: 2016 Communication on Progress Sasol adopted the UN Global Compact CEO Water Mandate as the framework for directing and reporting on our water stewardship performance. The mandate comprises six key focus areas in which companies commit to improvements over time and where appropriate. Feedback against each of the focus areas is provided on the following pages. Focus Area Brief COP Statement Reference on Sasol website 1. Direct Operations ƫƫ Our South African operations are highly dependent on the ƫƫ A general review of Integrated Vaal River System (IVRS) for water. our Direct Operations ƫƫ While our current allocation is secure, longer term water approach is provided in security risks persist. our 2016 Sustainability ƫƫ Our total water use during 2016 was 138,6 million m3, which Reporting, page 14, 2016 is higher but within acceptable fluctuation in demand than at a Glance, on our water consumption of 135,5 million m3 in 2015. www.sasol.com. ƫƫ Sasol’s largest water users have set the following new voluntary water targets applicable for a five-year period up to 2020: –– Sasolburg Operations: maintain the 2015 baseline of 9,6 tons of water use per ton of saleable production, and reported a 10% deterioration against the baseline during 2016; –– Secunda Synfuels Operations: achieve a 2,5% improvement in water intensity against actual consumption in 2014 of 11,58 tons of water use per ton of saleable production, but reported a 1% deterioration against the baseline during 2016; and –– Mining, restricted the increase in potable water use to a maximum of 10%, and reported a 10% improvement against baseline during 2016. ƫƫ In addition to the specific targets all businesses have committed to manage water responsibly and to ensure that the water footprint of Sasol will not fundamentally increase (without defensible reasons) over the next five years. 2. Watershed ƫƫ The Department of Water and Sanitation (DWS) in South ƫƫ A general review Management Africa continues to experience challenges in complying of our Watershed with operating rules for the IVRS due to infrastructure Management is challenges, exacerbated by the current drought situation. provided in our 2016 ƫƫ Given these challenges, we developed a water security risk Sustainability Reporting, indicator to provide an early indication of the water security page 14, 2016 at a Glance, risks facing our South African operations, which enables on www.sasol.com. us to take appropriate controls to minimise the risk of production losses. ƫƫ We work closely with the Planning and Operations divisions of the DWS on understanding and responding to infrastructure risks, which have the potential to impact on the reliability of water supply to our operations. 3. Collective action ƫƫ Given the scale of water-related challenges, we recognise ƫƫ A general review of our the need to work collaboratively with a range of partners. Collective Action is ƫƫ In addition to our existing and proposed partnerships with provided in our 2016 municipalities to pursue water conservation opportunities, Sustainability Reporting, we have continued to contribute to the activities of the page 14, Our Water South African Strategic Water Partners Network (SWPN). Footprint, ƫƫ As a member of SWPN, we have contributed to initiatives on www.sasol.com. relating to water offsetting, skills development and capacity building. ƫƫ Sasol has entered into a new memorandum of understanding with the German Agency for International Cooperation (GiZ) to identify opportunities for collective action. 6 Sasol United Nations Global Compact Focus Area Brief COP Statement Reference on Sasol website 4. Community ƫƫ Sasol is involved in a water conservation/water demand ƫƫ A general review of engagement management baseline-setting project for the Metsimaholo our Community Local Municipality (MLM) in Sasolburg, in collaboration with Engagement is provided Rand Water (as implementing agent), GiZ and the DWS. in our 2016 Sustainability The DWS contributed R7 million, Sasol R2.9 million and GiZ Reporting, page 14, Our 60,000 Euros. Once the baseline work has been completed Water Footprint, on it will provide for focused attention on areas experiencing www.sasol.com high leaks. ƫƫ Secunda CSR has partnered with Cobra Watertech (Pty) Ltd to assess the feasibility of an innovative approach in dealing with high water leaks at six identified schools within Govan Mbeki Municipality (GMM). The approach involved installing a device called Aquatrip that trips the water supply during non‑operational periods. Plumbers have also been trained to fix visible leaks. On average, savings of more than 60% of losses have been realised in the first month of implementation. 5. Public Policy ƫƫ In 2016, our engagement with the DWS included addressing ƫƫ A general review of our challenges with some of our water use licence applications Public Policy is provided and provided formal input into proposed water quality in our 2016 Sustainability objectives for the Vaal River System, as well as proposed Reporting, page 14, Our amendments to the water pricing strategy. Water Footprint, on ƫƫ We also developed a case study that demonstrates the www.sasol.com business value of beyond fence-line water conservation partnerships using the data obtained from our water conservation partnership with the Emfuleni Municipality. The lessons learnt from this case study will be used to further inform the development of government policy on incentivising such initiatives. ƫƫ In 2016 our Sasolburg Operations received a new water use licence following a protracted application process. As the new licence contains ambitious timeframes to meet challenging discharge limits, engagement with the authorities on this matter is underway. The DWS approved the Secunda Synfuels integrated water and waste management plan. 6. Transparency ƫƫ Sasol again responded to the annual CDP Water Disclosure ƫƫ A general review of initiative. For the 2015 CDP Water Disclosure response Sasol our Transparency is achieved a commendable B score, scoring well on disclosure provided in our 2016 on direct risk and exposure, governance, strategy and Sustainability Reporting, context but falling short on the information supplied on page 14, Our Water water risks in the supply chain. Footprint, on www.sasol.com. SUMMARY Water is a critical feedstock for our primary processes, used primarily for steam generation, process cooling and the production of hydrogen. Water is also a significant consideration across much of our value chain, which extends into urban settlements, agriculture and mining. As many of our larger facilities, suppliers and surrounding communities are located in water-stressed areas, we have a heightened responsibility for ensuring good water stewardship. Sasol United Nations Global Compact 7
