FOR SUSTA S INABLE GROWTH ALWAYS EVOLVING TOWARD A SOLUTION-ORIENTED BUSINESS FOR VALUE E CREAT CREEATIION ON INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 Year ended March 31, 2016 The Keystones of the Teijin Group ~The Teijin Group Corporate Philosophy and CSR Basic Policy~ Ceaseless Evolution and Ambition Endeavoring to Provide New Solutions That Contribute to Enhancing the Quality of Life for All The Teijin Group upholds its brand statement “Human Chemistry, Human Solutions” as its promise to society and its customers. Under the statement, we are globally expanding our wide range of businesses that include advanced fibers & composites, electric materials & performance polymer products, healthcare, products converting and IT. In line with our corporate philosophy, we continue striving to enhance the quality of life of people everywhere. With advanced technologies at the core of operations, we will continue to create new solutions in response to various global issues and needs. In doing so, the Teijin Group is aiming to be a prominent, globally admired corporate group. Teijin Group Corporate Philosophy Enhancing the Quality of Life The Teijin Group’s purpose is to enhance the quality of life through a deep insight into In Harmony with Society human nature and needs, Empowering Our People together with the application of our creative abilities. Brand Statement Human Chemistry, Human Solutions Our promise is to keep delivering real value through the development of chemical technologies that are friendly to both people and the global environment, and through the provision of solutions that society and our customers expect. For People’s Life and Society Teijin advances CSR activities that are strongly rooted in our corporate philosophy in order to realize better lives for people and a better society. The basic goals of the Teijin Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) are articulated by our corporate philosophy of “Enhancing the Quality of Life,” “In Harmony with Society,” and “Empowering Our People.” To realize better lives for people and a better society, we have formulated the CSR Basic Policy and are advancing CSR activities that are strongly rooted in our corporate philosophy under the leadership of the Chief Social Responsibility Officer. CSR Basic Policy (FY2012–FY2016) 1. To advance a CSR management that is integrated into the Teijin Group’s business strategy, aiming to achieve the sustainable development of both business and society. 2. To continue to respond rapidly to changes in the socio-economic environment by obtaining and maintaining global recognition as “CSR champion” in Teijin’s way. 3. To realize “co-existence with the global environment” by actively promoting environmental management. 4. To help realize improvement of “Quality of Life,” by providing safe and reliable products and services. 5. To be recognized as a benchmark of Basic CSR activities such as compliance and risk management by their thorough implementation. 6. To build “Win-Win” relationships with stakeholders in and outside the Teijin Group by two-way dialogues and active involvement in their development and to enhance their satisfaction. UN Global Compact Since 2011 the Teijin Group has endorsed and been a member of the UN Global Compact, which sets voluntary principles concerning human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption, to promote and practically implement high-quality CSR management as a global company engaged in business. TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 1 Editorial Policy Materiality and Comprehensiveness The Teijin Group Integrated Report 2016 was prepared as The Teijin Group Integrated Report 2016 provides reportan integrated report to ensure that all stakeholders, ing on highly material issues for the Teijin Group and sociincluding shareholders and other investors, are able to ety as a whole. For more comprehensive and detailed obtain and understand the Teijin Group’s financial informainformation, please refer to Teijin’s corporate website in tion, such as business results and strategies, as well as conjunction with this report. non-financial information about the social and environmental aspects of the Group. Reporting Period Large This report covers the period from April 2015 to March Corporate Profile 2016. However, some activities in or after April 2016 are Targeted reader base also included. Reporting Organizations The report covers the entire Teijin Group (Teijin Limited and Integrated Report 60 domestic Group companies, and 93 overseas Group companies). Teijin website Guidelines used for Disclosing Non-Financial Information Small Environmental Report Guidelines 2012 (Japan’s Ministry of the Environment) Outline and image Content Details and data The Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Financial Information Non-Financial Information For Investors Corporate Social Responsibility Research & Development http://www.teijin.com/ir/ (CSR) http://www.teijin.com/rd/ http://www.teijin.com/csr/ External Evaluations Status of incorporation into SRI indices (as of July 2016) The Teijin Group was evaluated about its initiatives for the environment and CSR, and for its transparency as regards information disclosure. As a result, we continue to be included in the following international socially responsible investment (SRI) indices. Dow Jones Sustainability Indices Ethibel Investment Register (criteria for inclusion: economic, environmental (criteria for inclusion: ethical economic policy, and social performance) environmental policy, internal and external social policies) FTSE4Good Index Series (criteria for inclusion: efforts to ensure environmental sustainability, development of positive MSCI Global Sustainability relationships with stakeholders and support for Index Series universal human rights) Disclaimer Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Any statements in this Integrated Report, other than those of historical fact, are forward-looking statements about the future performance of Teijin and its Group companies, which are based on management’s assumptions and beliefs in light of information currently available and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from these forecasts. 2 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 Desired Communication Points CONTENTS in Each Chapter The keystones of the Teijin Group ~The Teijin Group Corporate Philosophy and CSR Basic Policy~ TEIJIN TODAY 4 Financial and Non-Financial Information 4 6 Evolution and Ambition Inherited in Our Genes 8 The Teijin Group’s Businesses The Teijin Group Today 10 The Teijin Group’s Global Business NetWe give an overall view of the Teijin Group from the past work to the present. OUR STORY 12 The Teijin Group’s Value Creation Model 12 14 Special Feature: Teijin Is Changing Society 14 Environmental value solutions The Teijin Group’s Value Creation Story 16 Safety, security and disaster mitigation solutions Looking to the future, we present an explanation of how 18 Demographic change and increased we will develop the Teijin Group’s value creation. health consciousness solutions 20 Top Management Message 28 Approaches to Growth by Business Segment 28 Advanced Fibers and Composites Business Group 30 Electronics Materials and Performance Polymer Products Business Group 32 Healthcare Business Group 34 Trading and Retail Business Group 35 IT Business Group 36 New Business Development Business Unit 37 Research and Development OUR 40 CSR Materiality (Key Issues) 40 42 Special Feature: Governance Round Table with Independent Outside Directors MATERIALITY 46 Initiatives for Governance Issues 46 Corporate Governance 50 Overview of Directors The Teijin Group’s Material CSR Issues 52 Initiatives for Environmental Issues Aiming to achieve sustained growth, we introduce the 54 Initiatives for Social Issues CSR issues that the Teijin Group considers important 57 Message from the CSRO together with our associated initiatives. DATA SECTION 58 Financial Highlights and Consolidated 58 11-Year Summary 60 Management’s Discussion and Analysis 70 Consolidated Financial Statements Data Section 113 Independent Auditor’s Report To help you know more about the Teijin Group, we have 114 Independent Assurance Report summarized our financial information together with other 115 Corporate Data management information. TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 3 Financial and Non-Financial Information Financial Information Net Sales (Billions of yen) Operating Income (Billions of yen) Profit (Loss) Attributable to Owners of Parent (Billions of yen) Operating Margin (%) Return on Equity (ROE)*1 (%) 1,000 80 12 60 15 800 10 40 10 60 8 600 20 5 40 6 400 0 0 4 20 200 2 –20 –5 0 0 0 –40 –10 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 (FY) ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 (FY) ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 (FY) (Left scale) (Right scale) (Left scale) (Right scale) Profit (Loss) attributable to owners ROE (%) Operating income (Billions of yen) Operating margin (%) of parent (Billions of yen) Total Assets (Billions of yen) Free Cash Flow (Billions of yen) Net Income (Loss) per Share (Yen) Return on Assets (ROA)*2 (%) 1,000 10 50 40 40 30 800 8 20 30 600 6 10 20 400 4 0 10 –10 200 2 0 –20 0 0 –10 –30 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 (FY) ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 (FY) ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 (FY) (Left scale) (Right scale) Total assets (Billions of yen) ROA (%) Capital Expenditure and Depreciation Debt-to-Equity Ratio (Times) R&D Expenses (Billions of yen) and Amortization (Billions of yen) 60 2.0 40 1.5 30 ４0 1.0 20 ２0 0.5 10 0 0 0 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 (FY) ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 (FY) ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 (FY) Capital expenditure Depreciation and amortization *1 Profit (Loss) attributable to owners of parent / Average total shareholders’ equity *2 Operating income / Average total assets 4 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 TEIJIN TODAY Non-Financial Information Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Manufacturing Chemical Substance Emissions*2 (Tons) Freshwater Consumption and Operations*1 (Total) (Million tons-CO2) Total Water Discharged*3 (Millions of Tons) 2.5 3,000 200 2.0 150 2,000 1.5 100 1.0 1,000 50 0.5 0 0 0 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 (FY) ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 (FY) ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 (FY) Domestic Overseas Freshwater consumption Total water discharged Waste with No Effective Use*4 (Tons) Lost Time Injury Frequency Rates*5 Usage of the Counseling and Reporting System (Number of Cases) 6,000 1.25 75 1.00 4,000 50 0.75 0.50 2,000 25 0.25 0 0 0 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 (FY) ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 (FY) ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 (FY) Teijin Group companies Average domestic manufacturing Number and Ratio of Newly Recruited Number of Employees Taking Number of Employees (Total) (People) Career-oriented Female University Graduates*6 Childcare Leave*6 (People) 150 50 250 20,000 120 40 200 16,000 90 30 150 12,000 60 20 100 8,000 30 10 50 4,000 0 0 0 0 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 ’16 (FY) ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 (FY) ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 (FY) (Left scale) (Right scale) Female Male Domestic Overseas Female Male Percentage of female (People) employees (%) *1 Includes CO2, methane and nitrous oxide. CO2 emissions are calculated according to the coefficients environment of specific chemical substances and promoting improvements in their management. specified in the Law Concerning the Promotion of Measures to Cope with Global Warming (an *3 Freshwater consumption amount includes industrial water, groundwater and tap water. Water emissions factor for electricity of 0.555 kg CO2/kWh is used for fiscal years up to 2014 and 0.579 kg discharged includes seawater used for cooling. CO2/kWh is used for fiscal 2015). For power purchased overseas, where known, the relevant *4 Waste with no effective use refers to waste incinerated without heat recovery and waste for landfill. emissions factor is used for the calculations. *5 The lost time injury frequency rate is the number of lost time injuries per one million hours worked. *2 Emissions of Class 1 chemical substances listed in the Chemical Substances Management Law and (Figures are calculated based on calendar years.) chemical substances designated by the Japan Chemical Industry Association. The figures shown are Source: Survey on Industrial Accidents, Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare the total of emissions into the atmosphere, soil and water, and landfill amount within business sites. *6 At the five core Group companies in Japan: Teijin Limited, Toho Tenax Co., Ltd., Teijin Pharma The Chemical Substances Management Law: law concerning reporting, etc., of releases to the Limited, Teijin Frontier Co., Ltd., Infocom Corporation TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 5 Evolution and Ambition Inherited in Our Genes THE TEIJIN GROUP’S CEASELESS EVOLUTION AND AMBITION In one sense, the history of the Teijin Group has been the history of evolution. When founded, Teijin was the equivalent of a modern-day venture business, spawned from university research. The Company was born in the process of commercializing the development of Japan’s first technology for manufacturing semi-synthetic rayon fibers. In the ensuing years before and after World War II, Teijin’s main operations underwent an evolution from rayon to polyester, and business continued to diversify and globalize as we ambitiously pursued chemical technologies and cutting-edge R&D to remain in stride with the changing times. Our Group today was shaped by ceaseless evolution and an undying ambition, inherited in our genes since founding, to change the world for the better in amazing ways. The Challenge of Commercializing New Materials Evolution as a High-Performance Materials and Composites Where Teijin was founded: Manufacturer the Yonezawa Plant TETORON grew significantly as Teijin’s main product, The Challenge of Commercializing while new business development and commercialization continued resolutely. Rayon, an Artificial Silk In 1960, Teijin began production of polycarbonate resin and in 1971 began production of polyester film. In the Evolution to a Synthetic Fibers meantime, it continued proprietary development of aramid fibers, and in 1972 began operations for the production of Manufacturer Teijinconex meta-aramid fibers and in 1987 launched operations for Technora high-strength para-aramid fibers. Teijin was founded in 1918 as Japan’s first rayon manuIn 1999, the Company acquired an equity stake in Toho facturer. It became a leading company in the prosperous Rayon Co., Ltd. to launch the carbon fiber business. In era of the Japanese rayon business. 2000, it acquired a Twaron products para-aramid fibers In 1957, Teijin obtained a license to introduce producbusiness to further expand business. tion technologies for polyester fibers and films from ICI of the United Kingdom. In 1958, the Company began production of TETORON polyester fibers, which supported high earning capabilities and proactive business development, significantly expanding the business scope. Teijin established a succession of production bases and grew into a global synthetic fiber manufacturer. Carbon fibers Aramid fibers Signing ceremony for the introduction of technologies Polyester fibers Polycarbonate resin 6 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 TEIJIN TODAY The Challenge of Evolving Governance Evolution to a New Business Portfolio In 1993, Teijin formulated the Teijin Group Corporate Philosophy, Standards of Conduct and Corporate Code of Conduct to form the basis of Teijin’s management. In The Challenge of Developing 1999, the Company started full-scale management reforms. It was highly regarded by investors for leading Different Business Domains in other companies in measures such as setting up an Healthcare and IT Advisory Board and launching a Female Employee Advancement Committee. In 2003, Teijin was among the Evolving into Diversified earliest to introduce outside directors. Through to now, it remains proactive in moving ahead with management Management transparency and speed. The transformation and growth strategies currently being In 1980, Teijin Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. began operations, implemented will combine and fuse Teijin’s strengths in leveraging expertise and experience in synthetic chemistry materials, healthcare and IT. The Company will strive for and polymer chemistry. In 1982, the Company entered new evolution to take Teijin’s business portfolio to the next the home healthcare business, centering on home oxygen stage. therapy (HOT). This was the start of the Healthcare Business that is now a major earner for Teijin. The following year, 1983, Teijin Systems Technology Ltd. was established and Teijin entered the IT field. A merger expanded the business and led to the creation of Infocom, which was listed on the JASDAQ market in 2002. Teijin Shoji Co., Ltd., founded in 1952, also repeatedly engaged in mergers to actively develop globally and now forms the core of the Trading and Retail segment as Teijin Frontier Co., Ltd. IT solutions for medical institutions Therapeutic oxygen concentrators Hyperuricemia and gout treatment FEBURIC (Febuxostat) Apparel field TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 7 The Teijin Group’s Businesses • Breakdown of Consolidated IT and Others Net Sales (in Fiscal 2015) IT Business We provide various IT services, along with internet services such as digital content distribution and e-commerce. 9.5% IT Services ▪ IT services for healthcare domains (75.6 billion yen) ▪ GRANDIT, a fully web-based enterprise resource planning software package ▪ Digital content management services Internet Services ▪ Content distribution services via mobile phones and smartphones (e-books and music) ▪ e-commerce services Consolidated New Business We aim to create new businesses as early as possible in fields such as battery net sales components, materials for printable electronics, embedded medical devices and regenerative medicine products. 34.3% Trading and Retail (270.9 billion yen) We provide a wide range of solutions from materials development to products, to meet a variety of needs in markets spanning apparel to industrial textiles and materials. 18.7% (147.5 billion yen) Principal products and services ▪ Sale and international trading of fiber materials, textiles and apparel, industrial textiles and materials, and films and plastics ▪ Polyester and recycled polyester fabrics and textiles ▪ Closed-loop recycling of polyester products Healthcare We provide unique, groundbreaking medical solutions by leveraging our Pharmaceuticals TEIJIN MEN’S SHOP Automotive material Ginza flagship store ▪ Bone and joint disease: treatment for osteoporosis, etc. ▪ Respiratory disease: expectorant and treatment for bronchial asthma, etc. ▪ Cardiovascular and metabolic disease: treatments for hyperuricemia and gout, and hyperlipidemia, etc. ▪ Others: treatment for severe infectious diseases, laxatives, etc. 8 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 TEIJIN TODAY Advanced Fibers and Composites As a leading global company in advanced fibers such as aramid and carbon fibers as well as in composites, we are working to expand our business further. Principal products Principal applications ▪ Aramid fibers ▪ Para-aramid fibers ▪ Carbon fibers 16.8% Friction products, tires, rubber reinforcements Aircraft (structural and interior components) (hoses, belts) (133.0 billion yen) Pressure vessels, sports and Protective clothing, optical leisure equipment fiber reinforcements, civil engineering materials ▪ Carbon fibers 790.7 billion yen ▪ Oxidized PAN Fiber ▪ Polyester fibers ▪ Polyethylene naphthalate © AIRBUS (PEN) fibers ▪ Polyester fibers ▪ High-grade artificial leather Automotive interior materials, Bullet-resistant vest rubber reinforcements ▪ Meta-aramid fibers Seat belts, mats, cushions 20.7% Firefighting uniforms, heat-resistant filters (163.7 billion yen) Electronics Materials and Performance Polymer Products We are expanding globally, with a focus on polyester film, where we hold one of the largest shares of the global market, and polycarbonate resin, where we have a leading share of the growing Asian market. Principal products Principal applications ▪ Polycarbonate resin ▪ Polycarbonate resin ▪ Polyester film Electrical and electronics Display materials (Liquid components, audiovisual (AV) crystal display (LCD) materistrengths in both the pharmaceuticals and home healthcare fields. and office automation (OA) als, organic electroluminesequipment, personal comcent displays (OLEDs), etc.) puter casings, smartphone Release film for various Home healthcare camera lenses, automotive processes components (headlamps, door handles, etc.) Laminating film for beverage ▪ Respiratory disease: therapeutic oxygen concentrators, and food cans noninvasive positive pressure ventilator (NPPV) for Sheets (Automotive instrusufferers of sleep apnea syndrome (SAS), positive ment panels, dummy cans for ▪ Polyester film pressure ventilators for sufferers of SAS vending machines) ▪ Bone and joint disease: Sonic Accelerated Fracture Healing System ▪ PEN resin ▪ PEN film OA equipment LCD television TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 9 The Teijin Group’s Global Business Network The Teijin Group currently sells products in 82 countries around the world from a global network of 153 Group companies. The overseas sales ratio has reached 40.1%. Europe Europe hosts aramid and carbon fiber business sites in advanced fibers, among other sites. Asia We are developing business in the growing Asian market, where we have resin, polyester fiber, film and other business sites. Teijin Polycarbonate China Ltd. Teijin Aramid B.V. (Netherlands) Toho Tenax Europe GmbH Teijin Polyester (Thailand) Limited PT. Indonesia Teijin DuPont Films 10 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 TEIJIN TODAY Group companies Products sold in Overseas sales ratio 153 companies 82 countries 40.1% (As of March 31, 2016) Americas The Americas region hosts carbon fiber, film, home healthcare and other business sites. Japan Japan hosts carbon fiber, polyester fiber, film and other business sites, and also provides a solid foundation for the healthcare business. Europe/Other Americas 8.5% 6.3% Americas Europe 7.2% 10.7% Net Sales by Group Employees Asia Location of 15,756 24.4% Customers Asia Japan 24.2% Japan 59.9% 58.8% TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 11 The Teijin Group’s Value Creation Model P40~ Environment Please refer to the section Reduction of environmental burdens “OUR MATERIALITY.” Preservation of biodiversity Society Diversity Product liability and quality assurance Tackle CSR issues and reinforce Governance Corporate governance the management base Corporate Philosophy and compliance Source of value creation [The Teijin Group’s Strengths] Materials Healthcare In Harmony with domain Society domain Mass-production Corporate technologies for high-performance materials Healthcare knowhow and infrastructure Philosophy that balance the need for high quality and low Enhancing the production Quality of Life Opening feature costs Please refer to the opening feature entitled “The Keystones of the Teijin Group.” Empowering Combining IT domain our People and integrating Efficient IT service development capabilities 12 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 OUR STORY The basic goals underlying the Teijin Group’s value creation activities are articulated by the phrases “Enhancing the Quality of Life,” “In Harmony with Society” and “Empowering our People.” To achieve these basic goals, Teijin relies on the chemical technologies and customer base it has nurtured to leverage and integrate strengths in the three domains of materials, healthcare, and IT to provide much needed solutions to social issues. Moreover, to realize sustainable growth, Teijin is endeavoring to transform its business model and provide customers with new value. At the same time, the Group is working ceaselessly to tackle CSR issues and reinforce its management base, while staying focused on social issues as they unfold. Business opportunities Value provided Greater energy / Environment resource efficiency Energy conservation Clean energy Safety, security, and Provide value disaster prevention Safety Security P14~ Disaster Please refer to the special feature Comfort mitigation “Teijin Is Changing Society.” Increasingly sophisticated services Demographic change Collection and timely Increased health use of information consciousness Business model transformation and new value for customers Strengthen the technology base Restructure and bolster the research organization Innovation projects Open innovation Strengthen the base for human resources Marketing education (Material Business Academy) Technological succession (Teijin Techno College) P6~ Please refer to “Evolution and Ambition Inherited in Our Genes.” TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 13 Special Feature Teijin Is Changing Societty (1) Environmental value solutions Teijin’s composites and weight-reducing technology are opening the door to a new age, responding to the weight reduction needs to improve environmental performance. Social Issues (Teijin’s solutions) Various high performance materials Lowering CO2 emissions that help reduce weight and raising fuel efficiency Teijin has a history of providing materials for lighter weight transport. Amid growing worldwide motorization, Carbon fibers are a striking example. With only a quarter the weight but reducing CO2 emissions and conservten times the strength of steel, carbon fibers are used to produce much ing energy has become a major social lighter products while maintaining safety. They are widely used in aircraft issue. Of the various steps being taken parts. In addition, polycarbonate resin, which is about half the weight of in the automobile industry to curb CO2 glass, is helping to reduce the weight of vehicles including via use in the emissions and boost fuel efficiency, N700-series Shinkansen trains. initiatives to reduce vehicle weight are Increased uptake of carbon fibers and other high performance materials regarded as instrumental. that reduce weight holds great promise for cutting the volume of CO2 emissions. Reducing CO2 CO2 CO2 Carbon fibers TENAX Polycarbonate resin 14 14 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 OUR STORY Examples of delivering all kinds of value Carbon Fiber Reinforced Plastic (CFRP) Thermoplastic CFRP Sereebo Business Innovation For Quality of Life Contributing to the Realizing high Reduction of weight reduction of productivity and low cost environmental impact automobiles Productivity and cost are major keys As for CFRP’s effectiveness in reducReducing automobile energy conto further uptake and mass production ing the volume of CO2 emissions, its sumption is a global task, as underof carbon fibers. Teijin has developed use in automobiles for instance lined by the U.S. government’s thermoplastic carbon fiber reinforced achieves an estimated 5 ton cut per announcement of proposed regulaplastic (CFRP) technology that dramatvehicle*2. In addition, thermoplastic tions for fuel efficiency for 2025 model ically shortens molding time. We were CFRP, which is easy to reshape after vehicles equivalent to 23.2 km/L, the first in the world to successfully molding, is also suitable for reuse and roughly double the current average. realize continuous integrated manufacreforming. It has the potential to help Carbon fibers hold promise as a turing from carbon fibers thorough the reduce environmental impact throughtrump card for producing lighter vehimolding of component products in out the product lifecycle, not just in cles, and a huge market is bound to about one minute. Additionally, we vehicles on the road but also after use. emerge if they come to be used in participated in a development project *2 Calculations were made under the conditions shown below. mass-produced automobiles. led by NEDO*1, helping to establish a Body weight: 1,380 kg (gasoline-fueled, 4-door, FF; revolutionary carbon fiber production source: Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association, Inc.), actual-driving fuel efficiency: 9.8 km/L (source: process that greatly increases producJapan Automobile Manufacturers Association, Inc.), total mileage: 94,000 km (average for vehicles in use for 10 tivity and halves CO2 emissions and years; source: Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, Japan) production energy. *1 New Energy and Industrial Technology Development Organization TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 15 Teijin Is Changing Society (2) Safety, security and disaster mitigation solutions Teijin’s solutions are very successful on the ground at disasters and elsewhere where safety and performance are required. Social issues (Teijin’s solutions) A multitude of high performance, Safety plus performance safety-supporting materials Repeated disasters including the Great Typical applications leveraging para-aramid fibers’ strength include East Japan Earthquake of 2011 and bullet-resistant and protective clothing as well as stab-resistant products the recent Kumamoto earthquakes such as helmets and protective gloves. In addition, Teijin has the top have given even greater social gravity domestic market share for firefighting clothing capitalizing on the heat resisto safety, security, and disaster mitigatance of meta-aramid fibers. tion. Against this backdrop, there is Further, aramid and carbon fibers are also used as supplementary growing demand for materials that earthquake-proof construction materials in concrete and other materials. combine safety and performance. Also, in polyester fibers, Teijin’s ultra-lightweight ceiling material Karuten is playing a major role in ensuring safety when earthquakes hit. Moreover, we are forging ahead with the development of advanced fiber Safety Functionality reinforced wood (AFRW) integrating timber and advanced fibers. We are working to put AFRW combing timber and advanced materials possessing toughness and rigidity into practical use as secure and safe building materials. Teijin offers disaster mitigation products like Motanka, an emergency blanket that does double duty as a stretcher. We also offer woven aramid fabrics to protect against debris from volcanic eruptions in places like shelters and cabins in the vicinity of volcanic craters. These are just a sampling of the wide array of products we are developing and selling. Carbon fiber reinforced wood Aramid fibers 16 16 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 OUR STORY Examples of delivering all kinds of values Diverse Lineup of Aramid Fibers Para-aramid fibers ers Meta-aramid Me fibers ora Technora Teij Teijinconex Business Innovation For Quality of Life Essential support for Outstanding impact and Provision of safety and social infrastructure heat resistance reliability In Japan, a tremendous amount of Of the para-aramid fibers developed One of our Technora products is a social infrastructure including roads by Teijin, Technora is especially good sheet-type product that can be affixed and bridges was put in place during at resisting impact, fatigue, heat and to bridge piers and other concrete the economic boom times, mainly in humidity, and chemicals. Thanks to structures to bolster their resistance to the 1960s. However, it is now over those traits, it is making headway in earthquakes. With high strength and half a century later and countermeabeing deployed for use under tougher low elasticity, Technora is also used for sures for such aging infrastructure conditions. materials reinforcing embankments together with the further strengthening Teijinconex is a meta-aramid fiber and soft foundations. Further, of earthquake countermeasures are offering heat resistance. In addition to Technora is used at oil and gas drilling required. Technora is widely used as a heat resistance, newly developed sites as a material to reinforce ropes ground reinforcement material and for Teijinconex neo achieves excellent and cables, enhancing performance applications such as reinforcing and dyeability, a feature that its predecesand significantly reducing weight comrepairing aging structures. In addition, sor Teijinconex lacks. This new feature pared with when metal is used. demand for the product is also facilitates more fine-tuned solutions for Moreover, due to the good heat and expanding at offshore oil drilling sites. customers. flame resistance, Teijinconex is used in Moreover, Teijinconex, which is used workers’ uniforms for firefighters, in protective clothing, also looks set rescue teams, and others. It helps for further demand growth with stricter ensure safety and security at an array safety guidelines being introduced of worksites. even in Asia and emerging nations in recent years. TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 17 Teijin Is Changing Society (3) Demographic change and increased health consciousness solutions Responding to a variety of social issues brought about by changes in the population demographic and lifestyles, the fields in which Teijin’s healthcare business can contribute are increasing further. Social issues (Teijin’s solutions) Responding to issues from two core Demographic change fronts: pharmaceuticals and home and increased health healthcare consciousness Teijin’s healthcare business rests on two pillars—pharmaceuticals and Demographic change is becoming a home healthcare. major social issue worldwide. Further, In pharmaceuticals, Febuxostat, a hyperuricemia and gout treatment, is lifestyle disease is on the rise with making huge contributions. It was the first new uric acid-lowering medicachanges in dietary habits and social tion in the world to be approved in four decades, only needs to be taken environments. As a result, people are once a day, and can be used even in patients with somewhat reduced becoming more conscious about mainkidney function. As such, Febuxostat has seen solid sales growth ever taining health and preventing disease. since its launch. Further, our home healthcare operations include developing medical devices and providing services for the home treatment of sleep apnea syndrome (SAS) and home oxygen therapy (HOT) for chronic respiratory failure. Aging society We boast top share in the domestic market in this area. We are also developing cutting-edge medical materials that integrate our pharmaceuticals and materials technologies. Examples are a sheet-type sealant for surgical operations and a patch for cardiac repair. Moreover, we aim to deploy new integrated healthcare and nursing care services that effectively utilize IT under our service frameworks and customer bases established through our home healthcare operations including the comprehensive sleep support service Sleep Styles and the patient information sharing system VitalLink. Hyperuricemia and gout treatment: SLEEPMATE10, continuous positive Feburic airway pressure (CPAP) ventilators for the treatment of sleep apnea syndrome (SAS) 18 18 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 OUR STORY Examples of delivering all kinds of values VitalLink, a patient healthcare information sharing system Sharing in Physicians Nurses real time Biometric information Pharmacists Nursing-care workers Patients Business Innovation For Quality of Life From home healthcare Patient information Integrated support for to comprehensive sharing system utilizing IT healthcare and nursing community healthcare Teijin already offered a system that care services With Japan heading down the path of uses mobile phone networks to moniOn top of efficient sharing of patient an aging society, the importance of tor treatment status from home healthinformation, this system is a promising comprehensive community healthcare care devices. Moreover, we recently tool for optimizing home healthcare in is being stressed. Specifically, a framebegan providing VitalLink, a system for that it enables relevant individuals to work is needed that enables elderly sharing patient information. This watch over patients in real time so as people requiring care to continue living system takes the readings from meato quickly grasp sudden deterioration in the area they are used to by providsuring devices on body temperature, in patients’ conditions, and assist ing access to comprehensive services pulse, blood pressure, blood oxygen patients in caring for themselves. such as residential service, medical, saturation levels, and other biological As a home oxygen therapy (HOT) nursing, preventative care, and living information on patients receiving home pioneer in Japan, Teijin already has assistance service. A platform to effeccare and inputs it into mobile devices some of the largest customer bases tively link patients, physicians, and such as smartphones, enabling the and service frameworks. But moving other pertinent parties is essential to information to be shared in real time ahead, we aim to go beyond providing make that a reality. among patients themselves, physinew medical devices to use networks cians, care managers, and other relebuilt via VitalLink as a base for develvant individuals. oping business in the comprehensive care field. TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 19 Top Management Message 20 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 OUR STORY Becoming an Enterprise That Is Essential to Tomorrow’s Society Inheriting the spirit of challenge in our genes, we will keep creating value for customers. The Teijin Group will celebrate the 100th anniversary of its founding in 2018. Teijin’s long history has been shaped by its ceaseless evolution and undying ambition, but it is now again rising to the new challenge of accomplishing a further transformation. Moreover, this new challenge was none other than to achieve the two pillars of “restructuring initiatives” and “transformation and growth” called for by the revised medium-term management plan announced in November 2014. We have specified drastic business restructuring initiatives together with numerous actions and measures designed to systematically execute transformation and growth projects eyeing the future. As a result, we will continue to create value needed by society, thereby striving to achieve the aim of the Teijin Group to become an enterprise that is essential to tomorrow’s society. In this section, Teijin President and CEO Jun Suzuki outlines Teijin’s evolution and ambition. Jun Suzuki Born in Tokyo in 1958. Joined Teijin Limited in 1983 after graduating with a Jun Suzuki, President and CEO Master’s Degree from the University of Tokyo Graduate School of Science. At The Teijin Group, he was engaged in pharmaceuticals development. Appointed Corporate Officer, Teijin Limited and Chief Marketing Officer in April 2012, after serving as President of Teijin Holdings Netherlands B.V. in 2011. Assumed the post of Executive Officer, Teijin Limited and General Manager, Advanced Fibers and Composites Business Group in April 2013 and Director, Executive Officer in June 2013. Appointed President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) in April 2014. TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 21 Doing what we need to do, not letting strong results make us become conceited. The Teijin Group is forging ahead with the revised medium-term management plan announced in November 2014. The plan targets operating income of ¥50 billion and ROE Staying focused on the of at least 8% in fiscal 2016. However, we achieved those goals a year early in fiscal revised medium-term 2015, with operating income growing 71.7% year-on-year to ¥67.1 billion and ROE management plan’s reaching 10.6%, far exceeding our initial forecasts for fiscal 2016. initiatives Our strong performance in fiscal 2015 certainly reflects improved core earnings power for the Group overall, with restructuring initiatives so far paying off and growth for mainstay products and services. However, it is also true that there was a substantial contribution from external factors such as a drop in raw material and fuel prices as well as currency rates. We met our targets early, but will not let that make us become conceited. Rather, we will stay focused on steadily advancing the initiatives set forth in the revised medium-term management plan in its final year, fiscal 2016. We will also work in fiscal 2016 on formulating a new medium-term plan to follow the current one. Additionally, we want to present a clear roadmap for growth even further down the line. ■ Fiscal 2016 targets of revised medium-term management plan Net sales Operating income Net income* ROE ¥800.0 billion ¥50.0 billion ¥25.0 billion 8 or more % ■ Fiscal 2015 results Net sales Operating income Net income* ROE ¥790.7 billion ¥67.1 billion ¥31.1 billion 10.6 % Goals for operating income, net income*, and ROE achieved early * Profit attributable to owners of parent 22 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 OUR STORY What the Teijin Group needs to do now The revised medium-term management plan has two key pillars: restructuring initiatives Simultaneously advance and transformation and growth strategies. We regard these two components as vital for building a business base with resilience to external conditions and a business restructuring portfolio capable of sustaining high profitability. This is because we believe that initiatives and pressing forward on both fronts at once will pave the way for the Teijin Group’s perpetual development. transformation and growth strategies Restructuring Initiatives With restructuring, we aim to realize a business structure that is resilient to the external environment and an earnings structure that is very capital efficient. Over the Teijin Group’s extensive history, we have amassed an array of technology and know-how, and develBusiness structure oped a wide range of business. Unfortunately, though, we do not have a competitive resilient to external edge in all of the fields where we operate. Among our various businesses, we have conditions strengths mixed with weaknesses. Closely examining our operations from a longer-term ＋ Lean, capital-efficient rather than short-term view, keeping the good and eliminating the bad, and making the most of our strengths as we invest in growth areas is what the Teijin Group’s restructuring initiatives are all about. earnings structure In fiscal 2015, our efforts in this vein included the shutdown of our Singapore plant in the polycarbonate resin business. In fiscal 2016, we will continue conducting restructuring, including in the film business, and home healthcare in North America. We will also move forward with transforming our business portfolio. ■ Progress of Restructuring Initiatives 2015 2016 2017– Shut down Singapore plant Completed Plastics ★ Specialize in Focus on compounds Expand automotive, infrastructure, housing high value-added equipment and healthcare applications applications Focus on the high-performance glass, battery and Develop sensor fields Utilize fire-retardant films, etc. the composite Films Integrate domestic Progressing as planned materials field Successively transfer production production to Utsunomiya plant ★ Implement bold Expected delay of Home healthcare reorganization measures Integrate sales bases around six months in the U.S. Reduce headcount (★) Progressing as planned Close and cease production Polyester fibers at certain domestic plants Advanced fibers Successively transfer production to Thailand ★ Cease DMT Raw materials and production Completed Reorganize polymerization plant polymerization ★ (★) TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 23 Transformation and Growth Strategies Every business has its own strengths and weaknesses, and strengths or weaknesses are not necessarily universal qualities: they change with the times. These qualities may be Change the alternatively referred to as individual traits or characteristics, and, depending on the times, individual traits of what were once strengths may lose their power, whereas what were once weaknesses each business to a may become advantages. Our business strategy is to harden the individual traits of each business and then work to really make them finish as strengths. The result of strength this process has established our business model. The Teijin Group is a unique entity with three core business domains: materials, healthcare and IT. This combination of operations is yet another individual characteristic of the Three growth fields Teijin Group. By combining and integrating these fields, the Teijin Group should be able to develop new and characteristic business domains like no others. This combining and integrating enables us to specialize in fields where we can make the most of our Materials Healthnotable features. At the same time, we will continue to successively create new and care unique businesses, while also supplementing the areas that are incomplete from outside the Group. This is the core of our transformation and growth strategies. IT The Teijin Group’s transformation and growth strategies are also in line with the global growth opportunities presented by macro trends. Specifically, these trends are (1) environment and energy conservation, (2) safety, security and disaster mitigation, and P14~19 (3) demographic change and increased health consciousness. We believe that we can Please see the special feature continue to provide new customer value by capturing these growth opportunities. To do Teijin Is Changing Society. so, we first work to strengthen and expand our earnings foundation by extending the individual strengths of our existing businesses, and then implement our transformation and growth strategies by further combining the strengths of each business. ■ New businesses realized through the integration of key capabilities from core business domains Strength Mass-production technologies Healthcare know-how and Efficient IT service Core business domains for high-performance materials infrastructure development capabilities and projects Macro trends Offer high-performance composite materials that realize new value for customers Materials × Materials Automotive devices (thermoplastic Environment and energy CFRP, high-performance plastics) conservation Carbon fibers, aramid fibers, plastics, films Battery components Expand the scope of our monitoring services Smart wearables Materials × IT Safety, security and disaster mitigation Super-tough structural Aramid fibers, carbon fibers Monitoring systems materials Broaden our home healthcare services model and create new markets Open healthcare platforms Healthcare × IT Customer base in the home Home healthcare business healthcare business, healthcare foundation, solid ICT service Support for community services configuration, alliances healthcare Demographic change and with equipment manufacturers foundation increased health consciousness Commercialize biocompatible medical materials Materials for tissue repair Materials × Healthcare Development know-how in the Biodegradable materials healthcare field, form alliances Artificial replacement medical materials with R&D organizations 24 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 OUR STORY We will continuously create value by thinking hard about solutions. Creating things that beg the question “Why didn’t this exist before?” is at the heart of innovation. Detecting macro trends—specifically, changes in store for the world—and setting out amid that backdrop to discover latent needs that customers have yet to even mention, and then meeting those needs to create new value together with customers, is the direcUncovering tion of our transformation and growth strategies. To accomplish that, we must focus on latent needs customers and look at things from their perspective. If we can provide products and services that are recognized as having added value that only the Teijin Group can deliver, and that customers would want to use even if it means paying a premium for them, we can avert price competition with rivals and at the same time gain resilience to changes in the market, including the prices for raw materials and fuel. We often hear that it is hard to get a clear image of what we mean when we talk about “solutions.” The type of solutions that the Teijin Group targets do not encroach on customers’ business domains or take away their business. One of our “solutions” enables our customers and us to both grow. We devote ourselves to contributing to our customers’ quality improvements and cost reductions, and as a result, we expand our own product development and sales increase. One example is tires that use fibers supplied by the Teijin Group. We do not intend to make the tires themselves but suggest things like new additives for rubber adhesives or ways of reducing fiber content while maintaining tire strength. Developing such solutions requires an intricate knowledge of supply chains and insight into where added value will emerge. The essence of the solution is to know the customers and supply chain well, and to ascertain where the added value is created. TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 25 We must continuously create value for customers if we are to remain an essential entity Keeping the spirit of far into the future. The Teijin Group has a history of striving to bring new value to customers. Taking on challenges is in our genes, and should remain at our core as we move challenge in our ahead. Without a challenging spirit, the Teijin Group has no future. With one, we genes aspire to become an enterprise that is essential to tomorrow’s society. Sustained enhancement of corporate value To hone our strengths through restructuring initiatives and keep creating new value CSR through transformation and growth strategies, it is important that we keep an eye on achieving sustainable mediumto long-term growth when devising strategies and taking management actions. It is also vital that we enhance the value of our existence as a company. closely tied to our Enhancing the quality of life is a key tenet of the Teijin Group’s corporate philosophy. It is corporate philosophy of great significance that we regard CSR as a vital component of management. We view CSR activities as a factor that influences our future corporate value. We identify material issues that we should address in the course of our social and environmental activities, and work on them. While we still have quite a way to go, we believe these initiatives are determinants of our future value. Reinforcing corporate governance is also indispensable for sound, sustainable growth. We have long had a governance system in place to ensure highly transparent, Strengthening the prompt decision-making. Going forward, we also intend to implement bold strategies that corporate governance look to future growth, while gaining understanding through dialogue and being accountsystem for highly able to shareholders and investors. transparent, timely Strengthening our human resources and realizing diversity are also critical to our decision-making future. With our business operations stretching around the world, it is imperative that the Teijin Group harnesses an array of capabilities without regard to gender or nationality, and P46~51 from a pool of talent that includes older individuals and those with disabilities as we target For more details, please see the sustainable growth. In keeping with this view, the Teijin Group endorses and is a member section entitled OUR of the United Nations Global Compact, which sets forth ten universally accepted principles MATERIALITY. related to human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. Moving ahead, we will keep mobilizing the Teijin Group’s collective strengths as we aspire to be a prominent enterprise that is admired around the globe. 26 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 OUR STORY The Teijin Group’s vision for the medium to long term In fiscal 2016, we will also formulate our next medium-term plan. Our basic plan is to incorporate (1) an even greater transformation of the Teijin Group’s business portfolio and Next medium-term (2) organizational reforms and cost restructuring suited to transforming our business management plan’s portfolio. Further, we will set the course of the next plan with an eye to our vision for direction around 2020 to have become an enterprise with two core businesses of healthcare, and composites and high-performance materials, both underpinned by information and communications technology, as already outlined in the current revised medium-term management plan. The measures that have been taken under our revised medium-term management plan are gradually starting to add to our core earnings power. In our next medium-term plan, we will also work backwards from our vision for the future to set out what we need to do now. We also intend to continue actively investing as our earnings foundation is on track to withstand the consequent burden of making upfront investments. Our efforts to meet the challenge of achieving our ambition have only just begun, and Teijin’s evolution we request our stakeholders’ ongoing support and understanding as we endeavor to evolve the Teijin Group. and ambition Jun Suzuki President and CEO TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 27 Approaches to Growth by Business Segment Advanced Fibers and Composites Business Group “ As a leading global company in highperformance fibers and composites, we are working to expand our business further. ” General Manager, Advanced Fibers and Composites Business Group Masaya Endo (C) AIRBUS FINANCIAL DATA Results and Forecasts PRODUCTION SITES Net sales Segment income Para-aramid fibers (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) The Netherlands Japan 135.5 133.0 18.5 123.6 125.0 16.0 14.4 Meta-aramid fibers Japan Thailand 5.7 Carbon fibers ’13 ’14 ’15 ’16 (FY) ’13 ’14 ’15 ’16 (FY) Japan Germany (Forecast) (Forecast) Polyester fibers Japan Thailand MARKET PRESENCE & BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES Aramid fibers them to be used in special environment uniforms such as Aramid fibers can be divided into two broad categories: those worn by firefighters, and other industrial materials where para-aramid fibers and meta-aramids. Aramid fibers are heat resistance is required. The Teijin Group’s Teijinconex holds high-performance fibers that generally excel at possessing the top share for use in firefighting uniforms in Japan. high-strength, heat resistance, dimensional stability and chemical resistance properties. Carbon fibers and composites Para-aramid fibers are particularly outstanding in terms of Carbon fiber is about ten times stronger and three-quarters strength and heat resistance. Accordingly, they are mainly lighter than steel, and demand has expanded rapidly, mainly used as reinforcement for tires and friction material for automodue to its use in aerospace applications and industrial applicabile brake pads, reinforcing optic fiber cables and for ballistic tions. As the world’s second-largest carbon fiber supplier, protection and protective materials. Going forward, the market the Teijin Group’s TENAX has a high global market share, mainfor para-aramid fibers is expected to grow at an annual rate of ly in aircraft applications. Against a backdrop of tighter environ4–5%. The Teijin Group has a lineup of two products, Technora mental regulations in recent years, there are significant expecand Twaron, and those fibers command a global market share tations of applications as automotive materials in the future, of approximately 50%. and we are working together with automakers on various techMeta-aramid fibers, meanwhile, have outstanding longnological developments. term heat resistance and flame retardant properties, enabling 28 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 OUR STORY STRATEGY & PRESENT ACTION Teijin aims to expand its business further by advancing the and emerging markets. development of new technologies and strengthening its comIn polyester fibers, we are striving to further strengthen our petitiveness, in order to provide new value and solutions using cost competitiveness by realigning our domestic production high-performance materials. configuration and transferring production of certain items to Teijin is developing new applications for para-aramid fibers subsidiaries in Thailand, and are working together with the through joint development with customers while tapping into Trading and Retail business group to build and strengthen demand in emerging economies by leveraging its excellent supply chains in the Asian region. product specifications and reliable quality, and its ability to We will focus on further sales expansion of TENAX carbon offer a variety of solutions from several product lineups. With fibers for high value-added applications in areas where Technora, in recent years production has remained at nearly mediumto long-term stable growth is projected, such as in full capacity, driven by an increasingly diverse range of applicaaircraft and pressure vessels. In addition, to respond to intions for use under more stringent conditions, including reincreased demand, we have acquired land in the U.S., with a forcement materials for automobile rubber parts, such as view to constructing a new plant. transmission belts and hoses, as well as ground reinforcement Taking into account the expansion of sales for aircraft brake materials. Moreover, a production capability increase of 10% pads for the Oxidized PAN fiber Pyromex, produced during for Technora has been decided to strengthen our response to the carbon fiber oxidation process, we decided to increase growing demand. production in the U.S. In meta-aramid fibers, in August 2015, we started producIn addition, in the area of structural components for tion in Ayutthaya, Thailand, of Teijinconex neo, a new metamass-produced vehicles made with our innovative thermoplasaramid fiber offering the world’s highest level of heat resistance tic CFRP Sereebo, we are continuing to implement activities and highly stable dyeability. During fiscal 2016, we will actively with General Motors and other automobile manufacturers to expand sales to capture demand for protective clothing in Asia achieve future commercialization. TOPICS Deepening of CFRP Production Technology Teijin’s European subsidiary Toho Tenax Europe GmbH is capabilities, it was able to move ahead with technological develbuilding an integrated production system for thermosetting opments that will cut costs and reduce waste. CFRP. The core technology in this system is an automated * Preform: Carbon fiber sheets are cut in advance to fit a mold and then shaped. manufacturing process for preform*, called Part via Preform (PvP). This process uses binder yarn, which combines carbon fiber with a binder resin, and places it directly on the mold. Preforms can be manufactured without requiring intermediate steps, thus the technology helps to considerably reduce both carbon-fiber waste and manual labor compared to conventional preform production. Furthermore, when it is used in combination with a high-pressure resin transfer molding, it enables manufactured composite parts to be optimized for the required shapes and properties. Furthermore, Toho Tenax Europe also took part in iComposite 4.0, a German technological development promotion project that aims to make cars lighter and their production process more efficient. Using a combination of the above technologies and an intelligent control system with sophisticated processing A carbon fiber-reinforced plastic product manufactured by using Part via Preform. TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 29 Electronics Materials and Performance orrmance Polymer Products Business Group ro oup “ We continue to devote full efforts toward restructuring aimed at transforming our business fields. ” General Manager, Electronics Materials and Performance Polymer Products Business Group Yasumichi Takesue FINANCIAL DATA Results and Forecasts PRODUCTION SITES Net sales Segment income (loss) Polycarbonate resins (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) Japan China 179.4 184.8 22.3 163.7 (Singapore production was shut down in December 2015) 130.0 13.5 Polyester films 3.4 Japan Indonesia (Domestic production is scheduled to be concentrated at the (7.2) Utsunomiya plant in September 2016) ’13 ’14 ’15 ’16 (FY) ’13 ’14 ’15 ’16 (FY) (Forecast) (Forecast) Polycarbonate films and sheets Japan MARKET PRESENCE & BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES Polycarbonate resins Polyester films/Polycarbonate films and sheets Polycarbonate resins possess an impact resistance 200 times Polyester films are used in a wide array of applications due to greater than glass, but are lighter at just half the weight, as well their balanced physical properties in terms of such characteras having outstanding heat resistance, transparency and istics as strength, heat resistance and optical properties, weatherability. Among the so-called engineering plastics, polytogether with outstanding cost performance. carbonate resin applications have been growing and the resin One of Teijin’s strengths is our processing technologies that is now widely used in the markets of the electronics and autoinclude multi-layer film formation technologies, surface promotive fields. Although the supply and demand situation has cessing and secondary processing technologies. Our propriloosened since 2012 as competitors have increased operaetary development polyethylene naphthalate (PEN) is a baltions, the market is still growing at an annual rate of about anced, highly functional film with properties that are better than 3–4%. PET film. It is used in a wide array of applications in the autoTeijin has a strong presence in Asia, mainly in the OA equipmotive and environmental and energy fields in addition to ment and electronic components fields. The reason is that we high-density data backup tapes and electronics materials. have materials technologies that comprise compounds with Polycarbonate sheets and films are also used in a wide array of other resins and are developing specialty polymer and have products based on their outstanding functionality due to faclarge-scale molding technologies and coating technologies. tors including sophisticated optical control technologies. 30 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 OUR STORY STRATEGY & PRESENT ACTION By completing restructuring through integrating the production Ltd. of the Republic of Korea (ROK). Furthermore, we will focus at our production bases, Teijin will shift further through innovaon expanding the plastic glazing business by taking advantage tion in fields where it can leverage its strengths and expand of our large-scale molding technologies and coating new high value-added applications for high-performance technologies. resins and films. In the films field, Teijin plans to close one of the two polyesIn the plastics field, we halted polycarbonate resin producter film domestic production bases, namely the Gifu Factory, tion as planned at our subsidiary in Singapore in December and concentrate production at the Utsunomiya Factory with a 2015 and completed the concentration of our production at target for implementation of September 2016. During fiscal the two production bases in cost competitive China and the 2016 we will continue to narrow down the number of producMatsuyama Factory, which is well equipped for the develoption items and transfer production, while we are steadily rement and production of high-performance products. Through aligning the production framework, including giving considerthese activities, we have worked to enhance capacity utilization ation to using OEM outsourcing overseas. rates and reduce fixed costs. Now we are shifting focus to While moving ahead with specialization of high value-added sales and production of high value-added products to ensure a applications, Teijin is expanding sales of newly developed stable earnings base. products such as fire-retardant film and also accelerating In fiscal year 2016, we will target growth fields such as autofurther development for high-performance films in the fields mobiles, infrastructure, and housing equipment, as well as the of high-performance glass, batteries and sensors. Teijin medical field, in addition to the office equipment and electronic aims to push through the integration of the Teijin Group’s fields in which we have traditionally been strong. Accordingly, businesses while proposing to customers a new way to we will upgrade and expand our product lineup centered on create value that leverages our integral strengths. Moreover, compound products by harnessing materials such as the Teijin for organic electroluminescent display (OLED) expected to Group’s high-performance fibers (aramid fibers, carbon fibers) grow going forward, sales of reverse-dispersion solvent-cast and copolymers, as well as the “super engineering plastic” retardation polycarbonate film for use as an antireflective are polyphenylene sulfide (PPS) resin, which will start mass prosteadily expanding. duction at INITZ Co., Ltd., a joint venture with SK Chemicals TOPICS Developing a Resin for Next-Generation Camera Lenses Teijn’s polycarbonate resin is used in camera lenses, includfor a lens resin. Teijin has already started producing samples ing smartphones. A resin that Teijin recently developed for in a production plant set up at the Matsuyama Factory and next-generation camera lenses will possess the highest levels expects to employ these in new models from fiscal 2016. of refractive index and heat resistance for these same uses. Weight reduction demands are increasing for smartphone cameras, car-mounted cameras, security cameras and the like, so the material for lenses used in these items is shifting away from glass to the lighter resin. In recent years there has been increased need for lenses with a high refractive index because they are indispensable for the miniaturization and thinning of devices, as well as for highly heat-resistant lenses that including countermeasures to deal with the heat generated by the higher performance of the equipment and the constant operation. This resin resolves the issue of balancing with both high refractive index and heat resistance. Teijin’s review of resin polymer molecular design technology enabled us to realize the highest level of performance as a result of a refractive index and heat resistance that are top class TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 31 Healthcare Business Group “ We aim to provide healthcare solutions by maximizing our strengths in both the pharmaceuticals and home healthcare fields. ” General Manager, ager, roup Healthcare Business Group Hiroshi Uno FINANCIAL DATA Results and Forecasts BUSINESS SITES Net sales Segment income Pharmaceuticals (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 147.5 70 sales offices in Japan 138.4 141.7 140.0 28.8 27.0 24.5 24.8 Home Healthcare 65 sales offices in Japan (Also operating in the U.S., ROK and Spain) ’13 ’14 ’15 ’16 (FY) ’13 ’14 ’15 ’16 (FY) (Forecast) (Forecast) MARKET PRESENCE & BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES Teijin focuses on the three diseases of bone and joint disease, respiratory disease, and cardiovascular and metabolic disease, and aims to use its pharmaceuticals and home healthcare services businesses as pillars for global business development. Pharmaceuticals Home Healthcare Operating conditions remained harsh for the recently develIn Japan, Teijin was a pioneer in the home oxygen therapy oped drugs business owing to the revision of reimbursement (HOT) services. Teijin’s strengths are its customer base, the prices for prescription pharmaceuticals and higher sales of largest in the sector, and its extensive domestic structure, generic drugs. However, Teijin’s originally developed hyperwhich can support patients 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. uricemia and gout treatment, its first novel treatment in 40 Teijin provides home health care services to over 400,000 years, has already secured the top share of the domestic people inside and outside of Japan. We have also secured the market and sales are forecast to continue to the extent that No. 1 share in Japan for the rapidly growing market for CPAP they will be a driver of business growth. The drug will not be ventilators for the treatment of sleep apnea syndrome (SAS), limited to domestic sales, but we have business alliances in the same as with our HOT services. 117 countries or regions overseas and sales have already started in more than 50 of these places with plans to expand the sales area going forward. 32 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 OUR STORY STRATEGY & PRESENT ACTION Teijin aims to maximize the strengths of its pharmaceuticals 2016, and we will strive to provide patients with a wider range and home healthcare services businesses to display synergies of choices through lifecycle management of existing pharmaand provide healthcare solutions. ceuticals, including the reduced-sized tablet-form version of In pharmaceuticals, Teijin will continue to focus efforts on the sustained-release expectorant Mucosolvan. increasing worldwide sales of hyperuricemia and gout treatFor the mediumto long-term, we will leverage the Iwakuni ment to maximize profits. In addition to originally developed Factory Technology Integrated Pharmaceutics Center that products, this fiscal year we expanded the licensing in of such started operations in 2015 and promote development of innodrugs as the transdermal anti-inflammatory analgesic patch vative advanced medical materials integrating pharmaceuticals formulation LOQOA Tape, which we had begun jointly marketand materials technologies, such as KTF-374, a sheet-type ing with Taisho Toyama Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. in January sealant for surgical operations. PIPELINE Pharmaceuticals Development Pipeline As of June 2016 Area Code No. Target Disease Phase of Clinical Trials Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Filed Approved/New Launch Bone and joint ITM-058 Osteoporosis disease KTP-001 Lumbar disc hernia Respiratory disease PTR-36 Bronchial asthma TMX-67TLS Tumor lysis syndrome May 2016 TMX-67 (China) Hyperuricemia and gout Nov.2015 Cardiovascular ITM-014N Neuroendocrine tumors and metabolic disease TMG-123 Type 2 diabetes TMX-049 Hyperuricemia and gout STM-279 ADA Deficiency Jan.2016 GGS-ON, -MPA, Optic neuritis, microscopic polyangiitis, chronic Other -CIDP inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy In the home healthcare business, we are aiming for sustained ventilators in real time and utilizing call centers. Teijin is also growth in the CPAP ventilator business where the number of going to implement bold measures in operations in the U.S. sleep apnea syndrome (SAS) patients is increasing by continuWe also aim to develop comprehensive community healthing to introduce new models and strengthening competitivecare services by using ICT. ness by using the mobile phone network to monitor CPAP TOPICS An innovative sheet-type sealant for surgical operations (KTF-374) Hemostasis is one of the crucial aspects of whether a surgical human proteins developed by Kaketsuken. Since the sheetoperation is successful. There are strong demands from the type formulation uses thin and elastic nonwoven fabric, it healthcare front lines for sheet-type sealants that will have a can form a tight seal on uneven lesions. KTF-374 has strong powerful hemostatic effect and require less time for use. hemostatic effectiveness in a short period of time, and does We have been jointly developing KTF-374 with Kaketsuken not have to be removed after the bleeding is stopped because (The Chemo-Sero-Therapeutic Research Institute). KTF-374 is the sheet affixed to the lesion is broken down by the body and an innovative sheet-type sealant for surgical operations createliminated. Teijin aims to focus on creating new healthcare ed from the application of the Teijin Group’s high-performance business solutions in fields that combine its healthcare and fiber processing and expertise and knowledge accumulated materials technologies. through pharmaceutical R&D activities to the recombinant TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 33 Trading and Retail Business Group “ From materials development to proposing products, we provide customers with fine services as a trading company with monozukuri* as its starting point. * ‘Monozukuri’ literally means ‘maker of things,’ but the expression has the added nuance of taking pride in the skills of every phase of top-class manufacturing. ” General Manager, Trading and Retail Business Group Shinji Nikko MARKET PRESENCE & BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES One of our strengths in this business is our integrated global array of products including fiber materials and sewn products production and sales structure, from materials development to in the fashion and apparel field in addition to the industrial field production and sales. We are among the top class of specialthat includes reinforcement materials for automobiles, materiized textiles trading companies in Japan and develop a wide als for tents, and living-related materials. STRATEGY & PRESENT ACTION To further advance our solutions-oriented business model, SOLOTEX and DELTA, and advance with the planning and where we studiously incorporate customer requirements, we development of differentiated products and services against must enhance our ability to propose to customers solutions the backdrop of a global supply chain. that are integrated from upstream to downstream operations, In regard to environmental activities, we formulated THINK and fortify collaboration with our materials business, especially ECO as an activity guideline and aim to build and expand our high-performance fibers. environment-conscious business under the six main themes of Looking ahead, Teijin aims to reinforce its production capa1) recycling; 2) derived from biomaterial; 3) energy conservation; bilities through proactive M&A and alliances in pursuit of glob4) organic; 5) reduced use of hazardous chemicals, and 6) ally optimized local production for local consumption. We also reduced emissions of environment-burdening substances. We aim to increase sales of our innovative materials brands are also focusing on CSR procurement activities. TOPICS Comprehensive Approach to the Healthcare Business In October 2015, as one aspect to undertake comprehensive cleaner RUBYSTA, which was launched in April 2016, and we initiatives in the medical and nursing care fields in cooperation are working to expand our product lineup in the healthcarewith the Healthcare business group, we formed a business related business in the belief that it is a targeted business partnership with a major convenience store chain and engaged domain for future growth. in the joint sales of healthcare products using the Teijin Group’s high-performance materials. As jointly developed products, we are selling a high-performance face mask and facial and body care sheets using ultra-fine nanofibers. We are conducting product planning and development in the nursing care field for the future in order to contribute to the realization of comprehensive community healthcare support. In addition, we are collaborating with KYORIN Medical High performance mask Facial and body care Multi-purpose disinfectant Supply Co., Ltd. on sales of the multi-purpose disinfectant sheets RUBYSTA® 34 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 OUR STORY IT Business Group “ Collaboration between the Healthcare and the Materials businesses will create new services. ” General Manager, ager, roup IT Business Group Norihiro Takehara ara MARKET PRESENCE & BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES With Infocom Corporation at the core, we are engaged in business know-how and development technology of the IT services (B2B) to provide corporate, medical, and public medical industry, and in the Internet business we possess institutions with services such as the planning, development, such strengths as our know-how and track record built up operation, and management of information systems, and in from the early days of the mobile phone business. In addithe Internet business (B2C) to provide the general contion, in the e-book market, Teijin’s MECCHA COMICS has sumer with such services as e-book distribution and grown to become one of Japan’s largest digital comic stores e-commerce. With IT services, we possess strengths in the and further growth is expected. STRATEGY & PRESENT ACTION We have positioned Healthcare, GRANDIT, a total web-based software collaboration with our development and sales partERP software package, and the IT business as priority businers. In the net service business we are working to further nesses, and we are strengthening our competitiveness and popularize MECCHA COMICS and seeking to raise the busiexpanding the content of our operations. ness to a new level through expanding the lineup of titles and In the Healthcare business, we are expanding products and enhancing operability and convenience. services for hospitals and pharmaceutical companies, and we In addition to this, we are fusing the Teijin Group’s healthcare are launching new businesses that use such technologies as and materials businesses in order to pave the way to new IoT. In the GRANDIT business we are advancing greater business domains that capitalize on ICT. TOPICS Promoting Comprehensive Community Healthcare Infocom entered into a business and capital alliance with the current frameworks of a medical and nursing care service Solasto Corporation, which runs a nursing care service and operator and IT service provider and medical care/nursing is one of Japan’s largest medical administration outsourcing care to collaboration in “people,” “objects” and “technology operations, in order to promote business development in the and expertise.” This will promote the IT networks the Teijin Healthcare business. Solasto Corporation has expertise in Group uses to develop its comprehensive community healthregard to the medical care and nursing care frontlines, so allycare and create new solutions in such ways as making the ing with Infocom Corporation, which positions IT solutions for medical care and nursing care frontlines more efficient due to medical institutions as a priority business, will move beyond the use of IT, with the aim of launching new solutions. TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 35 New Business Development Business Unit “ We will move ahead in the development of new business domains by leveraging the Teijin Group’s strengths. ” General Manager, New Business Development Business Unit Kentaro Arao CREATING BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES The New Business Development Business Unit was launched business domains by fusing its three strengths in materials, to link our technologies and expertise to the creation of new healthcare and IT, to innovate its business portfolio and further businesses even more promptly. The unit aims to create new the business development strategies of the Teijin Group. STRATEGY & PRESENT ACTION We are currently narrowing our focus and working on the early devices and regenerative medical composite materials for commercialization of products in the fields of information and pharmaceuticals. In the orthopedics domain, in April 2015, we electronics and of new healthcare. established Teijin Nakashima Medical Co., Ltd. as a joint venIn the information and electronics field, sales of the ture with Nakashima Holdings Co., Ltd. to develop a global LIELSORT lithium-ion battery (LiB) separators commercialized artificial joint business. The new venture plans to put together a since 2012 have grown and are likely to continue expanding. In strategic marketing team and develop products that combine addition, we are working toward full-scale proprietary developthe technologies of the two parent companies. In the cardioment of the highly functional microporous membranes miraim. vascular domain, we continue to pursue our project to develop The NanoGram silicon paste is used in the production of high a regenerative and extensive patch for cardiac care. This projconversion-efficiency solar cells toward developing technology ect was selected for support under a program launched by to enable mass production of next-generation solar cells, and Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry to promote we are strengthening our accompanying marketing activities. collaboration between medical institutions and industry. Furthermore, with our Recopick information management system that employs the two-dimensional communication sheet CELL FORM, we aim to increase its uptake for management systems for such items as books, confidential documents and medical equipment. (Refer to page 39 for R&D Topics) In the new healthcare field, we are advancing with the aim of creating new business fields, such as embedded medical Patch for cardiac repair 36 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 OUR STORY Research and Development Technological innovation is vital to ensuring sustainable corporate growth. We intend to deliver new value grounded in innovative technology to customers and markets, and thereby enrich people’s daily lives and contribute to the advancement of society. Doing so is inseparable from enhancing the quality of life, as set forth in our Corporate Philosophy. With this in mind, we are working to sharpen our ability to develop technologies and rapidly commercialize research achievements. This is being done by formulating a Group-wide R&D strategy, including basic research, in tandem with strengthening coordination between Group companies. Research and Development Stra ategy In line with our revised medium-term management plan, we we will also actively work to create new forms of value that will realize solutions that integrate key capabilities of existing will expand the horizons of our different business models. businesses and are infusing priority resources. This means For example, rather than merely supply materials and other we will combine and integrate the strengths of our three core primary products, we will strive to produce and deliver valuebusinesses, namely materials, healthcare, and IT, to build added components and devices. Efforts will also be focused new, high-earning business models that focus on providon providing an entirely new healthcare field driven by IT sering solutions around competitive materials. Mindful of the vices and reform our portfolio. need to transform our supply chains and business models, Research and Development Bases The Teijin Group’s R&D sites are spread around the world. researchers are carrying out R&D activities based on the At eight R&D sites in Japan and seven sites overseas, Group’s overall R&D strategies, including basic R&D. Teijin Group’s R&D Sites United Kingdom Seven overseas sites China United States DuPont Teijin Films Teijin Product Development Teijin Advanced Composites America UK Limited China Co., Ltd. (Fibers and others) Inc. (Carbon fiber composite materials) Teijin Chemicals Plastic NanoGram Corporation (New businesses) Compounds Shanghai Ltd. (Plastic) Germany Toho Tenax GmbH (Carbon fibers) The Netherlands Teijin Aramid B.V. Shizuoka Eight sites in Japan (Aramid fibers) Toho Tenax Co., Ltd. Tokyo (Carbon fiber) Tokyo Research Center (Healthcare and new businesses) Okayama Teijin Nakashima Medical Co., Ltd. (New healthcare) Chiba Mihara Plastics Technical (Plastic) Center (Plastic) Gifu Teijin DuPont Films Japan Limited Yamaguchi Matsuyama Iwakuni R&D Center Technology Development Center (Healthcare and new businesses) (Advanced fibers and composite materials, plastic) TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 37 Investment in Research and Development Teijin’s policy is to continuously allocate 4–5% of net sales Fiscal 2016 Allocation Plan to R&D. Under this policy, we intend to effectively allocate ■ Core strategic businesses resources to R&D with an emphasis on growth. ■ New Businesses and In fiscal 2015, ¥33.3 billion yen was spent on R&D, up ¥0.9 Corporate R&D billion compared to the previous fiscal year. ■ Others Teijin will allocate around 80% of R&D expenses to core strategic business, namely the Healthcare and Advanced Fibers and Composites segments, as well as to new business domains. Fostering R&D Personnel Teijin is actively involved in holding forums gathering university Dr. Ei-ichi Negishi, awarded the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in professors and researchers in the field of polymer science and 2010, on staff as a Teijin Group Distinguished Fellow and presbiotechnology fields; a technical advisory council comprised of ently a special professor at Purdue University in the USA, offers influential members of academia, research institutes; and, a disconsultation services to researchers in Japan, and also continues patch program that sends young researchers on assignment to to directly provide guidance to researchers on assignment as the leading research institutions both in Japan and overseas. Teijin Limited Director of the Negishi-Brown Institute, leading to the possibility of many new technological developments. Open Innovation Teijin has embraced an open innovation strategy to strengthen and exchanging information and personnel by forming networks partnerships with researchers both within and outside the in an expansive range of fields spanning industry, government Company, in an effort to spur R&D activities aimed at creating and academia. By doing so, we aim to provide sophisticated new businesses. This is not confined to being only within R&D solutions required by customers in a timely manner. conducted in the Teijin Group. We are undertaking joint research Intellectual Property Strategy Teijin is strengthening its execution of intellectual property applications as a percentage of total applications. At the same activities from a strategic perspective, with a view to advance time, we will work to reshape our intellectual property portfolio integrated management of business, technology and intellectual in line with our restructuring initiatives and transformation and property strategies. In response to our shift from quantity to growth strategies. Besides protecting and utilizing patents, tradequality and further globalization of our operations, we will conmarks and other intellectual property, we are enhancing activities tinue to push ahead with initiatives to increase overseas patent to protect knowledge and trade secrets throughout the company. Patent Applications in Japan in Fiscal 2015 Overseas Patent Applications as a Percentage of Total Applications (%) ■ Advanced Fibers and Composites 87 30 ■ Electronics Materials and Performance Polymer Products 76 20 ■ Healthcare 27 ■ New Businesses and Others 98 10 Total 288 0 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 (FY) 38 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 OUR STORY TOPICS Innovation Projects Eyeing the development of new business fields, the Teijin Group set up a project certification system in fiscal 2014 and is forming task forces to drive projects forward, including organizations reporting directly to the CEO. Efforts are under way to secure development support budgets and personnel. Project certification requirements (1) Project must offer prospects for business model transformation and sustainable earnings (2) Project must create business opportunities in overlapping domains that leverage Teijin’s strengths In addition to projects that have already been commercialized, there has been a steady increase in the number of new themes certified, including those at the planning and assessment stage. Certified Project (Example 1) Certified Project (Example 2) MateriIT HealthIT als care Smart Sensing Sleeping Solutions We are developing the Recopick radio frequency identification Teijin recently started sales of 2breathe, a set comprising a (RFID) inventory management system that utilizes Teijin’s matewearable sensor and a smartphone application that offers a rial technologies in the two-dimensional communication sheet new solution to overcoming difficulties of getting to sleep. It is CELL FORM to accurately and efficiently manage storage and a completely new breathing solution whereby the smartphone retrieval, and will be developed into a management system for application emits a guiding sound that the users synchronize medical equipment in addition to books and confidential doctheir breathing with to feel comfortable. Teijin is already enuments. We have also developed PaperBeacon, the world’s gaged in sleep-related marketing activities, including the web first sheet-type beacon that authorizes network connections service Nemulog, where sleep times can be recorded, and through smartphones or tablet devices through a combiFuminners, a sleep information media that provides a variety of nation of TAGCAST, a tag casting beacon technology from information related to sleep. These actions are enhancing the TAGCAST Inc., and CELL FORM. Sales started in June 2015. provision of solutions for those with concerns about sleeping. PaperBeacon Recopick 2breathe We are also involved in further development and assessment projects, including those for super-tough lightweight structural materials (composite materials) and super barley (functional food material). TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 39 CSR Materiality (Key Issues) CSR Materiality for the Teijin Group (Material CSR Issues) Aiming for the sustainable development of our business and society, in fiscal 2015 the Teijin Group identified the following materiality for a variety of issues related to corporate social responsibilities, and is advancing CSR management that is integrated with our business strategies. Governance Issues Environmental Issues Social Issues ■ Corporate governance (➝P46) ■ Environmental value solutions (➝P14) ■ Safety, security and disaster ■ Reduction of environmental impacts mitigation solutions (➝P16) ■ Corporate ethics and compliance (➝P49) (➝P52) ■ Demographic change and increased health consciousness solutions ■ CSR communication ■ Conservation of biodiversity (➝P53) (➝P18) ■ Diversity (➝P54) ■ Information security (➝P55) ■ Product liability/Quality assurance (➝P55) ■ Disaster prevention activities (➝P56) ■ Occupational safety and hygiene (➝P56) CSR Procurement Initiatives Initiatives for CSR Materiality (Guidelines, supplier surveys) We are advancing initiatives for identified material issues by assigning the responsible organization for each issue. (➝P57) In fiscal 2015, we exchanged opinions on CSR materiality mainly with the strategic planning department of each business group, and deepened understanding and diffusion of CSR materiality inside the Teijin Group. In fiscal 2016, based on each business initiative, we will reconfirm the scope of each material issue, and set the corresponding KPI and medium-term target. At the 1 2 3 4 same time, we strive to focus on the particularly important issues of “corporate governance,” “corporate ethics and compliance,” Holding a consultation about CSR procurement and “reduction of environmental impact,” as well as examine the ■ Date: March 22, 2016 initiatives for environmental value solutions. ■ External experts Moreover, CSR procurement is raised as an important issue 1 Katsuya Kawanishi 2 Tomomi Nara through the opinion-exchange with one of our business groups. Manager, CSR Promotion Team Compliance Manager, Fastening Products Group Social and Environmental Affairs/ Thus, we continue to review our CSR materiality, for example YKK Corporation Group Legal, adidas Japan K.K. by confirming the materiality of CSR procurement through 3 Lydia Long 4 Masaki Wada dialogues with external experts. Senior Program Director, Verité CEO, energetic green 40 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 OUR MATERIALITY Process of Identifying Materiality As described below, the Teijin Group grasps and screens a wide range of CSR issues, analyzes their materiality in terms of their degree of impact on stakeholders and importance to the Teijin Group, and selects material issues. The Chief Social Responsibility Officer (CSRO) then holds dialogues with external experts. For the final stage, the Group Management Committee identifies the materiality of the CSR issues of the Teijin Group. The Teijin Group has positioned as fundamental the issues that the Teijin Group is already working on, and STEP 1 also Creating Shared Value (CSV) issues that were identified as business opportunities in line with management strategies. These issues are then screened against social issues indicated in relevant international Grasp and screen documents the ISO 26000 guidance on social responsibility, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines, the United Nations (UN) Global Compact and the UN’s sustainable development goals (SDGs), and evaluation items of major socially responsible investment (SRI) indices, enabling the grasping and screening of CSR issues. STEP 2 The screened CSR issues are analyzed and mapped two-dimensionally, with importance of the CSR issues to the Teijin Group in ascending order along the horizontal axis, and impact on stakeholders in ascending Analyze materiality order along the vertical axis. High Method for determining impact on Degree of impact on stakeholders stakeholders (vertical axis) Stakeholders are categorized into (1) shareholders and investors, (2) employees, (3) Material issues to the Teijin customers, (4) suppliers, and (5) local resiGroup are selected based on dents. The ascending order of degree of the ascending order of impact on stakeholders is determined by importance to the Teijin Group whether a CSR issue is of particular interest and impact on stakeholders to each stakeholder category and then tallying the score. Low Importance to the Teijin Group High Positive impact on business development Review Method for determining degree of Positive impact Strong importance to the Teijin Group Impact on (horizontal axis) Importance to the Teijin Group is deterWeak Low High Importance to the businesses mined from both the degree of impact on Teijin Group High Prospect and business (taking into account both the posilikelihood of the issues occurring tive and negative aspects), and also the Negative Strong prospect and likelihood of the issues impact occurring. Negative impact on business continuity STEP 3 Select material From the issues analyzed at STEP 2, the issues that are in the part surrounded by a red line in the above diagram are selected as material issues. CSR issues STEP 4 Dialogues with Conduct dialogues with external experts about the Teijin Group’s process of identifying material CSR issues and the selected issues. external experts STEP 5 Identify material The Group Management Committee deliberates, confirms, and identifies the Teijin Group’s material CSR issues. CSR issues TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 41 Special Feature Governance Round Table with Independent Outside Directors We invited four independent outside directors active in various fields to discuss Teijin’s corporate governance’s current status and tasks, and what else we should be doing as a true global enterprise. (names listed without honorifics) Yutaka Iimura Nobuo Seki Kenichiro Senoh Fumio Ohtsubo PROFILE PROFILE PROFILE PROFILE In 1969 he joined Ministry of Foreign In 1970 he joined Chiyoda CorporaIn 1976, he joined Fuji Photo Film In 1971 he joined Matsushita Electric Affairs of Japan. In 2002 he was tion. In 2001 he was appointed Co., Ltd., which is now FUJIFILM Works, Ltd., (currently Panasonic appointed ambassador extraordinary President & CEO of the same Corporation. In, 2001, he became a Corporation). In 2006 he was and plenipotentiary to Indonesia, and company, and in 2007 Chairman of professor at the Graduate School of appointed President and Representain 2006 ambassador extraordinary the board of this company. Since Keio University Media and Government. tive Director of Matsushita Electric and plenipotentiary to France. In 2012 he has served as an outside Since 2004 he has served as President Works, Ltd., and in 2012 Chairman of 2009 he was appointed Special director of Teijin. and Chairperson of the Industrythe Board and Representative Director Envoy of the Government of Japan Academic Collaboration Initiative (NPO), of Panasonic Corporation. (Middle East, Europe). Since 2011 and since 2012 as a member of the In 2013 he was appointed special he has served as an outside director Board of Directors of Teijin Limited. advisor to Panasonic Corporation. of Teijin. Since June 2016 he has served as an outside director of Teijin. Theme What is your evaluation of Teijin’s corporate governance systems and their actual operation? Seki: 2015 was called “the first year of corporate govereveryone including auditors are free to express their nance” in Japan. Whereas many Japanese companies had opinions without holding back. then only just started strengthening their governance systems, I believe Teijin had already introduced various Ohtsubo: At the 2016 general shareholders’ meeting, I was advanced ideas into its governance system. As a result, appointed as an outside director at Teijin for the first time. At Teijin has made almost no revisions to the Teijin Group the first Board of Directors meeting I attended, it felt clear to Corporate Governance Guide long in place. me that this was a place for unbridled debate. There was absolutely no sense that the Board of Directors meeting was Iimura: Teijin voluntarily introduced its own systems some moving along according to a pre-determined scenario. twenty years ago including the Advisory Board, Total Risk Management (TRM), and compliance systems. I had an Senoh: Teijin’s mix of outside directors is well balanced. It opportunity to speak with some businesspeople from Europe, includes members with corporate world experience, those so I asked them what they thought about Teijin’s governance. with knowledge of the bureaucratic sphere, and social and It seems that even they view Teijin’s system as very attractive. business researchers like me. I feel strongly that Teijin is proactive about incorporating a variety of feedback from Seki: I feel that Teijin’s Board of Directors is run in a manner such people. where external members are thoroughly pre-briefed and 42 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 OUR MATERIALITY Iimura: Discussions at the Board of Directors meetings are Seki: With business becoming more complex and diverse, quite intense and range from short-term to long-term strategy. expectations for feedback and decisions from the Board of There might be some issues in Teijin, as in many other comDirectors are also rising, accompanied by a need for in-depth panies, but I believe Teijin is committed to bringing them into discussion. That said, I sometimes just simply consider why the light and thoroughly discussing them at its own initiative. things are the way they are and then put my opinions out In that sense, it seems to me that Teijin’s governance system there. I think that there are times when it is important for is both sound overall and is completed with finishing touches. outside directors not to try to read between the lines. In contrast, it seems to me that internal members of the Seki: In addition, I think Teijin’s Advisory Board is very Board of Directors often make their statements in a measured effective in its consultative role to the Board of Directors. manner. Perhaps that is because issues have already been At the biannual training camp style meetings, discussions run talked out prior to the Board of Directors meeting. But even if from the morning through the evening. that is the case, I think that sharing such debate with outside directors would be more effective. Iimura: The Advisory Board also has opportunities for vigorous debate with future management candidates. All of Ohtsubo: Directors are expected to play many roles includthat interaction is conducted in the English language, which I ing providing orientation for operations and advice as well as think drives home to management candidates the need for performing supervisory functions. I think that directors, in those at the top to be internationally-minded. turn, look to increase Teijin’s corporate value by fulfilling those roles. The acts of considering the Company’s mediumto Senoh: It certainly is a good forum for learning for board long-term course and creating strategic frameworks are espemembers and executives. I feel that the smoothness of such cially important for that, and I believe the task requires taking systematic operations has been built up over Teijin’s history to a sweeping, panoramic, macro view. date. On the other hand, there is that expression “god is in the details.” I think that it is also key to keep in mind how to tie the items presented by management, namely, the individual Iimura: Robust governance is definitely critical for a global and concrete plans, the detailed scenarios focused on enterprise like Teijin to sustain growth, but it is not very achieving success and innovativeness, into the mediumto meaningful unless it is ultimately also linked to long-term big picture. performance. Senoh: All companies are taking steps such as observation of compliance and bolstering risk management to shore up governance. However, taking such steps too far prevents companies from taking risks. The inherent mission of a company is supposed to be the constant provision of new value to society as a means to generate profit. An overemphasis on governance and too much restriction is not good. Balance is important. The role of directors is to direct operations, as their title implies. I would also like to discuss mediumto longterm strategy in greater depth including how to develop business, and offer advice on that front. If harsh words are spoken at times during the process, I think that is alright too. I believe that part of our role as an outside director is to encourage people that seem to be hesitating to speak out on the one hand, preventing any abuses by management on the other. TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 43 Theme What points do you think Teijin needs to take note of to continue growing as a global enterprise? Senoh: At Board of Directors meetings, I often ask if the goal growth and improvement in corporate value is something that is “growth” or “transformation.” Growth involves using existing all companies do today. Teijin has recently almost completed business models to expand their volume, polishing and a series of painful structural reform measures and is now improving them to improve earnings. Transformation, on the ready to steer an even stronger course towards development other hand, is when actions trigger a metamorphosis to a while applying both restructuring and transformation systemnew stage, like when a chrysalis becomes a butterfly. atically. Also, Japanese companies overall tend to have simiI think the time has come for Teijin to rethink its existing larly oriented strategies for the same business domains. business models. It is important for the Company to ascerHowever, I suspect that differences and individual characteristain which businesses to really grow and where energy should tics will emerge at each company going forward. Taking be used to metabolize and develop to the next phase. It must another look at the ground where you stand and the outside advance restructuring initiatives to grow, and create new world through the viewpoint of providing the solutions to business to develop. I feel that this is now the period of hardwhich the Company aspires, will shed light on big possibilities ship prior to the delivery of results. With some business in all sorts of places different from hitherto. While publicizing model ingenuity, Teijin should be able to capitalize even that to those outside the Company is necessary, it is even more on its technological strengths. more critical to get the message across to those inside the Company. If younger people within the Company do not Seki: Simultaneously promoting restructuring initiatives and study with dedication and take on challenges, they will not transformation and growth strategies to drive sustainable find the seeds of new businesses that will lead to development and growth. Also, I think there are a few points that will need some work from the perspective of a global enterprise. One is the perspective that Teijin uses to think about technology. So that technology can be used as a creative source for various solutions, things are needed like a framework to ensure that important technologies that have been developed are retained and amassed in a way that allows future use even when unprofitable operations are reorganized or exited. Moreover, Teijin’s core systems require it to efficiently conduct business development closely tied to customers in line with the Company’s expanding global network. As a result, the Company is probably going to require a corresponding review of its core business execution and management systems. 44 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 OUR MATERIALITY Lastly, I would like to bring up legal bolstering. Companies future business tasks. But even with such talented individuals, that boast strong global growth ability have powerful back up it is a very tough task to prevent isolated sectionalism from their legal departments. A swift response to contract occurring among the materials, IT, and healthcare segconclusion and strong negotiating abilities are key to success ments, and to bring elements of those operations in M&As or business alliances. together to create new business. I learned that through my own experience when I was the president of Panasonic Iimura: To develop as a genuine global enterprise, it is also Corporation. vital for an organization to have human resources that adapt I certainly understand the importance of the concept of to new times. That is just as true for the bureaucratic organiintegration across businesses. However, that must not reduce zation where I used to work as it is for corporate organizathe drive everyone has now to grow their respective busitions like Teijin. I think it would be good for Teijin’s employees nesses. How can ties be created between businesses? Can to be more aggressive in venturing outside and taking on concepts be translated to concrete steps and incorpochallenges. They should actively interact with people from rated into daily business decisions? Can systems and both inside and outside Japan to foster their ability to build a mechanisms be created for companywide encourageglobal personnel network and gather global information. In ment of risk-taking in new business domains? This is a addition to the ability to cast a wide net to gather information, difficult task, and I would like to offer any useful advice I may it is also important to be able to negotiate with and perhave based on my experiences. suade people across international borders that naturally have differing perspectives and views. Strong negotiating skills or Senoh: With chemical industry reorganization now underway the lack thereof is a key factor, as are the legal aspects worldwide, it is important that Teijin does not simply compete Mr. Seki previously noted. As for this point, I personally would on business scale, but innovates an advanced business like a bit more opportunity to interact with younger people out model that can develop strengths from the Company’s charon the front lines and offer them advice from a third-party acteristics, including IT. As part of this, Teijin needs to present perspective. a new image as a global enterprise. Going forward, I think as outside directors there are considerable areas where we Ohtsubo: I have visited several domestic business sites and can continue to contribute and provide advice from an exterhad various discussions with the executives and managers nal perspective. overseeing operations at those sites. I was deeply impressed by the great pride everyone has in their operations, business site’s history, and so forth, as well as the acute recognition of Comment from CEO Jun Suzuki Teijin has been working on the reform of its governance system, including the Advisory Board, since the 1990s. The introduction of outside directors also dates back to 2003. Even now, I feel keenly that the results of the various reforms we have implemented to date have contributed to the improvement of our governance system. On the other hand, as it has been pointed out by our current outside directors, there is no meaning if the improvement of our governance system does not lead to Teijin’s sustainable growth in the future. Moreover, our outside directors have been giving us much valuable advice through a variety of discussions. Looking ahead, I would like us to deepen these discussions in the future from various diverse perspectives, and thereby further enhance the effectiveness of our Board of Directors. TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 45 Initiatives for Governance Issues Corporate Governance Basic Philosophy The Teijin Group realizes that its basic mission as a company transparency, ensuring fairness and objectivity, accelerating is to ensure sustainable growth in shareholder value. On this decision-making, and ensuring independence. These reforms basis, to fulfill our responsibilities to other various stakeholdinclude establishing the Advisory Board, appointing indepeners, we have striven to strengthen corporate governance. dent outside directors, and separating business execution Since the late 1990s, we have implemented a series of and monitoring/auditing functions. The Teijin Group Corporate groundbreaking management reforms relating to basic eleGovernance Guide was published to specify guidelines ments of corporate governance with the aim of enhancing regarding corporate governance. ■ Overview of the Corporate Governance System Organization form Company that employs Board of Auditors system Directors No. stipulated in Articles of Incorporation ................................................................................................................................................10 No. of Directors (included number of outside directors) .....................................................10 members (of whom 4 are outside directors) Term .................................................................................................................................................................................................1 Year Chairman of the Board of Directors................................................ Chairman (or, in the absence of a chairman, the senior advisor or an outside director) Statutory Auditors No. stipulated in Articles of Incorporation .................................................................Upper limit on the number of members is not stipulated No. of Statutory Auditors (included number of outside statutory auditors) ............ 5 members (of whom 3 are outside statutory auditors) No. of independent outside individuals ...................................................7 members (of whom 4 are outside directors and 3 are outside statutory auditors) Others Established Advisory Board (advisory body to the Board of Directors with nomination and remuneration committee functions) ■ Initiatives for Strengthening Governance 1999 2003 2012 Separation of management 24 directors From 1999: Reduced to 9 directors 2009: 10 directors and execution From 1999: Introduced the corporate officer system (to accelerate decision-making for execution of business and clarify the system of responsibility) Advisory Board 1999 Advisory Board established (to enhance management transparency) Outside directors 2003 Introduced 3 outside directors 2012: 4 members 1999 3 outside statutory auditors (majority) Corporate philosophy Formulated in 1993 Standards of Conduct and Corporate Corporate Ethics Committee established and Compliance Code of Conduct formulated in 1993 Corporate Standards of Conduct formulated in 1998 Teijin Group Corporate Revised Revised in Formulated in 2003 Governance Guide in 2007 2009 The Teijin Group’s Corporate Governance System (As of April, 2016) Board of Directors for ensuring accountability. It must also clarify its policies on The Board of Directors is comprised of 10 directors of whom compliance and how to manage risks surrounding us, and 4 are outside directors that maintain independence. The supervise those implementations. Board of Directors is chaired by the chairman, to ensure the appropriate separation of responsibility for frontline Advisory Board management and monitoring/supervising. The main goal of The Advisory Board is a consultative body to the Board of the Board of Directors is to maximize shareholder value each Directors. It is comprised of five to seven Japanese and fiscal year and over the medium and long-term. At the same non-Japanese outside experts, the chairman or a senior time, it must pay close attention to the position of advisor, and the CEO of the Teijin Group. Its role is to give stakeholders other than the shareholders. The Board of advice and make proposals regarding corporate strategy and Directors must also deliberate, determine, and approve any results, and function as the Nomination and Compensation management policies, and the overall plans of the entire Teijin Committee in deliberating on matters such as a change of Group, and any other items required by law or other CEO and the successor as well as systems and standards regulations. Furthermore, the Board of Directors is responsible governing remuneration for Teijin Group directors, statutory 46 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 OUR MATERIALITY auditors and corporate officers and evaluates the perforCommittee, as well as managing significant risks for the Teijin mance of the CEO. Group, supporting business continuity. Nomination Consultation Committee / Remuneration Statutory Auditors and the Statutory Auditors’ Committee Consultation Committee The Board of Statutory Auditors comprises five statutory In addition to the Advisory Board, in order to further improve auditors, and a majority of three are outside statutory auditors transparency with respect to executive personnel, we operate who maintain independence to enhance the efficacy of monia Nomination Consultation Committee and a Compensation toring and auditing, and secure transparency of the Board. Consultation Committee. The Board of Statutory Auditors is in charge of monitoring Two outside directors, the Chairman of the Board, and the and auditing the management. All of the statutory auditors CEO participate as members, and outside directors chair the attend the Board of Directors meetings and any other importcommittees. Both committees play a consultative role for the ant internal meetings, where they express their opinions and Board of Directors, and have the function of making proposmake recommendations. The Committee of Teijin Group als and recommendations to the Board of Directors as Statutory Auditors’ is responsible for surveying and auditing regards the nomination, evaluation and remuneration of directhe entire Teijin Group, a role that corresponds to Group mantors and senior management other than the Chairman of the agement and financial consolidation management. The Board and the CEO, and the nomination of statutory auditors. Committee of Teijin Group Statutory Auditors’ activities include deliberating and ensuring the inclusion of the basic TRM Committee policy and plan for auditing and the selection of key auditing The Teijin Group have established the Total Risk Management items of each business. These deliberations are based on the (TRM) Committee beneath the Board of Directors, as a preTeijin Group’s basic auditing policy and plans decided by our ventive measure to handle any risks we may face. The TRM Board of Statutory Auditors. Committee categorizes the risks into management strategy or business operating risks. The Chief Social Responsibility Group Strategy Committee and Group Management Committee Officer (CSRO) is assigned in charge of business operating The Group Strategy Committee and Group Management risk, while the CEO is directly in charge of management stratCommittee are bodies for deliberating on the decision-making egy risk. The CEO chairs the TRM Committee, whose memof the CEO, who is responsible for execution of duties. bers are the CSRO and other chief officers assigned by the Attended by full-time corporate auditors, the committees CEO. The Board of Directors deliberates and determines TRM ensure a rapid and highly transparent decision-making process. basic policies and annual plans that are proposed by the TRM Corporate Governance System Advisory Board Majority of members are external Function of Nomination and Compensation Committee (CEO and the Chairman) Function of Nomination and Compensation Committee (Directors other than CEO and the Chairman) Advanced Fibers and Shareholders’ Board of Directors CEO Composites Business Group Meeting Ten members (of whom four are outside) Electronics Materials and Performance Polymer Products Business Group Group Strategy TRM Committee Committee Healthcare Business Group Board of Statutory Auditors Trading and Retail Business Group Five members (of whom three are outside) Group Management Committee IT Business Group The Committee of Teijin Group Statutory Auditors’ New Business Development Business Unit TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 47 Outside Directors and Outside Statutory Auditors The Teijin Group has prescribed “Requirements for ■ Independent Director and Independent Statutory Auditor Independent Directors” for outside directors, including candiRequirements (Overview) dates. These conditions for appointment are designed to (1) Persons having no significant special interests in the Teijin Group. increase the level of precision and ensure the transparency (2) Persons to whom items (a) through (e) below do not apply are deemed of the management supervisory function of the Board of to be Independent Directors or Independent Statutory Auditors having Directors. In the same way, we have also prescribed no significant special interest in the Teijin Group. “Requirements for Independent Statutory Auditors,” which (a) Internal officers or employees and former internal officers or employcover outside statutory auditors, including candidates. These ees of the Teijin Group are designed to increase the level of precision and ensure the (b) Providers of specialized services to the Teijin Group transparency of the auditing function of the execution of (c) Persons having customer or business partner relations with the duties of the internal directors and the management. Teijin Group With regard to independent director and independent stat(d) Persons having “inter-directorship” relations with the Teijin Group utory auditor requirements, we have formulated and operates (e) Persons having other special interests in the Teijin Group its own regulations concerning independent directors and independent statutory auditors. Reason for Selection and Status of Activities of Outside Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors Attendance at meetings of the Independent Name Reason for selection Board of Directors and Board of director Statutory Auditors in Fiscal 2015 Appointed for his experience as our President and Chairman and for working on our restructuring initiatives. We Attended 12 of 12 Board of Shigeo Ohyagi expect him to apply his management capabilities as Chairman of the Board of Directors to conduct appropriate supervision of Executive Directors, etc. □ Directors meetings Appointed for his experience as President and then formulating the revised medium-term plan. On this basis, we Attended 12 of 12 Board of Jun Suzuki expect him to complete the restructuring initiatives which he inherited from his predecessor, and promote the transformation and growth strategy for the future. □ Directors meetings Appointed for his knowledge and insight accumulated in the technology and engineering field, of which we Attended 12 of 12 Board of Yo Goto expect him to take full advantage and utilize to promote research and technological development as the transformation and growth strategies. □ Directors meetings Directors Appointed for his business experience and insight accumulated in the healthcare business field, of which we Attended 9 of 9 Board of Hiroshi Uno expect him to take full advantage and make efforts to expand the revenue of the healthcare business and work on the integration businesses, which is the theme of our transformation and growth strategies. □ Directors meetings Appointed for his knowledge and insight accumulated in the accounting administration and management Kazuhiro Yamamoto strategies fields, together with his business experience in the IT business field, of which we expect him to take Attended 9 of 9 Board of full advantage. As head of the accounting administration field, we expect him to put efforts into cost □ Directors meetings management and IR activities. Appointed for his knowledge and insight accumulated in the accounting administration and management strategies fields, of which we expect him to take full advantage and make efforts to plan strategies toward the Attended 12 of 12 Board of Yoshihisa Sonobe achievement of the restructuring initiatives and transformation and growth strategies, which are our most □ Directors meetings important issues. Appointed for his considerable knowledge and experience as a diplomat and his global perspective on Attended 11 of 12 Board of Yutaka Iimura business management, of which we expect him to take full advantage and which we plan to utilize in its business operations. □ 㾎 Directors meetings Appointed for his considerable business experience and deep insight developed as the president and chairman Attended 12 of 12 Board of Nobuo Seki of a listed company, which we plan to utilize in its business operations. □ 㾎 Directors meetings (Outside) Appointed for his deep insight developed as a director and committee member for many organizations, mainly in Attended 12 of 12 Board of Kenichiro Senoh the industry and business fields, which we expect him to utilize in offering guidance and proposals regarding its business operations. □ 㾎 Directors meetings Appointed for his experience as the president and chairman of a listed company, of which we expect him to take Fumio Ohtsubo full advantage and apply his abundant business experience and high level of insight to our business operations. □ 㾎 Assumed the post in June 2016 Appointed for his knowledge and insight accumulated in the accounting administration field, together with his Attended 9 of 9 Board of Directors meetings Atsushi Mugitani experience as general manager of the Corporate Auditing Department. Accordingly, we expect him to contribute to the internal control of us and the Teijin Group. □ Attended 8 of 8 Board of Statutory Statutory Auditors meetings Auditors Appointed for his business experience accumulated in the healthcare business field, together with his Noriaki Endo experience as CSRO and Supervisor of the Corporate Audit Department. Accordingly, we expect him to contribute to the internal control of us and the Teijin Group. □ Assumed the post in June 2016 Attended 12 of 12 Board of Appointed for her deep insight and abundant experience developed as a lawyer having served on policy boards Directors meetings Noriko Hayashi and so forth, which we expect her to utilize in maintaining and enhancing compliance. □ 㾎 Attended 12 of 12 Board of Statutory Auditors meetings Appointed for his deep insight and abundant experience developed in national government positions including Attended 11 of 12 Board of within the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, as well as international institutions such as the Organization Directors meetings (Outside) Nobuo Tanaka for Economic Co-operation and Development, which we expect him to utilize in maintaining and enhancing □ 㾎 Attended 10 of 12 Board of corporate governance. Directors meetings Attended 8 of 8 Board of Appointed for his deep insight and abundant experience developed as a certified public accountant, which we Directors meetings Gen Ikegami expect him to utilize in maintaining and enhancing compliance. □ 㾎 Attended 7 of 7 Board of Statutory Auditors meetings 48 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 • Corporate Ethics and Compliance Promotion System (CSRO Review, etc.) • Corporate Ethics and Compliance Workshop for All Employees OUR MATERIALITY • Counseling and Reporting Center Operations Director Compensation Compensation for directors is based on consolidated ROA, Compensation for directors in fiscal 2015 (Millions of yen) with consideration also given to consolidated ROE and operPosition No. of people Compensation amount ating income—specifically to whether targets have been met and improvements seen—as well as to a qualitative assessDirector 12*1 429 ment of each individual director’s execution of duties. The Of which, outside directors 4 56 Advisory Board deliberates systems and standards governing Statutory auditor 7*2 90 remuneration for Teijin Group directors, statutory auditors and Of which, outside statutory auditors 4 31 corporate officers and evaluates the performance of the CEO *1 The number of salaried directors includes two directors who retired in fiscal 2015. and representative directors. *2 The number of salaried statutory auditors includes two statutory auditors who retired in fiscal 2015. Corporate Ethics and Compliance ★…Items for independent assurance The Teijin Group believes that compliance and risk managein corporate ethics. Moreover, a relevant CEO message is ment are necessary conditions for realizing corporate given in eight languages, and campaign posters are displayed governance. announcing the Corporate Ethics Month. By these and other With regard to compliance, individuals employed by the means, Teijin works to raise the awareness of the entire Teijin Group are required not only to comply with relevant laws Group about corporate ethics. and regulations, but also to act with good faith as businessIn the case that a legally or ethically inappropriate issue people and members of society in accordance with ethical occurs within the Teijin Group, Teijin will activate its counseling and social norms. In line with this conviction, we formulated and reporting system, involving input from both inside and the Corporate Code of Conduct and the Corporate Standards outside Teijin and based on the decisions of the Chief Social of Conduct, which set forth consistent guidelines for the entire Responsibility Officer, with the aim of solving the matter within Teijin Group, and work diligently to reinforce awareness of the organization by setting in motion an organizational compliance issues among executives and employees. self-purification mechanism. In fiscal 2015, there were a total Teijin holds its Corporate Ethics Month campaign every of 59 cases (★) of this counseling and reporting system being year in October. At this time, all executives and employees, used both inside Japan and overseas. including contract and temporary employees, receive training Investor Relations The Teijin Group behaves as a company that takes requests same content both in and outside Japan simultaneously. In from shareholders and society into consideration to achieve a addition to disclosing legally stipulated financial information, higher degree of accountability. The Chief Financial Officer is we proactively disclose corporate information from the perin charge of investor relations functions including information spective of good CSR. General meetings of shareholders are disclosure and communication with shareholders and others. “open meetings,” wherein communicating with shareholders In disclosing information, our basic policy is to disclose the is our first priority. Advisory Board (As of July 2016) Teijin established the Advisory Board, which is comprised mainly of outside experts, in 1999 with the objective of raising the degree of management transparency. In addition to leading domestic experts, the Advisory Board’s original members included leading global authorities on governance John A. Krol, former chairman of global chemicals giant DuPont, and Ronald Hampel, previously chairman of ICI. Since its establishment, the board has held two ordinary meetings each year, in the spring and autumn, and has played a substantial role in such ways as making proposals to management, assessing directors, and deliberating presidential succession plans. Advisory Board members Shigeo Ohyagi Chairman, Member of the Board, Teijin Limited Special advisor to Panasonic Corporation Fumio Ohtsubo (Board chairman) Special Assistant to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Alexander H.G. Rinnooy Kan Yutaka Iimura Professor, University of Amsterdam, Netherlands Special Envoy for Cooperation for Southeast Asia Former President/Chairman, Chiyoda Corporation Nobuo Seki Executive Director and CEO, American Chemical Society Thomas Connelly President & Chairperson, The Industry-Academic President and CEO, Representative Director of the Board, Jun Suzuki Kenichiro Senoh Teijin Limited Collaboration Initiative (NPO) TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 49 Overview of Directors Management Team Responsible for Implementation of Strategies and for Supervision (As of July 2016) Board of Directors Chairman, Member of the Board President and CEO, Representative Director of the Board Shigeo Ohyagi Jun Suzuki 1971 Joined Teijin Limited 1983 Joined Teijin Limited 2003 General manager of Medical and Pharmaceutical Business Group 2011 President of Teijin Holdings Netherlands B.V. 2005 Chief Information Officer (CIO) 2012 Chief Marketing Officer, Director of BRICs Business of Teijin Limited 2007 Chief Strategy Officer (CSO) 2013 Director of Teijin Limited, and general manager of Advanced Fibers 2008 President and CEO, representative director of the board of Teijin Limited and Composites Business Group 2014 Chairman, member of the board of Teijin Limited (incumbent) 2014 President and CEO, representative director of the board of Teijin Limited (incumbent) Senior Executive Officer, Senior Executive Officer, Senior Executive Officer, Executive Officer, Representative Director of the Board Member of the Board Member of the Board Member of the Board Yo Goto Hiroshi Uno Kazuhiro Yamamoto Yoshihisa Sonobe 1977 Joined Teijin Limited 1981 Joined Teijin Limited 1975 Joined Teijin Limited 1980 Joined Teijin Limited 2012 General manager of Engineering Center 2011 General manager of Pharmaceutical 2011 General manager of IT Business Group 2010 Deputy Chief Financial Officer (CFO), 2014 General manager of Technology Center Business Unit, Teijin Pharma Limited 2012 General manager of Corporate Strategy general manager of Accounting and (incumbent) 2013 General manager of Healthcare Office Finance Office 2015 Representative director of the board of Business Group of Teijin Limited 2014 Chief financial officer (CFO), general 2011 Chief Financial Officer (CFO), general Teijin Limited (incumbent) (incumbent) manager of Accounting, Finance & manager, Accounting and Finance 2015 Member of the board of Teijin Limited Procurement Division Division (incumbent) 2015 Member of the board of Teijin Limited 2014 Member of the board, general manager (incumbent) of Corporate Strategy Office (incumbent) Independent Outside Director Independent Outside Director Independent Outside Director Independent Outside Director Yutaka Iimura Nobuo Seki Kenichiro Senoh Fumio Ohtsubo 1969 Joined Ministry of Foreign Affairs of 1970 Joined Chiyoda Corporation 1976 Joined Fuji Photo Film Co., Ltd. 1971 Joined Matsushita Electric Works, Ltd. Japan 2001 President & CEO of Chiyoda (now FUJIFILM Corporation) (Now, Panasonic Corporation) 2002 Ambassador of Japan in Indonesia Corporation 2001 Professor, Graduate School of Keio 2006 President, Representative Director of 2006 Ambassador of Japan in France 2007 Chairman of the board of Chiyoda University Media and Government Matsushita Electric Works, Ltd. 2009 Special Envoy of the Government of Corporation 2004 President and Chairperson, The 2012 Chairman of the Board, Representative Japan (Middle East, Europe) 2012 Member of the board of Teijin Limited Industry-Academic Collaboration Director of Panasonic Corporation (incumbent) Initiative (NPO) (incumbent) 2013 Special advisor to Panasonic 2011 Member of the board of Teijin Limited (incumbent) 2012 Member of the board of Teijin Limited Corporation (incumbent) 2016 Member or Board of Teijin Limited 2014 Special Assistant to the Minister for Foreign Affairs (Special Envoy for (incumbent) Cooperation for Southeast Asia) (incumbent) 50 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 OUR MATERIALITY Statutory Auditors Full-Time Statutory Auditor Full-Time Statutory Auditor Atsushi Mugitani Noriaki Endo 1980 Joined Teijin Limited 1983 Joined Teijin Limited 2007 General manager of New Business Development 2009 Manager of Global Pharmaceutical Business Department, Department Teijin Pharma Limited 2013 General manager of Corporate Audit Department 2012 Manager of Compliance Division of Teijin Pharma Limited 2015 Statutory auditor (incumbent) 2015 Chief Social Responsibility Officer of Teijin Limited 2016 Statutory auditor (incumbent) Independent Outside Statutory Auditor Independent Outside Statutory Auditor Independent Outside Statutory Auditor Noriko Hayashi Nobuo Tanaka Gen Ikegami 1968 Registered as a lawyer (Tokyo Bar Association) 1973 Joined Ministry of International Trade and Industry 1980 Joined Showa Accounting (now Ernst & Young 2000 Representative of Hayashi Law Office (incumbent) (now Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry) ShinNihon LLC) 2009 Statutory auditor of Teijin Limited (incumbent) 2002 General manager of International Trade Policy Bureau, 1983 Registered as a Certified Public Accountant Trade and Industry Organization Division, METI 1992 Registered as CPA the state of California, USA 2010 Chairperson of Committee on Labor Law Legislation, Japan Federation of Bar Associations (incumbent) 2007 Director-General of International Energy Agency 2000 Representative partner of Audit Corporation Ota 2012 Statutory auditor of Teijin Limited (incumbent) Showa Century (now Senior Partner, Ernst & Young 2015 President of the Sasakawa Peace Foundation ShinNihon LLC) (incumbent) 2015 Statutory auditor of Teijin Limited (incumbent) 2015 Representative of Gen Ikegami CPA Office (incumbent) Advisory Board Chief Officers Business Group General Managers Shigeo Ohyagi (Board chairman) Corporate Strategy Officer Advanced Fibers and Composites Yoshihisa Sonobe Masaya Endo Yutaka Iimura General Manager, Technology Center Electronics Materials and Performance Nobuo Seki Yo Goto Polymer Products Yasumichi Takesue Kenichiro Senoh Chief Marketing Officer Kentaro Arao Healthcare Hiroshi Uno Fumio Ohtsubo Chief Social Responsibility Officer Trading and Retail Shinji Nikko Alexander H.G. Rinnooy Kan Nobuyuki Takakura IT Norihiro Takehara Thomas Connelly Chief Financial Officer, General Manager— New Business Development Business Unit Accounting, Finance & Procurement Division Jun Suzuki Kentaro Arao Kazuhiro Yamamoto Chief Human Resources Officer Yasuhiro Hayakawa TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 51 • Management System, Audit and Assessment • CO2 Emissions Associated with Use of Company Vehicles Initiatives for • CO2 Emissions in Logistics • CO2 Emissions from Offices Environmental Issues ★…Items for independent assurance Basic Stance The Teijin Group is globally expanding its wide range of businesses, including synthetic fibers, chemicals, and pharmaceuticals and healthcare products to name just a few, and these business activities have an impact on the earth’s environment. Consequently, the Teijin Group will recognize its environmental impacts and work towards finding a variety of solutions. While making the guarantee of safety a basic foundation, the Teijin Group will strive to achieve a society manifesting “low carbon,” “effective materials circulation,” and “existence in harmony with nature,” and to work towards the sustainable development of both society and the Company. Environmental Management Climate Change Initiatives The Teijin Group has been proactively advancing its environGreenhouse Gas Emissions from Manufacturing mental management in order to realize to exist in harmony Operations*2★ with the natural environment and to cherish nature and life, as Targets for FY2012–FY2020 called for by its corporate philosophy. The Teijin Group considers that environmental management refers to reducing Achieve a CO2 emissions reduction ratio of 1% or more per environmental impact over the entire life cycle of products, year (compared to the level in the base year in fiscal 2011) including all processes from material procurement to production, use and disposal. We are working to integrate this with the Teijin Group’s overall management strategy, provide enviFiscal 2015: 1.80 million tons-CO2 (Average annual reduction of 5% compared to fiscal 2011) ronmental value solutions, reduce environmental impacts, The Teijin Group is working to reduce its greenhouse gas conserve biodiversity, and promote environmental education emissions released during manufacturing, both in Japan and and communication. overseas. In fiscal 2015, the Teijin Group’s CO2 emissions released increased 1% compared to fiscal 2014 due to Reducing Environmental Impact from Material increased production volume at overseas bases. However, Procurement to Disposal the reduction ratio was 20% over the four years since fiscal We are working to conserve energy, to use various resources 2012 (average annual reduction of 5%). effectively, to minimize emissions of chemical substances into In logistics, we are curbing CO2 emissions by expanding the environment, to manage and reduce waste materials, to the use of rail transport, as well as by transporting in bulk to prevent soil and underground water pollution, and to constock points, in order to increase load efficiency. *2 Includes CO2, methane and nitrous oxide. CO2 emissions are calculated according to the serve biodiversity. coefficients specified in the Law Concerning the Promotion of Measures to Cope with Global Warming (an emissions factor for electricity of 0.579 kg CO2/kWh is used). For power purchased overseas, where known, the relevant emissions factor is used for the calculations. ■ Environmental Impact during Manufacturing in FY2015 by Input/Output ★ INPUT OUTPUT Intermediate products Energy*1 CO2 28.3×10 1.80 Manufacturing 6 and processing Products million tons GJ Chemical substances 1,956 Chemical substances handled tons 0.654 million tons Raw materials Use Waste with no effective use 2,978 Freshwater consumption 83 million tons tons Seawater consumption Recycling Water discharged 39 million tons Recovery Disposal 111 million tons *1 Energy is calculated according to the coefficients specified in the Act on the Rational Use of Energy. 52 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 • Top 10 Chemical Substance Emissions • SOx, NOx Emissions • COD/BOD Load OUR MATERIALITY • Design for Environment Approved Products • Map of Risks (Biodiversity Loss Due to Business Activities) and Initiatives (Biodiversity Conservation) • Current status of ISO 14001 Certification Reducing Chemical Substance Emissions Emissions of Chemical Substances into the Environment*3★ Design for Environment Targets for FY2012–FY2020 The Teijin Group defines Design for Environment as By fiscal 2020, reduce by 80% or more compared to fiscal “product design that aims to reduce the environmental 1998 level impact of each product through evaluating the overall environmental impact throughout the product life cycle, Fiscal 2015: 1,956 tons (reduced by 78% compared to fiscal 1998 level, down 4% from fiscal 2014) including procurement, production, use and disposal” and we are taking measures for the reduction of environWe are actively committed to reducing emissions into the mental impact. environment, covering the 575 chemical substances. These Products certified as Design for Environment 575 chemical substances include the Class 1 designated chemical substances pursuant to the Law Concerning Reporting, etc., of Release to the Environment of Specific Chemical Substances and Promoting Improvements in their Management (462 substances: revised in April 2010) and the chemical substances designated by the Japan Chemical Industry Association (433 substances). (Some substances are designated in both, hence the numerical discrepancy.) *3 The total amount of chemical substances released into the atmosphere, water and soil, and forming landfill inside business sites. High-grade artificial leather CORDLEY Aramid fiber recycled pulp (use of recycled polyester) Reducing Environmental Burdens by Water Consumed and Water Discharged Conservation of Biodiversity Freshwater Consumption*4★ To visualize the effect that factors such as chemical subFiscal 2015: 83 million tons (increased by 3% compared to fiscal 2014) stances, greenhouse gases and waste resulting from business activities have on biodiversity, the Teijin Group has clarified the risks relating to loss of biodiversity due to business activities and activities to conserve biodiversity. As a result, Water Discharged*4★ this will facilitate employees having a clear awareness of the Fiscal 2015: 111 (reduced by 4% compared to fiscal 2014) million tons impact of business activities on biodiversity, helping to propel conservation activities forward. In addition, both the Teijin Matsuyama factory and the The Teijin Group uses freshwater (industrial water, groundwater, Iwakuni factory utilize the Japanese Business Initiative for and tap water) as well as seawater primarily used for cooling, Biodiversity (JBIB)’s “Plants & Wildlife Monitoring Sheet” for and is working to reduce the impact from the group’s overall employees and outside experts to conduct surveys of plant, use and discharge of water. In fiscal 2015, the production bird and insect life and check the level of contribution to bioamount of overseas bases increased and as a result, freshwadiversity at each business site. ter consumption increased by 3% compared to fiscal 2014. *4 Freshwater consumption amount includes industrial water, groundwater and tap water. Water discharged includes seawater used for cooling. Management and Reduction of Waste Waste with No Effective Use*5★ Target for FY2020 Reduce “waste with no effective use” by 85% or more compared to the fiscal 1998 level by fiscal 2020 Employees conducting the survey of A breeding colony of herons plants and wildlife observed at the Matsuyama factory Fiscal 2015: 2,978 tons (reduced by 94% compared to fiscal 1998 level, down 3% from fiscal 2014) The Teijin Group is committed to reducing the amount of waste it generates, as well as to reducing “waste with no effective use” through promoting a shift to reuse and recycling based on material, chemical or thermal processing. *5 Waste with no effective use refers to waste incinerated without heat recovery and waste for landfill. TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 53 • Results of Re-Employment • Number of Employees with a Disability • Average Overtime Per Month for Employees Initiatives for Social Issues and Ratio of Annual Taken Paid Holidays • Number of Employees Taking Nursing Care Leave • Number of Employees Taking Volunteer Leave • Respect for Human Rights • Employee Satisfaction Survey • Data on Human Resources Diversity Basic Stance To promote our business activities globally, it is essential to make full use of the abilities of diverse human resources who differ in nationality, race, gender, sense of values, ideas and experience. The Teijin Group upholds parts of its corporate philosophy, “Empowering Our People,” and accordingly put in place a work environment in which every Group member can fully harness their individuality and attractiveness to make the most of their abilities. Promotion of Diversity Accelerating Female Career Development To utilize diversity of human resources as a driving force for The Number and Ratio of Newly Recruited Careerenhancing competitiveness, the Teijin Group promotes diveroriented Female University Graduates*2★ sity as part of its management strategy. We have stepped up efforts to promote diversity in recruitment/discovery, faster Target: The ratio of female recruits at 30% or more development and suitable global placement of human resources. Fiscal 2016: 45 people (32%) Since 1999, the Teijin Group has been engaged in efforts to Initiatives to Discover and Develop Global promote and support female employees to work to the best Human Resources of their abilities, including setting the target of improving the ratio of newly recruited career-oriented female university gradRecruitment uates and the number of females in managerial positions. The The five core group companies in Japan*1 have set targets to five core Group companies in Japan have set the goal of achieve a 10% or higher ratio of foreign nationals to the total maintaining the ratio of newly recruited career-oriented female number of newly recruited career-oriented university graduuniversity graduates at 30% or more. In fiscal 2016, we ates, and a 20% or higher ratio of personnel with experience achieved a ratio of 32% with 45 people. In fiscal 2015, the living abroad. number of female managers*2 was 86 (3.7%)(★). Working to achieve these targets, the companies hold *2 At the five core Group companies in Japan information sessions for foreign students in Japan and participate in overseas job fairs (company information session for Re-employment Systems students) in the U.S., China, and elsewhere. *1 The five core Group companies in Japan: Teijin Limited, Toho Tenax Co., Ltd., Teijin Teijin Limited and Teijin Pharma Limited have established the Pharma Limited, Teijin Frontier Co., Ltd., Infocom Corporation Hello-Again system for employees who left the companies for Faster Development of Global Human Resources reasons including marriage, pregnancy, child-rearing, nursing We hold the following programs designed to develop core care, or work transfer of their spouses. Employees in this situation who wish to return to the Teijin Group will be rehired human resources for the future. as full-time employees on the condition that it is not more ■ STRETCH I and II than 10 years since they left and if the need exists. We have (STRETCH: Strategic Executive Team Challenge) also established a system by which employees at all domestic STRETCH I and II are Group-wide core human resources Group companies may continue to work after retirement. development programs used to develop human resources who can work actively on the global stage. The programs Pushing Ahead with Measures to Realize Worktarget employees at all Group companies including overLife Balance seas. STRETCH I is a program for department manager level employees; STRETCH II is a program for section manNumber of Employees Taking Childcare Leave*3★ ager level employees. ■ SLP (SLP: Strategic Leader Development Program) Aimed at employees in mid-level positions, the SLP seeks Fiscal 2015: 248 people (Number of male employees: 80) In fiscal 2015, at the five core group companies in Japan, 248 to develop candidates for core human resources. employees, including 80 males, took childcare leave. In ■ Leadership Program, EaGLES October 2014, we introduced a system under which the EaGLES is a training program that develops leaders capaspouses of employees who are transferred overseas for work, ble of responding to the globalization of human resources may also take leave from work to be with their spouses. They and our businesses. may take leave for three years, and in the first six months of the system up to April 2016, eight employees used the system. *3 At the five core Group companies in Japan 54 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 • Product Liability/Quality Assurance System • Quality Assurance Assessments • Current Status of Quality Assurance Certifications such as ISO 9001 OUR MATERIALITY Information Security Basic Stance The Teijin Group views information assets as important management resources, and is working to enhance corporate value through their active utilization, while also striving to maintain and enhance information security. As regards information security management, especially the protection of customers’ information that includes personal information entrusted to us, we are advancing proactive initiatives in both the compliance and risk management fields from the viewpoint of ensuring the continuity and stability of business. Strengthening Our Management System and audits of information security and personal information Educating Employees protection at all Group companies. Employees attend training lectures about information security, and are required to attend The Teijin Group has put in place measures to prevent leaks of regular e-learning lectures about information security. business secrets, technological information, personal informaHowever, as a result of cyber attacks from outside the tion, and other data, and maintains and improves its informaCompany in July 2015, it was discovered that there were tion security by taking the utmost care in managing its inforinformation leaks at the Company, including internal network mation systems. We decide upon the people responsible for IT IDs and e-mail addresses of employees from one Company in each of the Company’s divisions, together with the person personal computer. Although the occurrence of secondary responsible for personal information protection and the mandamage has not been confirmed, the Teijin Group is working ager in charge of trade secrets, and check every year the to prevent a recurrence by again ensuring that employees management of such information assets as these information know how to diligently handle information and suspicious systems, networks, facilities, personal information and busie-mails, and by strengthening systems and other measures. ness secrets. Also, the Corporate Audit Department conducts Product Liability/Quality Assurance Basic Stance The Teijin Group conducts product liability/quality assurance activities under an original management system that ensures safe products are provided to our customers and enables quick response to needs in the ever-diversifying social environment. Product Liability/Quality Assurance Management Secure Export Control System The Teijin Group has established the Group Secure Export The Teijin Group Product Liability/Quality Assurance Control Regulations governing the corresponding Secure Regulations apply to all Teijin Group products and services, Export Control Regulations and Detailed Implementation and are the base of our product liability/quality assurance Rules, which apply to Group companies that conduct activities. Based on these regulations, the Group CSR exports. Committee and the Group Product Liability/Quality Assurance We implement this via a dual-level control system, placing Subcommittee decide the basic policies and associated tarspecialist back-office staff at the head office and business gets for all product liability/quality assurance issues of the groups to ensure a highly reliable level of secure export Teijin Group, and reflect them in the product liability/quality control. assurance activities conducted by business groups. In fiscal 2015, we held the Group Security Export Control Conference in October, and the laws and regulations that had been revised between 2014 and 2015 were reconImplementation of Product Liability/Quality firmed. Moreover, information regarding transactions in the Assurance Audits Group was shared while clarifying precautions for secure Product liability/quality assurance activities are conducted as export control. the responsibility of each respective product liability/quality assurance unit (six business groups and seven directly managed companies as of April 1, 2016). The CSR and Compliance Department, which is in charge of supervising Group-wide quality, audits these activities and checks that quality assurance mechanisms are operating appropriately. TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 55 • Number of Serious Accidents and Disasters • Number of Disaster-Prevention-Assessed Plants • Measures for Compliance with the Law for Promotion of Building Earthquake-Resistance Reinforcement • Current Status of OHSAS 18001 Certification • Mental Health Care Measures • Continued Diagnosis of Stress Levels at All Workplaces Disaster Prevention Activities Basic Stance To prevent accidents and disasters such as explosions, fires, and leaks/spills of hazardous substances, we adhere strictly to disaster prevention management standards, and we are committed to preventative action/recurrence prevention as well as earthquake/tsunami countermeasures. System to Promote Disaster Prevention Disaster Prevention Initiatives Management Teijin Group Fire Prevention Day The Teijin Group is engaged in disaster prevention manageSince 2008, November 10 has been the Teijin Group Fire ment and has established Group-wide Disaster Prevention Prevention Day. On this day, Group companies conduct their Regulations. For each fiscal year, we design plans based on own fire prevention activities as well as common activities for these Regulations relating to preventative measures such as the whole Teijin Group such as the periodical fire prevention disaster prevention diagnoses, fire prevention and earthquake check. countermeasures as well as Disaster Prevention on Activities promoted by TCAP disaster prevention training, drills and upgrading of fire The Teijin Group has set-up a team consisting of current/former prevention equipment, and employees and external experts who have vast knowledge and conduct the PDCA cycle. experience in disaster prevention. This team, named TCAP (Teijin Group Chemical Accident Preventions Specialist Team), TCAP providing leadership provides technical support for voluntary disaster prevention activifor disaster prevention ties at our chemical plants and in-house power generation plants. activities in Thailand Occupational Safety and Hygiene Basic Stance A company cannot attain sustainable growth without ensuring the occupational safety and health and hygiene of its employees. To provide workplace environments created considering safety and health, we are taking steps to realize zero occupational accidents, redress long working hours and support the mental health of employees. Occupational Safety Occupational Safety Initiatives Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate* ★ 4 Group-wide Sharing of Occupational Accident Information and Responses at the Time of an Accident Target: 0.30 or less (midand long-term), 0.25 or less (2015) Information relating to all occupational accidents resulting in 2015: 0.28 lost time due to injury that occur at Teijin Group companies is distributed via an Intranet, to help prevent the recurrence of The Teijin Group has established three pillars of safety activities: similar accidents. In particular, in case that the circumstances the “5S” initiative (five Japanese words [seiri, seiton, seisou, and the cause of the accident satisfy the requirements for a seiketsu and shitsuke] that correspond to organization, tidi“special audit“ prescribed by the ESH Audit Regulations, a ness, cleaning, hygiene and discipline), the “Hiyari-Hatto” special audit shall be conducted by head office or a business (meaning close call or near miss) initiative and safety patrols. unit, depending on the nature of the occurrence. The audit We make full use of the information gained from these shall first determine the cause and circumstances at the site, activities, and work to improve each individual’s degree of and then confirm progress in re-occurrence prevention measensitivity to danger and to improve communication in the sures and whether improvements have been made workplace, with the aim of achieving zero occupational acciadequately. dents in the Teijin Group. The lost time injury frequency rate for 2015 (January– December) in relation to our target of 0.25 or less, was 0.28 (Japan: 0.33; overseas: 0.20). *4 Lost time injury frequency rate: The number of lost time injuries per one million hours worked (calculated based on calendar years). 56 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 • CSR Promotion Activities • Business Continuity Plan (BCP) • Social Contribution Activities OUR MATERIALITY • Investment, Expenses and Economic Benefits Related to Environmental Preservation, Safety and Disaster Prevention and Health • Distribution of Added Value to Stakeholders • ISO 26000, GRI (Ver.4) Table Message from the CSRO Aiming to Achieve Sustainable Growth and to Increase Corporate Value over the Mediumto Long-Term The year 2015 was a year in which significant milestones for CSR were established. In September, the United Nations adopted its sustainable development goals (SDGs), and in December the Paris Agreement was agreed at the 21st session of the Conference of the Parties (COP 21) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Moreover, in June, the Corporate Governance Code of the Tokyo Stock Exchange was enforced in Japan. In such a year, the Teijin Group identified its material CSR issues related to business (CSR materiality), reorganized the specialist subcommittees of the Group CSR Committee to enable them to work with efficiency and expertise, identified the subcommittee responsible for each materiality, and thus was able to create a solid foundation for promoting systematic initiatives. Still, we have only just begun setting mediumto long-term targets for these issues and strengthening our specific activities. Also, we have had some cases where we regrettably could not meet society’s Nobuyuki Takakura demands properly. Chief Social Responsibility Companies that do not deal with CSR issues appropriately are placing their continued existence at Officer risk. In contrast, by approaching CSR issues positively and proactively, companies will find opportunities for sustainable growth and expansion. Working toward our vision of being “an enterprise that is essential to tomorrow’s society,” we will continue to address the important issues surrounding sustainability, including social and environmental issues that have been identified as CSR materiality. As our business groups and dedicated staff work together to advance specific initiatives, I am certain we can contribute to the sustainable development of business and society. ■ CSR Management System (as of April 1, 2016) Chief Social CSR and Responsibility Officer Compliance Department TRM Group ESH Group Compliance Group CSR Group Responsible CSR Materiality of the Subcommittee Group CSR Committee Compliance and Risk Management ■Corporate ethics and compliance Subcommittee ■Reduction of environmental impacts Committee Members ESH* Subcommittee ■Disaster prevention activities General Manager, Technology Center ■Occupational safety and hygiene Chief Marketing Officer Product Liability/ General Manager, Human Resources Quality Assurance Subcommittee ■Product liability/Quality assurance and Administration Division ■Environmental value solutions CFO, General Manager, Accounting, ■Safety, security and disaster mitigation solutions Finance and Procurement Division CSR Promotion Subcommittee ■Demographic change and increased health General Manager, consciousness solutions Corporate Strategy Division ■Conservation of biodiversity ■CSR communication Business Group General Managers General Manager, New Business Information Security Subcommittee ■Information security Development Business Unit Business Unit General Managers Security Export Control Conference ■Corporate ethics and compliance (security export control) * ESH: Environment, Safety and Health ■ Corporate governance is advanced under the jurisdiction of the Board of Directors. ■ Diversity is advanced by the Group Diversity Development Committee, which is under the Human Resources and Administration Division. TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 57 Financial Highlights and Consolidated 11-Year Summary Operating Margin ■ Net Sales Operating Income ■ (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (%) 1,200 120 12 1,000 100 10 800 80 8 600 60 6 400 40 4 200 20 2 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 0 0 (Years ended March 31) Years ended/as of March 31 2006 2007 2008 2009 Operating Results Net sales ¥938,082 ¥1,009,586 ¥1,036,624 ¥ 943,410 Operating income 76,757 75,061 65,162 17,966 Profit (loss) attributable to owners of parent 24,853 34,125 12,613 (42,963) Financial Position Total assets ¥943,991 ¥ 999,917 ¥1,015,991 ¥ 874,157 Interest-bearing debt 298,298 295,480 325,245 361,342 Shareholders’ equity 338,609 366,753 391,010 305,577 Cash Flows Cash flows from operating activities ¥ 75,491 ¥ 96,456 ¥ 53,740 ¥ 40,392 Cash flows from investing activities (74,062) (87,065) (79,218) (116,304) Free cash flow 1,429 9,391 (25,478) (75,912) Cash flows from financing activities 1,511 (19,074) 16,080 79,178 Per Share Data Profit (loss) attributable to owners of parent ¥ 26.6 ¥ 36.8 ¥ 13.2 ¥ (43.7) Shareholders’ equity 364.8 395.2 397.3 310.5 Cash dividends 7.5 10.0 8.0 5.0 Other Data Capital expenditure ¥ 66,777 ¥ 75,698 ¥ 84,641 ¥ 75,806 Depreciation and amortization 50,389 54,009 62,668 67,364 R&D expenses 31,196 35,097 36,282 37,630 Number of employees 18,819 19,053 19,125 19,453 Notes: 1. The U.S. dollar amounts represent translations of Japanese yen, for convenience only, at the rate of ¥112.68 to U.S.$1.00, the prevailing exchange rate at March 31, 2016. 58 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 DATA SECTION Debt-to-Equity ROA ■ Profit (Loss) Attributable to Owners of Parent ROE ━ ■ Total Assets ■ Interest-Bearing Debt Ratio ━ ━ (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) (Times) (%) 45 15 1,200 3.0 12 30 10 1,000 2.5 10 15 5 800 2.0 8 0 0 600 1.5 6 –15 –5 400 1.0 4 –30 –10 200 0.5 2 –45 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 –15 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 0 0 (Years ended March 31) (Years ended March 31) Percentage Thousands of Millions of yen change U.S. dollars 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2016 ¥765,840 ¥815,656 ¥854,371 ¥745,713 ¥784,425 ¥786,171 ¥790,748 +0.6% $7,017,643 13,436 48,560 34,044 12,358 18,078 39,086 67,130 +71.7% 595,758 (35,684) 25,182 11,979 (29,131) 8,356 (8,086) 31,090 — 275,914 ¥823,071 ¥761,535 ¥762,118 ¥762,399 ¥768,411 ¥823,695 ¥823,429 +0.0% $7,307,677 320,285 267,400 261,034 270,765 281,524 308,246 303,298 −1.6% 2,691,676 271,306 284,236 292,030 271,252 281,680 287,074 300,113 +4.5% 2,663,410 ¥ 80,433 ¥ 77,132 ¥ 53,669 ¥ 64,305 ¥ 38,587 ¥ 76,030 ¥ 80,641 $ 715,664 (33,437) (27,745) (35,165) (37,868) (47,279) (49,624) (40,323) (357,854) 46,996 49,387 18,504 26,437 (8,692) 26,406 40,318 1,073,518 (42,949) (42,063) (14,123) (12,606) (7,902) 10,394 (8,317) (73,811) Yen U.S. dollars ¥ (36.3) ¥ 25.6 ¥ 12.2 ¥ (29.6) ¥ 8.5 ¥ (8.2) ¥ 31.6 $ 0.28 276.2 288.8 296.7 276.0 286.6 292.1 305.2 2.71 2.0 5.0 6.0 4.0 4.0 4.0 7.0 0.06 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars ¥ 36,314 ¥ 29,249 ¥ 32,294 ¥ 36,261 ¥ 30,182 ¥ 28,098 ¥ 38,341 $ 340,264 61,879 56,410 52,304 46,877 45,664 43,030 38,894 345,172 33,356 31,483 31,845 33,184 32,234 32,366 33,285 295,394 18,778 17,542 16,819 16,637 15,756 15,780 15,756 Notes: 2. Throughout this integrated report, return on equity (ROE) is calculated as net income divided by average shareholders’ equity, and return on assets (ROA) is calculated as operating income divided by average total assets. 3. The debt-to-equity ratio is calculated as interest-bearing debt at year-end divided by shareholders’ equity at year-end. TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 59 Management’s Discussion and Analysis Summary Billions of yen Years ended March 31 2015 2016 Change Operating Environment Profit (loss) attributable to Global economic conditions in fiscal 2015, ended March 31, 2016, owners of parent ¥(8.1) ¥31.1 — saw deeper stagnation amid a continuing deceleration of growth in China and other emerging countries and resource-rich nations, Profit attributable to owners of parent of ¥31.1 billion was recorded, a although they were underpinned on the whole by firm business ¥39.2 billion improvement from a loss recorded in the previous fiscal conditions in advanced countries, primarily the U.S. The Japanese year, owing in part to a decrease in extraordinary losses and economy followed a modest growth track, against a backdrop of improved operating income. slowing growth in exports, personal consumption and other factors. Billions of yen As of March 31 2015 2016 Change Strategies in Action Total Assets ¥823.7 ¥823.4 – 0.03% In the period under review, we continued to put our principal emphasis on implementing measures aimed at achieving a self-driven recovTotal assets as of March 31, 2016 amounted to ¥823.4 billion, essenery in profitability and at improving our ability to generate cash without tially level year on year. A decline in fixed assets due to impairment relying on a favorable turn in the general operating environment. accounting and valuation differences on investment securities was Accordingly, we made steady progress with restructuring initiatives offset by an increase in cash and time deposits due to a positive net centered on the Electronics Materials and Performance Polymer cash balance. Products segment. Billions of yen Meanwhile, we intensively allocated resources to core strategic Years ended March 31 2015 2016 businesses and new businesses and proactively invested in growth Free Cash Flow ¥26.4 ¥40.3 and advancement projects designed to create new value for customers. Free cash flow was a positive ¥40.3 billion, with net cash and cash equivalents provided by operating activities exceeding net cash and Operating Results cash equivalents used in investing activities, such as purchase of Billions of yen property, plant and equipment. Years ended March 31 2015 2016 Change Net Sales ¥786.2 ¥790.7 0.6% Years ended March 31 2015 2016 Key Indicators Consolidated net sales were ¥790.7 billion, an increase of 0.6% year ROA 4.9% 8.2% on year, owing primarily to increases in the Trading and Retail and Healthcare segments, despite the impact of decreased sales from the ROE –2.8% 10.6% halt of production at our resin plant in Singapore. D/E Ratio 1.07 times 1.01 times Billions of yen Return on assets (ROA) improved due to the higher operating income, Years ended March 31 2015 2016 Change while ROE turned positive, rising to over 10% due to the return to a Operating Income ¥39.1 ¥67.1 71.7% profit attributable to owners of parent. The D/E ratio also improved slightly due to an increase in total shareholders’ equity. Operating income rose 71.7% to ¥67.1 billion, underpinned by substantial increases in our materials businesses, which reflected falling prices for raw materials and fuel and the positive impact of restructuring initiatives. We also saw steady gains in our Healthcare segment thanks to robust results for core products and services. 60 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 DATA SECTION Tasks Ahead Results of Operations Based on our revised medium-term management plan, announced in November 2014, in fiscal 2016, we will continue to implement a Net Sales variety of measures centered on restructuring initiatives and transforUnder our restructuring initiatives, we halted production at our resin mation and growth strategies, with the aim of achieving sustainable plant in Singapore in December 2015 as part of our efforts to optigrowth. mize production capacity. As a result, the Electronics Materials and In fiscal 2016, the plan’s final fiscal year, we will steadily execute Performance Polymer Products segment reported a steep decline in restructuring initiatives, in conjunction with maximizing profit for the sales. However, we recorded steady gains in sales of core products period by expanding sales of core products and services. In parallel, and services in the Trading and Retail and Healthcare segments along we will take steps to spur our future transformation and growth by with a steady contribution to sales from the IT business and engineerinvesting actively in our transformation and growth strategies. ing business. Consequently, net sales climbed ¥4.6 billion, or 0.6% In fiscal 2016, a major priority is to formulate the next medium-term year on year, to ¥790.7 billion. management plan to drive further growth over the medium and long By region, sales to China and Asia declined 3.4% due to the terms. In the process of formulating this plan, we will articulate our impact of the restructuring initiatives in the resin business, while sales growth scenarios and set a clearer course for our transformation to a to Europe and other expanded steadily by 5.4%. Domestic sales also solutions-oriented business model. grew 1.7%, mainly in the trading and retail and IT businesses. Analysis of Net Sales (Years ended March 31) 2015 Net Sales 786.2 Advanced Fibers and Composites –2.5 Electronics Materials and Performance Polymer Products –21.1 Healthcare +5.8 Trading and Retail +11.6 Others +10.8 2016 Net Sales 790.7 0 700 750 800 850 (Billions of yen) Costs and Expenses Cost of sales decreased 5.8%, or ¥33.2 billion, to ¥536.3 billion, mainly due to falling costs for raw materials and fuel following the drop in oil prices and the reduction effect on fixed expenses due to restructuring initiatives. As a percentage of net sales, cost of sales declined 4.6 percentage points to 67.8%. Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses increased 6.1%, or ¥8.8 billion, to ¥154.0 billion, partly due to an increase in upfront cost outlays. SG&A expenses represented 19.5% of net sales. R&D expenses increased 2.8%, or ¥0.9 billion, to ¥33.3 billion. We continued to intensively allocate resources to healthcare and other core strategic businesses, as well as new businesses. TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 61 Cost of Sales SG&A Expenses Analysis of Operating Income as a Percentage of Net Sales as a Percentage of Net Sales (Years ended March 31) (%) (%) 100 40 2015 Operating Income 39.1 Restructuring initiatives +5.5 and cost reductions 75 30 Sales volume increase +1.5 50 20 Spread +24.0 Advance development costs, others –3.0 25 10 2016 Operating Income 67.1 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 0 0 20 40 60 80 (Billions of yen) (Years ended March 31) Operating Income Other Income (Expenses) Operating income climbed sharply by 71.7%, or ¥28.0 billion, to Other expenses, a net figure, amounted to ¥21.5 billion, a decrease ¥67.1 billion, underpinned by solid results in our materials business. of ¥24.5 billion from ¥46.0 billion in fiscal 2014. Principal factors In the Advanced Fibers and Composites segment, mainstay aramid contributing to this result included recording of equity in loss on fibers and carbon fibers and composites each recorded higher affiliates due to posting loss on valuation of investment in affiliates; income due to improved sales composition and a decline in raw however, an extraordinary loss associated with restructuring initiatives materials and fuel costs. In the Electronics Materials and Performance declined significantly from the previous fiscal year, contributing to Polymer Products segment, we recorded a significant year-on-year improved profits. increase in profit, mainly in the resin business due to a decline in the cost of main raw materials and the effects of restructuring initiatives. Profit (Loss) Attributable to Owners of Parent In the Healthcare segment, profits increased due to steady increases After deducting income taxes and loss attributable to non-controlling in sales of hyperuricemia and gout treatment febuxostat in the pharinterests, we recorded a profit attributable to owners of parent of maceutical business, and sales of continuous positive airway pres¥31.1 billion, improving by ¥39.2 billion from a loss of ¥8.1 billion in sure (CPAP) ventilators in the home healthcare business. In the the previous fiscal year. As a result, ROE rebounded significantly from Trading and Retail segment, profits rose, mainly reflecting expansion −2.8% to 10.6%. in sales of high-performance materials for sports apparel and a turnaround in the performance of a Chinese subsidiary. As a consequence of these and other factors, the operating margin on sales improved 3.5 percentage points to 8.5%. Looking at the main factors in the operating income result, the decline in raw materials and fuel prices and improvements in the sales mix produced the largest spread differential effect of around ¥24.0 billion, followed by a contribution to profit improvement of around ¥5.5 billion from raising the bottom line through restructuring initiatives and cost reductions. Differences in sales volume had a positive impact of around ¥1.5 billion overall, as the negative effect of restructuring initiatives in the resin business was covered by an increase in sales in the healthcare and IT businesses. However, advance costs related to transformation and growth strategies produced a negative impact of around ¥3.0 billion. 62 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 DATA SECTION materials, as well as contributions from lower prices for raw materials Business Segment Results and other cost reductions. In Japan, amid lackluster growth in sales for automobile applications, income was bolstered by higher sales for Advanced Fibers and Composites use in reverse osmosis membrane support layers for water treatment applications, and so forth, as well as by efforts to cut costs. MoreSales in the Advanced Fibers and Composites segment totaled over, we are striving to further strengthen our competitiveness by ¥133.0 billion, a decrease of 1.9%, while operating income was ¥18.5 billion, up 28.9%. realigning our domestic production configuration and transferring Operating Margin production of certain items to subsidiaries in Thailand. Sales Operating Income (Loss) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (%) Carbon Fibers and Composites 180 30 30 ■ Favorable sales for use in aircraft and general industrial applications, while progress was made on new product 120 20 20 development and downstream business expansion. Sales of TENAX carbon fibers for use in aircraft were favorable. In 60 10 10 other areas, sales for use in general industrial applications were robust. However, the supply-demand balance softened for sports and 0 0 0 leisure equipment applications in Asia from midway through 2015. Sales of Oxidized PAN fiber Pyromex were strong, reflecting brisk 2013 2014 2015 2016 –10 –10 demand for use in aircraft brake pads. Declining prices for raw mate(Years ended March 31) rial and fuel prices, which have persisted since autumn 2014, helped High-Performance Fibers boost profitability. Against this backdrop, we have been accelerating new product ■ Sales remained firm for automotive applications. development, including TENAX XMS32, a new grade of carbon fiber In aramid fibers, sales of Twaron para-aramid fibers expanded firmly with high-tenacity and high-tensile modulus properties for aircraft and for automotive applications, including for tires in Europe. Sales for use automotive applications, and a woven fabric prepreg with highin ballistic protection products showed a recovery. In contrast, sales tenacity, high-rigidity and fire-retardant properties that uses thermofor use in uniforms and in optical fiber applications were weak. Sales plastic. In the field of railcars, we jointly developed a carbon fiber were favorable for Technora para-aramid fibers for automotive applireinforced plastic (CFRP) leaf spring for the efWING new-generation cations in Japan and infrastructure-related applications overseas, railcar truck developed by Kawasaki Heavy Industries, Ltd. and leading to strong improvement in earnings. Technora is being used in began supplying this product to this company. In addition, we are an expanding range of applications given the positive assessment of working to expand operations in profitable, high-growth markets by its outstanding fatigue resistance, chemical barrier and other properdeveloping an integrated production system for CFRP in Europe ties, and in March 2016, we decided to boost production capacity of using new high performance molding machinery. Technora by around 10%, mainly by increasing fiber production In addition, in the area of structural components for mass-produced facilities. vehicles made with our innovative thermoplastic CFRP Sereebo, we Sales of Teijinconex meta-aramid fibers were robust for use in are continuing to implement activities with General Motors Company automotive applications such as turbocharger hoses, as well as of the U.S. and other automobile manufacturers to achieve future protective clothing and industrial applications, despite persistently commercialization. Furthermore, we are carrying out procedures to adverse conditions in the market for filter applications. acquire land in the U.S., with a view to constructing a new plant. In this environment, we commenced production and sales of Teijinconex neo, a new meta-aramid fiber offering superior heat resistance and dyeability, at a new production facility in Thailand in August 2015. We have continued to focus on expanding this particular business in promising Asian markets and emerging markets. In polyester fibers, sales growth was sluggish for automotive applications at our subsidiary in Thailand, but earnings held firm thanks to solid sales of personal hygiene products, wadding, and other TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 63 such as the ability to impart flame resistance and colorability to polyElectronics Materials and Performance Polymer Products ester fabrics and other materials, alongside our existing lineups, which are steadily generating earnings. Sales in the Electronics Materials and Performance Polymer In processed plastics, we posted solid sales of polycarbonate Products segment totaled ¥163.7 billion, a decrease of 11.4%, while operating income was ¥22.3 billion, an increase of 555.4%. retardation film for liquid crystal displays (LCDs) and 3D glasses, as Operating Margin well as reverse-dispersion solvent-cast retardation film for use as an Sales Operating Income (Loss) organic electroluminescent display (OLED) antireflective film in smart(Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (%) phones and tablets. In addition, sales of ELECLEAR transparent 240 24 15 electroconductive polycarbonate film for use in touch screens for vehicle navigation systems, printers and game hardware, among 160 16 10 others, were favorable, although sales for use in smartphones and tablets for the Chinese market were sluggish. 80 8 5 Films 0 0 0 ■ Strengthened cost competitiveness by integrating our domestic production facilities through restructuring 2013 2014 2015 2016 –8 –5 initiatives. (Years ended March 31) We faced an uphill struggle as the emergence of manufacturers from Resin and Plastics Processing China intensified competition in the area of reflective films for use in liquid crystal display (LCD) televisions, and demand for use in special ■ Focus on shifting to high value-added fields with production packaging for beverage cans and other items remained weak. Howhalted at our subsidiary in Singapore. ever, we posted firm sales of PUREX release films for manufacturing Profits from our mainstay Panlite and Multilon polycarbonate resin processes mainly for use in multilayer ceramic capacitors for smartproducts improved markedly, bolstered by lower prices for key raw phones and other devices. In addition, we saw lower raw material materials and the positive impact of restructuring initiatives. In and fuel costs as a result of the fall in crude oil prices, and benefited December 2015, we halted production at our polycarbonate resin from cost reductions as a result of restructuring initiatives. Conseproduction subsidiary in Singapore, optimizing production capacity quently, profits improved from the previous year. Currently, we are and reducing fixed costs. As a result, we have established a producworking to consolidate production items and narrow our focus on tion configuration that is able to generate steady profits. Going forhigh value-added applications as part of preparations for the integraward, we will upgrade and expand our product lineup centered on tion of our domestic production facilities at the Utsunomiya Factory, compound products by harnessing materials such as the Teijin scheduled for fiscal 2016. At the same time, we are striving to expand Group’s high-performance fibers and copolymers, as well as the sales of fire-retardant films and other newly developed products. “super engineering plastic” polyphenylene sulfide (PPS) resin, which Going forward, we will step up our focus on developing new types of will enter mass production at INITZ Co., Ltd., a joint venture with SK high-performance films by advancing marketing and development in Chemicals Ltd. of the Republic of Korea (ROK). These efforts will tune with market needs. target growth fields such as automobiles, infrastructure, and housing Overseas, sluggish market conditions intensified competition in equipment, as well as the medical field, in addition to the office equipChina, particularly as regards both sales volume and prices. However, ment and electronic fields in which we have strengths. In parallel, in demand for films for packaging applications and for use in solar cells, order to expand our earnings power, we will strengthen development among others, was comparatively firm in the Americas and Europe. and marketing activities that will enable us to provide solutions Considering the severity of the operating environment surrounding through high value-added materials, components, and services. this business, we applied impairment accounting to fixed assets in In polyethylene naphthalate (PEN) high-performance resin, sales connection with our domestic operations for the nine months ended remained firm, and we are stepping up our focus on developing more December 31, 2015. applications that take advantage of features such as its chemical and gas barrier resistance properties. In flame retardants, we are bolstering activities to obtain product specification approval primarily through the development of new phosphorous products featuring strengths 64 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 DATA SECTION turn macrocyclic and constrained peptides into pharmaceuticals for Healthcare various drug targets*3. In other initiatives, in November 2015 we filed an application with the China Food and Drug Administration for The Healthcare segment yielded sales of ¥147.5 billion, an approval of TMX-67 (generic name: febuxostat), a treatment for increase of 4.1%, and operating income of ¥28.8 billion, up 16.0%. Operating Margin hyperuricemia and gout, which is being jointly developed with Astellas Sales Operating Income (Loss) Pharma China, Inc. in China. In addition, in January 2016 we began (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (%) clinical development of EZN-2279 (domestic development code: 200 60 40 STM-279), a therapeutic agent for adenosine deaminase (ADA) deficiency discovered by Sigma Tau Rare Disease Ltd. of the U.K. In 150 45 30 March 2016, we obtained designation of EZN-2279 as an orphan drug by Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. 100 30 20 Since 2015, the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare has ordered manufacturer and distributor Kaketsuken (The Chemo-Sero50 15 10 Therapeutic Research Institute) to suspend shipments of Kenketsu Venilon-1 (an intravenous-use human immunoglobulin therapy). In 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 0 0 March 2016, Kaketsuken obtained approval for partial amendment (Years ended March 31) following progress made on resolving inconsistencies between the approval form and the actual manufacturing methods. In response, Pharmaceuticals we will make every effort to fulfill our responsibility to ensure a stable ■ Sales of our novel treatment for hyperuricemia and gout supply of pharmaceuticals to the medical front line. expanded favorably. *1 Somatuline® is a registered trademark of Ipsen Pharma, Paris, France. In our domestic pharmaceuticals business, sales of hyperuricemia *2 Bonalon® is the registered trademark of Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., and gout treatment Feburic (febuxostat) and Somatuline®*1, a treatWhitehouse Station, NJ, the U.S. ment for acromegaly, expanded steadily. Osteoporosis treatment *3 A drug target is a molecule closely related to the cause of a disease. Controlling this molecule paves the way for successful treatment of the Bonalon * saw firm sales of new formulations including an oral jelly ® 2 disease. and an intravenous drip. A new addition to our portfolio is Mucosolvan L Tablet 45 mg, a novel reduced-sized tablet-form verHome Healthcare sion of our well-known expectorant Mucosolvan launched in July ■ Rental volumes either remained high or increased for all 2015. These additional formulations provide patients with a wider offerings. range of choices. In January 2016, Teijin Pharma Limited began jointly In the home healthcare business, we currently provide services to marketing the transdermal anti-inflammatory analgesic patch formulamore than 400,000 individuals in Japan and overseas. In Japan, tion LOQOA Tape with Taisho Toyama Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. rental volume for mainstay therapeutic oxygen concentrators for Sales of febuxostat also continued to expand encouragingly overhome oxygen therapy (HOT) remained firm, thanks to the release of seas. We have secured exclusive distributorship agreements for new models Hi-Sanso 5S and Hi-Sanso Portable (alpha). Rental febuxostat covering 117 countries and territories. The drug is curvolume for continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) ventilators for rently sold in 57 of these countries and territories (including Japan), the treatment of sleep apnea syndrome (SAS) continued to increase and we are in the process of obtaining regulatory approval to make it favorably, due to the launch of NemLink, a monitoring system for available in the others. CPAP ventilators that uses mobile phone networks, and an influx of In R&D, we commenced Stage I clinical trials in Japan for TMXSAS patients owing to the use of the SAS2100 sleep disorder diag049, a new treatment for hyperuricemia and gout, in April 2015. In nostic system. July 2015, we filed an application with the Ministry of Health, Labour Meanwhile, as part of our transformation and growth strategies, in and Welfare for the approval of TMX-67TLS, which is under developSeptember 2015 we commenced sales of VitalLink, a patient informent as a project to expand indications for Feburic tablets to hypermation sharing system. We have been working to expand this busiuricemia associated with cancer chemotherapy. In September 2015, ness by conducting marketing activities focused on facilities that play subsidiary Teijin Pharma Limited signed a joint research and developa crucial role in comprehensive community healthcare and on other ment agreement with PeptiDream Inc. We aim to discover innovative sites. Moreover, investigator-initiated clinical trials of intractable neuropharmaceuticals for patients with unmet medical needs by seeking to pathic pain using a trial model of a repetitive magnetic stimulation TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 65 device developed through an industry-academia partnership with In functional textiles and apparel, we faced an uphill struggle in our Osaka University and other partners commenced at Osaka University mainstay apparel OEM business due to declining consumption of Hospital in December 2015, followed by the start of these clinical apparel and sluggish sales of autumn and winter products due to trials at several other hospitals. We also continued to expand our unseasonable weather. In addition, profitability was squeezed by the marketing efforts for the WalkAide System, an electrical stimulation yen’s depreciation and rising overseas production costs. In this envidevice for the treatment of gait impairment resulting from a stroke or ronment, we worked to enhance our ability to receive orders by pushother causes launched in fiscal 2013, which initially focused on the ing ahead with efforts to upgrade and expand our manufacturing Tokyo metropolitan area, to medical institutions in other areas of the platform, including a review of our manufacturing management struccountry. ture centered on Vietnam and Myanmar. Moreover, in an effort to Overseas, we currently provide home healthcare services in the expand business, we presented plans and proposals for apparel U.S., Spain and the ROK. In the period under review, operating condiproducts based on proprietary materials including our strategic matetions in the U.S. remained harsh, a consequence of healthcare system rial SOLOTEX, through a comprehensive exhibition of textiles and reform and sizable ensuing declines in medical treatment fees, as well apparel staged by Teijin Frontier Co., Ltd. in Tokyo and by opening a as other factors. We responded by taking steps to restore profitability, booth at the Première Vision exhibition held in Paris. including integrating sales bases and reducing headcount. Industrial Textiles and Materials ■ Firm sales of automotive materials and healthy exports of Trading and Retail functional materials In the industrial textiles and automotive materials field, we saw firm Sales in the Trading and Retail segment edged up 4.5%, to ¥270.9 billion, while operating income was ¥5.3 billion, an increase of 25.4%. sales of our mainstay tire cords for high-performance tires, and stable sales of rubber materials used in automobiles, such as hoses and Operating Margin Sales Operating Income (Loss) belts. Airbags reached full capacity utilization and full sales in the (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (%) second half of the fiscal year, with further production increases 320 10.0 8 planned ahead. Although sales of automotive accessories such as seat covers remained lackluster, sales of automotive interior materials 240 7.5 6 held steady overall, underpinned by the adoption of these materials in major vehicle models and other factors. 160 5.0 4 In textiles and related materials, in the Japanese market, sales were firm in the civil engineering, agriculture, fisheries and packaging 80 2.5 2 fields, as well as in products related to nonwoven fabrics, despite weak sales of membrane materials such as decorative tent fabrics 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 0 0 and products in the filter field. In overseas markets, sales increased (Years ended March 31) favorably owing to surging demand for functional materials such as short-cut fibers and carbon fibers. Fiber Materials and Apparel In household materials, we posted growth in sales of products for ■ Expanded joint initiatives with overseas global brands by wiping-related applications, and face masks developed as a new leveraging strengths of proprietary materials. initiative with a major convenience store, among other products. In In the sports apparel field, we expanded joint initiatives with overseas interior materials, sales of floor-covering materials and wall-covering global brands by leveraging high-performance materials centered on materials were firm, but sales of curtain materials struggled. the core product DELTA series. Sales in Japan were healthy, supIn the films and plastics field, we faced an uphill struggle in sales of ported mainly by integrated materials sewing initiatives using OEM in film, due to the impact of production adjustments for electronic comthe ASEAN region. Meanwhile, in the uniform field, we faced an uphill ponents in China from the second half of the fiscal year. In plastics, struggle owing to sluggish sales and the impact of inventory adjustweak sales reflected a higher recycling rate for electronic component ments due to unseasonable weather. Sales of yarn benefited from packaging applications. Meanwhile, sales were firm for equipment favorable sales of differentiated products. In textiles, sales of products and machinery. for new markets in the Middle East grew. 66 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 DATA SECTION domain, we continue to pursue our project to develop a patch for Others cardiac care. This project was selected for support under a program launched by Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry to Others, which does not qualify as a reportable operating segment, promote collaboration between medical institutions and industry. generated sales of ¥75.6 billion, up 16.7%, and operating income We promoted the use of Recopick—a radio frequency identification of ¥6.5 billion, up 62.9%. Operating Margin (RFID) information management system that incorporates our Sales Operating Income (Loss) RFID-enabled two-dimensional communication sheet CELL FORM, in (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (%) electronic management solutions for library books, classified informa100 10.0 10.0 tion and medical devices, among others, capitalizing on the system’s ability to efficiently and accurately track the entry and removal, inven75 7.5 7.5 tory levels and precise location of items. * The IoT is a concept that describes the interconnection of a vast array of 50 5.0 5.0 devices worldwide via the Internet. Such advanced connectivity will facilitate the realization of a wide range of new services. 25 2.5 2.5 0 0 0 Financial Position 2013 2014 2015 2016 (Years ended March 31) Analysis of Assets, Liabilities, Net Assets and Cash Flows The IT business reported solid results due to steady growth in sales Interest-bearing debt, at ¥303.3 billion, was down ¥4.9 billion, a result of e-books in the net services category and other factors. Looking at mainly of the redemption of bonds and the impact of foreign the IT services category, we developed and started sales of the exchange movements (a stronger yen) on foreign-currency denomiCancer Patient Guidance and Administration Support System to nated interest-bearing debt. Shareholders’ equity increased ¥13.0 hospitals, and in the field of comprehensive community healthcare, billion due to a significant increase in profit attributable to owners of we entered into a business and capital alliance with Solasto Corporaparent. As a consequence, the debt-to-equity ratio was 1.01 times, tion. In addition, we made product enhancements to GRANDIT, a improving from the previous fiscal year. The equity ratio was 36.4%, web-based ERP software package, such as enabling My Number up 1.5 percentage points. support, in conjunction with advancing greater collaboration with our Although the Company has maintained its financial balance in an development and sales partners. Furthermore, in the IoT* field, we acceptable state for its rating, Japan’s Rating and Investment Inforpushed ahead with expanding our business domains by entering into mation, Inc. maintained its rating of our long-term debt at A– (stable), a business alliance with Afero, Inc., which provides cloud services. the same rating as in the previous fiscal year, citing the need to moniMeanwhile, we decided to stop providing services through our own tor the expansion of the Company’s earnings capabilities in line with data centers as part of our restructuring initiative. progress on its transformation and growth strategies. In new business development, sales of LIELSORT lithium-ion batAdditionally, our debt payback period decreased to 3.8 years, from tery (LiB) separators continued to expand favorably. We also devel4.1 years in fiscal 2014, while our interest coverage ratio rose to 32.5 oped a new high-performance membrane that contains polyethylene times, from 23.8 times in the previous period. using our proprietary microporous membrane production technology, and we are working to launch a new business based on this technolAs of March 31, 2016 Rating Outlook ogy, with products to be offered under the brand name miraim. Rating and Investment Information, Inc. A– Stable In the healthcare field, we are advancing R&D with the aim of creating new business fields, such as embedded medical devices and ■ Assets, Liabilities and Net Assets medical composite materials for pharmaceuticals. In the orthopedics Total assets as of March 31, 2016 amounted to ¥823.4 billion, down domain, in April 2015, we established Teijin Nakashima Medical Co., ¥0.3 billion from the end of fiscal 2014. The decrease in total assets Ltd. as a joint venture with Nakashima Holdings Co., Ltd. to develop was primarily the result of a decline in noncurrent assets due to a global artificial joint business. The new venture plans to put together impairment accounting and valuation differences on investment a strategic marketing team and develop products that combine the securities. This decrease was despite an increase in cash and time technologies of the two parent companies. In the cardiovascular deposits due to a positive net cash balance. TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 67 Total liabilities amounted to ¥509.0 billion, down ¥11.0 billion from Outlook for Fiscal 2016 the end of fiscal 2014. Interest-bearing debt, which includes borrowings and bonds payable, accounted for ¥303.3 billion of the total, Forecast for Operating Results down ¥4.9 billion. Looking at the macroeconomic environment in fiscal 2016, there are Total net assets rose ¥10.8 billion, to ¥314.4 billion. Total sharerising concerns of long-term stagnation in business conditions amid holders’ equity and total accumulated other comprehensive income continuing economic deceleration in emerging countries. The Chinese together represented ¥300.1 billion of the total, an increase of ¥13.0 economy, which is fraught with overcapacity and excessive debt, still billion. This was mainly due to an increase in line with profit attributhas downside risks. In the short term, the impact of various countries’ able to owners of parent, which was partially offset by a decrease in monetary policies on the markets, along with large swings in foreign valuation difference on available-for-sale securities and a decrease in exchange rates and crude oil price, warrant continued vigilance. foreign currency translation adjustments. In this environment, the Teijin Group continues to push ahead with restructuring initiatives and transformation and growth strategies ■ Cash Flows guided by its revised medium-term management plan announced in Net cash and cash equivalents provided by operating activities in November 2014. In fiscal 2016, the plan’s final fiscal year, we will fiscal 2015 amounted to ¥80.6 billion. This result reflected a substansteadily execute restructuring initiatives, in conjunction with maximiztial increase in income before income taxes, along with the impact of ing profit for the period by expanding sales of core products and non-cash items such as depreciation and amortization, and impairservices. In parallel, we will take steps to spur our future transformament loss. tion and growth by investing actively in our transformation and growth Net cash and cash equivalents used in investing activities strategies. amounted to ¥40.3 billion, owing mainly to the purchase of property, Looking at our consolidated full-term operating results forecasts for plant and equipment. fiscal 2016, we are forecasting net sales of ¥740.0 billion, down 6.4% Free cash flow in fiscal 2015 was thus a positive as operating and from fiscal 2015. We also forecast operating income of ¥53.0 billion, investing activities combined provided a net total of ¥40.3 billion. down 21.0%, and ordinary income of ¥53.0 billion, down 12.1%. Net cash and cash equivalents used in financing activities Profit attributable to owners of parent is forecast at ¥35.0 billion, up amounted to ¥8.3 billion. This reflected the net balance of compo12.6% from fiscal 2015. These forecasts assume exchange rates of nents including the issuance and redemption of bonds, the net result ¥106 to US$1.00 and ¥118 to €1.00 and an average Dubai crude oil of proceeds from shortand long-term loans payable and repayment price of US$45 per barrel. thereof, and the payment of dividends. After factoring in the impact of exchange rate fluctuations, operatForecast for Financial Position ing, investing and financing activities in the period under review In fiscal 2016, we will press forward with efforts to maintain and resulted in a net increase in cash and cash equivalents of ¥30.4 billion enhance financial soundness. At the same time, we will actively proas of March 31, 2016. mote promising investments and projects with the potential to conDebt Payback Period Equity Ratio tribute to future growth, in line with our transformation and growth (Years) (%) strategies. Our forecasts for fiscal 2016 are for an ROA of 6.4%, ROE 20 40 of 11.5% and a debt-to-equity ratio of 1.0 times. 15 30 10 20 5 10 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 0 (Years ended March 31) 68 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 DATA SECTION Risk Factors R&D-Related Risk The Teijin Group actively allocates management resources to R&D The Teijin Group recognizes certain risks as having the potential to with the aim of realizing sustainable growth through technology-driven affect its operating results and/or financial position. As of the date of innovation. However, the outcome of such R&D may diverge signifithis document, these risks included, but were not limited to, the risks cantly from the objectives thereof, a situation that has the potential to listed below. negatively affect, among others, the Group’s operating results. In particular, R&D in the pharmaceuticals business is characterized Market-Related Risk by significant investments of funds and time. Pharmaceuticals discovThe Teijin Group is working to transform itself into a corporate entity ery research has a high incidence of failure. In the initial stages, there that is not swayed by changes in the general operating environment. is a high risk that researchers will fail to discover a promising drug. Nonetheless, certain of the Group’s products are vulnerable to market Even if a promising drug is discovered, clinical trials may prove it not conditions, as a consequence of which the Group’s performance may to be as effective as anticipated, or to have unexpected adverse side be affected by market trends, as well as by competition with other effects, thereby forcing the abandonment of plans to apply for companies and sales price fluctuations arising thereof. approval. There is also a risk that a new drug candidate may not Businesses involving commoditized materials—notably polyester receive regulatory approval as a result of the examination process fibers, polyester films and polycarbonate resin—are particularly vulthat follows application, or that approval may be rescinded based on nerable to fluctuations in shipments, sales prices and procurement the outcome of research conducted subsequent to launch. costs for raw materials and fuel related to market conditions and competition with other companies. Because the cost of raw materials Risks Related to Overseas Operations and fuel accounts for a major portion of production costs in these The Teijin Group has operations in China, Southeast Asia (including businesses, fluctuations in the price of crude oil may have a signifiThailand), Europe (including Germany and the Netherlands) and the cant impact on the Group’s income performance. U.S. These operations are vulnerable to the impact of fluctuations in The majority of products in the Teijin Group’s materials businesses foreign exchange and interest rates. Our operations in China and are intermediates. Owing to inventory adjustments at each stage of Southeast Asia, in particular, may also be affected by such factors as production and sales, the rate of expansion or contraction of end the enforcement of new—or unexpected changes to existing—laws, user demand for such products may exceed that of the real regulations or tax systems that exert an adverse impact on the economy. Group; economic fluctuations; or by social unrest triggered by, among The Teijin Group’s Healthcare segment is vulnerable to changes in others, changes of government or acts of terror or war. The manifesdrug reimbursement prices under Japan’s National Health Insurance tation of such risks has the potential to adversely affect the Group’s (NHI) scheme, as well as to increasingly intense competition, both of operating results and/or financial position. which may have a negative impact on sales prices. Fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rates also have the Risks Related to Accidents and Disasters The Teijin Group has prepared common disaster prevention guidepotential to affect the Teijin Group’s operating results and/or financial lines for use by all Group companies and is an active proponent of position. efforts to prevent and/or alleviate the impact of disasters through Product Quality Risk disaster prevention diagnostics, earthquake response measures, fire Teijin and the principal companies of the Teijin Group, including Teijin prevention and other advance prevention strategies, disaster prevenPharma Limited, have established a dedicated product quality and tion education and training and post-disaster impact mitigation meareliability assurance function in the form of a division which functions sures. Nonetheless, in the event of a major natural disaster or independently of other divisions. The division, which adheres to strict unforeseen accident that results in damage to the Group’s production quality management standards, is charged with product quality and facilities or significantly impedes the Group’s supply chain, such reliability assurance for all Group businesses. However, there can be developments may have a negative impact on the Group’s operating no assurance that all products are free of unforeseen major quality results and/or financial position. issues. Product and service defects arising from such quality issues have the potential to negatively affect, among others, the Group’s operating results, financial position and public reputation. TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 69 Consolidated Balance Sheets TEIJIN LIMITED As of March 31, 2015 and 2016 Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen (Note 1) 2015 2016 2016 ASSETS Current assets: Cash and deposits (Notes 3 and 4) ¥ 45,719 ¥ 72,122 $ 640,060 Receivables: Notes and accounts receivable—trade (Notes 4): Unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates 2,711 5,858 51,988 Other 169,429 158,678 1,408,218 Short-term loans receivable (Note 4): Unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates 15,182 14,836 131,665 Other 1,240 975 8,653 Other 13,451 11,703 103,861 Securities (Notes 3 and 5) 25,000 29,000 257,366 Inventories (Note 7) 115,334 120,443 1,068,894 Deferred tax assets (Note 13) 7,123 8,256 73,269 Other current assets 11,924 9,650 85,642 Allowance for doubtful accounts (1,108) (1,016) (9,017) Total current assets 406,005 430,505 3,820,599 Property, plant and equipment (Note 11): Land 43,811 43,080 382,322 Buildings and structures 191,047 189,695 1,683,484 Machinery, equipment and vehicles 574,943 571,536 5,072,204 Tools 83,509 87,519 776,704 Construction in progress 10,246 8,475 75,213 Other 2,976 3,117 27,663 906,532 903,422 8,017,590 Accumulated depreciation (697,649) (700,155) (6,213,659) 208,883 203,267 1,803,931 Intangible assets 11,218 9,356 83,031 Deferred tax assets (Note 13) 3,875 4,279 37,975 Goodwill 9,409 7,297 64,759 24,502 20,932 185,765 Investments and other assets: Investment securities (Notes 4 and 5): Unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates 34,075 34,361 304,943 Other 99,058 85,252 756,585 Long-term loans receivable (Note 4): Unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates 1,492 1,602 14,217 Other 708 669 5,937 Net defined benefit asset (Note 9) 34,585 32,553 288,898 Other 17,316 16,454 146,025 Allowance for doubtful accounts (2,929) (2,166) (19,223) 184,305 168,725 1,497,382 ¥ 823,695 ¥ 823,429 $ 7,307,677 See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 70 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 DATA SECTION Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen (Note 1) 2015 2016 2016 LIABILITIES AND NET ASSETS Current liabilities: Short-term loans payable (Notes 4 and 8) ¥ 56,427 ¥ 55,528 $ 492,794 Current portion of long-term loans payable (Notes 4 and 8) 41,630 27,493 243,992 Payables: Notes and accounts payable—trade: Unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates 1,334 1,466 13,010 Other 74,161 69,928 620,589 Other 28,417 25,683 227,929 Income taxes payable 6,680 6,239 55,369 Accrued expenses 21,053 24,997 221,841 Deferred tax liabilities (Note 13) 34 52 461 Other current liabilities 11,820 16,811 149,192 Total current liabilities 241,556 228,197 2,025,177 Long-term loans payable (Notes 4 and 8) 208,705 218,794 1,941,729 Provision for business structure improvement 14,683 12,556 111,431 Net defined benefit liability (Note 9) 30,407 30,440 270,146 Asset retirement obligations (Note 18) 6,861 2,405 21,344 Deferred tax liabilities (Note 13) 6,289 5,640 50,053 Other non-current liabilities 11,558 10,985 97,488 Contingent liabilities (Note 17) Net assets (Note 10) Shareholders’ equity: Capital stock Authorized—3,000,000,000 shares in 2015 and 2016 Issued—984,758,665 shares in 2015 984,758,665 shares in 2016 70,817 70,817 628,479 Capital surplus 101,447 101,474 900,550 Retained earnings 101,202 127,377 1,130,431 Treasury stock, at cost: 1,925,911 shares in 2015 1,530,571 shares in 2016 (427) (355) (3,150) Total shareholders’ equity 273,039 299,313 2,656,310 Accumulated other comprehensive income: Valuation difference on available-for-sale securities 24,227 17,755 157,570 Deferred gains (losses) on hedges (2,569) (1,304) (11,573) Foreign currency translation adjustments (8,102) (15,072) (133,759) Remeasurements of defined benefit plans 479 (579) (5,138) Total accumulated other comprehensive income 14,035 800 7,100 Subscription rights to shares 845 837 7,428 Non-controlling interests 15,717 13,462 119,471 Total net assets 303,636 314,412 2,790,309 ¥823,695 ¥823,429 $7,307,677 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 71 Consolidated Statements of Operations TEIJIN LIMITED For the years ended March 31, 2015 and 2016 Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen (Note 1) 2015 2016 2016 Net sales ¥786,171 ¥790,748 $7,017,643 Costs and expenses: Cost of sales 569,499 536,309 4,759,576 Selling, general and administrative expenses 145,220 154,024 1,366,915 Research and development expenses 32,366 33,285 295,394 Operating income 39,086 67,130 595,758 Other income (expenses): Interest and dividend income 1,931 2,311 20,509 Interest expenses (3,067) (2,419) (21,468) Gain (loss) on sales of investment securities 1 (10) (89) Gain on sales of noncurrent assets 749 306 2,716 Gain (loss) on valuation of derivatives 2,664 (1,277) (11,333) Loss on sales and retirement of noncurrent assets (1,284) (2,865) (25,426) Loss on valuation of investment securities (4) (567) (5,032) Impairment loss (Note 11) (30,376) (7,565) (67,137) Reversal of impairment loss 95 3,265 28,976 Equity in earnings (losses) of affiliates 2,435 (2,944) (26,127) Business structure improvement expenses (16,759) (5,507) (48,873) Other, net (2,398) (4,277) (37,957) (46,013) (21,549) (191,241) Income (loss) before income taxes (6,927) 45,581 404,517 Income taxes (Note 13): Current 11,521 13,070 115,992 Deferred (8,446) 3,289 29,189 3,075 16,359 145,181 Net income (loss) (10,002) 29,222 259,336 Loss attributable to non-controlling interests 1,916 1,868 16,578 Profit (loss) attributable to owners of parent ¥ (8,086) ¥ 31,090 $ 275,914 U.S. dollars Yen (Note 1) Profit (loss) attributable to owners of parent per share (Note 2) ¥ (8.23) ¥ 31.63 $ 0.28 Profit (loss) attributable to owners of parent per share—diluted — — — Cash dividends applicable to the year 4.00 7.00 0.06 See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 72 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 DATA SECTION Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income TEIJIN LIMITED For the years ended March 31, 2015 and 2016 Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen (Note 1) 2015 2016 2016 Income (loss) before non-controlling interests ¥(10,002) ¥ 29,222 $ 259,336 Other comprehensive income (Note 12): Valuation difference on available-for-sale securities 13,468 (6,483) (57,535) Deferred gains or losses on hedges (3,587) 1,266 11,235 Foreign currency translation adjustments 3,996 (6,056) (53,744) Remeasurements of defined benefit plans, net of tax 1,738 (2,075) (18,415) Share of other comprehensive income of associates accounted for using the equity method 421 (74) (657) Total 16,036 (13,422) (119,116) Comprehensive income ¥ 6,034 ¥ 15,800 $ 140,220 Breakdown of comprehensive income: Comprehensive income attributable to shareholders of the parent ¥ 7,833 ¥ 17,855 $ 158,457 Comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests ¥ (1,799) ¥ (2,055) $ (18,237) See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 73 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Net Assets TEIJIN LIMITED For the years ended March 31, 2015 and 2016 Millions of yen Shareholders’ equity Number of Total shares of Common Capital Retained Treasury shareholders’ common stock stock surplus earnings stock, at cost equity Balance at March 31, 2014 984,758,665 ¥70,817 ¥101,429 ¥111,754 ¥(436) ¥283,564 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting policies 1,465 1,465 Restated balance 70,817 101,429 113,219 (436) 285,029 Changes of items during the period: Dividends from surplus (3,931) (3,931) Net loss (8,086) (8,086) Purchase of treasury stock (23) (23) Disposal of treasury stock 18 32 50 Net changes of items other than shareholders’ equity Total — 18 (12,017) 9 (11,990) Balance at March 31, 2015 984,758,665 ¥70,817 ¥101,447 ¥101,202 ¥(427) ¥273,039 Changes of items during the period: Dividends from surplus (4,915) (4,915) Net income 31,090 31,090 Purchase of treasury stock (41) (41) Disposal of treasury stock 27 113 140 Net changes of items other than shareholders’ equity Total — 27 26,175 72 26,274 Balance at March 31, 2016 984,758,665 ¥70,817 ¥101,474 ¥127,377 ¥(355) ¥299,313 Thousands of U.S. dollars (Note 1) Shareholders’ equity Total Common Capital Retained Treasury shareholders’ stock surplus earnings stock, at cost equity Balance at March 31, 2015 $628,479 $900,311 $ 898,136 $(3,789) $2,423,137 Changes of items during the period: Dividends from surplus (43,619) (43,619) Net income 275,914 275,914 Purchase of treasury stock (364) (364) Disposal of treasury stock 239 1,003 1,242 Net changes of items other than shareholders’ equity Total — 239 232,295 639 233,173 Balance at March 31, 2016 $628,479 $900,550 $1,130,431 $(3,150) $2,656,310 See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 74 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 DATA SECTION Millions of yen Accumulated other comprehensive income Valuation Deferred Foreign Remeasuredifference on gains currency ments of Subscription available-for-sale (losses) translation defined rights to Non-controlling Total securities on hedges adjustments benefit plans Total shares interests net assets Balance at March 31, 2014 ¥10,759 ¥ 1,018 ¥(13,026) ¥ (635) ¥ (1,884) ¥738 ¥17,695 ¥300,113 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting policies 1,465 Restated balance 10,759 1,018 (13,026) (635) (1,884) 738 17,695 301,578 Changes of items during the period: Dividends from surplus (3,931) Net loss (8,086) Purchase of treasury stock (23) Disposal of treasury stock 50 Net changes of items other than shareholders’ equity 13,468 (3,587) 4,924 1,114 15,919 107 (1,978) 14,048 Total 13,468 (3,587) 4,924 1,114 15,919 107 (1,978) 2,058 Balance at March 31, 2015 ¥24,227 ¥(2,569) ¥ (8,102) ¥ 479 ¥ 14,035 ¥845 ¥15,717 ¥303,636 Changes of items during the period: Dividends from surplus (4,915) Net income 31,090 Purchase of treasury stock (41) Disposal of treasury stock 140 Net changes of items other than shareholders’ equity (6,472) 1,265 (6,970) (1,058) (13,235) (8) (2,255) (15,498) Total (6,472) 1,265 (6,970) (1,058) (13,235) (8) (2,255) 10,776 Balance at March 31, 2016 ¥17,755 ¥(1,304) ¥(15,072) ¥ (579) ¥ 800 ¥837 ¥13,462 ¥314,412 Thousands of U.S. dollars (Note 1) Accumulated other comprehensive income Valuation Deferred Foreign Remeasuredifference on gains currency ments of Subscription available-for-sale (losses) translation defined rights to Non-controlling Total securities on hedges adjustments benefit plans Total shares interests net assets Balance at March 31, 2015 $215,007 $(22,799) $(71,903) $ 4,251 $ 124,556 $7,499 $139,483 $2,694,675 Changes of items during the period: Dividends from surplus (43,619) Net income 275,914 Purchase of treasury stock (364) Disposal of treasury stock 1,242 Net changes of items other than shareholders’ equity (57,437) 11,226 (61,856) (9,389) (117,456) (71) (20,012) (137,539) Total (57,437) 11,226 (61,856) (9,389) (117,456) (71) (20,012) 95,634 Balance at March 31, 2016 $157,570 $(11,573) $(133,759) $(5,138) $ 7,100 $7,428 $119,471 $2,790,309 See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 75 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows TEIJIN LIMITED For the years ended March 31, 2014 and 2015 Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen (Note 1) 2015 2016 2016 Cash flows from operating activities: Income (loss) before income taxes ¥ (6,927) ¥ 45,581 $ 404,517 Depreciation and amortization 43,030 38,894 345,172 Impairment loss 30,376 7,565 67,137 Reversal of impairment loss (95) (3,265) (28,976) Increase (decrease) in net defined benefit liability 5,421 604 5,360 Decrease (increase) in net defined benefit asset (2,782) (1,777) (15,770) Increase (decrease) in allowance for doubtful accounts (1,917) (754) (6,692) Increase (decrease) in provision for business structure improvement 14,683 974 8,644 Interest and dividend income (1,931) (2,311) (20,509) Interest expenses 3,067 2,419 21,468 Equity in losses (earnings) of affiliates (2,435) 2,944 26,127 Loss (gain) on sales and retirement of noncurrent assets 535 2,559 22,710 Loss (gain) on sales of investment securities 39 10 89 Loss (gain) on valuation of derivatives (2,664) 1,277 11,333 Loss (gain) on valuation of investment securities 4 567 5,032 Decrease (increase) in notes and accounts receivable—trade 1,051 2,999 26,615 Decrease (increase) in inventories 6,767 (6,933) (61,528) Increase (decrease) in notes and accounts payable—trade (9,627) (550) (4,881) Increase (decrease) in accrued payments due to change in retirement benefits (2,082) (2,015) (17,882) Other, net 2,897 1,366 12,123 Subtotal 77,410 90,154 800,089 Interest and dividend income received 7,068 6,589 58,475 Interest expenses paid (3,190) (2,482) (22,027) Income taxes paid (5,258) (13,620) (120,873) Net cash and cash equivalents provided by operating activities 76,030 80,641 715,664 Cash flows from investing activities: Purchase of property, plant and equipment (26,528) (31,895) (283,058) Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment 752 669 5,937 Purchase of intangible assets (2,365) (2,802) (24,867) Purchase of investment securities (22,052) (2,406) (21,353) Proceeds from sales of investment securities 1,576 848 7,526 Decrease (increase) in short-term loans receivable 2,434 (2,643) (23,456) Payments of long-term loans receivable (1,908) (59) (524) Collection of long-term loans receivable 329 189 1,677 Other, net (1,862) (2,224) (19,736) Net cash and cash equivalents used in investing activities (49,624) (40,323) (357,854) Cash flows from financing activities: Net increase (decrease) in short-term loans payable (36,296) 3,146 27,920 Proceeds from issuance of bonds 59,210 — — Redemption of bonds (19,809) (20,770) (184,327) Proceeds from long-term loans payable 37,535 36,707 325,763 Repayment of long-term loans payable (25,805) (21,821) (193,655) Cash dividends paid (3,931) (4,914) (43,610) Cash dividends paid to non-controlling shareholders (201) (284) (2,520) Other, net (309) (381) (3,382) Net cash and cash equivalents (used in) provided by financing activities 10,394 (8,317) (73,811) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 786 (1,971) (17,492) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 37,586 30,030 266,507 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 32,976 70,562 626,216 Increase in cash and cash equivalents resulting from change in scope of consolidation — 363 3,221 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year (Note 3) ¥ 70,562 ¥100,955 $ 895,944 See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 76 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 DATA SECTION Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements TEIJIN LIMITED Note 1 Basis of presenting consolidated financial statements The accompanying consolidated financial statements of Teijin Limited The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been (the “Company”) have been prepared in accordance with the provireformatted and translated into English with some expanded descripsions set forth in Japan’s Financial Instruments and Exchange Law (the tions from the consolidated financial statements of the Company “Law”) and the related accounting regulations, and in conformity with prepared in accordance with Japanese GAAP and filed with the approaccounting principles generally accepted in Japan (“Japanese GAAP”), priate Local Finance Bureau of the Ministry of Finance as required by which are different in certain respects as to application and disclosure the Law. Certain supplementary information included in the statutory requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Japanese-language consolidated financial statements, but not required The Company adopted the “Practical Solution on Unification of for fair presentation, is not presented in the accompanying consoliAccounting Policies Applied to Foreign Subsidiaries for Consolidated dated financial statements. Financial Statements” (Practical Issues Task Force (“PITF”) No. 18, The translation of the Japanese yen amounts into U.S. dollar issued by the Accounting Standards Board of Japan (“ASBJ”) on amounts is included solely for the convenience of readers outside February 19, 2010). In principle, the Company has unified the accountJapan, using the prevailing exchange rate at March 31, 2016, which ing standards for overseas subsidiaries and makes necessary adjustwas ¥112.68 to U.S. $1.00. The convenience translations should not ments upon consolidation. There were no material effects as a result of be construed as representations that the Japanese yen amounts have the adoption of PITF No. 18 on the consolidated financial statements been, could have been or could in the future be converted into U.S. for the years ended March 31, 2015 and 2016. dollars at this or any other rate of exchange. Note 2 Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidation Statements of cash flows The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the In preparing the consolidated statements of cash flows, cash on hand, Company and 69 significant subsidiaries for the years ended March readily available deposits and short-term highly liquid investments with 31, 2016 and 2015. Investments made in 77 (both in 2015 and 2016) maturities not exceeding three months at the time of purchase are unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates are, with minor exceptions, considered to be cash and cash equivalents. stated at cost, adjusted for equity in undistributed earnings and losses since acquisition. Allowance for doubtful accounts Companies which are 40% or more owned and substantially conThe allowance for doubtful accounts is provided in amounts sufficient trolled by the Company are considered subsidiaries for inclusion in the to cover possible losses on collection. It is determined by adding the consolidation. Equity method accounting is applied to unconsolidated individually estimated uncollectible amounts of certain accounts to an subsidiaries and affiliates which are substantially controlled or of which amount calculated using the provision rate based on past experience. operating and financial policies are significantly influenced by the Company. Securities In the elimination of investments in subsidiaries, the assets and Under the Japanese accounting standard for financial instruments, all liabilities of the subsidiaries, including the portion attributable to companies are required to classify securities as (a) securities held for non-controlling interests, are evaluated using the fair value at the time trading purposes (“trading securities”), (b) debt securities intended to the Company acquired control of the respective subsidiaries. be held to maturity (“held-to-maturity debt securities”), (c) equity secuGoodwill is usually amortized using the straight-line method over the rities issued by subsidiaries and affiliated companies, and (d) all other estimated useful life from 5 to 20 years. securities that are not classified in any of the above categories Of the Company’s consolidated subsidiaries, 11 subsidiaries in 2016 (“available-for-sale securities”). and 2015 did not change their fiscal year-end of December 31. These The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries (the “Companies”) 11 subsidiaries prepared, for consolidation purposes, provisional finando not hold trading securities. Held-to-maturity debt securities are cial statements for the period that correspond to the fiscal year of stated at amortized cost. the Company. TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 77 Equity securities issued by subsidiaries and affiliated companies, Retirement benefits which are not consolidated or accounted for using the equity method, Employees are stated at moving-average cost. Available-for-sale securities with The Company has an unfunded lump-sum benefit plan and a funded available fair market values are stated at fair market value. Unrealized contributory pension plan, generally covering all employees. Certain gains and losses on these securities are reported, net of applicable consolidated subsidiaries have unfunded lump-sum benefit plans and income taxes, as a separate component of net assets. Realized gains non-contributory pension plans. Most overseas subsidiaries do not and losses on sales of such securities are computed using have pension plans. moving-average cost. Under the terms of the lump-sum benefit plans, eligible employees Debt securities with no available fair market value are stated at are, upon mandatory retirement at age 60 or voluntary termination amortized cost, net of the amount considered not collectible. Other before such age, entitled under most circumstances to a lump-sum securities with no available fair market value are stated at payment based on their compensation at the time of severance and moving-average cost. years of service. If the market value of held-to-maturity debt securities, equity securiThe liabilities and expenses for severance and retirement benefits ties issued by unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliated companies are determined based on the amounts actuarially calculated using and available-for-sale securities declines significantly, such securities certain assumptions. The Companies provided for employees’ severare stated at fair market value and the difference between fair market ance and retirement benefits at March 31, 2015 and 2016 based on value and the carrying amount is recognized as a loss in the period of the estimated amounts of projected benefit obligation and the fair value the decline. If the fair market value of equity securities issued by of the plan assets at those dates. unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliated companies not accounted Prior service costs and actuarial gains and losses are recognized in for using the equity method is not readily available, the securities will expenses using the straight-line method over mainly 12 years, which is be written down to net asset value with a corresponding charge in the within the average of the estimated remaining service years of the consolidated statements of operations in the event net asset value employees, commencing with the current and the following declines significantly. In these cases, the fair market value or the net period, respectively. asset value will be the carrying amount of the securities at the beginning of the following year. (Application of Accounting Standard for Retirement Benefits) Effective from fiscal 2014, the Company has applied the accounting Inventories rules stipulated in Clause 35 of the “Accounting Standard for RetireInventories are stated at the lower of average cost or net realizable value. ment Benefits” (Accounting Standards Board of Japan (ASBJ) Statement No. 26, issued on May 17, 2012) and the guidelines outlined in Property, plant and equipment Clause 67 of the “Guidance on Accounting Standard for Retirement Property, plant and equipment are amortized using the straight-line Benefits” (ASBJ Guidance No. 25, issued on March 26, 2015). method over the estimated useful life of the asset. Accordingly, the method of attributing expected benefits to periods has been changed from the straight-line basis to the benefit formula basis Intangible assets and the basis for determining the discount rate has been amended Goodwill, patents, trademarks and other intangible assets are amorfrom the expected average remaining working lives of employees and tized using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of average period up to the estimated timing of benefit payment to a the asset. single weighted-average discount rate that reflects the estimated Software for internal use is amortized using the straight-line method timing and amount of benefit payment. over the estimated useful life, i.e. 5 to 10 years. Research and development expenses The Company charges research and development expenses to income as incurred. 78 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 DATA SECTION The application of the new accounting standard and its accompanyIn light of newly available information as of March 31, 2015, including guidance is subject to the transitional accounting treatment set ing that related to methods used for demolition and removal, the Comforth in Clause 37 of the standard. At the beginning of the period under pany subsequently revised its estimate of asset retirement obligations review, remeasurements of defined benefit plans were included in associated therewith. Owing to this revision, the balance of asset retained earnings to reflect the impact of this change in method of retirement obligations as of March 31, 2015 was ¥4,450 million lower accounting. This change added ¥574 million to the “other” component than as of September 30, 2014. Concomitantly, the Company also of investments and other assets, reduced net defined benefit liability by revised the amount of its impairment loss in the first half. The effect of ¥1,589 million and increased retained earnings by ¥1,465 million in the the aforementioned changes in fiscal 2014 was to increase loss before period. The effect of this change on operating income, and loss before income taxes and non-controlling interests by ¥4,252 million. income taxes and non-controlling interests was negligible. The effect of this change on segment information was also negligible and has thus (Change in accounting estimates) not been reported. In the year ended March 31, 2015, the Company resolved to withdraw from the business of a consolidated subsidiary, Teijin Polycarbonate Liabilities arising from the application of the equity method Singapore Pte Ltd., and revised its estimated asset retirement obligaLiabilities arising from the application of the equity method have been tions for the obligation of restoration to original condition under real provided with respect to losses that may arise from the Company’s estate leasing contracts. In the year ended March 31, 2016, the Comportion of the capital deficits of unconsolidated subsidiaries and affilipany has once again revised its estimated restoration costs based on ates that are accounted for by the equity method, after giving considrestoration contracts with third parties. eration to the Company’s investments in, and guarantees for, As a result of the revision of this estimate, the balance of asset such companies. retirement obligations as of March 31, 2016 was ¥2,488 million ($22,082 thousand) lower than the estimated balance as of March 31, Provision for business structure improvement 2015. The effect of the aforementioned change in estimate was to The provision is provided in amounts sufficient to cover possible losses increase income before income taxes and non-controlling interests for for business structure improvement. the year ended March 31, 2016 by ¥2,653 million ($23,545 thousand). (Change in accounting estimates) Derivatives and hedge accounting In the first half of fiscal 2014, the Company resolved to withdraw from The Companies state derivative financial instruments at fair value and the business of a consolidated subsidiary, Teijin Polycarbonate recognize changes in the fair value as gain or loss unless the derivative Singapore Pte Ltd. As a consequence, the expected remaining confinancial instruments are used for hedging purposes. tract term for the real estate leased by the Company was shortened to If derivative financial instruments are used as hedges and meet a more practical number of years, thus facilitating a more precise certain hedging criteria, the Companies defer recognition of the gain or estimate of asset retirement obligations—namely, an obligation of loss resulting from a change in fair value of the derivative financial restoration to original condition—associated therewith. Owing to the instrument until the related gain or loss on the hedged item revision of this estimate, the balance of asset retirement obligations as is recognized. of September 30, 2014 was ¥8,142 million higher than would have If a forward foreign exchange contract is executed to hedge a future been the case had the estimate not changed. In addition, because the transaction denominated in a foreign currency, the forecast transaction Company applied impairment accounting to the accompanying tangiwill be recorded using the contracted forward rate on recognition, and ble fixed assets, the effect of this change in accounting estimate was no gains or losses on the forward foreign exchange contract are recto increase loss before income taxes and non-controlling interests in ognized (the “principle-based method”). the first half by an identical amount. If interest rate swap contracts of the Company are used as hedges and meet certain hedging criteria, the net amount to be paid or received under the interest rate swap contract is added to or deducted from the interest on the assets or liabilities for which the swap contract was executed (the “special method”). TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 79 Income taxes Year ended March 31, 2015 The provision for income taxes is based on income for financial state(a) Loss attributable to owners of parent ¥ 8,086 million ment purposes. Income taxes comprise corporation tax, enterprise tax (b) Amount not attributable to common shareholders: ¥ — million and prefectural and municipal inhabitants’ taxes. The assets and liabili(c) Bonuses to directors and statutory ties approach is used to recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for auditors included in (b): ¥ — million the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences (d) Loss attributable to owners of parent between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial allocated to common stock: ¥ 8,086 million reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. (e) Average number of shares outstanding The Company and its wholly owned domestic consolidated subsidduring the period: 982,749 thousand shares (f) Increase in number of shares: — iaries have adopted consolidated tax return filing under Japanese (g) Increase in number of subscription rights tax regulations. to shares included in (f): — (h) Summary of outstanding potential shares Translation of foreign currency excluded from the computation of diluted Cash, receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies are EPS, if calculated for the period, since translated into Japanese yen at year-end exchange rates. All revenues such potential shares do not have a dilutive effect: — and expenses in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rates prevailing when such transactions are made. The resulting Year ended March 31, 2016 exchange loss or gain is charged or credited to income. (a) Profit attributable to owners The balance sheet accounts of the overseas consolidated subsidiarof parent ¥ 31,090 million ($ 275,914 thousand) ies and foreign investments accounted for by the equity method are (b)Amount not attributable to translated at the rates of exchange in effect at the balance sheet date, common shareholders: ¥ — million ($ — thousand) except for capital accounts and assets and liabilities due to/from the (c) Bonuses to directors and statutory auditors included Company, which are translated at historical rates. Accounts in the in (b): ¥ — million ($ — thousand) consolidated statements of operations are translated at the average (d)Profit attributable to owners rates of exchange for the year. Differences arising from translations are of parent allocated to presented as “Foreign currency translation adjustments” in the accomcommon stock: ¥ 31,090 million ($ 275,914 thousand) panying consolidated financial statements. The Companies report (e) Average number of shares outstanding during the foreign currency translation adjustments in net assets. period: 982,948 thousand shares (f) Increase in number of Net income (loss) per share shares: 99,893 Computations of net income (loss) per share of common stock are (g)Increase in number of based on the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during subscription rights each period. Diluted net income per share is calculated based on the to shares included in (f): 99,893 (h) Summary of outstanding assumption that all dilutive convertible debentures and stock warrants potential shares excluded were converted or exercised at the beginning of the year or at the time from the computation of of issue. diluted EPS, if calculated for Net income (loss) per share for the years ended March 31, 2015 and the period, since such 2016 is calculated based on the following factors: potential shares do not have a dilutive effect: — 80 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 DATA SECTION (Changes in accounting principles, procedures and presentation (Accounting standards issued but not yet effective) methods) (1) Implementation Guidance on Recoverability of Deferred (1) Application of Revised Accounting Standard for Business Tax Assets Combinations On March 28, 2015, the ASBJ issued ASBJ Guidance No. 26, “ImpleEffective from the year ended March 31, 2016, the Company applied mentation Guidance on Recoverability of Deferred Tax Assets” (the the “Revised Accounting Standard for Business Combinations” “Implementation Guidance”) (Accounting Standards Board of Japan (ASBJ) Statement No. 21, issued on September 13, 2013), “Revised Accounting Standard for 1. Outline Consolidated Financial Statements” (ASBJ Statement No. 22, issued The Implementation Guidance basically continues to apply the on September 13, 2013) and “Revised Accounting Standard for Busiframework used in the Japanese Institute of Certified Public ness Divestitures” (ASBJ Statement No. 7, issued on September 13, Accountants Guidance No. 66, where recoverability of deferred tax 2013). Accordingly, the Company changed to an accounting method assets is assessed based on the entities’ categorization, but certain whereby it records differences arising from changes in its ownership accounting treatments were changed. The Implementation Guidinterests in companies in which it retains control in capital surplus and ance includes the following: charges acquisition-related costs as expenses in the fiscal year in (i) accounting treatments for entities which are not included in which they are incurred. Additionally, for business combinations impleany Category, mented on or after April 1, 2015, the Company changed to an (ii) criteria as to the classification of entities in Category 2 and accounting method whereby any revisions to the allocation of acquisiCategory 3, tion costs pursuant to the final determination of provisional accounting (iii) accounting treatments of unscheduled deductible temporary treatments are reflected in the consolidated financial statements for the differences for entities in Category 2, fiscal year in which the relevant business combination occurred. Fur(iv) accounting treatments for deductible temporary differences for thermore, a change in the presentation of net income in the financial entities in Category 3, which are scheduled to be deductible after statements was implemented and the term “minority interests” was five years amended to “non-controlling interests.” The Company has recast its (v) accounting treatments for entities in Category 4 in the current consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended March 31, fiscal year, which are expected to be included in Category 2 or 2015, to reflect these changes. Category 3 in the following year. In the consolidated statements of cash flows for the year ended March 31, 2016, the Company changed to an accounting method 2. Timing of adoption whereby cash flows related to the acquisition or sale of subsidiaries’ The Company and its domestic consolidated subsidiaries will adopt shares that do not result in a change in the scope of consolidation are the revised Implementation Guidance from the beginning of the shown under “Cash flows from financing activities.” Cash flows related fiscal year ending March 31, 2017. to acquisition-related costs for subsidiaries’ shares that result in a change in the scope of consolidation or cash flows related to expenses 3. Impact of the adoption of the Implementation Guidance incurred in conjunction with the acquisition or sale of subsidiaries’ The effect of adoption of the Implementation Guidance is now under shares that do not result in a change in the scope of consolidation are assessment at the time of preparation of the accompanying consolishown under “Cash flows from operating activities.” dated financial statements. Application of ASBJ Statement No. 21 and its related standards is in accordance with transitional provisions stipulated in Clause 58, Para(Reclassifications and restatements) graph 2 (4) of ASBJ Statement No. 21; Clause 44, Paragraph 5 (4) of Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified and restated to ASBJ Statement No. 22; and Clause 57, Paragraph 4 (4) of ASBJ conform to the current year’s presentation. These reclassifications and Statement No. 7. The Company applied these standards effective from restatements have no impact on previously reported results of operaApril 1, 2015. This application had no material impact on consolidated tions or retained earnings. net income for the year ended March 31, 2016. TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 81 Note 3 Statements of cash flows (1) The reconciliations of cash and time deposits in the consolidated balance sheets and cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated statements of cash flows, as of March 31, 2015 and 2016 are as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2015 2016 2016 Cash and time deposits in the consolidated balance sheets ¥45,719 ¥ 72,122 $640,060 Securities 25,000 29,000 257,366 Time deposits with maturities exceeding three months (157) (167) (1,482) Cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated statements of cash flows ¥70,562 ¥100,955 $895,944 (2) Important non-cash transactions The amounts recognized for important asset retirement obligations, as of March 31, 2015 and 2016 are as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2015 2016 2016 Important asset retirement obligations recognized ¥5,420 ¥(2,397) $(21,273) Note 4 Fair value of financial instruments (1) Qualitative information on financial instruments interest on some long-term loans payable is converted to a (a) Policies for using financial instruments fixed rate through interest rate swap transactions. The Companies’ fund management policy is to put money into The Companies use derivative transactions of, for example, short-term deposits only and to raise money through loans forward currency exchange and currency swaps that are used payable, commercial paper and corporate bonds. to hedge the risk of fluctuation in foreign currency exchange The Companies principally enter into derivative transactions rates with respect to monetary receivables and payables in connection with managing their market risk and not for denominated in foreign currencies resulting from import and speculation or trading purposes. export transactions. With respect to other derivative transactions, interest rate swap transactions are used to hedge the risk (b) Details of financial instruments used and the exposure to of fluctuation in interest rates. The Companies evaluate hedge risk and how it arises effectiveness by comparing the cumulative changes in cash Notes and accounts receivable—trade are exposed to customflows from, or the changes in fair value of, hedged items with ers’ credit risk. To manage that risk, the Companies check the the corresponding changes in the hedging derivative balance of the accounts and confirm the collection of money at instruments. the due date. The Companies also review the credit risk of their The Companies report periodically to the Chief Financial main customers periodically in accordance with the Company’s Officer and the Treasury Office on the actual results of derivative credit management regulations. transactions. Furthermore, the Companies enter into contracts Marketable securities are negotiable certificates of deposit with banks and securities houses with high credit ratings to subject to settlement in the short term. Securities are exposed minimize credit risk exposure. to market price fluctuation risk; however, the Companies only hold shares in firms with which they have business relations (c) Supplementary information on fair values and these are not held for speculation. The fair value of financial instruments is calculated based on The due dates of notes and accounts payable—trade are quoted market price or, in cases where there is no market mainly within one year. price, by making a reasonable estimation. Because the preconShort-term loans receivable are used mainly for operating ditions applied include a floating element, estimations of fair purposes, and funding through corporate bonds and long-term value may vary. The contracted amounts, as presented in Note loans payable is mainly for capital investment. Debts with a 6, “Derivative transactions,” do not reflect market risk. floating rate are exposed to interest rate fluctuation risk, but 82 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 DATA SECTION (2) Fair values of financial instruments The following tables summarize fair value and book value of the financial instruments, and the difference between them, as of March 31, 2015 and 2016. Items for which fair value is difficult to estimate are not included in the following tables. Millions of yen 2015 Book value Fair value Difference (1) Cash and time deposits ¥ 45,719 ¥ 45,719 ¥ — (2) Receivables 172,140 172,140 — (3) Short-term loans receivable 16,277 16,277 — (4) Marketable securities and investment securities 110,840 110,840 — (5) Long-term loans receivable 2,345 — — Allowance for doubtful accounts* (529) — — 1,816 1,816 — Total ¥346,792 ¥346,792 ¥ — (1) Payables ¥ 75,495 ¥ 75,495 ¥ — (2) Short-term loans payable 56,427 56,427 — (3) Bonds 76,248 83,094 6,846 (4) Long-term loans payable 174,087 175,291 1,204 Total ¥382,257 ¥390,307 ¥8,050 Derivative transactions† (1) For which hedge accounting is not applied ¥ 7,768 ¥ 7,768 ¥ — (2) For which hedge accounting is applied (3,355) (3,355) — Total ¥ 4,413 ¥ 4,413 ¥ — Millions of yen 2016 Book value Fair value Difference (1) Cash and time deposits ¥ 72,122 ¥ 72,122 ¥ — (2) Receivables 164,536 164,536 — (3) Short-term loans receivable 15,757 15,757 — (4) Marketable securities and investment securities 103,692 103,692 — (5) Long-term loans receivable 2,325 — — Allowance for doubtful accounts* (519) — — 1,806 1,806 — Total ¥357,913 ¥357,913 ¥ — (1) Payables ¥ 71,394 ¥ 71,394 ¥ — (2) Short-term loans payable 55,528 55,528 — (3) Bonds 55,149 61,368 6,219 (4) Long-term loans payable 191,138 193,205 2,067 Total ¥373,209 ¥381,495 ¥8,286 Derivative transactions† (1) For which hedge accounting is not applied ¥ 5,110 ¥ 5,110 ¥ — (2) For which hedge accounting is applied (1,814) (1,814) — Total ¥ 3,296 ¥ 3,296 ¥ — TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 83 Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 Book value Fair value Difference (1) Cash and time deposits $ 640,060 $ 640,060 $ — (2) Receivables 1,460,206 1,460,206 — (3) Short-term loans receivable 139,838 139,838 — (4) Marketable securities and investment securities 920,234 920,234 — (5) Long-term loans receivable 20,634 — — Allowance for doubtful accounts* (4,606) — — 16,028 16,028 — Total $3,176,366 $3,176,366 $ — (1) Payables $ 633,599 $ 633,599 $ — (2) Short-term loans payable 492,794 492,794 — (3) Bonds 489,430 544,622 55,192 (4) Long-term loans payable 1,696,291 1,714,635 18,344 Total $3,312,114 $3,385,650 $73,536 Derivative transactions† (1) For which hedge accounting is not applied $ 45,350 $ 45,350 $ — (2) For which hedge accounting is applied (16,099) (16,099) — Total $ 29,251 $ 29,251 $ — * Allowance for doubtful accounts is estimated for each category and is deducted from long-term loans receivable. † Derivative transactions are presented net of receivables and liabilities, and figures within parenthesis indicate net liabilities. (Note 1) The method of estimating the fair value for securities and derivative transactions is as follows: Assets (1) Cash and time deposits, (2) Receivables and (3) Short-term loans receivable The terms of all of the above are short term and the fair value thereof is nearly equal to book value, so the book value is used as fair value. (4) Marketable securities and investment securities The fair value of shares is the market price. The terms of negotiable certificates of deposit are short term and the fair value thereof is nearly equal to book value, so the book value is used as fair value. See Note 5, “Market securities and investment securities” for information on investment securities categorized by holding purpose. (5) Long-term loans receivable The fair value of long-term loans receivable, categorized by term, is discounted by the interest rate that is based on that of government bonds, to which a spread that reflects credit risk has been added. Moreover, the fair value of long-term loans receivable that are doubtful is estimated in the same way or is provided in an amount sufficient to cover possible losses on collection. Liabilities (1) Payables and (2) Short-term loans payable The terms of all of the above are short term and the fair value thereof is nearly equal to book value, so the book value is used as fair value. (3) Bonds The fair value of corporate bonds is calculated based on market price. In cases where there is no market price, fair value is calculated by using the discounted cash flow based on the sum of the principal and total interest of the remaining period and credit risk. (4) Long-term loans payable The fair value of long-term loans payable is the sum of the principal and total interest discounted by the rate that is applied if a new loan is made. Certain long-term loans payable with floating rates are tied to interest rate swap transactions and subject to special treatment. 84 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 DATA SECTION Derivative transactions See Note 6, “Derivative transactions.” (Note 2) Financial instruments for which fair value is difficult to estimate: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2015 2016 2016 Unlisted shares ¥ 4,379 ¥ 5,388 $ 47,817 Shares in affiliated companies 29,696 28,973 257,126 Total ¥34,075 ¥34,361 $304,943 Market prices of the above shares are not available and the future cash flow cannot be estimated. Therefore, fair value is difficult to estimate. Accordingly, these are not included in “(4) Marketable securities and investment securities.” (Note 3) Expected repayment amounts of monetary assets and securities with maturity after the date of the accounting period are as follows: Millions of yen 2015 One year to Within one year five years Over five years Cash and time deposits ¥ 45,719 ¥ — ¥ — Receivables 172,140 — — Short-term loans receivable 16,277 — — Long-term loans receivable 144 1,700 500 Millions of yen 2016 One year to Within one year five years Over five years Cash and time deposits ¥ 72,122 ¥ — ¥ — Receivables 164,536 — — Short-term loans receivable 15,757 — — Long-term loans receivable 54 1,772 500 Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 One year to Within one year five years Over five years Cash and time deposits $ 640,060 $ — $ — Receivables 1,460,206 — — Short-term loans receivable 139,838 — — Long-term loans receivable 479 15,727 4,437 (Note 4) Repayment schedule of bonds and long-term loans payable: See Note 8, “Loans payable.” TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 85 Note 5 Marketable securities and investment securities (1) Information on securities held by the Companies at March 31, 2015, is as follows: (a) There were no held-to-maturity debt securities with fair values at March 31, 2015. (b) The following table summarizes acquisition costs and book values (fair values) of available-for-sale securities with fair values as of March 31, 2015. Millions of yen 2015 Acquisition cost Book value Difference Securities with book values exceeding acquisition costs: Corporate shares ¥48,460 ¥ 83,696 ¥35,236 Securities with book values not exceeding acquisition costs: Corporate shares 2,364 2,144 (220) Negotiable certificates of deposit 25,000 25,000 — Total ¥75,824 ¥110,840 ¥35,016 (c) Total sales of available-for-sale securities in the year ended March 31, 2015, and the related gains and losses amounted to ¥1,576 million, ¥95 million and ¥134 million, respectively. (d) Available-for-sale securities with no fair values as of March 31, 2015, consisted mostly of non-listed equity securities, bonds and others amounting to ¥3,132 million, ¥2 million and ¥1,245 million, respectively. (e) Impairment loss on available-for-sale securities of ¥0 million was recognized as of March 31, 2015. (2) Information on securities held by the Companies at March 31, 2016, is as follows: (a) There were no held-to-maturity debt securities with fair values at March 31, 2016. (b) The following table summarizes acquisition costs and book values (fair values) of available-for-sale securities with fair values as of March 31, 2016. Millions of yen 2016 Acquisition cost Book value Difference Securities with book values exceeding acquisition costs: Corporate shares ¥12,576 ¥ 41,851 ¥29,275 Securities with book values not exceeding acquisition costs: Corporate shares 37,471 32,841 (4,630) Negotiable certificates of deposit 29,000 29,000 — Total ¥79,047 ¥103,692 ¥24,645 Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 Acquisition cost Book value Difference Securities with book values exceeding acquisition costs: Corporate shares $111,608 $371,415 $259,807 Securities with book values not exceeding acquisition costs: Corporate shares 332,543 291,453 (41,090) Negotiable certificates of deposit 257,366 257,366 — Total $701,517 $920,234 $218,717 86 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 DATA SECTION (c) Total sales of available-for-sale securities in the year ended March 31, 2016, and the related gains and losses amounted to ¥848 million ($7,526 thousand), ¥71 million ($630 thousand) and ¥81 million ($719 thousand), respectively. (d) Available-for-sale securities with no fair values as of March 31, 2016, consisted mostly of non-listed equity securities and others amounting to ¥3,813 million ($33,839 thousand) and ¥1,575 million ($13,978 thousand), respectively. (e) Impairment loss on available-for-sale securities of ¥567 million ($ 5,032 thousand) was recognized as of March 31, 2016. Note 6 Derivative transactions (1) The following tables summarize market value information of outstanding derivative transactions as of March 31, 2015 for which hedge accounting is not applied. Outstanding positions, for which gains and losses were recognized in the consolidated financial statements as of March 31, 2015, were as follows: Currency-related derivatives Millions of yen 2015 Amount of principal Recognized gain Contract amount due over one year Fair value (loss) Foreign currency swap transactions: Japanese yen received for Euro ¥ 5,672 ¥ — ¥ 388 ¥ 388 U.S. dollars received for Euro ¥ 7,168 ¥ 3,910 ¥ 919 ¥ 919 U.S. dollars received for Japanese yen ¥12,350 ¥12,350 ¥6,776 ¥6,776 Foreign currency forward contract transactions: Sell: U.S. dollars ¥ 4,257 ¥ 1,281 ¥ (396) ¥ (396) Sell: Euro ¥ 1,769 ¥ — ¥ 91 ¥ 91 Sell: Renminbi ¥ 112 ¥ — ¥ (6) ¥ (6) Sell: Japanese yen ¥ 308 ¥ — ¥ (3) ¥ (3) Sell: Thai bahts ¥ 3 ¥ — ¥ 0 ¥ 0 Buy: U.S. dollars ¥ 521 ¥ — ¥ 1 ¥ 1 Buy: Euro ¥ 175 ¥ — ¥ 0 ¥ 0 Buy: Renminbi ¥ 4 ¥ — ¥ 0 ¥ 0 Buy: British pounds ¥ 0 ¥ — ¥ 0 ¥ 0 Buy: Japanese yen ¥ 1,828 ¥ — ¥ (2) ¥ (2) (2) The following tables summarize market value information of outstanding derivative transactions as of March 31, 2015 for which hedge accounting is applied. Currency-related derivatives: Principle-based method Millions of yens 2015 Amount of principal Contract amount due over one year Fair value Foreign currency forward contract transactions: Sell: U.S. dollars ¥28,716 ¥14,463 ¥(3,873) Sell: Euro ¥ 758 ¥ — ¥ 41 Sell: Renminbi ¥ 448 ¥ — ¥ (12) Buy: U.S. dollars ¥16,159 ¥ — ¥ 593 Buy: Euro ¥ 4 ¥ — ¥ 0 Buy: Renminbi ¥ 13 ¥ — ¥ 2 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 87 Interest rate-related derivatives: Principle-based method Millions of yen 2015 Amount of principal Contract amount due over one year Fair value Interest rate swap transactions: Receive variable rate in Euro, pay fixed rate in Euro ¥3,910 ¥3,910 ¥(54) Receive variable rate in Japanese yen, pay variable rate in Euro ¥5,672 ¥ — ¥ 14 Receive variable rate in U.S. dollars, pay fixed rate in Euro ¥7,168 ¥3,910 ¥(66) Interest rate-related derivatives: Special method Millions of yen 2015 Amount of principal Contract amount due over one year Fair value Interest rate swap transactions: Receive variable rate in Japanese yen, pay fixed rate in Japanese yen ¥97,650 ¥97,650 ¥— (3) The fair value of foreign currency forward contract transactions is based on the year-end forward rate. The fair value of foreign currency swap transactions and interest rate swap transactions is based on the prices presented by the counterpart financial institutions. (4) Interest rate swaps to which special methods have been applied are included in long-term loans payable. Therefore, the fair value of interest rate swaps is included in the fair value of the hedged long-term loans payable. (5) The following tables summarize market value information of outstanding derivative transactions as of March 31, 2016 for which hedge accounting is not applied. Outstanding positions, for which gains and losses were recognized in the consolidated financial statements as of March 31, 2016, were as follows: Currency-related derivatives Millions of yen 2016 Amount of principal Recognized gain Contract amount due over one year Fair value (loss) Foreign currency swap transactions: U.S. dollars received for Euro ¥ 3,831 ¥ 3,831 ¥ (136) ¥ (136) U.S. dollars received for Japanese yen ¥12,350 ¥12,350 ¥5,499 ¥5,499 Foreign currency forward contract transactions: Sell: U.S. dollars ¥ 6,801 ¥ 914 ¥ (183) ¥ (183) Sell: Euro ¥ 1,851 ¥ — ¥ 22 ¥ 22 Sell: Japanese yen ¥ 465 ¥ 145 ¥ (6) ¥ (6) Buy: U.S. dollars ¥ 2,427 ¥ — ¥ (98) ¥ (98) Buy: Euro ¥ 79 ¥ — ¥ 1 ¥ 1 Buy: Renminbi ¥ 8 ¥ — ¥ 0 ¥ 0 Buy: British pounds ¥ 0 ¥ — ¥ 0 ¥ 0 Buy: Thai bahts ¥ 0 ¥ — ¥ 0 ¥ 0 Buy: Japanese yen ¥ 1,760 ¥ — ¥ 11 ¥ 11 88 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 DATA SECTION Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 Amount of principal Recognized gain Contract amount due over one year Fair value (loss) Foreign currency swap transactions: U.S. dollars received for Euro $ 33,999 $ 33,999 $ (1,207) $ (1,207) U.S. dollars received for Japanese yen $109,602 $109,602 $48,802 $48,802 Foreign currency forward contract transactions: Sell: U.S. dollars $ 60,357 $ 8,111 $ (1,624) $ (1,624) Sell: Euro $ 16,427 $ — $ 195 $ 195 Sell: Japanese yen $ 4,127 $ 1,287 $ (53) $ (53) Buy: U.S. dollars $ 21,539 $ — $ (870) $ (870) Buy: Euro $ 701 $ — $ 9 $ 9 Buy: Renminbi $ 71 $ — $ 0 $ 0 Buy: British pounds $ 0 $ — $ 0 $ 0 Buy: Thai bahts $ 0 $ — $ 0 $ 0 Buy: Japanese yen $ 15,619 $ — $ 98 $ 98 (6) The following tables summarize market value information of outstanding derivative transactions as of March 31, 2016 for which hedge accounting is applied. Currency-related derivatives: Principle-based method Millions of yen 2016 Amount of principal Contract amount due over one year Fair value Foreign currency forward contract transactions: Sell: U.S. dollars ¥21,985 ¥7,889 ¥ (557) Sell: Euro ¥ 824 ¥ — ¥ 5 Sell: Renminbi ¥ 13 ¥ — ¥ 0 Sell: Thai bahts ¥ 0 ¥ — ¥ 0 Sell: Japanese yen ¥ 2,093 ¥1,317 ¥ (20) Buy: U.S. dollars ¥24,354 ¥ — ¥(1,083) Buy: Euro ¥ 91 ¥ — ¥ 0 Buy: British pounds ¥ 4 ¥ — ¥ 0 Buy: Thai bahts ¥ 1 ¥ — ¥ 0 Buy: Renminbi ¥ 56 ¥ — ¥ 0 Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 Amount of principal Contract amount due over one year Fair value Foreign currency forward contract transactions: Sell: U.S. dollars $195,110 $70,012 $(4,943) Sell: Euro $ 7,313 $ — $ 44 Sell: Renminbi $ 115 $ — $ 0 Sell: Thai bahts $ 0 $ — $ 0 Sell: Japanese yen $ 18,575 $11,688 $ (177) Buy: U.S. dollars $216,134 $ — $(9,612) Buy: Euro $ 808 $ — $ 0 Buy: British pounds $ 35 $ — $ 0 Buy: Thai bahts $ 9 $ — $ 0 Buy: Renminbi $ 497 $ — $ 0 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 89 Interest rate-related derivatives: Principle-based method Millions of yen 2016 Amount of principal Contract amount due over one year Fair value Interest rate swap transactions: Receive variable rate in Euro, pay fixed rate in Euro ¥3,831 ¥ — ¥ (30) Receive variable rate in U.S. dollars, pay fixed rate in Euro ¥3,831 ¥3,831 ¥(129) Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 Amount of principal Contract amount due over one year Fair value Interest rate swap transactions: Receive variable rate in Euro, pay fixed rate in Euro $33,999 $ — $ (266) Receive variable rate in U.S. dollars, pay fixed rate in Euro $33,999 $33,999 $(1,145) Interest rate-related derivatives: Special method Millions of yen 2016 Amount of principal Contract amount due over one year Fair value Interest rate swap transactions: Receive variable rate in Japanese yen, pay fixed rate in Japanese yen ¥97,650 ¥77,650 ¥— Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 Amount of principal Contract amount due over one year Fair value Interest rate swap transactions: Receive variable rate in Japanese yen, pay fixed rate in Japanese yen $866,613 $689,120 $— (7) The fair value of foreign currency forward contract transactions is based on the year-end forward rate. The fair value of foreign currency swap transactions and interest rate swap transactions is based on the prices presented by the counterpart financial institutions. (8) Interest rate swaps to which special methods have been applied are included in long-term loans payable. Therefore, the fair value of interest rate swaps is included in the fair value of the hedged long-term loans payable. Note 7 Inventories Inventories at March 31, 2015 and 2016 consisted of the following: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2015 2016 2016 Finished goods ¥ 78,358 ¥ 85,965 $ 762,913 Work in process 8,194 7,739 68,681 Raw materials 23,635 21,527 191,045 Supplies 5,147 5,212 46,255 Total ¥115,334 ¥120,443 $1,068,894 90 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 DATA SECTION Note 8 Loans payable Short-term loans payable were represented by bank overdrafts and short-term notes with average annual interest rates of approximately 1.2% and 1.3% in 2015 and 2016, respectively. Long-term loans payable at March 31, 2015 and 2016 consisted of the following: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2015 2016 2016 Unsecured: Banks and insurance companies at 0.1–0.7%, maturing serially through 2026 ¥123,650 ¥148,659 $1,319,303 1.8% bonds, due 2015 15,000 — — 0.7% bonds, due 2019 15,000 15,000 133,120 Zero coupon convertible bonds, due 2018 20,092 20,067 178,088 Zero coupon convertible bonds, due 2021 20,096 20,081 178,213 0.2% medium-term notes, due 2015 6,060 — — Loans denominated in foreign currencies (principally U.S. dollars) at 0.0–2.4%, maturing serially through 2020 50,437 42,480 376,997 Lease obligations at 7.5%, maturing serially through 2047 1,484 1,483 13,161 251,819 247,770 2,198,882 Less amounts due within one year 41,923 27,800 246,717 Total ¥209,896 ¥219,970 $1,952,165 The aggregate annual maturities of long-term loans payable at March 31, 2016, were as follows: Thousands of Year ending March 31 Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2017 ¥ 27,800 $246,717 2018 51,731 459,097 2019 35,823 317,918 2020 21,677 192,376 2021 and thereafter 110,590 981,450 Note 9 Employees’ retirement benefits (1) Funded contributory pension plan as of March 31, 2015 (a) Projected benefit obligation at beginning and end of year (excludes benefits of companies to which the simplified method is applied) Millions of yen 2015 Balance at April 1, 2014 ¥76,048 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting policies (2,164) Restated balance 73,884 Service cost 2,334 Interest cost 591 Actuarial loss (gain) 1,704 Benefits paid (6,135) Other (357) Balance at March 31, 2015 ¥72,021 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 91 (b) Fair value of plan assets at beginning and end of year (excludes benefits of companies to which the simplified method is applied) Millions of yen 2015 Balance at April 1, 2014 ¥75,927 Expected return on plan assets 655 Actuarial loss (gain) 5,300 Contributions paid by the employer 578 Benefits paid (5,021) Other (74) Balance at March 31, 2015 ¥77,365 (c) Projected benefit obligation at beginning and end of year of the companies to which the simplified method is applied Millions of yen 2015 Balance at April 1, 2014 ¥1,246 Retirement benefit costs 292 Benefits paid (105) Contributions paid by the employer (263) Other (2) Balance at March 31, 2015 ¥1,168 (d) Adjustments to reconcile projected benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets at end of year with the difference between net defined benefit liability and net defined benefit asset recognized in the consolidated balance sheets Millions of yen 2015 Funded retirement benefit obligations ¥ 75,208 Plan assets (80,228) (5,020) Unfunded retirement benefit obligations 842 Total net liability (asset) for retirement benefits at March 31, 2015 ¥ (4,178) Liability for retirement benefits ¥ 30,407 Asset for retirement benefits (34,585) Total net liability (asset) for retirement benefits at March 31, 2015 ¥ (4,178) Note: This calculation includes benefits of companies to which the simplified valuation method is applied. (e) Severance and retirement benefit costs Millions of yen 2015 Service cost ¥ 2,334 Interest cost 591 Expected return on plan assets (655) Net actuarial loss amortization (1,385) Past service costs amortization 314 Total retirement benefit costs for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, based on the simplified method 292 Other (Extra retirement payments, etc.) 3,220 Total retirement benefit costs for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 ¥ 4,711 92 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 DATA SECTION (f) Remeasurements of defined benefit plans Components of remeasurements of defined benefit plans, excluding the impact of tax effect accounting, and the value thereof were as follows: Millions of yen 2015 Past service costs ¥ 314 Actuarial gains and losses 2,412 Total balance at March 31, 2015 ¥2,726 (g) Accumulated remeasurements of defined benefit plans Components of accumulated remeasurements of defined benefit plans, excluding the impact of tax effect accounting, and the value thereof were as follows: Millions of yen 2015 Past service costs that are yet to be recognized ¥ (314) Actuarial gains and losses that are yet to be recognized 1,162 Total balance at March 31, 2015 ¥ 848 (h) Composition of plan assets The composition of plan assets was as follows: 2015 Equity securities 21% Debt securities 45% General accounts 18% Other 16% Total 100% (i) Determination of long-term expected rate of return on plan assets The long-term expected rate of return on plan assets is determined by considering the current and projected future allocation of plan assets and present and future estimates for long-term investment returns calculated based on the diverse range of assets comprising plan assets. (j) Actuarial assumptions Actuarial assumptions used at March 31, 2015, were as follows: 2015 Discount rate (funded contributory pension plan) Mainly 0.1% Debt securities (lump-sum benefit plan) Mainly 0.8% Long-term expected rate of return on plan assets Mainly 0.7% (2) Defined contribution pension plans as of March 31, 2015 Contributions to the defined contribution pension plans of the Companies totaled ¥3,304 million. TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 93 (3) Multi-employer pension plans as of March 31, 2015 The Teijin Group’s contributions to multi-employer pension plans, for which contributions are negotiated, as well as contributions to defined contribution plans, totaled ¥1,900 million. The funded status of the multiemployer contributory funded pension plans at December 31, 2014 (based on information available as of March 31, 2015), for which contributions are recorded as net periodic retirement benefit costs by the Companies, is as follows: Millions of yen 2015 Fair value of plan assets ¥ 2,513,612 Benefit obligation in the calculation of pension financing (2,414,960) Difference ¥ 98,652 Companies’ contribution percentage for multiemployer contributory funded pension plans* 5.5% * This percentage shows the Companies’ portion of the total estimated annual contribution to the plans, which is not necessarily equal to the actual percentage of the Companies’ portion against the funded status in the above table. (4) Funded contributory pension plan as of March 31, 2016 (a) Projected benefit obligation at beginning and end of year (excludes benefits of companies to which the simplified method is applied) Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2016 2016 Balance at April 1, 2015 ¥72,021 $639,164 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting policies — — Restated balance 72,021 639,164 Service cost 2,530 22,453 Interest cost 437 3,878 Actuarial loss (gain) 821 7,286 Benefits paid (6,926) (61,466) Other (153) (1,358) Balance at March 31, 2016 ¥68,730 $609,957 (b) Fair value of plan assets at beginning and end of year (excludes benefits of companies to which the simplified method is applied) Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2016 2016 Balance at April 1, 2015 ¥77,365 $686,590 Expected return on plan assets 627 5,564 Actuarial loss (gain) (1,544) (13,703) Contributions paid by the employer 560 4,970 Benefits paid (4,745) (42,110) Other (17) (150) Balance at March 31, 2016 ¥72,246 $641,161 94 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 DATA SECTION (c) Projected benefit obligation at beginning and end of year of the companies to which the simplified method is applied Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2016 2016 Balance at April 1, 2015 ¥1,168 $10,366 Retirement benefit costs 420 3,727 Benefits paid (111) (985) Contributions paid by the employer (267) (2,370) Other 194 1,722 Balance at March 31, 2016 ¥1,404 $12,460 (d) Adjustments to reconcile projected benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets at end of year with the difference between net defined benefit liability and net defined benefit asset recognized in the consolidated balance sheets Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2016 2016 Funded retirement benefit obligations ¥ 71,386 $ 633,529 Plan assets (74,499) (661,155) (3,113) (27,627) Unfunded retirement benefit obligations 1,000 8,875 Total net liability (asset) for retirement benefits at March 31, 2016 ¥ (2,113) $ (18,752) Liability for retirement benefits ¥ 30,440 $ 270,146 Asset for retirement benefits (32,553) (288,898) Total net liability (asset) for retirement benefits at March 31, 2016 ¥ (2,113) $ (18,752) Note: This calculation includes benefits of companies to which the simplified valuation method is applied. (e) Severance and retirement benefit costs Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2016 2016 Service cost ¥ 2,530 $ 22,453 Interest cost 437 3,878 Expected return on plan assets (627) (5,564) Net actuarial loss amortization (1,220) (10,827) Past service costs amortization 314 2,787 Total retirement benefit costs for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016, based on the simplified method 420 3,727 Other (Extra retirement payments, etc.) 1,162 10,312 Total retirement benefit costs for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 ¥ 3,016 $ 26,766 (f) Remeasurements of defined benefit plans Components of remeasurements of defined benefit plans, excluding the impact of tax effect accounting, and the value thereof were as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2016 2016 Past service costs ¥ 314 $ 2,787 Actuarial gains and losses (3,573) (31,709) Total balance at March 31, 2016 ¥(3,259) $(28,922) TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 95 (g) Accumulated remeasurements of defined benefit plans Components of accumulated remeasurements of defined benefit plans, excluding the impact of tax effect accounting, and the value thereof were as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2016 2016 Past service costs that are yet to be recognized ¥ — $ — Actuarial gains and losses that are yet to be recognized (1,446) (12,833) Total balance at March 31, 2016 ¥(1,446) $(12,833) (h) Composition of plan assets The composition of plan assets was as follows: 2016 Equity securities 17% Debt securities 33% General accounts 18% Other 32% Total 100% (i) Determination of long-term expected rate of return on plan assets The long-term expected rate of return on plan assets is determined by considering the current and projected future allocation of plan assets and present and future estimates for long-term investment returns calculated based on the diverse range of assets comprising plan assets. (j) Actuarial assumptions Actuarial assumptions used at March 31, 2016, were as follows: 2016 Discount rate (funded contributory pension plan) Mainly 0.1% Debt securities (lump-sum benefit plan) Mainly 0.8% Long-term expected rate of return on plan assets Mainly 0.7% (5) Defined contribution pension plans as of March 31, 2016 Contributions to the defined contribution pension plans of the Companies totaled ¥2,357 million ($20,918 thousand). (6) Multi-employer pension plans as of March 31, 2016 The Teijin Group’s contributions to multi-employer pension plans, for which contributions are negotiated, as well as contributions to defined contribution plans, totaled ¥1,858 million ($16,489 thousand). The funded status of the multi-employer contributory funded pension plans at December 31, 2015 (based on information available as of March 31, 2016), for which contributions are recorded as net periodic retirement benefit costs by the Companies, is as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2016 2016 Fair value of plan assets ¥ 2,723,713 $ 24,172,107 Benefit obligation in the calculation of pension financing (2,729,715) (24,225,373) Difference ¥ (6,002) $ (53,266) Companies’ contribution percentage for multiemployer contributory funded pension plans* 4.0% * This percentage shows the Companies’ portion of the total estimated annual contribution to the plans, which is not necessarily equal to the actual percentage of the Companies’ portion against the funded status in the above table. 96 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 DATA SECTION Note 10 Net assets Under Japanese laws and regulations, the entire amount of the issue reserve is included in retained earnings in the accompanying consoliprice of shares is required to be accounted for as common stock, dated balance sheets. although a company may, by resolution of its Board of Directors, Legal earnings reserve and additional paid-in capital may be used to account for an amount not exceeding one-half of the issue price of the eliminate or reduce a deficit or may be capitalized by a resolution of the new shares as additional paid-in capital. shareholders’ meeting. All additional paid-in capital and all legal earnUnder the Japanese Corporate Law, in cases where dividend distriings reserve may be transferred to other capital surplus and retained bution of surplus is made, the smaller of an amount equal to 10% of earnings, respectively, which are potentially available for dividends. The the dividend and excess, if any, of 25% of common stock over the maximum amount that the Company can distribute as dividends is total of additional paid-in capital and legal earnings reserve must be calculated based on the unconsolidated financial statements of the set aside as additional paid-in capital or legal earnings reserve. AddiCompany in accordance with Japanese laws and regulations. tional paid-in capital is included in capital surplus and legal earnings At the Board of Directors’ meeting held on May 6, 2016, appropriations of retained earnings for year-end dividends applicable to the year ended March 31, 2016, were duly approved as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Cash dividends: ¥4.00 ($0.04) per share ¥3,933 $34,904 Note 11 Impairment loss The Companies accounted for impairment losses for the year ended March 31, 2015 as follows: Impairment loss Location Purpose of use Type of assets Millions of yen Singapore Performance Polymer Products facilities Machinery, etc. ¥ 9,563 Anpachi Town in Gifu Prefecture and others Performance Polymer Products facilities Machinery, goodwill, etc. 5,972 Matsuyama City in Ehime Prefecture Polymerization facilities, etc. Machinery, etc. 5,062 California, the U.S. Pharmaceuticals and home healthcare business Goodwill, etc. 4,558 Tokuyama City in Yamaguchi Prefecture Power facilities, etc. Machinery, etc. 1,150 Others — — 4,071 Total ¥30,376 The Companies set up asset groupings by business unit for which the profit or loss is continually monitored. Idle assets, which are not being used for business, are separately treated. Among the assets used for business purposes, certain production facilities were devalued to the recoverable amount. The difference between carrying amounts and recoverable amounts was recorded as “Impairment loss” amounting to ¥30,376 million. The recoverable amount was measured at net sale value or value in use. Net sale value is calculated based on the current sales price of the asset and other factors. Value in use is calculated based on the discounted future cash flows with discount rates of 6–20%. Certain consolidated subsidiaries accounted for impairment losses for the year ended March 31, 2016, as follows: Impairment loss Thousands of Location Purpose of use Type of assets Millions of yen U.S. dollars Utsunomiya City in Tochigi Prefecture and others Performance Polymer Products facilities Machinery, etc. ¥4,801 $42,607 California, the U.S. Pharmaceuticals and home healthcare business Goodwill, etc. 1,295 11,493 Others — — 1,469 13,037 Total ¥7,565 $67,137 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 97 The Companies set up asset groupings by business unit for which “Impairment loss” amounting to ¥7,565 million ($67,137 thousand). the profit or loss is continually monitored. Idle assets, which are not The recoverable amount was measured at net sale value or value in being used for business, are separately treated. use. Net sale value is calculated based on the current sales price of Among the assets used for business purposes, certain production the asset and other factors. Value in use is calculated based on the facilities were devalued to the recoverable amount. The difference discounted future cash flows with discount rates of 5–15%. between carrying and recoverable amounts was recorded as Note 12 Consolidated statements of comprehensive income Components of other comprehensive income for the years ended March 31, 2015 and 2016 consisted of the following: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2015 2016 2016 Valuation difference on available-for-sale securities: Increase (decrease) during the year ¥19,212 ¥(10,420) $ (92,474) Reclassification adjustments (26) 25 222 Subtotal, before tax ¥19,186 ¥(10,395) $ (92,252) Tax (expense) or benefit (5,718) 3,912 34,717 Subtotal, net of tax ¥13,468 ¥ (6,483) $ (57,535) Deferred gains (losses) on hedges: Increase (decrease) during the year ¥ (3,846) ¥ 4,196 $ 37,238 Reclassification adjustments (873) (2,674) (23,731) Subtotal, before tax ¥ (4,719) ¥ 1,522 $ 13,507 Tax (expense) or benefit 1,132 (256) (2,272) Subtotal, net of tax ¥ (3,587) ¥ 1,266 $ 11,235 Foreign currency translation adjustments: Increase (decrease) during the year ¥ 1,137 ¥ (6,059) $ (53,772) Reclassification adjustments — 215 1,908 Subtotal, before tax ¥ 1,137 ¥ (5,844) $ (51,864) Tax (expense) or benefit 2,859 (212) (1,880) Subtotal, net of tax ¥ 3,996 ¥ (6,056) $ (53,744) Remeasurements of defined benefit plans: Increase (decrease) during the year ¥ 3,773 ¥ (2,396) $ (21,264) Reclassification adjustments (1,047) (864) (7,667) Subtotal, before tax ¥ 2,726 ¥ (3,260) $ (28,931) Tax (expense) or benefit (988) 1,185 10,516 Subtotal, net of tax ¥ 1,738 ¥ (2,075) $ (18,415) Share of other comprehensive income of associates accounted for using the equity method: Increase (decrease) during the year ¥ 396 ¥ (194) $ (1,722) Reclassification adjustments 25 120 1,065 Subtotal ¥ 421 ¥ (74) $ (657) Total other comprehensive income ¥16,036 ¥(13,422) $(119,116) 98 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 DATA SECTION Note 13 Income taxes The Company is subject to a number of taxes based on income, purposes for the year ended March 31, 2016. which, in the aggregate, indicate a statutory rate in Japan of approxiDue to loss before income tax for the year ended March 31, 2015, mately 32.9% for the year ended March 31, 2016. The following table reconciliation between the effective tax rate and the actual income tax summarizes the significant differences between the Company’s effecrate is omitted. tive tax rate and the actual income tax rate for financial statement 2015 2016 Effective tax rate — 32.9% Non-deductible expenses — 0.5 Per capita inhabitants’ taxes — 0.4 Difference in statutory tax rate between Japan and other countries — (7.0) Equity in earnings of affiliates — 2.1 Amortization of goodwill — 0.9 Changes in valuation allowance — 9.0 Refund of income taxes — (6.2) Decrease in statutory tax rate — 2.0 Other — 1.3 Actual income tax rate — 35.9% The Act on the Partial Amendment of the Income Tax Act, etc. (Act Valuation difference on available-for-sale securities increased by ¥364 No. 15, 2016) and the Act on the Partial Amendment of the Local Tax million ($3,234 thousand), and remeasurements of defined benefit Act, etc. (Act No. 13, 2016) were enacted in the Diet session on plans increased by ¥9 million ($76 thousand). Deferred gains (losses) March 29, 2016. Accordingly, the income tax rate and other related on hedges increased by ¥16 million ($141 thousand), and foreign matters for fiscal years commencing on or after April 1, 2016, have currency translation adjustments declined by ¥141 million ($1,256 been revised. Thus, the effective statutory tax rate used to calculate thousand). deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities was changed from the Furthermore, the limit for deductions of loss carryforwards has previous 32.1% to 30.7% in connection with the temporary difference been amended to an amount equivalent to 60% of taxable income that is expected to be recovered or settled in the fiscal years combefore deduction of loss carryforwards for fiscal years commencing mencing on April 1, 2016 and 2017. The effective statutory tax rate on or after April 1, 2016, an amount equivalent to 55% of taxable used to calculate deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities was income before deduction of loss carryforwards for fiscal years comchanged from 32.1% to 30.5% in connection with the temporary mencing on or after April 1, 2017, and an amount equivalent to 50% difference that is expected to be recovered or settled in the fiscal of taxable income before deduction of loss carryforwards for fiscal year commencing on April 1, 2018. years commencing on or after April 1, 2018. Accordingly, the amount As a result of this change in tax rate, the amount of deferred tax of deferred tax assets decreased by ¥10 million ($91 thousand) and assets (less the amount of deferred tax liabilities) declined by ¥704 income taxes-deferred posted in the current fiscal year declined by million ($6,250 thousand), while income taxes-deferred posted in the the same amount. current fiscal year increased by ¥920 million ($8,163 thousand). TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 99 Significant components of the Companies’ deferred tax assets and liabilities as of March 31, 2015 and 2016 are as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2015 2016 2016 Deferred tax assets: Excess bonuses accrued ¥ 3,784 ¥ 4,530 $ 40,202 Provision for loss on guarantees 154 143 1,269 Write-down of investment securities 2,696 1,379 12,238 Retirement benefits 6,583 6,699 59,452 Accumulated impairment loss 12,538 12,494 110,880 Net operating loss carry forwards 47,071 44,393 393,974 Other 22,998 21,456 190,415 Total ¥ 95,824 ¥ 91,094 $ 808,430 Valuation allowance (65,187) (62,402) (553,798) Total deferred tax assets ¥ 30,637 ¥ 28,692 $ 254,632 Offset with deferred tax liabilities (19,639) (16,157) (143,388) Net deferred tax assets ¥ 10,998 ¥ 12,535 $ 111,244 Deferred tax liabilities: Adjustments to fixed assets based on Corporate Tax Law ¥ (4,790) ¥ (4,469) $ (39,661) Accelerated depreciation of foreign subsidiaries’ fixed assets (1,276) (980) (8,697) Tax effect of foreign subsidiaries’ undistributed earnings (2,305) (3,085) (27,378) Adjustment of carrying amount based on fair value (4,474) (4,236) (37,593) Valuation difference on available-for-sale securities (10,647) (6,732) (59,745) Other (2,470) (2,347) (20,829) Total deferred tax liabilities ¥(25,962) ¥(21,849) $(193,903) Offset with deferred tax assets 19,639 16,157 143,388 Net deferred tax liabilities ¥ (6,323) ¥ (5,692) $ (50,515) Note 14 Leases Operating leases as lessee Future minimum lease payments for the remaining lease periods as of March 31, 2015 and 2016 are as follows. Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2015 2016 2016 Due within one year ¥ 385 ¥200 $1,775 Due over one year 2,649 702 6,230 Total ¥3,034 ¥902 $8,005 Note 15 Stock option plans Information on stock option plans at March 31, 2016, is as shown below. Teijin Limited The account and the amounts related to stock options in the years ended March 31, 2015 and 2016 are as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Account 2015 2016 2016 Selling, general and administrative expenses ¥146 ¥99 $879 100 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 DATA SECTION The following tables summarize the contents of stock options as of March 31, 2016. Company name Teijin Limited Position and number of grantees Directors and Corporate Officers: 54 Class and number of stock Common Stock: 146,000 Date of issue July 10, 2006 Condition of settlement of rights No provisions Period grantees provide service in return for stock options No provisions Period subscription rights are to be exercised From July 10, 2006 to July 9, 2026 Company name Teijin Limited Position and number of grantees Directors and Corporate Officers: 55 Class and number of stock Common Stock: 207,000 Date of issue July 5, 2007 Condition of settlement of rights No provisions Period grantees provide service in return for stock options No provisions Period subscription rights are to be exercised From July 5, 2007 to July 4, 2027 Company name Teijin Limited Position and number of grantees Directors and Corporate Officers: 57 Class and number of stock Common Stock: 328,000 Date of issue July 7, 2008 Condition of settlement of rights No provisions Period grantees provide service in return for stock options No provisions Period subscription rights are to be exercised From July 7, 2008 to July 6, 2028 Company name Teijin Limited Position and number of grantees Directors and Corporate Officers: 57 Class and number of stock Common Stock: 420,000 Date of issue July 9, 2009 Condition of settlement of rights No provisions Period grantees provide service in return for stock options No provisions Period subscription rights are to be exercised From July 9, 2009 to July 8, 2029 Company name Teijin Limited Position and number of grantees Directors and Corporate Officers: 55 Class and number of stock Common Stock: 349,000 Date of issue July 9, 2010 Condition of settlement of rights No provisions Period grantees provide service in return for stock options No provisions Period subscription rights are to be exercised From July 9, 2010 to July 8, 2030 Company name Teijin Limited Position and number of grantees Directors and Corporate Officers: 47 Class and number of stock Common Stock: 737,000 Date of issue March 12, 2012 Condition of settlement of rights No provisions Period grantees provide service in return for stock options No provisions Period subscription rights are to be exercised From March 12, 2012 to March 11, 2032 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 101 Company name Teijin Limited Position and number of grantees Directors and Corporate Officers: 38 Class and number of stock Common Stock: 698,000 Date of issue March 15, 2013 Condition of settlement of rights No provisions Period grantees provide service in return for stock options No provisions Period subscription rights are to be exercised From March 15, 2013 to March 14, 2033 Company name Teijin Limited Position and number of grantees Directors and Corporate Officers: 40 Class and number of stock Common Stock: 618,000 Date of issue March 14, 2014 Condition of settlement of rights No provisions Period grantees provide service in return for stock options No provisions Period subscription rights are to be exercised From March 14, 2014 to March 13, 2034 Company name Teijin Limited Position and number of grantees Directors and Corporate Officers: 32 Class and number of stock Common Stock: 379,000 Date of issue March 18, 2015 Condition of settlement of rights No provisions Period grantees provide service in return for stock options No provisions Period subscription rights are to be exercised From March 18, 2015 to March 17, 2035 Company name Teijin Limited Position and number of grantees Directors and Corporate Officers: 29 Class and number of stock Common Stock: 274,000 Date of issue March 16, 2016 Condition of settlement of rights No provisions Period grantees provide service in return for stock options No provisions Period subscription rights are to be exercised From March 16, 2016 to March 15, 2036 The following tables summarize the numbers and movements of stock options as of March 31, 2016. Non-exercisable stock options Shares Company name Teijin Limited 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2013 2014 2015 2016 Stock options outstanding at April 1, 2015 — — — — — — — — — — Stock options granted — — — — — — — — — 274,000 Forfeitures — — — — — — — — — — Conversion to exercisable stock options — — — — — — — — — 274,000 Stock options outstanding at March 31, 2016 — — — — — — — — — — 102 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 DATA SECTION Exercisable stock options Shares Company name Teijin Limited 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Stock options outstanding at April 1, 2015 32,000 60,000 138,000 261,000 262,000 630,000 643,000 618,000 379,000 — Conversion from non-exercisable stock options — — — — — — — — — 274,000 Stock options exercised 13,000 28,000 55,000 88,000 90,000 109,000 71,000 33,000 — — Forfeitures — — — — — — — — — — Stock options outstanding at March 31, 2016 19,000 32,000 83,000 173,000 172,000 521,000 572,000 585,000 379,000 274,000 The following table summarizes value information of stock options as of March 31, 2016. Yen Company name Teijin Limited 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Paid-in value ¥ 1 ¥ 1 ¥ 1 ¥ 1 ¥ 1 ¥ 1 ¥ 1 ¥ 1 ¥ 1 ¥ 1 Average market price of the stock at the time of exercise ¥433 ¥428 ¥428 ¥427 ¥423 ¥426 ¥420 ¥420 ¥ — ¥ — Fair value at the date of grant ¥663 ¥610 ¥307 ¥253 ¥261 ¥245 ¥196 ¥228 ¥385 ¥360 The method of estimation for the fair value of stock options granted in the year ended March 31, 2016, is as follows: Method of valuation Black–Scholes Model Volatility 31% Expected remaining period 5.5 years Expected dividend ¥5.00 per share Interest rate without any risks 0.18% Infocom Corporation The account and the amounts related to stock options in the years ended March 31, 2015 and 2016 are as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Account 2015 2016 2016 Selling, general and administrative expenses ¥16 ¥30 $266 The following tables summarize the contents of stock options as of March 31, 2016. Company name Infocom Corporation Position and number of grantees Directors and Corporate Officers: 5 Class and number of stock Common Stock: 36,200 Date of issue May 31, 2013 Condition of settlement of rights No provisions Period grantees provide service in return for stock options No provisions Period subscription rights are to be exercised From June 1, 2013 to May 31, 2043 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 103 Company name Infocom Corporation Position and number of grantees Directors and Corporate Officers: 6 Class and number of stock Common Stock: 23,000 Date of issue June 6, 2014 Condition of settlement of rights No provisions Period grantees provide service in return for stock options No provisions Period subscription rights are to be exercised From June 7, 2014 to June 6, 2044 Company name Infocom Corporation Position and number of grantees Directors and Corporate Officers: 7 Class and number of stock Common Stock: 26,800 Date of issue June 9, 2015 Condition of settlement of rights No provisions Period grantees provide service in return for stock options No provisions Period subscription rights are to be exercised From June 10, 2015 to June 9, 2045 The following tables summarize the number and movements of stock options as of March 31 2016. Non-exercisable stock options Shares Company name Infocom Corporation 2014 2015 2016 Stock options outstanding at April 1, 2015 — — — Stock options granted — — 26,800 Forfeitures — — — Conversion to exercisable stock options — — 26,800 Stock options outstanding at March 31, 2016 — — — Exercisable stock options Stocks Company name Infocom Corporation 2014 2015 2016 Stock options outstanding at April 1, 2015 36,200 23,000 — Conversion from nonexercisable stock options — — 26,800 Stock options exercised — — — Forfeitures — — — Stock options outstanding at March 31, 2016 36,200 23,000 26,800 The following table summarizes value information of stock options as of March 31, 2016. Yen Company name Infocom Corporation 2014 2015 2016 Paid-in value ¥ 1 ¥ 1 ¥ 1 Average market price of the stock at the time of exercise ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — Fair value at the date of grant ¥143,839 ¥144,800 ¥227,000 104 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 DATA SECTION The method of estimation for the fair value of stock options granted in the year ended March 31, 2016, is as follows: Method of valuation Black–Scholes Model Volatility 42.6% Expected remaining period 8.6 years Expected dividend rate 1.37% Interest rate without any risks 0.39% Note 16 Segment information (1) Reportable operating segment information The Company’s reportable operating segments are components of an entity for which separate financial information is available and evaluated regularly by its chief decision-making authority in determining the allocation of management resources and in assessing performance. Up to and including the year ended March 31, 2016, the Company has divided its operations into business groups based on the type of product, nature of business and services provided. The business groups formulate product and service strategies in a comprehensive manner in Japan and overseas. Accordingly, the Company divided its operations into four reportable operating segments on the same basis as applied internally: Advanced Fibers and Composites; Electronics Materials and Performance Polymer Products; Healthcare; and Trading and Retail. The description of each segment is as follows: Advanced Fibers and Composites: Production and sales of aramid fibers, carbon fibers, polyester fibers and composites for industrial applications Electronics Materials and Performance Polymer Products: Production and sales of films and resins for various industrial applications Healthcare: Production and sales of prescription and non-prescription drugs and production, sales and rental of home healthcare devices Trading and Retail: Trading and retail of polyester filaments, other fibers and polymer products (2) Accounting methods used to calculate segment sales, segment income, segment assets and other items for reportable operating segments Accounts for reportable operating segments are for the most part calculated in line with generally accepted standards for the preparation of consolidated financial statements. Segment income for reportable operating segments is based on operating income. Amounts for intersegment transactions or transfers are calculated based on market prices or on prices determined using the cost-plus method. TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 105 (3) Segment sales, segment income, segment assets and other items for reportable operating segments Segment information for the years ended March 31, 2015 and 2016 is as shown below: Millions of yen 2015 Electronics Advanced Materials and Fibers and Performance Trading and Consolidated Composites Polymer Products Healthcare Retail Total Others total Sales: 1) External customers ¥135,529 ¥184,767 ¥141,723 ¥259,380 ¥721,399 ¥64,772 ¥786,171 2) Intersegment net sales and transfer 27,657 4,509 — 4,687 36,853 20,096 56,949 Net sales 163,186 189,276 141,723 264,067 758,252 84,868 843,120 Segment income 14,353 3,402 24,829 4,249 46,833 3,983 50,816 Segment assets 193,894 151,978 147,931 133,329 627,132 79,121 706,253 Other items: Depreciation 15,462 8,154 10,935 2,021 36,572 2,213 38,785 Amortization of goodwill 1,410 95 763 41 2,309 (48) 2,261 Investments in associates accounted for using the equity method 7,368 21,694 1,062 1,823 31,947 10,535 42,482 Increase in tangible and intangible fixed assets 10,034 1,676 11,232 2,025 24,967 2,296 27,263 Millions of yen 2016 Electronics Materials and Advanced Performance Fibers and Polymer Trading and Consolidated Composites Products Healthcare Retail Total Others total Sales: 1) External customers ¥133,017 ¥163,699 ¥147,501 ¥270,934 ¥715,151 ¥75,597 ¥790,748 2) Intersegment net sales and transfer 26,458 3,753 — 3,763 33,974 17,220 51,194 Net sales 159,475 167,452 147,501 274,697 749,125 92,817 841,942 Segment income 18,499 22,298 28,802 5,330 74,929 6,488 81,417 Segment assets 185,915 134,113 144,990 133,580 598,598 92,145 690,743 Other items: Depreciation 14,320 4,981 11,524 1,980 32,805 2,413 35,218 Amortization of goodwill 1,429 — 364 25 1,818 (113) 1,931 Investments in associates accounted for using the equity method 4,432 21,131 1,157 2,027 28,747 10,583 39,330 Increase in tangible and intangible fixed assets 12,575 2,505 13,793 2,930 31,803 4,910 36,713 106 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 DATA SECTION Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 Electronics Advanced Materials and Fibers and Performance Trading and Consolidated Composites Polymer Products Healthcare Retail Total Others total Sales: 1) External customers $1,180,484 $1,452,778 $1,309,026 $2,404,455 $6,346,743 $670,900 $7,017,643 2) Intersegment net sales and transfer 234,807 33,306 — 33,396 301,509 152,822 454,331 Net sales 1,415,291 1,486,084 1,309,026 2,437,851 6,648,252 823,722 7,471,331 Segment income 164,137 197,888 255,609 47,302 664,972 57,579 722,551 Segment assets 1,649,938 1,190,211 1,286,741 1,185,481 5,312,371 817,759 6,130,130 Other items: Depreciation 127,085 44,205 102,272 17,572 291,134 21,415 312,549 Amortization of goodwill 12,682 — 3,230 222 16,134 1,003 17,137 Investments in associates accounted for using the equity method 39,333 187,531 10,268 17,989 255,121 93,921 349,042 Increase in tangible and intangible fixed assets 111,599 22,231 122,409 26,003 282,242 43,575 325,817 Notes 1. “Others” includes the Company’s IT business and does not qualify as a reportable operating segment. 2. “Depreciation” and “Increase in tangible and intangible fixed assets” include long-term prepaid expenses and their amortization. Reconciliations of published figures and aggregates of reportable operating segments for the years ended March 31, 2015 and 2016 are as shown below: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Adjustment for net sales 2015 2016 2016 Reportable operating segments ¥758,252 ¥749,125 $6,648,252 Others 84,868 92,817 823,722 Elimination of intersegment transactions (56,949) (51,194) (454,331) Net sales ¥786,171 ¥790,748 $7,017,643 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Adjustment for operating income 2015 2016 2016 Reportable operating segments ¥ 46,833 ¥ 74,929 ¥ 664,973 Others 3,983 6,489 57,587 Elimination of intersegment transactions 129 (257) (2,281) Corporate expenses* (11,859) (14,031) (124,521) Operating income ¥ 39,086 ¥ 67,130 ¥ 595,758 * Corporate expenses are expenses that cannot be allocated to individual reportable operating segments and are primarily related to basic research and head office administration. Reconciliations of published figures and aggregates of reportable operating segments as of March 31, 2015 and 2016 are as shown below: TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 107 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Adjustment for assets 2015 2016 2016 Reportable operating segments $627,132 $598,598 $5,312,371 Others 79,121 92,145 817,758 Elimination of intersegment transactions 164,236 175,854 1,560,650 Corporate assets† (46,794) (43,168) (383,102) Total assets $823,695 $823,429 $7,307,677 † Corporate assets are assets that cannot be allocated to individual reportable operating segments and are primarily related to investments of the parent company in “Cash and time deposits” and “Investment securities,” etc. Millions of yen 2015 Reportable operating Other items segments Others Adjustment Total Depreciation ¥36,572 ¥2,213 ¥1,985 ¥40,770 Amortization of goodwill 2,309 (48) — 2,261 Investments in associates accounted for using the equity method 31,947 10,535 — 42,482 Increase in tangible and intangible fixed assets 24,967 2,296 835 28,098 Millions of yen 2016 Reportable operating Other items segments Others Adjustment Total Depreciation ¥32,805 ¥2,413 ¥1,745 ¥36,963 Amortization of goodwill 1,818 113 — 1,931 Investments in associates accounted for using the equity method 28,747 10,583 — 39,330 Increase in tangible and intangible fixed assets 31,803 4,910 1,628 38,341 Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 Reportable operating Other items segments Others Adjustment Total Depreciation $291,134 $21,415 $15,486 $328,035 Amortization of goodwill 16,134 1,003 — 17,137 Investments in associates accounted for using the equity method 253,594 123,376 — 376,970 Increase in tangible and intangible fixed assets 282,242 43,575 14,447 340,264 (4) Information by geographical segment 1. Net sales by region for the years ended March 31, 2015 and 2016 are as shown below: Millions of yen 2015 Japan China Asia Americas Europe and others Consolidated total ¥465,413 ¥121,286 ¥78,811 ¥56,534 ¥64,127 ¥786,171 Millions of yen 2016 Japan China Asia Americas Europe and others Consolidated total ¥473,320 ¥116,833 ¥76,362 ¥56,645 ¥67,588 ¥790,748 108 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 DATA SECTION Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 Japan China Asia Americas Europe and others Consolidated total $4,200,568 $1,036,857 $677,689 $502,707 $599,822 $7,017,643 2. Tangible fixed assets by region as of March 31, 2015 and 2016 are as shown below: Millions of yen 2015 Japan China Netherlands Asia Americas Europe Consolidated total ¥124,938 ¥22,235 ¥37,421 ¥16,144 ¥2,560 ¥5,585 ¥208,883 Millions of yen 2016 Japan China Netherlands Asia Americas Europe Consolidated total ¥124,030 ¥18,370 ¥31,663 ¥20,602 ¥3,299 ¥5,303 ¥203,267 Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 Japan China Netherlands Asia Americas Europe Consolidated total $1,100,728 $163,028 $280,999 $182,836 $29,278 $47,062 $1,803,931 (5) Information by major customer Information for the year ended March 31, 2016, is omitted as no single customer accounted for more than 10% of consolidated net sales as reported in the consolidated statements of operations. (6) Loss on impairment and goodwill by reportable operating segment Losses on impairment by reportable operating segment for the years ended March 31, 2015 and 2016 are as shown below: Millions of yen 2015 Electronics Advanced Materials and Fibers and Performance Trading and Elimination and Consolidated Composites Polymer Products Healthcare Retail Others corporate total Loss on impairment ¥2,041 ¥15,587 ¥4,558 ¥43 ¥8,147 ¥— ¥30,376 Millions of yen 2016 Electronics Advanced Materials and Fibers and Performance Trading and Elimination and Consolidated Composites Polymer Products Healthcare Retail Others corporate total Loss on impairment ¥500 ¥5,070 ¥1,312 ¥— ¥471 ¥212 ¥7,565 Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 Electronics Advanced Materials and Fibers and Performance Trading and Elimination and Consolidated Composites Polymer Products Healthcare Retail Others corporate total Loss on impairment $4,437 $44,995 $11,644 $— $4,180 $1,881 $67,137 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 109 Goodwill by reportable operating segment as of March 31, 2015 and 2016 is as shown below: Millions of yen 2015 Electronics Advanced Materials and Fibers and Performance Trading and Elimination and Consolidated Composites Polymer Products Healthcare Retail Others corporate total Amortization of goodwill ¥1,410 ¥95 ¥ 763 ¥ 41 ¥(48) ¥— ¥2,261 Balance as of March 31, 2015 ¥8,108 ¥— ¥1,193 ¥101 ¥ 7 ¥— ¥9,409 Millions of yen 2016 Electronics Advanced Materials and Fibers and Performance Trading and Elimination and Consolidated Composites Polymer Products Healthcare Retail Others corporate total Amortization of goodwill ¥1,429 ¥— ¥364 ¥25 ¥112 ¥— ¥1,931 Balance as of March 31, 2016 ¥6,697 ¥— ¥ 98 ¥76 ¥426 ¥— ¥7,297 Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 Electronics Advanced Materials and Fibers and Performance Trading and Elimination and Consolidated Composites Polymer Products Healthcare Retail Others corporate total Amortization of goodwill $12,682 $— $3,230 $222 $1,003 $— $17,137 Balance as of March 31, 2016 $59,434 $— $ 870 $674 $3,781 $— $64,759 Note 17 Contingent liabilities At March 31, 2015 and 2016, the Companies were contingently liable as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2015 2016 2016 (a) As endorser of notes discounted or endorsed ¥ 27 ¥ 1 $ 9 (b) As guarantors of indebtedness of: Unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates ¥ 8,896 ¥5,030 $44,640 Others 2,538 2,356 20,908 ¥11,434 ¥7,386 $65,548 (c) As guarantor of accounts receivable negotiated to third parties ¥ 1,885 ¥2,180 $19,347 Note 18 Asset retirement obligations Asset retirement obligations recorded in the consolidated balance sheets (1) Outline of asset retirement obligations Recorded asset retirement obligations are expenses such as costs for removal of asbestos from buildings owned by the Company when they are demolished and costs for restoration under the lease agreements of real estate in connection with land. (2) Calculation method of asset retirement obligations The Companies estimate that the period of use is from 1 to 10 years, and calculate the obligations using discount rates between 0.3% to 3.4%. 110 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 DATA SECTION (3) Changes in the total amount of asset retirement obligations In the year ended March 31, 2016, the estimated amount of obligation was changed as a more precise estimation, based on restoration contracts with third parties, for restoration to original condition became possible. Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2015 2016 2016 Beginning balance ¥1,246 ¥ 6,861 $ 60,889 Reconciliation associated with passage of time 168 79 701 Reconciliation associated with changes in accounting estimates 5,420 (2,397) (21,273) Decrease due to the fulfillment of asset retirement obligations (31) (312) (2,769) Other 58 (553) (4,907) Ending balance ¥6,861 ¥ 3,678 $ 32,641 Note 19 Subsequent events Change of the number of shares to constitute one unit and consolidation of shares The Company resolved at its Board of Directors’ meeting held on May 6, 2016 to change the number of shares to constitute one unit and to submit a proposal for consolidation of shares to the 150th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders to be held on June 22, 2016 (the “General Meeting of Shareholders”). The proposal was approved at the General Meeting of Shareholders. 1. Change of the number of shares to constitute one unit (1) Reason for change Japanese stock exchanges have announced the Action Plan for Consolidating Trading Units, aiming to consolidate one hundred (100) shares of common stock of domestic companies listed on Japanese stock exchanges into one (1) trading unit by October 2018. As a company listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange (“TSE”), the Company shall respect this intention and change its number of shares to constitute one unit to one hundred (100) shares. (“Change of the Number of Shares to Constitute One Unit”). (2) Particulars of change The number of shares to constitute one unit will be changed from 1,000 shares to 100 shares. 2. Consolidation of shares (1) Purpose of consolidation of shares As stated in “1. Change of the number of shares to constitute one unit” above, the Company has decided to change its number of shares to constitute one unit from one thousand (1,000) to one hundred (100) shares, and to consolidate the Company’s shares (five shares into one share) in order to maintain the level of investment unit considered desirable by the stock exchanges (50,000 yen or more and less than 500,000 yen). The Company decided to reduce its total number of authorized shares from 3,000,000,000 to 600,000,000. (2) Particulars of consolidation (i) Type of shares to be consolidated Common shares (ii) Consolidation ratio On October 1, 2016, shares held by shareholders recorded in the latest Shareholder Registry as of September 30, 2016 will be consolidated at the ratio of 5 shares to 1 share. (iii) Total number of authorized shares on the effective date 600,000,000 shares Pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act, it will be deemed that the article which stipulates the total number of authorized shares in the Articles of Incorporation is amended from 3,000,000,000 shares to 600,000,000 shares on the effective date (October 1, 2016) of the consolidation of shares. TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 111 (iv) Number of shares reduced through consolidation Total number of issued shares before consolidation (as of March 31, 2016) 984,758,665 shares Number of shares reduced through consolidation 787,806,932 shares Total number of issued shares after consolidation 196,951,733 shares (Note) The “Number of shares reduced through consolidation” and “Total number of issued shares after consolidation” are theoretical values calculated based on the total number of issued shares before consolidation of shares, and on the consolidation ratio. (v) Treatment of fractional shares If any fractional shares arise as a result of the consolidation of shares, pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act, the Company will sell all such fractional shares and distribute the proceeds to shareholders having fractional shares in proportion to their respective fractions 3. Schedule May 6, 2016 Resolution at the Board of Directors June 22, 2016 Resolution at General Meeting of Shareholders October 1, 2016 (tentative) Effective date of Change of the Number of Shares Constituting One Share Unit, consolidation of shares, and change in the total number of authorized shares 4. Impact on per share information Assuming that the consolidation of shares was conducted at the beginning of the year ended March 31, 2015, per share information for the years ended March 31, 2015 and 2016 is as follows. Yen U.S. dollars 2015 2016 2016 (1) Net assets per share ¥1,460.44 ¥1,526.16 $13.54 (2) Net income per share (41.14) 158.15 1.40 (3) Diluted Net income per share — 143.42 1.27 (Note) Diluted net income per share for the year ended March 31, 2015 is not calculated because of the net loss for the year although dilutive securities exist. Year-end dividends At the Board of Directors’ meeting held on May 6, 2016, appropriations of retained earnings for year-end dividends applicable to the year ended March 31, 2016 were duly approved as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Cash dividends: ¥4.00 ($0.04) per share ¥3,933 $34,904 112 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 DATA SECTION Independent Auditor’s Report TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 113 Independent Assurance Report 114 TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 DATA SECTION Corporate Data As of March 31, 2016 Established June 17, 1918 Head Offices Osaka Head Office Teijin Building 6-7, Minami Hommachi 1-chome, Chuo-ku, Osaka 541-8587, Japan Tel: +81-6-6268-2132 Tokyo Head Office Kasumigaseki Common Gate West Tower, 2-1, Kasumigaseki 3-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8585, Japan Tel: +81-3-3506-4529 Fiscal Year-End March 31 Common Stock Authorized 3,000,000,000 shares Common Stock Issued 984,758,665 shares Paid-in Capital ¥70,817 million Shareholders 94,703 Number of Teijin Group Companies Japan 60 Overseas 93 Total 153 Number of Teijin Group Employees Japan 9,265 (Consolidated) Overseas 6,491 Total 15,756 Stock Exchange Listing Tokyo Stock Code 3401 Stock Transfer Agent Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation Dividends Dividends are usually declared in May and November. Reports Available to Shareholders Corporate Profile and Investors Integrated Report Kessan Tanshin (Japanese summary financial report) The Teijin Group CSR Report, Fact Book (web site) Annual Meeting of Shareholders The annual meeting of shareholders is held before the end of June. Independent Public Accountants KPMG AZSA LLC Teijin on the Internet http://www.teijin.com Teijin’s web site offers a wealth of corporate and product information, including the latest Integrated Report, financial results and corporate news. Investor Relations If you have any questions or would like copies of any of our reports, please contact: Masahiro Ikeda, General Manager, IR Section, Finance & Investor Relations Department, Kasumigaseki Common Gate West Tower, 2-1, Kasumigaseki 3-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8585, Japan Tel: +81-3-3506-4407 Fax: +81-3-5510-7977 E-mail: ir@teijin.co.jp ■ Italicized product names and service names in this report are trademarks or registered trademarks of the Teijin Group in Japan and/or other countries. Where noted, other italicized product names and service names used in this report are protected as the trademarks and/or trade names of other companies. © 2016 Teijin Limited. All Rights Reserved. TEIJIN LIMITED INTEGRATED REPORT 2016 115 http://www.teijin.com This Integrated Report uses environmentally friendly FSCTM-certified paper. It is printed using a vegetable-based ink by a waterless printing method. Issued 2016.8
