FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report The FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report describes Seagate’s approach to advancing sustainable, responsible business practices in all aspects of its products, services and operations. This report provides highlights of our Fiscal Year (FY) 2015 performance and metrics for FY2016 and beyond. Contents 03 Message from Our Chairman and CEO 35 Supply Chain 04 About Our Report 38 Community Engagement 05 Company Profile 45 Summary of Performance 07 Global Citizenship Highlights 46 Report Content Index 10 Governance and Ethics 50 Environment, Health and Safety Policy 13 Product Sustainability 51 Stakeholder Engagement 18 Environmental Sustainability 52 Human Rights Policy 26 Our Employees 53 Acronym Index Inquiries regarding this report may be directed to social.response@seagate.com. FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | INTRODUCTION 2 Message from Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Global Citizenship FY2015 – Our Commitment to Sustainability Seagate is committed to sustainable, ethical, socially responsible business practices that underpin and enhance our business, balancing the company’s goals with our impact on society and the environment. As a global citizen with stakeholders around the world, Seagate is committed to supporting internationally recognized standards, such as the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) and the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), and actively participates in industry forums to advance sustainable and responsible practices. In FY2015, Seagate remained focused on key priorities. Highlights include: • Our ongoing work in the area of product standard health safety regulatory visits, were sustainability. We conducted one product life conducted. Seagate received EICC recognition cycle assessment (LCA) in FY2015. The for perfect audits at Johor and Penang in objective is to understand our products’ cradleMalaysia, and for closing all findings at the to-grave impact in critical areas such as climate Suzhou and Wuxi facilities in China. change, fossil depletion and water depletion. Additionally, at the end of FY2015 all Seagate• The introduction of a user-friendly format for our produced heads and media were validated to Business Conduct Policy, which helped be conflict-free. employees clearly understand the company’s priority focus on ethical business conduct. The • Optimizing operations to reduce greenhouse policy was acknowledged by more than 99 gas (GHG) emissions, resource usage and the percent of the target audience, which was generation of waste. The company generated Seagate’s professional and management slightly less amounts of hazardous waste than employees. in the previous fiscal year, and Seagate sent no hazardous waste to landfills in FY2015 for the • Community programs, which overall were second year in a row. We are proud that in offered at all major company locations FY2015 Seagate remained on a sustainable (comprising 96 percent of Seagate’s global path. headcount) to continue our longstanding engagement with local communities. In • Ensuring our employees have a safe work particular, Seagate recognizes that the pace of environment, are treated with dignity and technology is driving needs as well as provided opportunities for professional opportunities for youth. Seagate therefore development continued to be priorities in devotes more than half of its corporate giving to FY2015. A number of audits, including two Science, Technology, Engineering and Math external initial EICC audits and numerous (STEM). These and many other efforts show Seagate’s commitment to a sustainable business as it works to advance technology in our fast-changing world. I welcome you to read further. Steve Luczo Chairman and CEO FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | INTRODUCTION 3 About Our Report This report covers activities managed by Seagate drives or hard drives. In addition to HDDs, we produce a Technology public limited company (PLC), an Irish broad range of electronic data storage products public limited company, from June 28, 2014 through including solid state hybrid drives, solid state drives, July 3, 2015. Reporting cycle is annual and covers PCIe cards and SATA controllers. Our storage FY2015. References to “Seagate”, “we”, “us” and “our” technology portfolio also includes storage subsystems, within this report refer to Seagate Technology PLC and high performance computing solutions and data storage its subsidiaries. References to $ are to United States services. Seagate sells the Seagate, LaCie and dollars. Information in this report includes the Samsung brands. Together these make up our products acquisition of LSI’s flash businesses from Avago, a and services. provider of PCIe and controller products, which was completed on September 2, 2014. There were no other Previous Global Citizenship Annual Reports can be significant changes to Seagate or restatements of downloaded from Seagate’s website at information from previous reporting periods. www.seagate.com, including the FY2014 report covering material from June 28, 2013 through June 27, We are a leading provider of electronic data storage 2014. The website contains information about company technology and solutions. Our principal products are history, products, values, management and most recent hard disk drives, commonly referred to as HDDs, disk financial performance. Defining Report Content Using the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Seagate conducted a materiality assessment in FY2012 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, the FY2015 Global to identify, prioritize and validate the most relevant Citizenship Annual Report applies principles of global citizenship issues. We reviewed external trends materiality, stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability across social and environmental dimensions to develop context and completeness for defining report content in a comprehensive, prioritized list and examined how accordance with the core reporting guidelines. This these issues influenced decision making. We report contains Standard Disclosures from the G4 considered impacts that were both material within and Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. A list of the outside of the company. Those material aspects we Standard Disclosures and their locations can be found identified are governance and ethics, product at the back of this report. stewardship, environmental sustainability, our employees, supplier engagement and community engagement, and make up the content and structure of this report. In light of current acquisitions and the evolution of our business since FY2012 we plan to review our material issues in the coming years. FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | INTRODUCTION 4 Company Profile Seagate is the global leader in data storage solutions, developing amazing products that enable people and businesses around the world to create, share and preserve their most critical memories and business data. FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | COMPANY PROFILE 5 Seagate is deeply rooted in the history of the storage industry. Over the past 35 years we have transformed the Seagate Revenue way storage technology works, progressing from the mass Net Revenue (in millions) production of the 5.25-inch HDD – which allowed the accessibility of the personal computer – to innovative cloud $20,000 $14,351 $13,724 $13,738 storage solutions . $10,000 Seagate is now working to enable everyone to expand the way they interact with information. From helping kids take pictures on mobile phones to assisting corporations create $0 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 massive data lakes, we empower the next generation of innovators, inventors, analyzers, scientists and creators with FY2015 Revenue by Geography greater speed, capacity and access to information than ever before. The principal markets served by Seagate are 27% enterprise storage, client compute, client non-compute, Americas cloud systems and solutions, major subcomponent manufacturers, hardware storage solutions manufacturers, system integrators, storage services and hyperscale data 54% Asiacenters. Seagate’s products are used in virtually every 19% Pacific country in the world. Europe, Middle East and Africa Seagate recognizes that data has evolved from static (EMEA) information that is stored and forgotten to a living entity. To serve these changing dynamics we create solutions to fit the FY2015 Revenues by Channel increasing needs of our data-driven society. 11% Retail Seagate’s global operations encompass design, manufacturing, sales and marketing functions. Our company headquarters are located in Ireland. Our principal manufacturing facilities are located in China, Malaysia, 21% Northern Ireland, Singapore, Thailand and the United States. Distributors 68% Our principal product development facilities are located in Original California, Colorado, Minnesota, Singapore and South Korea. Equipment Manufacturers Seagate has locations in 25 countries, including sales and customer service locations. HDD Units Shipped by Category (in Millions) Storage Capacity Shipped (in Exabytes) 250 250 200 45 45 200 228 44 202 185 150 150 100 151 144 132 100 50 50 30 31 35 0 0 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Enterprise Compute Non-compute FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | COMPANY PROFILE 6 FY2015 Global Citizenship Highlights Seagate is committed to developing and maintaining sustainable and responsible practices – not only with our products and in our global operations, but also throughout our supply chain. Key areas of emphasis include our governance and ethics, product and environmental sustainability, human resources and community engagement. FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | HIGHLIGHTS 7 Seagate continued to improve in many areas of Global We continued to demonstrate strong performance in Citizenship in FY2015. We continue to be members of environmental sustainability. In FY2015, while our the EICC, UNGC and Business for Social Responsibility overall electricity consumption increased slightly to 1.66 associations. million megawatt hour (MWh) from 1.64 million MWh in FY2014, we improved our energy intensity to 7,196 In governance and ethics, over 99 percent of employees MWh per exabyte (EB) shipped from 8,068 MWh per EB acknowledged the Business Conduct Policy, and we in FY2014, demonstrating continued progress in continuously look at other ethics related policies to electricity use per storage capacity shipped. Higher ensure accuracy, relevancy and that they are usercapacity drives require increased energy to operate, but friendly. normalizing our energy consumption per storage capacity shipped demonstrates we continue on the right In product stewardship, we conducted one product LCA path toward energy efficiency for every drive we and published its summary. Each LCA conducted this produce. year and in previous years calculated several sustainability impacts on climate change, fossil We also continued to tackle GHG emissions by depletion, ecotoxicity, eutrophication, acidification and reducing our total combined scope 1 and 2 GHG water depletion. Our engineers have used previous LCA emissions by 1 percent from Calendar Year (CY) 2013 to results to improve our processes and reduce CY2014. This kept us on track to reduce our total environmental impacts. We also began to focus on combined 1 and 2 emissions by 10 percent over five developing nimbler environmental impact calculation years, using CY2011 as a baseline. Typical for tools. In FY2015, we began these studies focusing on technology products, we continue to find that scope 3 carbon, human toxicity, metal depletion and water emissions, particularly those from product use, are depletion. much greater than scope 1 and 2 emissions, highlighting the importance of Seagate’s continued efforts to reduce the amount of energy used by our products. We report 10 of the 15 scope 3 emission categories as defined by the GHG Protocol 1. 1 Scope 3 emission categories are defined in the Corporate Value Chain (SCOPE 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard, published by GHG Protocol. FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | HIGHLIGHTS 8 Throughout FY2015 Seagate protected labor and Finally, Seagate supported its communities in a number human rights. We conducted four cross-site labor audits of ways, particularly in STEM activities and digital and two external EICC audits and found zero labor literacy education. We believe that nurturing tomorrow’s nonconformance issues. Additionally, we hosted 61 technology innovators is foundational to our business health and safety regulatory visits. These visits focus on and industry, and in developing a globally competitive issues such as safety, radiation, fire codes, food and 21st-century workforce. We know that as global citizens transportation. We received no notice of violation in it is important to help enhance the communities where FY2015. we do business. We continued to make progress implementing a revised For a summary of our FY2015 performance, see page 45. Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) related to managing supplier code compliance, which details specific steps for supplier engagement, including signing the EICC Code of Conduct, training and completing the EICC Self-Assessment Questionnaire and the Validated Audit Process (VAP). We completed 68 VAP audits as well as 28 closure audits, which help validate corrective actions have been implemented to correct actual or potential violations identified during the initial VAP. We continue to work with our suppliers to drive corrective action closures as well as provide trainings in relevant instances, as training is an important component of supply chain management. FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | HIGHLIGHTS 9 Governance and Ethics We value our integrity and work purposefully to ensure that we maintain our ethical reputation and standing as a productive and ethical global citizen. We are committed to maintaining the highest ethical standards throughout our business operations. We ensure that all employees know how to perform every aspect of their jobs with the highest ethical standards. FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS 10 Seagate is governed by the Board of Directors. Our as a guide for conducting ourselves legally and ethically Corporate Governance Guidelines provide a framework every day and in every place that we do business. It for Seagate’s Board of Directors in exercising their explains the standards we are all expected to embody responsibilities toward company stakeholders. These in meeting our corporate values and complying with guidelines empower the Board with the necessary applicable laws, regulations and policies. authority to review Seagate’s business operations and make decisions independent of Company management. We remain vigilant to ensure our policies for ethical The guidelines also describe a process for shareholders business conduct reflect the latest standards, to communicate with members of the Board. Additional requirements, laws and regulations at local, national and information on our governance structure is available international levels. The Business Conduct Policy publically in the Governance section of Seagate’s ensures the adoption of a principles-based approach to website. our activities, while promoting ethical conduct and compliance with laws and regulations. In FY2015, our Board of Directors adopted a new Business Conduct Policy to replace our former Ethical The Business Conduct Policy summarizes Seagate’s Conduct and Conflict of Interest Policy. The Business ethical standards and key policies in areas such as Conduct Policy was designed to provide the reader with insider trading, conflict of interest, bribery and easily accessible and readily understandable content corruption, privacy and confidentiality, antitrust and fair around a variety of governance and ethics topics. The dealing. The Board reviews these policies annually to Business Conduct Policy, which includes as a ensure that Seagate continues to operate within the supplement our Code of Ethics for Senior Financial letter and spirit of the law. Officers, is publically available on our website. It serves FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS 11 FY2015 Highlights New employees are required to certify that they have read and understood the Business Conduct Policy during our on-boarding process. In addition, all nonoperator employees with company email addresses are required to certify that they have read and understood the Policy and disclose any actual or potential conflicts of interest on an annual basis. The Policy is available in English, Chinese, Korean, Malay, Thai, French, Spanish and Portuguese. In FY2015 we adopted the new Business Conduct Policy, which is more visual and user-friendly than our former Ethical Conduct and Conflict of Interest Policy. In FY2015, approximately 23,200 employees completed the certification process, up from 19,750 in FY2014. This resulted in a completion rate of over 99 percent after removing employees who were on long-term leave, were terminated or left Seagate during the certification period, up from 98 percent in FY2014. Throughout the year, we also provided online training modules and delivered short videos subtitled in various languages to enhance employee understanding of the Policy. We continued to promote our Ethics Helpline so that Looking Forward: employees may confidentially and/or anonymously Governance and Ethics report illegal or unethical situations encountered in the workplace. The Ethics Helpline, Code of Ethics and We continuously evaluate our governance and Business Conduct Policy are readily available on the ethics programs and policies, including our homepage of our internal website, and employees can Business Conduct Policy, for relevance and report a concern by phone or webmail in English, compliance with new laws and regulations. We Spanish, French, Chinese, Korean, Malay, Portuguese are developing our legal and ethics video and Thai. The Helpline also is available on our external training in-house in FY2016 to increase their website in English, Chinese, Korean, Malay and Thai. relevance to our employees. Based on the The Helpline is administered by a third-party vendor. success of our Business Conduct Policy, we plan to reexamine and reformat other relevant policies to this visual and user-friendly style in FY2016. FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS 12 Product Sustainability We place a high value on assessing and transparently communicating product impacts, and working with supply chain partners to maximize sustainability through product stewardship. Our key areas are impact assessment and reduction, product restricted substances, product end of life and conflict minerals. FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | PRODUCT SUSTAINABILITY 13 Product Impacts Seagate uses thousands of materials to make its materials with lower environmental impact for future products. We strive for a complete understanding of product lines. We prioritize product LCAs based on material content to manage product environmental production volume and customer data needs. impacts, and work with suppliers to obtain full disclosures for every material in every part included in Our LCAs encompass 15 sustainability impact our products. This information is maintained in a categories, such as carbon emissions, ecotoxicity, database for accessibility as new hazardous substance health impacts and resource depletion. Each LCA concerns arise. addresses impacts at each stage in the product life cycle, from raw material extraction to end-of-life Seagate conducts life cycle assessments (LCAs) disposal and recycling. Climate impacts are analyzed according to the International Organization for further according to type, such as life stage Standardization (ISO) 14040:2006 and ISO 14044:2006 contribution, component and product. In previous years standards to estimate each product’s impact on the Seagate completed LCAs for products in each market environment. Each LCA is reviewed by an independent segment. For each product, LCA summaries are publicly third party. Seagate uses LCA and product impact available on our corporate website. See below details assessments to prioritize investigation of alternative on the LCA that we conducted in FY2015. OneStor AP-2485 Extensible Storage Platform In FY2015, Seagate conducted an LCA on the OneStor AP-2584 Extensible Storage Platform product and published its summary on our website. Climate Change Impacts Contributors to RMAP by Life Cycle Phase Climate Change Impacts 2.52% 11% Raw Material Acquisition and PreOther Assembly processing (RMAP) 0.43% 7% Distribution 96.52% PCBAs Use 76% 0.34% HDDs End of Life 5% 0.16% Transport Production 1% 0.04% Packaging Packaging FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | PRODUCT SUSTAINABILITY 14 Seagate currently focuses its efforts on developing nimbler environmental impact calculation tools. In Looking Forward: Product Impact FY2015, we began these studies focusing on four impact areas: carbon, human toxicity, metal depletion Our FY2016 product impact strategy is to and water depletion. Additionally, to better align with improve existing tools and develop new tools our business direction and corporate business and methodologies, enhance efficiency and reporting, we began looking at impacts per unit of reduce impact quantification costs. We storage capacity, as well as per unit sold. anticipate continuing to conduct extensive LCAs, and supplement them with nimbler, Significant environmental impacts come from use. This scalable and efficient impact measurement means one of the largest opportunities to reduce approaches. Becoming increasingly efficient product impacts comes from customers’ understanding lowers assessment costs and facilitates design and use of Seagate’s product power conservation decision making, while still enabling capacitymodes, which allow customers to reduce costs based product characterizations and key associated with drive operation while concurrently indicator reporting. reducing environmental impacts. Restricted Substances As a leading supplier to major Original Equipment Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) Directive Manufacturers (OEM), Seagate helps establish addition of four phthalates to the RoHS banned list. We requirements for direct materials – components that continued our support for the BizNGO Principles for make up our products – to meet customers’ most strict Safer Chemicals. In addition to maintaining reports on specifications. our core and retail products, we brought recent acquisitions into corporate systems. Finally, we We meticulously catalogue restricted substances and answered over 2,000 customer requests for product currently restrict more than 2,000. Seagate maintains a environmental compliance data. database to evaluate ongoing regulatory and customer compliance, primarily using the Chemical Abstract Looking Forward Service number for every chemical substance contained in components within products. Restricted Substances Consistent with the European Registration, Evaluation, Although we continue to incorporate Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) acquisitions into our full material disclosure Directive and other laws, we continuously add new database, due to new acquisitions and chemical substances to our restricted list and eliminate challenges associated with older integrations, them from Seagate products wherever possible. In this effort will challenge us throughout FY2016. FY2015, we monitored all REACH additions to the Seagate will continue to identify chemicals of Candidate List of Substances of Very High Concern concern beyond those listed in restricted (SVHC) and assessed their presence in all products. substances lists. We will also work with suppliers and other industry leaders to raise the Other highlights for FY2015 include removal of bar across the industry in reporting and Benzenamine, N-phenyl-, Reaction Products with minimizing the use of restricted substances. We Styrene and 2,4,4-Trimethylpentene (BNST) from all our see this as a natural extension of our products to comply with Canadian law. We also commitment to minimizing restricted substance analyzed the impact of the new European Union usage. FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | PRODUCT SUSTAINABILITY 15 Product End of Life Conflict Minerals Seagate products become waste at the end of their The issue of Conflict Minerals challenges all companies useful lives. While aluminum, steel, copper and plastic producing metallic hardware. The phrase “conflict used to make our drives can be recycled, many regions minerals” refers to tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold where Seagate products are sold do not have strong (3TG), or more precisely, the ores used to make these electronic waste recycling programs. For this reason, metals. The “conflict” part of the phrase refers to certain Seagate products can add to the waste stream destined sources and supply lines of these minerals in central for incinerators and landfills, although the economic Africa controlled by militias operating outside the law, value of metals residing within them make our products thus funding conflict within the region. Extensive prime targets for salvage and recycling. reserves of these minerals and/or the routes they travel to market are located in the Democratic Republic of the Because the vast majority of Seagate’s products are Congo (DRC) and adjoining countries. sold as components to larger systems produced by OEMs, we have minimal leverage over how our products are managed at the end of their useful life. We encourage reclamation, just as we recycle our own internally generated scrap, and urge users of products that include our drives to participate in manufacturer take-back programs. For our retail products and servers, Seagate has made progress in managing product waste by establishing a successful take-back program. We provide customers with drive disassembly instructions to facilitate recycling, and manage our own take-back program for hard drives under warranty. All of these drives are refurbished or recycled. Seagate’s objective, as a responsible member of the world business community, is to remove bad actors from our supply chain, while continuing to do business Looking Forward: with the law-abiding citizens of the central African Product End of Life countries. Addressing conflict minerals has been a high priority for We will continue to look for additional avenues Seagate for many years. In 2012 the Dodd-Frank Act, to reclaim product waste. We are evolving our Section 1502, came into effect in the United States. The approach to product waste as we begin shifting law requires companies to disclose whether any 3TG to a higher mix of cloud computing, which used in their products originated in the DRC or an supports increasingly centralized storage adjoining country. If so, companies must describe what devices. efforts they have undertaken to ensure the use of these metals does not contribute to human rights violations in those countries. As part of compliance with this regulation, Seagate participates in the EICC Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative (CFSI). Participation allows Seagate to contribute to industry solutions while maintaining standard processes for data collection. FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | PRODUCT SUSTAINABILITY 16 As of FY2015 year-end, approximately 75 percent of the world’s known 3TG smelters and refiners are validated Looking Forward: Conflict Minerals conflict-free. As additional smelters and refiners become validated, the world benefits. We continue to Although Seagate has not yet attained complete seek supplier commitments to source only conflict-free conflict-free status, our objective is to attain a fully 3TG, to have their smelters and refiners engage in the validated conflict-free 3TG supply chain across all validation audit process and have suppliers convert to product lines. Seagate continues to maintain its other preferred sources if smelters and refiners decline policy of requiring its suppliers to abide by the to become conflict-free. EICC Code of Conduct, which extends to prohibition of using conflicted sources of 3TG. We Currently, Seagate’s hardware products contain all four will only focus on specific product lines if the conflict minerals, which are required for the products’ relevant supplier or suppliers are unable to attain a functionality and production. Seagate does not directly company level conflict-free status, and only then procure any metals from smelters or refiners; we only until those suppliers are able to attain validation. purchase parts, components, materials and subassemblies containing these metals. Therefore, we In CY2015, we are refreshing all of our direct rely on our direct suppliers to provide information about supplier data using the Conflict Minerals Reporting the origin of the 3TG contained in components and Template (CMRT) 4.0x. This effort is no longer materials supplied to us. The information about 3TG viewed as an annual data refresh; it is being contained in our products comes from lower-tier pursued until we accomplish a conflict-free supply suppliers and information provided through our chain across all of our businesses. We also use membership with the EICC and CFSI. automation and developing software to accelerate and track progress, to make our information Seagate is a vertically integrated company, producing increasingly complete, accurate, timely and the majority of the heads and media in our products. At specific. the end of FY2015, all Seagate-produced heads and media were conflict-free validated. We continue to work with the EICC and CFSI to improve processes that encourage responsible Additional details are in Seagate’s publically available sourcing of 3TG in a manner that avoids a de facto Conflict Minerals Report to the United States of America boycott of legitimate minerals from covered Securities and Exchange Commission. countries, or that drive up cost without addressing the root problems of violence and inhumanity. FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | PRODUCT SUSTAINABILITY 17 Environmental Sustainability Seagate is committed to improving environmental sustainability in all of our manufacturing operations. Seagate sets goals, tracks progress and audits systems to reduce energy, carbon emissions, waste and water. Together, these initiatives comprise the bulk of our environmental sustainability efforts. FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY 18 Our environmental management system adheres to Energy and Carbon Emissions Performance industry-leading ISO 14001 requirements at all manufacturing facilities. By managing and reducing Manufacturing our products and providing our services environmental impacts through this system, and uses energy and produces GHG emissions. To combat following the EICC Code of Conduct, Seagate these realities, Seagate reduces the amount of energy demonstrates recognized environmental sustainability and carbon required to produce disk drives by leadership in the technology industry. identifying energy efficiency opportunities, auditing management systems and performance and reporting At the end of FY2015, all manufacturing facilities were on progress throughout the manufacturing process. ISO 14001and Occupational Health and Safety Our primary objective is to reduce energy use and GHG Advisory Services (OHSAS) 1800-certified, except for a emissions per storage capacity produced. former Xyratex site in Mexico, which was acquired in FY2014. The certification of the Xyratex site was Across our industry, these measurements are known as delayed in FY2015 while the ISO14001 standard was “energy intensity” and “GHG emissions intensity” being revised. Rather than audit to the old standard, we because they measure impact relative to the amount of delayed the certification to audit to the revised economic activity taking place. Intensity is measured in standard. various ways across industry sectors and product types; Seagate measures energy and carbon emissions We hosted 39 regulatory visits, up from 29 the previous intensity per EB of storage capacity shipped. year. These visits included a focus on environmental compliance and wastewater sampling. We had one Seagate’s biggest challenge continues to be reducing notice of violation at our Normandale, Minnesota site, overall GHG emissions, especially given increasing which received an administrative violation (no fine) from storage capacities, product complexity (new products the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency under its have additional production steps) and acquisitions. National Pollution Discharge Elimination System permit. Furthermore, as the information technology industry The pH analytical time was not recorded with the transitions to increasing cloud-based data storage sampling time which raised the concern that pH was not systems, Seagate will grow its cloud data storage measured within 15 minutes. Seagate updated the capabilities, which generally require longer test times. documentation to record the analytical time. No change We are trying to better understand and mitigate the was made to the sampling procedure. impact this transition will have on our energy and carbon emissions performance. Finding a replacement ISO 14001and OHSAS 1800-Certified Facilities for Vertrel, which is released as a fugitive emission, will be key in reducing overall GHG emissions. Vertrel is used in our manufacturing processes, and has a very high global warming potential. To view Seagate’s Environment, Health and Safety Policy, see page 50. FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY 19 Energy Electricity Consumption (million MWh) Total electricity consumption increased slightly to 1.66 2.00 million MWh, up from 1.64 million MWh in FY2014, which includes sites from the Xyratex and LSI 1.64 1.66 acquisitions. We shipped 28 more EBs in FY2015 than 1.62 FY2014, resulting in a total of 7,196 MWh per EB 1.50 shipped, down from 8.068 MWh per EB shipped in FY2014. This accounts for an 11.17 percent reduction year-over-year for MWh of electricity consumed per EB shipped. Higher-capacity drives require increased 1.00 energy to manufacture, and normalizing our energy FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 consumption per storage capacity shipped demonstrates we continue on the right path towards Energy Consumption per Storage energy efficiency per EB manufactured and shipped. Capacity Shipped (MWh/EB) 12000 Seagate also continued to focus efforts on energy 8,793 conservation throughout our operations. We saved 8,068 7,196 8000 more than 27,000 MWh of electricity from multiple energy conservation projects, surpassing our target of 20,000 MWh for FY2015. 4000 0 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY 20 Carbon Emissions 2 We are challenged by our continued use of Vertrel in our In CY2014, our scope 1 emissions (GHG emissions media manufacturing process, which results in fugitive generated directly from our sites) decreased 5 percent emissions, and are committed to finding a suitable to 302,387 metric tons of CO2e. The decrease in scope replacement. Vertrel contributed to about a quarter of 1 emissions occurred primarily in the process and our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions totals. This is an fugitive emissions category. The decrease was due to industry problem and has proven to be more minimizing Vertrel use, among other factors. challenging than initially envisioned. Our scope 2 emissions (indirect GHG emissions Seagate’s two largest sources of scope 1 and 2 GHG generated from the electricity that we purchase), emissions continue to be purchased electricity and however, increased slightly from 994,508 metric tons of “fugitive emissions”, or the unintended release of gases. CO2e in CY2013 to 996,405 metric tons of CO2e in To reduce GHG emissions intensity, each CY2014. This increase represents the continued manufacturing site is required to achieve annual energy challenge of finding new opportunities to eliminate the savings goals. We also conduct third-party verification need for electricity in our processes. The GHG of our GHG emissions reporting every year. In addition emissions total for CY2014 includes sites in Pune, India to keeping track of factory performance for our records and Bangalore, India from our LSI acquisition. (compiled annually in this report), we share our results via the Carbon Disclosure Project’s (CDP) investor, and supply chain questionnaires (our responses are Combining our scope 1 and scope 2 emissions, we available publicly via the CDP website). Seagate generated 1,298,792 million metric tons of CO2e in continues to assess risk to the business from climate CY2014, about a 1 percent decrease from CY2013. We change as part of our annual ISO 14000 management continue to make progress toward our five-year goal of system process, and have determined that our climate reducing total combined scope 1 and 2 emissions by 10 risks do not differ from other companies in our industry. percent (using the results from CY2011 as a baseline). 2 Total annual carbon emissions and carbon emissions per storage capacity shipped are measured and reported based on the calendar year (CY) versus fiscal year. 3 Per Greenhouse Gas Protocol (www.ghgprotocol.org) guidance released in February 2013, Seagate has updated the global warming potentials (GWPs) used for calculating our emissions. In the past, we used the 100-year GWPs from the IPCC’s Second Assessment Report; we now use the 100-year GWPs from the Fourth Assessment Report. To maintain consistency throughout our goal period, we recalculated all historical inventories using the GWPs from the Fourth Assessment Report and disclose these emissions in this report. FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY 21 CY2014 Scope 3 GHG Emissions Typical for technology products, we find (Metric Tons CO2e) that scope 3 emissions, particularly those from product use, are much greater than 580,000 scope 1 and 2 emissions, highlighting the Upstream transportation importance of Seagate’s continued efforts and distribution to reduce the amount of energy used by 203,185 5 our products. Fuel and Energy Related Activities 2,000,000 190,000 Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG Capital Goods Use of Products Sold Emissions (Metric Tons CO2e) 40,000 8,000,000 Downstream transportation 317,757 and distribution 302,387 29,000 2,240,000 994,508 996,405 Hire Employee Purchased Goods Commute and Services 4,000,000 20,942 5,287,306 5,319,374 Business Travel 13,000 End of Life Treatment of 0 4 Sold Products 3,247 CY2013 CY2014 Heating and Cooling Scope 3 Scope 1 Scope 2 3 Looking Forward: Energy and Carbon Emissions We will continue to focus on energy conservation and target 20,000 MWh of electricity savings from energy conservation projects in FY2016. We continue to make progress toward our five-year goal of reducing total scope 1 and 2 emissions by 10 percent by CY2017 (using results from CY2011 as the baseline). In the area of scope 3 emissions, we will assess data that we added in previous years to determine other improvement opportunities. 4 In CY2013, we further expanded our reporting to include four new scope 3 emission categories: purchased goods and services, capital goods, upstream transportation and distribution and downstream transportation and distribution. 5 Not included in scope 1 and 2. FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY 22 Waste Management Seagate Corporate EHS. Seagate has established Seagate has established systems to track, manage and minimum requirements for the selection and report waste at every Seagate site. Our sites identify performance of hazardous waste treatment vendors and and implement waste minimization initiatives with the qualify vendors through a third-party audit of set criteria. goal of preventing waste from being produced, and recycling or reusing waste whenever possible. In We had zero significant spills this year, with a significant addition, we commit to zero landfill disposal of spill defined as those which are reported in the hazardous waste, unless technically not feasible. Each financials as a liability and requiring an outside Seagate site is responsible for reporting data on waste response. to a central database reviewed by Solid Waste We quantify waste management in terms of our landfill During FY2015, Seagate met its goal of keeping more diversion rate, taking into account recycling and energy than 80 percent of solid (nonhazardous) waste out of recovery. Our annual totals include all waste generated landfills, with a diversion rate of 83 percent, a 2 percent at facilities under the company’s ownership and control, increase from FY2014. We also generated less waste not including waste generated as part of new overall in FY2015: 19,772 tons of waste, down from construction projects. 22,113 tons in FY2014, an 11 percent decrease. Solid Waste Generation 40,000 100% 88% 82% 81% 83% 32,000 Percentage 24,000 Tons 50% 16,000 8,000 17,654 33,071 22,113 19,772 0 0% FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Total Generation Landfill Diversion Rate FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY 23 Hazardous Waste Hazardous Waste Generation 98 Seagate sent no hazardous waste to landfills in FY2015 20,000 100 Tons per EB Shipped for the second year in a row. A total of 7 percent of the 75 78 hazardous waste was recycled, 4 percent went to 65 energy recovery, 4 percent was incinerated and 85 percent was disposed through treatment. We also conducted or reviewed 6 Hazardous Waste Treatment, Tons 10,000 50 Storage and Disposal Facility (TSDF) audit reports in FY2015 to ensure our facilities continue to mitigate risks and meet regulatory standards. 14,594 13,820 15,542 14,919 0 0 Seagate generated slightly less hazardous waste in FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2015, dropping from 15,542 tons in FY2014 to 14,919 tons, a 4 percent decrease. This also correlates Hazardous Waste Generation with a drop in hazardous waste produced per million EB Tons per Exabyte Shipped shipped, from 78 tons in FY2014 to 65 tons in FY2015. FY2015 Hazardous Looking Forward: Waste Disposition Waste Management Our goal remains keeping more than 80 percent of our solid waste out of landfills in FY2016. Numerous site-level projects are 7% continuing and more are being created to help Recycling achieve this goal. Our target for hazardous waste reduction in FY2016 is 20 percent. 4% 85% Energy Recovery Treatment 4% Incineration FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY 24 Water Management 6 4 Water Intensity Water is a key natural resource and warrants proper (Megaliters per Exabyte Shipped) management to preserve and protect the health of our 80 ecosystem. Our manufacturing processes withdraw water from local watersheds for use as coolants and 60 57 cleaning agents. We have implemented measures to 60 53 reduce water consumption, improve water recycling and reduce water intensity over the past several years, and 40 achieved gains in all of these areas in CY2014. 20 In CY2014 we reduced total water withdrawn by 5 percent, from 11,137 megaliters of water withdrawn in 0 CY2013 to 10,573 megaliters in CY2014. In CY2014 we CY2012 CY2013 CY2014 recycled 1,928 megaliters of water, up from 1,865 megaliters of water in CY2013, a 3 percent increase. In CY2014 our water intensity was 53 liters per EB, down Water Withdrawal from 57 liters per EB in CY2013, a 7 percent decrease. and Percentage Recycled 12,000 17% 18% 20% Continuing to improve our overall water recycling and 15% Percentage Recycled reduce consumption remains one of our biggest Megaliters opportunities. In CY2012, Seagate established a five8,000 year water use reduction goal of 10 percent. To support this goal, we conducted our first full water consumption 10% footprint to create a baseline for the company in 4,000 CY2012. This improved on previous water withdrawal data, which was only available for product manufacturing. We continue to use the CY2012 baseline 10,756 11,137 10,573 0 0% for year-over-year comparisons. CY2012 CY2013 CY2014 Water Withdrawal Percentage Recycled Looking Forward: Water Management We are confident that we can achieve our fiveyear reduction target. We will continue to seek new opportunities for reduction, including assessing and monitoring our data and implementing a more formal policy, practices and approaches to water management. 6 Total annual water metrics are measured and reported based on the calendar year versus fiscal year. FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY 25 Our Employees The talent and dedication of our employees make Seagate's achievements possible. We focus on empowering our employees to take initiative and emphasize continuous improvement across our many processes and operations. Our programs are designed to protect employees from potential work-related hazards as well as to provide opportunities for training and career development, while fostering an open workplace where employees can take pride and ownership in their work. FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | OUR EMPLOYEES 26 FY2015 Total Workforce by FY2015 Total Workforce by Employment Type Geography 23% Professionals (Both engineering and professionals) 14% 55% United States 81% Operators and Americas Asia-Pacific (Direct labor (APAC) 14% production Support (including workers) technicians) 5% Europe, Middle East and Africa 8% (EMEA) Management Total Workforce FY2015 51,365 FY2014 49,234 FY2013 52,151 FY2012 57,172 45,000 50,000 55,000 60,000 Number of Employees Labor and Human Rights As a global citizen, Seagate must protect labor and Seagate continued to uphold and protect labor and human rights, and ensure an environment of inclusion human rights in FY2015. Efforts were taken to ensure where employees feel valued, engaged and committed the protection of vulnerable workers. Seagate does not to sharing their knowledge and innovative ideas. As we hire workers under age 18, thus eliminating the potential have a global manufacturing model, we take careful for young workers. Additionally, Seagate’s focus is to steps to prevent and address common labor issues use local labor wherever possible, and ensure worldwide, such as child and forced labor, excessive protection of foreign workers, by strictly prohibiting the working hours and safety risks. Seagate has a global use of any forced, bonded, trafficked or slave labor. We workforce of more than 51,000 regular employees – do not withhold passports. We do conduct audits to over half of whom are operators in manufacturing sites – ensure workers are allowed to hold their own creating specific challenges when assuring a safe and documents. Additionally, we pay recruitment fees and hazard-free work environment. other associated fees for foreign migrant workers, such as levies. FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | OUR EMPLOYEES 27 We continue to manage working hours and rest days at practices. To align with the new version of the code, we our manufacturing sites for the safety and security of worked to update Seagate’s policies, practices, training our workers, as well as to ensure conformance with materials and labor audit documents and tools. The both the EICC code and local labor laws. company also expanded its internal Labor Risk Assessment process for use at the site level. The We maintained our internal EICC cross-site labor audit updated process includes an improved tool to evaluate program established in FY2014 at our manufacturing the likelihood and severity of labor risks to assist our sites to validate conformity to the EICC Code and to teams in identifying those that are the most significant, help the sites prepare for external EICC audits. Over the so mitigation plans can be developed, if needed. course of the year, we conducted internal cross-site labor audits at four of our drive and component sites: Woodlands, Singapore; Teparuk, Thailand; Bloomington, Minnesota, United States and Seremban, Looking Forward: Malaysia. In FY2015, the number of Seagate sites Labor and Human Rights subject to EICC audits grew due to the acquisition of Xyratex and its Guadalajara, Mexico and Seremban, For FY2016 Seagate will continue its Malaysia manufacturing locations. commitment to protecting human rights. We will review our internal program and controls to During FY2015, we maintained our obligation for ensure continued conformance to the EICC external EICC audits, with two audits conducted at code. Of priority is to manage the EICC internal component sites in Malaysia. These audits in Penang, labor audit program and conduct audits at sites Malaysia and Johor, Malaysia revealed no labor in preparation for external EICC audits. We will findings. also continue our focus with the acquired Xyratex sites to help ensure that practices In April 2015, version 5.0 of the EICC code became conform to EICC requirements. This includes effective. This version of the code introduced numerous the planned transition from foreign migrant changes to the labor section, increasing protection for workers to local workers in FY2016. vulnerable workers and aligning the code to the United Nations (UN) Guiding Principles and other best FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | OUR EMPLOYEES 28 Employee Health, Safety and Wellness Recordable Case Rate Seagate is committed to keeping employees safe, (per 100 employees) healthy and well. We have spent more than a decade 0.30 0.28 collecting health and safety performance indicators to inform strategies for reducing risks associated with 0.25 0.22 0.22 work-related injury and illness. Today, our health and 0.20 safety management systems support continuous 0.20 improvement in risk reduction and mitigation. All of our manufacturing sites except Guadalajara, Mexico have 0.15 health and safety management systems certified to 0.10 OHSAS18001. We have plans to get the Guadalajara, Mexico site certified in FY2016. Seagate’s global health 0.05 and safety standards and accompanying management system often go beyond country-level regulations and 0.00 industry guidance, with well-defined responsibilities, FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 requirements and training to ensure that health and safety are integrated into company operations. Furthermore, we try to make sure that all employees, Days Away Case Rate from plant managers to operators, understand that they (per 100 employees) are accountable for their actions on the job. 0.18 0.17 In FY2015, Seagate remained a safe place to work and 0.16 continued to perform well under industry averages, as 0.14 0.13 based on the standard calculations and industry 0.12 0.10 averages determined by the Occupational Safety and 0.10 Health Administration (OSHA). There were no work 0.08 0.08 related fatalities in FY2015. Our recordable case rate, the number of employees per 100 full-time employees 0.06 that were involved in a recordable injury or illness, was 0.04 0.22 for the year, the same as FY2014. Our days-away 0.02 case rate, the number of lost workdays per 100 full0.00 time, was 0.10, down from 0.13 in FY2014. FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Furthermore, as part of our commitment to keeping our FY2015 EHS e-Learning workplaces as safe as possible, we continued to Course Completions provide comprehensive health and safety training to our 70000 employees. In FY2015, Seagate employees completed 52,932 e-learning courses, exceeding the annual goal of 57808 60000 52932 approximately 40,000 courses. 48956 50000 Seagate hosted 61 health and safety regulatory visits in 40000 35199 FY2015. These visits focused on issues such as safety, 30000 radiation, fire codes, food and transportation. We did not receive any notice of violation findings in FY2015. 20000 10000 0 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | OUR EMPLOYEES 29 In FY2015 globally, we served more than 1,164,800 meals per month and have a formal food safety program at all our sites. In CY2014 we bused employees over 10 million miles. There were three accidents which were caused or contributed by the Seagate driver, with no injuries to the occupants of the bus but one injury to a third party. Encouraging healthy lifestyle choices is a major challenge globally. Seagate is committed to providing the necessary resources to enable employees to make informed decisions about their health and wellness. As part of this promise, Seagate has focused on establishing wellness programs designed to encourage employees to evaluate, improve and maintain their health and wellness. For example, in the United States in FY2015, we increased employee participation in Seagate’s Healthy We continued to promote wellness in FY2015 through Journeys wellness programs. Seagate provided on-site the publication of a Healthy Journeys e-mag in the biometric screenings, health coaching and two United States and Asia three times a year. Themes corporate wellness challenges to encourage physical included: stress management, community engagement activity and other healthy behaviors. We also offered and physical activity. We utilized Wellness Councils in Employee Assistance Program (EAP) webinars about the United States, United Kingdom, China, Singapore, mindfulness, staying active, healthy eating and Malaysia and Thailand to plan and promote wellness envisioning retirement. In addition, we offered financial activities in these countries. Seagate's Wellness Council wellness support such as Hellowallet, an online tool strategy was presented to Silicon Valley Employers designed to assist employees with budgeting and International Forum in June 2015 as a best practice in managing expenses, and financial education seminars global benefits for high-tech employers. provided through retirement plan administrator Fidelity. In Northern Ireland, we continued to provide robust wellness offerings including wellness champions to Looking Forward: coordinate exercise activities for employees on each Employee Health, Safety and Wellness shift, resilience training, a pound for pound charity weight loss event, and various activities such as The more a company emphasizes health, safety bringing in an on-site “bike doctor” to facilitate safe and wellness, the better off that company’s cycling. In Singapore, China, Thailand and Malaysia, we constituents will be. With this in mind, we expect offered on-site health and wellness screenings, and to continue extending and amplifying our wellness programs focused on promoting healthy Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) programs lifestyles, weight loss management and mental and have set FY2016 targets for recordable case wellness. Seagate also provided quiet and private areas rate and days-away case rate at or below 0.20 and for employees to practice religious activities, meditate at or below 0.10, respectively. and focus on their well-being. FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | OUR EMPLOYEES 30 Employee Training, Development and Recognition To ensure a world-class workforce, Seagate trains, educates and recognizes employees so that they are Awards successful contributors to the business. Seagate’s performance management and career development philosophies are designed to engage and excite employees about their careers and their contributions to the company’s success. In FY2015, Seagate continued to offer training • The Office of the National Anti-Corruption opportunities to our directors, managers and executives Commission Honorable Mention Integrity Award in the Seagate Way initiative, a cultural-change initiative 2013, awarded in December 2014 to Seagate designed to enable employees to be more agile, flexible Thailand for exemplary corporate governance and better prepared to adapt quickly to rapid changes practices, righteousness and transparency. that are re-shaping our business and industry. We expanded this training to supervisors, reaching 98 • China Best Employer Award, implemented by percent of the global supervisor audience, with 100 Corporate Social Responsibility & Employer percent satisfaction results. We also offered the Branding Research Center, Peking University. program to a large population of almost 2,000 individual contributors. We realigned our internal processes to the • The Northern Ireland wellness efforts were Seagate Way, including a simplification of our global recognized for the second time in two years performance management and goal-setting processes. with the Healthy Workplace Award by the We refocused the processes to further emphasize the Londonderry Chamber of Commerce. importance of meaningful conversations between managers and employees. The new process, nicknamed • Seagate Thailand received the Excellent 5-3-1 in reference to reducing data-entry to five goals Establishment on Labor Relations and Welfare and three behaviors on one simple form, gained global Award for eight years consecutively by the adoption in FY2015, evidenced by 96 percent of our Department of Labor Protection and Welfare, non-operator employees creating goals and 99 percent Ministry of Labor. of managers entering performance evaluations. To further drive the quality of manager-employee conversations, Seagate developed and deployed a new five-course curriculum, called Manage Results and Behaviors the Seagate Way. The training was well received, with up to 99 percent satisfaction rating from hundreds of people managers. To help our managers Seagate also provided training and certification get feedback on how the new approach is working, we opportunities to our operators, with 1,928 courses deployed three micro-surveys to our global nonlaunched and over 28,000 operators trained. Operator operators, soliciting their opinion on the effectiveness of training covered a variety of topics, such as site specific the conversations with their managers. Over 90 percent environment, health and safety courses, global of survey respondents indicated that conversations with contamination prevention, wafer handling and their manager were helpful. electrostatic discharge. FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | OUR EMPLOYEES 31 A large population of new employees joined Seagate via mergers and acquisitions (M&A) during FY2015, and the company focused on rapidly integrating them into our culture. A number of initiatives were put in place to support the new employees, including special training and onboarding programs (attended by more than 1,000 participants). We assessed the integration process by deploying multiple pulse engagement surveys and followed up with 20 global focus groups to dig deeper into obstacles to seamless integration. FY2015 M&A activity resulted in a nearly 50 percent employee increase in the EMEA Region. With this growing number of employees, combined with the complexity of EU labor and data privacy requirements, Seagate launched its third Human Resources Shared Services Center, HR Central EMEA, to provide more Our Woodlands, Singapore team wanted to find an direct support to these employees. The HR Central efficient way to provide operators and service workers EMEA team, located in Northern Ireland, provides with EICC knowledge training. To solve this challenge, services to employees located across EMEA, including the team developed the EICC online/mobile app local language support in some countries. Services eLearning Course. This is an innovative training tool include managing telephone and email inquiries about designed to allow employees who cannot easily access HR policies, processes and information, administering Seagate’s eLearning application (operators and service HR transactions and providing support on benefits workers) to refresh their knowledge on EICC policies administration. and requirements related to labor, health and safety, environment, ethics and management systems. The As part of our efforts to integrate employees that joined mobile app was deployed in three languages: English, us as a result of M&A, a cross-functional group created Chinese and Malay. The different languages allowed all the HR-Related Acquisition Training curriculum of 19 users to understand the training in their native language, courses, sequenced over eight weeks. Nearly 2,600 making it easier for them to relate to and absorb the employees completed the curriculum. Training material readily. Furthermore, users had the flexibility to onboarding checklists were created for each be trained whenever they had time using mobile organization, for managers and employees, and posted phones, desktop PCs or HR kiosks. Also with the EICC on Seagate’s Virtual Coach learning platform. The online/mobile app, all training records and user curriculum was also promoted during onsite Day One acknowledgements were tracked in the system, saving employee integration workshops. We monitored time and reducing cumbersome manual tracking and success of integration through a variety of measures records. Woodlands trained 2,640 operators and service including pulse surveys and ensured that new workers in the first half of FY2015 with the online/mobile employees received regular communications regarding app tools. the transition. Looking Forward: Training, Development and Recognition In FY2016, Seagate plans to continue deploying micro-surveys in support of our simplified performance management process, as a way to gauge the effectiveness of manager/employee conversations. We will also be streamlining our leadership development curriculum, focusing on people management and leadership essentials. FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | OUR EMPLOYEES 32 Workforce Talent and Diversity Seagate, with major facilities in eight countries across Seagate continues to hold itself accountable for hiring, three continents, is a very diverse company. Our global retaining and promoting minorities in the United States. workforce comprises 89 nationalities and is 57 percent Each year, we provide detailed information about our female. performance in this area to our Board of Directors. The company's business goals include a people goal, which states a commitment to champion an inclusive Case Study: culture that fosters diversity of people and perspectives, Diversity Requirement in Thailand measured by incremental improvement in diversity. The Thai Law of Persons with Disabilities Seagate constantly seeks to attract the best people with Empowerment Act B.E. 2550 of 2007 requires a wide variety of backgrounds, experiences, cultures, companies to hire disabled people in the ratio of languages, skills and competencies. We also strive to 1:100 employees. Our Korat, Thailand site drive diversity of thought, bringing in new perspectives needed to hire approximately 120 disabled to be and points of view that will help the company be flexible in compliance. Since this law was implemented, in a rapidly changing marketplace. Our recruitment we have been driven by shared community processes focus on finding talented and motivated values.” From December 2010 to the end of individuals who fit the company’s culture. FY2015, the number of disabled employees at Seagate's talent acquisition continues to expand Korat site increased from six to 107. This opportunities to provide an increased diversity interview progress has created a strong positive image of slate. Globally we focus on increasing female social responsibility for the company, and candidates in interview slates, and in the provided disabled employees with a sense of United States, along with female candidate focus, we hope and pride, as they see themselves being aim to increase diverse ethnic groups, veterans and more independent and capable of contributing to people with disabilities in interview slates. the success of the company. FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | OUR EMPLOYEES 33 To help ensure diversity of candidates, we advertised Another initiative was a focus on “campus teams” of via partnerships with job boards targeting diversity employee volunteers, which helped Seagate engage groups including the disabled, veterans and minorities. with students on-campus at over 100 global events, 40 As part of our military awareness, we participated in of which were held within the United States in nine four outreach events in three states. We continued to states. We also expanded our traditional slate of events utilize and source candidates through several military to include technical talks, tours and informational job boards and microsites to post and advertise sessions with a variety of student groups. We continued Seagate job opportunities as they became available. to brand and promote our university recruiting efforts through social media to reach this key demographic. Additionally, expanded university recruiting efforts supported our global commitment to diversity. Seagate partnered with key diversity-focused organizations to Looking Forward: showcase the company as an employer of choice at Workforce Talent and Diversity universities in Colorado, Ohio and Minnesota. These outreach efforts led to an expanded focus on female In FY2016 we will continue to place great and diversity candidate pools, which resulted in an importance on maintaining and further increase of female hiring globally and a rise in diversity cultivating an inclusive culture that fosters hiring in the United States. diversity of people and perspectives, where collaboration and openness occurs across Seagate’s internship program focused on providing geographical cultural boundaries, and diversity students with projects that added value to the business of thought and innovation is promoted. We will while incorporating networking, professional continue our commitment to recruiting and development and community outreach events. The retaining the best available candidates possible, program’s goal is to convert interns who work at including presenting diverse candidate slates, Seagate for future internships or full-time positions. driving unbiased assessment, carefully analyzing Responses from our FY2015 global intern experience our diversity metrics and benchmarking with survey indicated that 93 percent would be interested in technology peers. prospective opportunities with the corporation and 96 percent would recommend a friend. FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | OUR EMPLOYEES 34 Supply Chain Our business success depends on quick-to-market, highvolume product delivery which requires a robust, flexible supply chain that delivers value to Seagate and our customers. We achieve our supply chain goals through a strategy that includes promoting supplier education, embracing supplier management and overseeing a transparent supply chain. FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | SUPPLY CHAIN 35 Seagate has hundreds of suppliers across the globe. Our suppliers include consultants, contractors, Top Five Supplier VAP Audit Findings distributors, manufacturers and more. Seagate has two types of suppliers: direct, which provide components Following are top risks and instances of and parts for products, and indirect, who provide nonconformance among suppliers. products and services to support operations. We have adopted the EICC Code of Conduct as our supplier 1. Working hours code of conduct and require our suppliers to follow our 2. Emergency preparedness SOP, which details steps for supplier engagement, 3. Occupational safety including signing the EICC Code of Conduct, training 4. Freely chosen employment and completing the EICC Self-Assessment 5. Occupational injury and illness Questionnaire and the VAP. FY2015 VAP Audits Proactive supplier engagement is an important, ongoing 4% objective. We meet regularly with suppliers to 9% Others communicate our expectations and evaluate their Phillipines engagement. We also maintain long-term, stable relationships with our top suppliers to align goals and 9% standards. In recent years, we have begun to require Singapore certain service providers such as foreign labor agents, 40% janitorial services and canteen providers that bring China workers onto our sites to follow our SOPs, ensuring that our on-site service providers are held to the same 16% standards as our internal employees. Malaysia 22% Thailand FY2015 Highlights We continued to make progress in implementing our about EICC compliance requirements. This support is revised SOP, completing 68 full supplier audits via the extended to the suppliers of our Xyratex and LSI EICC VAP, up from 65 in FY2014. We also conducted acquisitions as they are integrated. 28 “closure” audits which help validate corrective actions have been implemented to correct actual or Demonstrating our dedication to EICC compliance and potential violations identified during the initial VAP. In the well-being of employees, we terminated a FY2015, the majority of our VAP and closure audits relationship with a supplier who consistently showed a were conducted in China, Thailand and Malaysia. The lack of engagement and failed to resolve issues raised overall audit finding closure rate was 70 percent. in the EICC audit despite extensive efforts to work with this supplier to ensure compliance. In FY2015, 405 suppliers completed the EICC SelfAssessment Questionnaire. Additionally, 130 of 135 Collaborating with our suppliers is very important to invited suppliers completed the EICC Environmental Seagate. We host quarterly Executive Business Reviews questionnaire, which gathers information on energy, to showcase and demonstrate our EICC compliance water and waste. and sustainability efforts to supplier CEOs. We also engage our suppliers on projects and teams that focus Our Supply Chain organization has full-time dedicated on issues ranging from EICC conformance and financial resources to help educate new and existing suppliers sustainability to process improvement. FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | SUPPLY CHAIN 36 We continued to work extensively with the EICC, our the industry is taking action after the damaging Verite suppliers and other electronics industry companies on report released in late 2014 which highlighted the issue the issue of forced labor in Malaysia. We hosted another of forced labor in the electronic supply chain. forced labor training session at no cost to our suppliers and their labor agents in Malaysia to help further that We screen suppliers with facilities in China against the cause. The training consisted of a one-day course Institute of Public and Environmental Affairs database to conducted in three cities: Seagate hosted the training in identify suppliers with environmental violations, and Johor Bahru with about 150 total participants, and review corrective actions taken to address violations. industry partners hosted trainings in Kuala Lumpur and Penang. The training focused on updating participants Seagate continued to play a key leadership role in the on the revised EICC code version 5.0 and local legal EICC. A member of our senior leadership team served requirements on forced labor. This was a follow-up on the Senior Executive Advisory Council which helps session to the training conducted in FY2014, and guide EICC strategy. We also led the EICC Risk FY2015 focused on the participants developing an Assessment Workgroup which works on the VAP action plan to meet the new code requirements. It was program. also a demonstration to the Malaysian authorities that Looking Forward: Supply Chain We will continue to partner with suppliers to ensure that all instances of EICC nonconformance have corrective actions in place and are seen through to completion. For issues such as working hours which are more common across a large number of suppliers, we will collaborate to identify shared solutions. We also will utilize and report key metrics quarterly about our VAP audit findings to senior leadership. In FY2016, we will continue to support efforts by suppliers to reduce working hours and meet the EICC standard of 60 hours a week. We will establish our own metric to assess our performance and make improvements. We will also maintain our efforts to drive our EICC education down to second-tier suppliers who provide goods and services to our direct supply chain, and continue to serve on the EICC Senior Executive Advisory Council. FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | SUPPLY CHAIN 37 Community Engagement Part of being a global citizen means recognizing our place as a member of global and local communities. It is an important part of our role as a member of these communities to do what we can to help enhance them. The success of our local communities contributes to the success of our employees, sites and business. For this reason, we invest in our communities through a variety of engagement programs including contributions, outreach and employee volunteerism. FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT 38 Americas and Northern Ireland The company maintained a balanced community Bay Area engagement program at all major facilities, reaching out Renovating Homes for Those in Need to stakeholders including employees, local community More than 60 Seagate volunteers put a combined 500members, non-profit partners, civic and academic plus hours into two projects renovating the homes of institutions and government. Community programs were needy area residents. Employees spent a day prepping, offered at all major company locations (comprising 96 painting, cleaning up and doing minor repairs to the percent of Seagate’s global headcount). Our program homes. Since 1989, Rebuilding Together has focused emphasized STEM, with Seagate continuing to build its on providing home repairs and enhancements to footprint of students reached and occupying a visible improve health, safety and well-being of the elderly, role in major STEM events in the Bay Area, Minnesota, disabled, and underserved. Seagate has partnered with Colorado, Malaysia, China, Thailand and Northern the organization locally for more than 10 years. Ireland. Seagate reached over 29,000 students in our STEM student outreach efforts. Seagate made progress San Francisco Schools are Spruced Up in expanding its community engagement efforts to key In San Francisco, more than 300 Seagate employees facilities brought on board through mergers and spent an afternoon painting classroom walls and school acquisitions in Seremban, Malaysia; Fremont, California; corridors, restoring outdoor murals, tending to weedPune and Bangalore, India and Guadalajara, Mexico. choked gardens, hauling away debris and more at a high school and an elementary school. The cleanup effort was part of Seagate’s annual Worldwide Sales Meeting, intended to foster teamwork while contributing back to the local community. FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT 39 Brazil Minnesota Helping Remote Community in Amazon Jungle State Science Fair A journey into the jungle to help locals upgrade a critical Seagate sponsored the Minnesota State Science and cooking facility was the way employees in Manaus, Engineering Fair, which featured science projects from Brazil celebrated their success in operations. The nearly 550 middle and high school students. Two employees journeyed by boat up the Rio Negro river to students won the “Seagate Rising Star Award” for the remote Tupe reservation, inhabited by the Julião outstanding science projects. In addition, two community. The Seagate team donated money to Minnesota science teachers were awarded a Seagate upgrade a kitchen used to make candies and jellies Science Mentor Award for educators who mentor from local fruit, a primary income source for the Julião. students in the regional science fairs across Minnesota. The Seagate volunteers also helped out in the kitchen, Nearly 70 employees volunteered as judges and team donated materials for other community renovation leads, or offered other support. projects and planted fruit trees. Summer Science Camp Mexico More than 500 4-6 grade students participated in School Garden Project Lesson in Botany and Teamwork STARBASE Minnesota’s summer camp, sponsored in Employees from Seagate’s Guadalajara facility gave part by Seagate. The three-day camp immersed their time and energy to make a difference at the nearby students in a world of STEM as they engineered a underserved Corazon School. Volunteers replenished human mission to Mars and determined how to sustain the school’s garden, built planting beds and planted life while there. Seagate employees demonstrated disk seedlings, including vegetables and spices. The drive technology, and Seagate was awarded the Giving students helped out with lighter tasks such as seedling Wings to Dreams award for being an outstanding transplant and labeling and, in the process, had an partner with STARBASE for seven years and a leader in impromptu botany lesson. STEM education. Colorado Oklahoma Math Competition Employees Make Food Bank Deposit Seagate’s design center in Longmont, Colorado, hosted Employees from IT, Customer Service and other the regional MATHCOUNTS competition, where nearly organizations at Seagate’s Oklahoma City facility 150 middle school students enjoyed breakfast, lunch maintained an ongoing relationship with the Regional and friendly competition. The students competed Food Bank of Oklahoma. The team donated time, food against the clock to solve math problems that would and dollars to support the Food Bank, which feeds well befuddle many adults. Seagate employees set up the over 100,000 meals weekly, with 37 percent being event, and served as proctors and graders. Two teams provided to children. and 10 individual students were named finalists in the game-show style elimination round, and moved on to Northern Ireland the statewide competition, with one local student further Kids Experience STEM Careers advancing to the national level. From CSI sleuthing to building rockets and programming robots, 300 students in Springtown experienced learning and fun at the annual “Seagate Real World Science Conference.” The conference’s goal was to give hands-on exposure to STEM-related careers through workshops, including several that illustrated the science of Seagate’s wafer fabrication. FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT 40 Case Study: Opening STEM Doors for Girls Females are underrepresented in STEM careers. was broadcast on educational TV to an extended Among the many STEM events Seagate sponsored audience of approximately 3,000 youngsters. in FY2015, several had a direct impact on cultivating an interest among female students. At the University of Colorado-Boulder’s EYH event, More than 50 Seagate volunteers joined other highhands-on workshops, including one led by several tech companies in April 2015 as judges and Seagate women, reached 300 students. Seagate coordinators at the 28th annual Tech Challenge in workshop participants were shown the basics of San Jose, the Bay Area’s premier engineeringhard drive technology, dismantled drives and learned design competition for youngsters. Some Seagate how to prepare for an engineering career. volunteers were trained to serve as team coordinators helping the youngsters complete their In Thailand, Seagate Korat joined the National descriptive paperwork for the judging process and Electronics & Computer Centre and Suranaree getting them to the large, multi-judge stage area to University of Technology to support the “7th demo their projects in front of an audience of more Expanding Your Horizons (EYH) Thailand than 3,000 over the two-day event. Other volunteers, Conference” for more than 230 junior high school including Cloud Systems and Electronics Solutions girls. The two-day, one-night event focused on President Phil Brace, judged the projects; and others photonics technology. From using spectrometers to served as general support staff. Approximately 2,000 forensic techniques, workshops were aimed at students – more than 40 percent girls – comprising cultivating an interest in STEM careers. Follow-up more than 500 teams designed and built structures surveys with many of the 1200-plus local EYH that could withstand three simulated earthquakes. conference participants over seven years showed More than 40 percent of the participants came from approximately 90 percent pursued higher education low-income communities. in STEM-related fields. In Massachusetts, Seagate engineers participated in the annual Women in Science Conference for 120 middle school girls from Shrewsbury and Westborough. Workshops on hard drive technology provided the students with an opportunity to look at science, technology, engineering and mathematics in a fun, exciting and educational way. Among Seagate’s many STEM activities, were “Expanding Your Horizons” (EYH) events in the U.S. and Asia. EYH is a global organization that provides resources, materials and a professional network to support STEM conferences for girls. In Wuxi, China, Seagate female engineers conducted an eight-workshop EYH event that was recorded at a local TV station. Topics included DIY stop-frame animation, the physics of batteries, Seagate’s wireless storage technology and more. The event FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT 41 Asia-Pacific China Malaysia Migrant Students Learn about Career Paths Penang International Science Fair For the children of migrant workers, a stable career may For the second year, more than 60 employees seem out of reach. Seagate Wuxi sponsored 60 such volunteered at the two-day Penang International students for a day’s activity at a local center specializing Science Fair, attended by more than 55,000 students, in career awareness. The youngsters had hands-on families and friends. The team designed a system for activities at stations simulating a space center, dental visitors to create messages using binary codes that hospital, fire station, fashion design studio, beverage were “read out” by a computer. Seagate volunteers also factory, military installation, power company, telecom built a 3D photo booth, which showcased how digital facility and more. The day’s activities were intended to data (photos) is created and stored. refresh the children’s interest in doing well in school to expand their future opportunities, as well as provide Tree Planting in Seremban them a rare, fun field trip. Fifty-two Seagate volunteers and their families planted trees in Seremban, Malaysia, part of an annual Youth Science and Robotic Competition government-sponsored event to beautify the city and More than 500 students enjoyed the “Seagate Cup” create environmental awareness. During the year, the challenge at the third annual Suzhou Industrial Park effort resulted in 2,000 trees being planted in parks, Youth Science and Robotics Competition. The residentials areas and along roads. challenge, designed to nurture innovation and show the importance of practice, involved assembly of simple robots with the aim of making them stable enough to walk reliably, as well as play a robot baseball game. Seagate engineer volunteers coached the teams and judged the baseball game. FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT 42 Singapore South Korea 3D Printing Workshop for Student Care Center Robotics Workshop Students at Life Community Services Society in Seagate Korea employees mentored high school Singapore had the opportunity to unleash their creativity students at a robotics workshop, where volunteers and see their designs materialize via 3D printing. The helped students build line tracers, small robots that use youngsters at the LCSS, which provides support light sensors to follow a track on a piece of cardboard. services to underserved children and families, created a After a brief presentation on the basics of computerrange of interesting 3D items during the afternoon-long aided design, volunteers and students paired up to build workshop, including the Singapore skyline, F1 race cars and test robots. and a hard disk drive. Thailand India Underserved Children Experience Thailand National Supporting Underserved Schools Bangalore Science Museum Seagate volunteers spent an afternoon conducting math Some 2,000 needy students enjoyed a rare overnight and science games for children from the Samarthanam field trip to experience the wonders of Thailand’s Trust for the Disabled. Working hand-in-hand with the National Science museum, thanks to Seagate. The volunteers, children learned through activities such as youngsters were from underserved communities of building a miniature solar system. Children and migrant farmers and laborers on the outskirts of volunteers also spent time together playing games and Bangkok. Schools in the area are small and have cricket. extremely limited resources. With no budget for travel and not enough staff to serve as chaperones, a field trip Supporting Underserved Schools Pune to the National Science Museum was out of the Seagate organized math and science games for the question – until Seagate helped. Seagate initiated the students from the Anantrao Pawar English Medium idea, designed, funded and staffed the event with about School. A fun quiz helped students easily grasp math 80 employee and university student volunteers as and science concepts. In addition, Seagate donated chaperones/docents. The children enjoyed activities Back Up Plus drives to the Samarthanam Trust and the and displays at the museum complex, home to three APMS to help support their programs. facilities focusing on general science, natural history and IT. For many students who had not visited the museum despite their schools being located only a few kilometers away, it was an eye-opening experience. Looking Forward: Community Engagement In FY2016, the company plans to maintain its community engagement program at a steady and sustained pace. Plans include increasing the focus on digital literacy – bringing “compute and create” experiences to stakeholders, mostly students. The objective is to continue expanding beyond traditionally defined STEM to cultivate students’ interest in creating, sharing and otherwise experiencing storage-enabled digital tools and platforms. FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT 43 Case Study: Digital Literacy – Empowering Tomorrow’s Creators and Consumers Seagate in FY2015 added “digital literacy” – Students at SMK Taman Universiti II, a secondary building 21st-century knowledge and daily skills – school in Johor, Malaysia, enjoyed a claymation as an element within STEM programs. workshop, from storyboarding to filming. In Northern Ireland, Seagate sponsored a “Big Seagate continued a partnership with the China Video Challenge,” in which nearly 2500 students Youth Development Foundation, donating funds created videos or used in-class materials about toward construction of seven “Seagate Digital codebreaking and cryptography. In addition, a Hope Libraries” for Hope Primary Schools in Seagate-sponsored summer school exposed Shaanxi and Hunan provinces. The libraries will students to App design, multi-media tools and provide supplement scarce resources in the programing. poverty-stricken regions. Also in China, a Seagate-led workshop introduced more than 120 In Singapore, Seagate introduced special-needs sight-impaired people to text-to-audio software students at the ChaoYang School to an for personal computers. interactive application to develop digital story books. Students at Mayflower Primary School Robotics coding – in Colorado, Minnesota, designed an environment-themed webpage Northern Ireland, China, Malaysia and Korea, focusing on “reduce, reuse, recycle.” Youths at Seagate supported and mentored students The Haven, a residential home for at-risk children, participating in robotics projects in clubs and participated in an iPad movie-making workshop. formal competitions. FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT 44 Summary of Performance We provide a summary of our performance history and a selection of our most recent FY2014 results. For our latest business and financial news and results, visit our company website at www.seagate.com. Performance Indicator FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Energy Consumption Energy Use and 1.617 1.640 1.655 (Million MWh) Carbon Emissions Energy Consumption per Storage Capacity Shipped 8,793 8,068 7,196 (MWh/EB) Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions 1.356 1.312 1.299 (Million Metrics Tons CO2e) 1, 2,4 Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions per Storage Capacity Shipped 8,793 8,068 7,196 (Metric Tons CO2e/EB)1,2,4 Scope 3 GHG Emissions .00263 5.287 3 5.319 (Million Metrics Tons CO2e)1 Hazardous Waste Generated Pollution Prevention 13,820 15,542 14,919 (Tons) Solid Waste Landfill Diversion 88% 81% 83% (Percent Rate Recycled) Injury and Illness Recordable Case Rate Health and Safety .28 .22 .22 (Cases per 100 Employees) Injury and Illness Days-Away Case Rate .17 .13 .10 (Cases per 100 Employees) Ethical Conduct and Conflict of Interest Policy Certification Ethics 100% 98% 99.86% (Percent Completed) 1 Total annual carbon emissions and carbon emissions per storage capacity shipped are measured and reported based on the calendar year. The values provided in this table are for calendar years 2012, 2013 and 2014. 2 Per Greenhouse Gas Protocol (www.ghgprotocol.org) guidance released in February 2013, Seagate has updated the global warming potentials (GWPs) used for calculating our emissions. In the past, we used the 100-year GWPs from the IPCC’s Second Assessment Report; we now use the 100-year GWPs from the Fourth Assessment Report. To maintain consistency throughout our goal period, we recalculated all historical inventories using the GWPs from the Fourth Assessment Report and disclose these emissions in this report. 3 Starting CY2013, scope 3 emissions include four additional emissions categories: purchased goods and services; capital goods; upstream transportation and distribution; and downstream transportation and distribution. Scope 3 emission categories are defined in the Corporate Value Chain Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard, published by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. 4 Includes scope 3 emissions from business travel and hire employee commute only. FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | SUMMARY OF PERFORMANCE 45 Report Content Index United Nations Global Compact Content Index Seagate has been an active participant in the UNGC since 2004, and we have aligned our management systems to the 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption. These principles guide us as we develop new programs and strategies in the area of global citizenship. We are committed to the implementation, disclosure and promotion of the UNGC’s principles throughout our operations. The table below provides a guide to our strategies and actions in support of the 10 principles. UNGC’s 10 Principles Location Human Rights Business should: Principle 1 Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Pages 15-16 Pages 27-28 Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Pages 35-37 Labor Business should uphold: Principle 3 The freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Pages 15-16 Pages 26-34 Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour. Pages 35-37 Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Business should: Principle 7 Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Pages 13-17 Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Pages 18-25 Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Business should: Principle 10 Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Pages 10-12 FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | SUMMARY OF PERFORMANCE 46 GRI Content Index To promote a standardized approach to reporting, we aligned the FY2014 Global Citizenship Annual Report with the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines . This report contains Standard Disclosures from the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. For more information about the GRI and G4 Guidelines, visit www.globalreporting.org. Indicator Standard Disclosure Name Status Page(s) Notes Strategy and Analysis G4-1 CEO/Chair Statement ● 3 G4-2 Impacts, Risks, Opportunities ● See Annual Report (10-K) Organizational Profile G4-3 Company name ● 4 G4-4 Company brand, products and services ● 4 G4-5 Location of headquarters ● 6 G4-6 Main countries of operation ● 6 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form ● 4 G4-8 Markets served (e.g. sectors, customers) ● 6 G4-9 Scale of company (e.g. employees, sales) ● 6, 27 G4-10 Employee profile ● 26-34 G4-11 Collective bargaining agreements ● 52 G4-12 Description of company supply chain ● 35-37 G4-13 Significant changes during reporting period ● 4 G4-14 Precautionary approach / principle ● 19 G4-15 External charters / initiatives ● 8 G4-16 Membership of associations ● 8 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 Entities included in financial statements ● See Annual Report (10-K) G4-18 Process for defining report content ● 4 G4-19 Material issues / aspects identified ● 4 G4-20 Report boundaries inside company ◒ 4 G4-21 Report boundaries outside company ◒ 4 G4-22 Re-statements of information ● 4 G4-23 Significant changes in scope / boundaries ● 4 Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Stakeholders engaged ● 51 G4-25 Basis for identification of stakeholders ● 51 FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | SUMMARY OF PERFORMANCE 47 G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement ● 51 G4-27 Issues raised in stakeholder engagement ◒ 51 Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period ● 4 G4-29 Date of previous report ● 4 G4-30 Reporting cycle ● 4 G4-31 Reporting contact point ● 2 G4-32 In accordance option chosen ● 4 We currently do not provide external G4-33 External assurance ○ assurance for this report. Governance G4-34 Governance structure ● 11 G4-38 Composition of the Board ● See Seagate's Governance description G4-39 Chair of the Board ● See Annual Report (10-K) See Seagate’s Definitive Proxy Statement G4-40 Nomination of Board Members ● See Seagate's Governance description G4-41 Conflict of interest and the Board ● See Seagate's Governance description G4-52 Board remuneration processes ● See Seagate's Governance description Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Values, principles and codes ● 11-12 G4-57 Ethics and compliance processes ● 11-12 G4-58 Hotlines and whistleblowing processes ● 11-12 Economic DMA Disclosures on Management Approach ● See Annual Report (10-K) G4-EC1 Direct economic value ● See Annual Report (10-K) G4-EC3 Coverage of defined benefit plan obligations ● See Annual Report (10-K) Environmental DMA Disclosures on Management Approach ◒ 18-19 G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume ◒ 14-15 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within company ● 20 G4-EN5 Energy intensity ● 20 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption ● 20 G4-EN7 Reduction of product / service energy use ● 20 G4-EN8 Water withdrawal ◒ 25 G4-EN10 Water recycling and reuse ● 25 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions ● 21 G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions ● 22 G4-EN17 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions ● 22 FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | SUMMARY OF PERFORMANCE 48 G4-EN19 Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions ● 21-22 G4-EN23 Total waste ◒ 23 G4-EN24 Significant spills ● 23 G4-EN25 Hazardous waste ◒ 24 G4-EN27 Mitigation of product impacts ● 13-17 G4-EN28 Reclaimed products ◒ 16 G4-EN29 Non-compliance with environmental laws ● 19 G4-EN30 Transporting products and materials ◒ 22 G4-EN32 Supplier environmental screening ◒ 35-37 G4-EN34 Environmental grievance mechanisms ◒ 12 Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work DMA Disclosures on Management Approach ● 34-36 G4-LA2 Employee benefits ◒ 30 G4-LA6 Injuries and work related fatalities ● 29 G4-LA9 Employee training ◒ 31-32 G4-LA10 Employee skills and learning ● 31-32 G4-LA15 Labor impacts in supply chain ● 35-37 G4-LA16 Labor grievance mechanisms ◒ 12 Social: Human Rights DMA Disclosures on Management Approach ● 35-37 G4-HR2 Human rights training ◒ 27-28 G4-HR5 Child labor ● 35-37 G4-HR6 Forced labor ● 35-37 G4-HR9 Human rights impact assessments ◒ 27-28 G4-HR11 Human rights impacts in supply chain ◒ 27-28 G4-HR12 Human rights grievance mechanisms ● 12 Social: Society G4-SO4 Anti-corruption training and communication ● 11-12 G4-SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior ● See Annual Report (10-K) G4-SO8 Non-compliance with laws / regulations ● See Annual Report (10-K) G4-SO9 Supplier social impact screening ◒ 36-37 G4-SO10 Social impacts in supply chain ◒ 36-37 G4-SO11 Social impact grievance mechanisms ◒ 12 Social: Product Responsibility DMA Disclosures on Management Approach ● 13-17 Health and safety impacts of products G4-PR1 ● 15 FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | SUMMARY OF PERFORMANCE 49 FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY POLICY 50 Stakeholder Engagement Engaging with key stakeholders on relevant social and environmental issues is an important activity that provides Seagate with the insights and relationships needed to make well-informed business decisions. Each year, we solicit feedback from our customers and business partners to shape Global Citizenship program plans and strategies. For example, through a variety of surveys and reporting initiatives, Seagate shares detailed information about the company’s environmental performance and greenhouse gas emissions to help the electronics industry improve its environmental footprint. We meet regularly with investors, governments, nongovernmental organizations, local communities and other civil society members to gather perspectives about trends in business and society that may influence not only our business success, but also the extent to which we can contribute positively to sustainable development. Industry Collaboration and Leadership One of our key industry collaborations is with the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC), a cooperative of leading electronics companies working to improve social, ethical and environmental responsibility in the global electronics supply chain. Seagate was a founding member of the EICC in 2004. We adopted the EICC Code of Conduct in 2007 and continue to maintain full and active membership in this organization. Seagate also participates in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with 10 universally accepted principles around human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Seagate executives have participated in UNGC Leaders Summits in the past to enhance the role of responsible business and investment. Seagate is a member of the UNGC’s U.S. Network and regularly engages in membership meetings, including sponsorship of meetings when the opportunity presents. Global Citizenship Stakeholder Inquiry Process Seagate has an established process to address specific stakeholder global citizenship issues or requests. A subset of the Global Citizenship team manages this process. The types of information provided range from environmental performance, product stewardship and product safety to labor standards, fair trade, supply chain and more. FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 51 Human Rights Policy As a global industry leader, Seagate welcomes the responsibility to be a “Global Citizen.” In partnership with employees, community members, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders, our commitment to Global Citizenship includes support of the ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact within our sphere of influence. These Principles address responsibility for the environment and other matters; however, most address the international human rights and labor standards that must be upheld to ensure the well-being and dignity of each person. We have developed policies to reinforce our commitment to uphold these human rights and labor standards. We will abide by these policies or the local law in the countries where we operate, whichever sets a higher standard. Managers are responsible for upholding these Principles and for ensuring adherence to all company policies and guidelines in their support. Procedure The following are some of Seagate’s basic standards with regard to International Human Rights and Labor Standards (including the International Labor Organization core labor conventions*): Respectful treatment. Employees must respect and value each other and are held accountable for doing so. Violations, such as physical abuse and/or harassment, or the threat of either, are not tolerated. All employees will be allowed access to basic liberties while on Company premises. Employment based on achievements. Decisions about employees are based on achievements against job goals and/or standards and required competencies; decisions about applicants are made on qualifications against job requirements. In all employment actions, we prohibit discrimination based on age, race, color, ancestry, ethnic or national origin, disability, medical status, pregnancy, marital status, veteran standing, gender or gender identity, sexual orientation, perceived or actual religious beliefs or political opinion, or other characteristics protected by applicable law. Free to express opinions. Employees have the right to express their opinions. In fact, we welcome and encourage ideas and input, including notification of issues and concerns. Fair compensation. We assess performance against job requirements and consider business conditions and appropriate market comparisons to deliver compensation. We will compensate employees with wages and benefits that meet or exceed the legally required minimum without delay and will clearly communicate to all employees their compensation earned. Due process. We understand that an employee may not meet performance or conduct expectations. In such circumstances, the employee has a right to a fair process of review. Any resulting disciplinary actions will be humane. Reasonable limitation of working hours. We will not require employees to work more than 60 hours on average per workweek, or in excess of the maximum hours of daily labor set by local laws in the countries in which we operate. We will also provide employees with at least one day off per every seven days, on average, and comply with all applicable overtime pay requirements. No unreasonable restrictions of movement will be placed upon employees during non-work hours. Free to associate. We respect and adhere to all applicable laws concerning the right of workers to organize in labor unions and engage in collective bargaining. However, we believe maintaining an open, unencumbered relationship between Seagate employees and their managers is the most effective means of addressing work environment questions and concerns. Free to choose employment. We will ensure that the overall terms of employment are voluntary. We will not require employees to pay the Company any remuneration or withhold an employee’s governmentissued identification upon hire. We will ensure no forced, bonded or involuntary prison labor is used in the production of Seagate products. Employment at age 18 or higher. We strictly prohibit child labor and will comply with all local minimum age laws and requirements and/or set a minimum employment age of 18, whichever sets the higher standard. *Our labor standards in the Human Rights policy address the core ILO Labor Conventions No. 29, 87, 98, 100, 105, 111, 138 and 182. FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY 52 Acronyms Used in this Report 3TG: Tungsten, tin, tantalum and gold BizNGO: Business non-governmental organization Working Group BNST: Benzenamine, N-phenyl-, Reaction Products with Styrene and 2,4,4-Trimethylpentene CEO: Chief Executive Officer CFSI: Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative CDP: Carbon Disclosure Project CMRT: Conflict Minerals Reporting Template CO2: Carbon dioxide CO2e: Carbon dioxide equivalent CSR: Corporate social responsibility CY: Calendar year C2C: Capacity 2 Care DRC: Democratic Republic of the Congo EB: Exabyte EICC: Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition EHS: Environment, health and safety EMEA: Europe, Middle East and Africa EYH: Expanding Your Horizons FY: Fiscal year GHG: Greenhouse gas GRI: Global Reporting Initiative HDD: Hard Disk Drive ICT: Information and communications technology ISO: International Organization for Standardization LCA: Life cycle assessment M&A: Mergers and Acquisitions Ml: Megaliter MWh: Megawatt hour NGO: Nongovernmental organization OEM: Original equipment manufacturer OHSAS: Occupational Health and Safety Advisory Services OSHA: Occupational Safety and Health Administration REACH: European Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals RMAP: Raw Material Acquisition and Pre-processing RoHS: Restriction of Hazardous Substances SOP: Standard Operating Procedure STEM: Science, technology, engineering and math SVHC: Substances of Very High Concern TSDF: Treatment, Storage and Disposal Facility UNGC: United Nations Global Compact US$: United States dollars VAP: Validated Audit Process Seagate, Seagate Technology, LaCie, Xyratex, the Spiral Logo, are trademarks or registered trademarks of Seagate Technology LLC or one of its affiliated companies in the United States and/or other countries. All other trademarks or registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners. FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report | ACRONYM INDEX 53 FY2015 Global Citizenship Annual Report
