2 015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report The Air You Live In Air is something that surrounds us 24 hours a day. In fact, our existence, as well as the Earth’s, depends on it. At Daikin, the future of the world’s air is our greatest concern. We use the knowledge, innovation and technologies, dedicated to air, cultivated over many years, to improve the quality of air we breathe and the quality of lives we live. This is our mission. Note In reporting on fiscal 2014 CSR activities, data was carefully reviewed and was revised in cases where discrepancies occurred between actual f iscal 2013 results and information reported for fiscal 2013. Also, because figures are rounded off, totals may not equal the sum of individual figures. Forecasts, Expectations, and Plans This report includes forecasts, expectations, and plans, in addition to past and present facts, about Daikin Industries, Ltd., and its subsidiaries (collectively called the Daikin Group). Please be aware that these are assumptions and judgments made based on the information available at the time this report was written and thus incorporate a degree of uncertainty. Consequently, there is a risk that events occurring in the future may turn out differently from the forecasts, expectations, and plans stated in this report. 1 DAIKIN GROUP CSR Report 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 Contents 3 Daikin Group Business Overview 7 Message from the President The Way Forward—Contributing to Society and Growing Our Business Through Environmental Technologies 9 CSR Philosophy and Key Themes Our CSR Management Protects the Environment and Abundant People’s Lives 13 Environment Disseminating Refrigerants with Low Global Warming Impact Feature Technical Support to Help Disseminate 1 Refrigerants with Low Global Warming Impact in Emerging Countries 17 Environment Spread p of Net Zero Energy Buildings Feature Net Zero Energy Buildings Help Realize 2 a Low-Carbon Society 19 Quality and Customer Satisfaction Boosting g Service Quality Feature Expansion of Japan’s Quality Service 3 Response Capabilities to China 21 Human Resources Diversityy Promotion Feature Hiring and Training Human Resources Capable 4 of Succeeding Anywhere in the World 23 Social Contribution Contributing to Environmental Protection Feature “Forests for the Air” Gets Employees 5 Involved in Mitigating Climate Change 25 Management 32 Honors for Daikin (FY2014) 27 Data 33 About This Report 31 Third-Party Verification Statement DAIKIN GROUP CSR Report 2015 2 8 Daikin Group Business Overview Contributing to Society and the Environment through Technology Air Conditioning/ The Daikin Group offers products utilizing technologies in both Refrigeration FY2014 Equipment ........... 89.3% air conditioning and fluorochemicals to provide comfort in all aspectsts consolidated of people’s lives around the world. sales by Chemicals ................. 7.8% Through our strength in energy-efficient technologies, business Oil Hydraulics, segment Defense Systems, we develop and bring to market products and services that restrict and Electronics ....... 2.9% CO2 emissions, thus contributing to sustainable development in society.y. Air Utilizing the Characteristics Achieving Both Comfort and Conditioning/ of Fluorochemicals and Environmental Performance to Meet Chemicals Refrigeration Contributing to a Wide Range Equipment All Global Air Conditioning Needs of Fields While air conditioners are indispensable to a healthy and comfortable We have the leading share of the world market for fluorochemical life, they also consume large amounts of energy. Our top priority is products used in fields such as automotive, IT, and energy. As the to develop energy-efficient air conditioners that provide only company in the world to manufacture both air conditioners a comfortable air environment. and their refrigerants, we are developing next-generation refrigerants with minimal environmental impact. Residential Commercial Air Conditioners Air Conditioners Energy Field Ururu Sarara series VRV multi air Materials for lithium-ion rechargeable batteries Materials for solar cells conditioning systems for buildings Information and Automotive Field Telecommunication Field Air Purifiers Hot Water and Space Heaters Fluororesins, coating material (for tablets) Streamer discharge Daikin ECOCUTE Air purifiers air-to-water heat Fluoroelastomers (for automobiles) pump systems Air Conditioning Systems Refrigeration Equipment Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Field Fluorocarbons (refrigerants) Air conditioning network service system Refrigeration unit for ocean freight container 3 DAIKIN GROUP CSR Report 2015 Increase in At a Glance 10 years: Net Sales 1.9 2.6 times 2014 trillion yen Increase in Increase in number in number in 10 years: 10 years: Production Sites 4.1 times Employees 3.1 times 74 59,179 Decrease in Group Greenhouse 10 years: 65 % Gas Emission (production) 1.46 million tons-CO2 Compared Life Cycle CO2 Emissions Per to 10 years Air Conditioner 14,468 ago: Oil Hydraulics, Proprietary 28 % decrease kg-CO2 Defense Technologies at Work Systems, and in a Range of Industries Refrigerant Global Warming Electronics Potential (GWP) 675 Compared to 10 years ago: We develop highly energy-efficient hydraulic pumps and units (HFC-32) incorporating the inverter and other technologies built up through our air conditioner business. We also develop aerospace parts and (See page 14) 1/3 home medical equipment that require advanced precision processing (Compared to technologies and quality control technologies. R-410A) Machine Tools Construction Equipment EcoRich R (oil hydraulics) Hydrostatic transmission (oil Hydraulics) In-Home Medical Equipment Electronics Oxygen concentrator (defense systems) Improving product development process “Space Finder” (electronics) DAIKIN GROUP CSR Report 2015 4 8 Daikin Group Business Overview Respecting the Diverse Cultures and Values of Each Country Overseas sales now account for over 70% of the Daikin Group’s total, and 80% of the Group’s employees work outside Japan. By respecting the cultures and values of each country and region, by coming out with products that match regional needs, and by building a workplace that motivates employees and brings out their unique personalities, Daikin is contributing to development in communities around the world. Increase in At a Glance Overseas Sales as Percentage of 10 years: 2014 Group Sales 4.3 74 times % Percentage of Overseas Bases with Percentage of Group Local Nationals as President 53 Employees Working Overseas 80 Increase in % 10 years: 4.7 times % Increase in Number of 10 years: Countries Daikin Doing Business 2.3 times 145 54 subsidiaries North America, Latin America 11,194 employees Countries with Daikin Subsidiaries or Distributors Subsidiary Locations Company Profile (as of March 31, 2015) Net Sales Name: Daikin Industries, Ltd. Sakai Plant (Sakai, Osaka Prefecture): (¥ billion) Consolidated Non-consolidated Address: Air conditioning/refrigeration equipment, Umeda Center Bldg., 2-4-12, compressors 2,000 1,787.7 1,915.0 Nakazaki-Nishi, Kita-ku, Shiga Plant (Kusatsu, Shiga Prefecture): 1,600 Osaka, Japan Air conditioning equipment, compressors 1,200 1,160.3 1,218.7 1,290.9 Incorporated: February 11, 1934 Yodogawa Plant (Settsu, Osaka Prefecture): 800 Founded: October 25, 1924 Fluorochemical products, 462.7 503.7 477.6 oil hydraulic equipment, 400 426.7 446.6 Capital: 85 billion yen defense/medical equipment 0 Head Office: Kita-ku, Osaka Kashima Plant (Kamisu, Ibaraki Prefecture): 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Tokyo Office: Minato-ku, Tokyo Fluorochemical products (FY) 5 DAIKIN GROUP CSR Report 2015 Japan ................................................... 26.0% China ................................................... 18.5% FY2014 consolidated Asia and Oceania .............................. 14.2% sales by region Europe, Middle East, and Africa ...... 15.8% North America, Latin America ...... 25.5% 32 subsidiaries 19,044 employees China Japan 29Daikin Industries and subsidiaries 11,574 employees Europe, Middle East, and Africa 58 6,774 subsidiaries employees Daikin Acquires Refrigerant Business Asia (excluding China), of Belgian Chemical Group Solvay S.A. and Oceania With the aim of full-fledged entry into the 38 10,593 European refrigerants business, in 2015 Daikin is starting recovery and reuse of refrigerant gas and manufacture of refrigerants for automobiles. subsidiaries employees Ordinary Profit Total Assets Number of Employees (¥ billion) Consolidated Non-consolidated (¥ billion) Consolidated Non-consolidated Consolidated Non-consolidated 200 194.2 2,500 60,000 59,179 2,264.0 56,240 51,398 160 155.6 2,000 2,011.9 48,000 1,735.8 41,569 44,110 120 1,500 36,000 1,264.8 1,346.7 81.8 94.1 1,132.5 1,160.6 1,140.1 80 74.8 75.7 1,000 24,000 772.5 797.7 40 34.2 35.4 35.7 44.6 500 12,000 6,553 6,550 6,668 6,733 6,845 0 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) (FY) (FY) DAIKIN GROUP CSR Report 2015 6 Message from the President The Way Forward—Contributing to Society and Growing Our Business Through Environmental Technologies Technological Strength and Human HFC-32, a new refrigerant that reduces global Resources Solve Social Issues warming potential to just one-third that of Associated with Air Conditioning conventional refrigerants. As of March 2015, over 3 million units of these air conditioners have been sold Through our main business of air conditioning, in 43 countries and are contributing dramatically the Daikin Group has made the lives of people to curbing the global warming impact of air around the world more fulfilling and efficient. conditioning. With emerging countries hastening Air conditioning is social infrastructure that is their conversion from conventional refrigerants, indispensable to providing people with a healthy, Daikin is working with national governments and culturally fulfilling lifestyle and achieving economic United Nations organizations to build the advancement. However, it also consumes a lot of infrastructure and train the human resources needed energy. Limiting the energy consumption that to spread the use of HFC-32 air conditioners. accompanies the economic advancement of Southeast Asian countries are tightening emerging countries is a major challenge for regulations on air conditioner energy efficiency. humankind. The Daikin Group is well aware that This provides an opportunity for Daikin to focus on mitigating climate change by reducing greenhouse utilizing its inverter technology and other strengths gas emissions is one of the key social challenges. to meet the needs of more and more people in The 21st Session of the Conference of the Parties to respective countries and regions with product and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate service solutions offering energy efficiency, comfort, Change (COP21) will be held in 2015. This conference and convenience. will decide a new framework for climate change and As for greenhouse gases emitted during the global warming measures for 2020 and beyond. This production stage, we set a target of reducing fiscal will be a crucial year for determining just how much we 2015 emissions by 67% below fiscal 2005 levels, can mitigate climate change in the future. Daikin has and we are well on the way to achieving this with formulated four key CSR themes: environment, quality a 65% reduction as of fiscal 2014. and customer satisfaction, human resources, and social In November 2015, we will open our Technology contribution. We are focusing on using two of our and Innovation Center as one more way to create particular strengths—technological strength and value for our customers. Besides research into areas human resource capabilities—in order to help such as air environments and energy, the center solve the problem of climate change while at the will seek and foster new businesses as it develops same time helping improve people’s lives. technological innovations that contribute to a sustainable society. Environmental Contribution and Business Expansion in Final Year of Fostering Global Human Resources Fusion 15 to Take Worldwide Leadership for Daikin 2015 is the final year of our Fusion 15 strategic management plan. Thanks to success through Fostering human resources is a crucial factor strengthening the foundation of our sales and supporting growth of the Daikin Group. We believe marketing, in fiscal 2014 we achieved our Fusion that the cumulative growth of all Group members 15 target for final operating income a year ahead serves as the foundation for the group’s development. of schedule. That’s why we strive to create an environment One of the core strategies of Fusion 15 is to where employees can enjoy vibrant, rewarding achieve both environmental protection and work and grow by using their talents to the fullest. business expansion. It’s no exaggeration to say that Overseas sales now account for over 70% of the our environmental technologies have been the Daikin Group’s total sales. We strive for diversity engine of Daikin’s growth. An example is Daikin’s management by allowing all employees, regardless residential and commercial air conditioners using of nationality, religion, culture, or values, to use their 7 DAIKIN GROUP CSR Report 2015 own personalities in making a unique contribution to Group growth. We hire people who are capable of playing an important role in any country and region in the world, and we train them with leadership and management skills to be able to guide our diverse workforce of different values in the same direction. We also create jobs and boost people’s technical skills in the communities where we do business. Become a Company That Meets Stakeholders’ Expectations and Contributes to Society Besides providing products and services that contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, we proactively take part in protecting the environment in various places of the world since we believe that forest depletion is one of the reasons for climate change. Because we consider forests to be “Nature’s Air Conditioners,” starting in fiscal 2014 we have been implementing our “Forests for the Air” Project in seven locations around the world including the Amazon rainforest. Moreover, as a globally active group company, we have been taking part since 2008 in the United Nations Global Compact, an initiative for companies committed to operations and strategies in line with 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. We also conduct our CSR management in line with international standards for social responsibility such as ISO 26000. Today more than ever, the public is demanding that companies understand and manage the impact they have on society. Against this background, we are stressing improvement of corporate governance and application of CSR to the value chain. We will continue to be a company that contributes to society in order to meet the expectations of our customers, shareholders, suppliers, community members, and all other stakeholders. July 2015 Masanori Togawa President and CEO Daikin Industries, Ltd. DAIKIN GROUP CSR Report 2015 8 CSR Philosophy and Key Themes Our CSR Management Protects the Environment and Abundant People’s Lives Daikin’s main business of air conditioning is crucial to economic advancement and a better life for society. Worldwide air conditioner demand is growing, especially in emerging countries. As the industry’s leading air conditioner specialist and with consideration for impact throughout the entire value chain, the Daikin Group is using the technologies it has built up to reduce environmental impact and provide people around the world with a comfortable and abundant lifestyle based on our goal of achieving sustainable growth for society as a whole. Philosophy of CSR Action Four Key Themes in Line with 2 1 Our Business Basic Management Policy We have formulated key CSR themes in four areas. These themes of the Daikin Group are in line with Daikin’s characteristics and business sphere as a global manufacturer of air conditioners and fluorochemicals; take into account the opinions and interests of our stakeholders; Our Group Philosophy and and are in compliance with international guidelines. People-Centered Management Go Hand in Hand Human Resources Employees are the lifeblood of all our activities, We believe that with our employees and the company and we provide a workplace where each employee can grow both putting into action the principles of our Group in his or her own unique way. Philosophy and People-Centered Management, we can be a corporate group that earns the trust of society, Environment Social that employees are proud to work for, and that Contribution contributes to sustainable growth. We engage in environmental Wherever we do business, activities with global we try to meet society’s warming prevention as the needs in a way that most important priority. only Daikin can. Our Group People-Centered Quality and Philosophy Management Customer The basis for the The cumulative Satisfaction shared thoughts growth of all Group We anticipate the needs of communities and the and actions of members serves as general public, and provide all employees the foundation high-quality products that bring customers for the Group’s satisfaction. development Our Group Philosophy Foundation 1. Create New Value by Anticipating the Future Needs Human of Customers Governance Compliance rights 2. Contribute to Society with World-Leading Technologies 3. Realize Future Dreams by Maximizing Corporate Value 4. Think and Act Globally 5. Be a Flexible and Dynamic Group 6. Be a Company that Leads in Applying Environmentally United Nations Friendly Practices ISO 26000 7. With Our Relationship with Society in Mind, Global Compact Take Action and Earn Society’s Trust 8. The Pride and Enthusiasm of Each Employee Are the Driving Forces of Our Group 9. Be Recognized Worldwide by Optimally Managing the Organization and its Human Resources, under Our Fast & Flat Management System 10. An Atmosphere of Freedom, Boldness, and “Best Practice, Our Way” 9 DAIKIN GROUP CSR Report 2015 Sustainable Development Throughout the Entire Value Chain Daikin Group Growth Regional development, CSR and Management Strategy Management Plans Encompass the Growth 3 including emerging countries Environmental protection of the Company and Society The Fusion 15 strategic management plan comprises medium-term CSR targets and plans towards sustainable growth. These are driven by maximizing the resources and strengths of the Daikin Group in order to minimize the negative impacts of our business and maximize the good ones so that we can exist in harmony with regional stakeholders. The targets and plans cover the entire value chain. Cooperation Driven by with Communities Environmental Technology Where We Do Business We strive to reduce the environmental impact We strive for the growth and development of that comes with increasing air conditioner places in which we do business. Efforts include demand by making the most of giving local companies free access to Daikin patents, our proprietary environmental technologies creating more jobs in countries and regions where in areas such as energy savings we operate, training workers, and helping communities and refrigerants. develop through various volunteer work. Fusion 15 Strategic Management Plan •New Growth Strategy •Management Constitution Reform •Enhance HR Capabilities Based on People-Centered Management Strengthening Human Resources, a Core Foundation People are the lifeblood of all sustainable activities. We focus on building an environment in which employees enjoy rewarding work that allows them to succeed and grow. Increasing Air Conditioner Demand in Emerging Countries Air conditioner demand is growing in emerging countries like China, India, and the Latin American nations, and the Daikin Group is accelerating its global business. This is bringing Daikin into a closer relationship with the environment as increasing demand spurs more electricity consumption. It is also bringing us closer to local economies and society as we create more jobs through business expansion and collaborate with local companies, and participate in community development. Impact on Climate Change Air conditioners use large amounts of electricity and account for a large percentage of society’s electricity consumption. As well, fluorocarbons used as air conditioner Daikin Group’s Relationship refrigerants deplete the ozone layer and with the Economy, contribute to global warming. the Environment, and Society DAIKIN GROUP CSR Report 2015 10 CSR Philosophy and Key Themes Conducting Ongoing, Steady Action Based on Mediumand Long-term CSR Targets and Plans Key CSR Themes Medium-term CSR Goals and Plans (by Fiscal 2015) Contributing to CO2 Emission • Increase use of environmentally conscious Reductions through Daikin Products*1 products in emerging countries, where CO2 emissions growth is particularly remarkable. Providing the World with (Million tons of CO2) Increasing sales of inverter air conditioners Products That Help Customers 150 In case of conventional air conditioners such as non-inverter products being and other energy-efficient products could reduce CO2 emissions in emerging countries Reduce CO2 Emissions 100 sold in emerging countries by 30 million tons-CO2. • Disseminating inverter products • Create global demand in the power • Disseminating heat-pump type 50 Emissions could be reduced conservation business. heating systems by 30 million tons-CO2 • Develop technologies and introduce 0 products that comply with refrigerant • Offering energy-saving solutions 2010 2015 (FY) restrictions. Environment • Developing future refrigerants *1 Estimate of CO2 emission reductions from the use of energy-efficient inverter products sold by Daikin, compared to CO2 emissions from the use of non-inverter products. The emission reductions figure is We engage annual reduction amount multiplied by product lifespan. in environmental activities with global Reducing Greenhouse Gases warming prevention as the Minimizing Environmental By 2015, reduce greenhouse gas emissions to one-third of most important priority. Impact in Production 1/3 fiscal 2005 levels. • Reducing greenhouse gas emissions • Effectively using water and other resources • Minimize emissions of substances of concern 2005 2015 (FY) Expanding a Green Heart Protect biodiversity around Expanding “Green Heart”*2 In all of us, a green heart the world. • Reforestation and tree-planting *2 Green Heart: Think of the Earth and • Environmental education take care of the environment. Quality and Giving Customers the Ultimate • Daikin’s quality standard gives superior, Customer Satisfaction optimal products that earn customer trust. Satisfaction We anticipate the needs • Safety & Quality • We have a system for developing products Products are designed from the perspective that meet the needs of customers, of communities and the wherever they live. general public, and provide of the customer to assure safety and quality. high-quality products • Customer Satisfaction We are switching to a global development that bring customers We strive to achieve the ultimate in quality system and strengthening our marketing satisfaction. service: speed, accuracy, and good manners. research functions throughout the world. Through People-Centered Management, Creating a Workplace Where Employees Can Demonstrate Their Abilities Human • Human Resource Development • Become a corporate group with Resources The entire Daikin Group trains human resources to match global values by working business growth. autonomously and freely in line Employees are the lifeblood • Diversity of Employees with Our Group Philosophy and of all our activities, and We strive to build a diverse workplace where everyone can shared policies and strategies. we provide a workplace where each employee can play an important role by respecting each other regardless of age, sex, nationality, or disabilities. • Communicate between head office and local bases. grow in his or her own • Balancing the Responsibilities of Work and Family • Maximizing the talents of women unique way. We allow employees to work flexible schedules so that they can have quality time with their families. and experienced employees. • Occupational Safety & Health We strive for employee satisfaction by building a safe, comfortable workplace where employees can enjoy both mental and physical well-being. Employees Taking the Initiative Social In Local Grassroots Action Contribution • Contribute to society as a respected • By working to protect the environment, and trusted company with roots in Wherever we do business, support education, and live in harmony with we try to meet society’s communities around the world. communities, Daikin employees take the lead needs in a way that in community service aimed at providing only Daikin can. each region with the support it needs. 11 DAIKIN GROUP CSR Report 2015 Boundaries Fiscal 2014 Achievements (of impact) Disseminating Refrigerants with Spread of Net Zero Proliferation of HFC-32 Air Conditioners 43 Feature 1 Feature 2 Low Global Warming Impact Energy Buildings Technical Support to Help Disseminate Net Zero Energy Sold in Countries Refrigerants with Low Global Buildings Help Realize Consumers Warming Impact in Emerging a Low-Carbon Society Daikin n Countries pages 13–16 pages 17–18 CO2 Emission Reductions in Emerging Countries: Estimated Group 28 (Through Daikin Products) million tons-CO2 • Products with Low Environmental Impact Suppliers Daikin Da G Group 65 % Reduction in Greenhouse Gases • Low-Impact Production (by Daikin Group) Daikin Group Employees at 16 around the World Volunteer Bases • Contributing to Environmental Protection pages 23–24 • Contributing to Communities Local at the Grassroots Level communities and society for the Environment Environmental Protection Feature 3 Boosting Service Quality Expansion of Japan’s Quality Service Suppliers Consumers Response Capabilities to China • Providing Safe, Da n Daikin G Group pages 19–20 High-Quality Products 27 and Services Direct Call Centers at Bases Worldwide Diversity Management Feature 4 Diversity Promotion Disability employment rate: Hiring and Training Human Resources 2.19 Capable of Succeeding Anywhere % (in Japan) in the World 92 Percentage re-employed pages 21–22 • People-Centered Management Daikin Group after retiring at 60: % (Daikin Industries) Percentage of presidents hired locally: 53 % Percentage of local in executive positions: 46 % Feature 5 • Social Contribution with Contributing to Environmental Protection Strong Community Ties Daikin “Forests for the Air” Gets Group Employees Involved Local communities in Mitigating Climate Change and society pages 23–24 DAIKIN GROUP CSR Report 2015 12 Environment Disseminating Refrigerants with Low Global Warming Impact Technical Support to Help Disseminate Refrigerants with Low Global Warming Impact in Emerging Countries Feature Why is it Important 1 Installation and repair training for service engineers at a manufacturer in Thailand Pressing Need to Phase Out HCFC Refrigerants in Emerging Countries Refrigerants are indispensable substances that circulate warming impact. Therefore efforts to find through air conditioners and transport heat. However, a next-generation refrigerant are in full swing. the Montreal Protocol and the Kyoto Protocol restrict the In 2013, emerging countries began phasing out use of conventional refrigerants that deplete the ozone the use of conventional HCFC refrigerants such as layer and contribute to global warming, and the world HCFC-22. Air conditioner demand is growing in emerging needs refrigerants that mitigate these harmful effects. countries, and if these countries follow developed Developed countries have already converted to HFCs like countries in adopting R-410A, global warming will R-410A that don’t deplete the ozone layer, but these accelerate. That makes the conversion from R-410A to refrigerants still have the problem of having a high global next-generation refrigerants a pressing concern. Air Conditioner Refrigerants: Environmental Impact Ef fect of Dissemination of HFC-32 (Projection) and Transition Substances controlled under Substances subject to restrictions Global warming impact from HFCs in emerging countries the Montreal Protocol under the Kyoto Protocol (Billion tons-CO2) Framework for controlling CFCs Framework for reducing 10 in order to protect the ozone layer greenhouse gas emissions If emerging countries Continue with converted from R-410A and current refrigerants 8 R-404A to HFC-32, the global Developed HFC warming impact would 6 decrease by countries CFC HCFC (R-410A) Nextgeneration approx. 46 %. Convert to HFC-32 (CFC-12) (HCFC-22) refrigerants 4 Reductions Emerging countries through 2 other measures Ozone depletion potential (ODP) 1.0 0.050 0 0 0 2000 2010 2020 2030 2040 2050 (FY) Global warming potential (GWP) *1 10,900 1,810 2,090 Lower Note: This projection was calculated based on Supporting Information from “The large contribution of projected HFC emissions to future climate forcing,” Velders et al. (World Meteorological Organization). The graph shows the estimated effect of *1 GWP is quoted from the Fourth Assessment Report of the IPCC. converting 100% of R-410A usage and 50% of R-404A usage to HFC-32. 13 DAIKIN GROUP CSR Report 2015 Characteristics of Possible Next-Generation Refrigerants (for Residential and Commercial Air Conditioners) Refrigerants currently Refrigerants currently used in emerging used in developed Refrigerants with low global warming potential countries countries HCFC-22 R-410A HFC-32 HFO-1234yf R-290 (HFC) (Propane) Ozone layer protection Ozone layer protection Ozone layer protection Ozone layer protection Ozone layer protection Global Global Global Global Global Economic warming Economic warming Economic warming Economic warming Economic warming performance impact *2 performance impact *2 performance impact *2 performance impact *2 performance impact *2 Safety Energy Safety Energy Safety Energy Safety Energy Safety Energy efficiency efficiency efficiency efficiency efficiency Global warming potential (GWP) *1 1,810 2,090 675 <1 *3 3 Conversion needed Refrigerant No impact on ozone layer, but Mildly flammable, but an overall Low global warming potential, Good performance as a refrigerant, immediately due good balance. but expensive and not energy but highly ﬂammable and thus Characteristics to impact on has impact on global warming. diﬃcult to handle. ozone layer. efficient. *2 Global Warming Impact: Global warming impact over the entire lifecycle of the air conditioner (impact of air conditioner use and refrigerant emission). *3 Quoted from the Fifth Assessment Report of the IPCC. DAIKIN’S APPROACH HFC-32 is currently the optimal refrigerant for use in residential and commercial air conditioners. HFC-32 has Promoting Worldwide Use of HFC-32 about one-third the global warming potential of R-410A, Choosing a next-generation refrigerant must take into offers high energy efficiency and so less of it is needed per account not only environmental performance, but also air conditioner, and can be easily recovered and reused. other overall factors such as safety and economic In fiscal 2012, Daikin released the world’s first residential performance. As the only company in the world to air conditioner using HFC-32 in Japan. As of the end of manufacture both air conditioners and their refrigerants, March 2015, the use of HFC-32 has spread to 43 countries it is our policy to choose the optimal refrigerants based and this refrigerant is now used in products such as on a comprehensive assessment of the product commercial air conditioners and water heaters as well. application, looking at not just global warming potential But to mitigate the environmental impact of (GWP) but also at the impact of refrigerants in all lifecycle refrigerants, we also need to use HFC-32 not only in stages including manufacturing, use, and disposal, and Daikin products but also get other manufacturers using it. climate and other factors of the region where air Converting to next-generation refrigerants is a particularly conditioners are used. Furthermore, the conversion to pressing concern in emerging countries, which may not alternatives to HCFCs involves international standards have the expertise to convert to HFC-32. That is why such as those of the International Organization for we are assisting them in their fight to protect Standardization (ISO) and the International Electrotechnical the ozone layer and mitigate global warming throughout Commission (IEC), as well as various national regulations the entire product lifecycle; for example, providing and standards. As the result of discussions at the governments, air conditioner manufacturers, and international level and a long process of in-company dealer engineers with the techniques and knowledge assessment and consideration, Daikin has found that we have built up. Air Conditioner Lifecycle, Measures to Mitigate Global Warming Impact of Refrigerants 1 Adoption of Low Global 3 Prevention of Manufacturing M Installation Use Warming Impact Refrigerant Leakage Refrigerants During Air Conditioner (Examples) Air conditioner Use • Adopt optimal next-generation development (Examples) refrigerant for each type of and manufacture Raise technical level of air air conditioner Use, repair conditioner installation • Develop and manufacture air conditioners with less environmental impact by Air conditioner utilizing the characteristics of next-generation refrigerants lifecycle Refrigerant manufacture Recovery, recycle 2 Stable Supply of and destruction 4 Thorough Refrigerant Low Global Warming and supply Recovery of refrigerants Impact Refrigerants Destruction on (Examples) (Examples) During air conditioner repair, Build distribution networks renewal, and disposal DAIKIN GROUP CSR Report 2015 14 Environment Disseminating Refrigerants with Low Global Warming Impact Sites of Open Seminars in Program Certified by Thailand’s Ministry of Labour 11 10 7 9 8 (Starting 2nd from left) Representatives of the 5 6 Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry of Japan, 2 Kick-off ceremony at the Ministry of Daikin Industries, the Ministry of Industry Industry of Thailand (April 2015) of Thailand, and the World Bank 3 1 4 Seminars held in 14 In April 2014, Daikin released air conditioners using HFC-32 in Thailand. At the request of the World Bank (one of the implementing agencies of the Multilateral locations Fund) and the Thai government, Daikin is taking part in a support project launched by the Ministry of Economy, 721 12 Trade and Industry (METI) of Japan under which Japanese manufacturers volunteer to help Thai manufacturers 14 convert to HFC-32. participants 13 Contributing to Dissemination of HFC-32 Through Ongoing Technical Support In November 2014, following a fund agreement on technical support between the World Bank and the Thai PERFORMANCE government, Daikin and concerned parties held a series of meetings to move forward with the text development HFC-32 Technical Guidance for Thai Air and details of the support program. In April 2015, a Conditioner Manufacturers kick-off ceremony was held, attended by those involved Daikin is helping spread the use of HFC-32 in emerging in the program: the representatives from the World countries, where refrigerant conversion is a pressing Bank; the Department of Industrial Works of Thailand; issue, through efforts such as inviting the use of many the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry of Japan; of its patents for making air conditioners, and cooling Daikin; and other parties. They presented an overview and heat pump equipment for free of charge. Also, of the HFC-32 conversion project and details of Daikin provides technical training to service engineers. support measures. After the ceremony, 12 Thai air Emerging countries can submit plans for refrigerant conditioner manufacturers took a tour of Daikin’s Thai conversion that is funded by the United Nations factory and joined a technical seminar that touched on Multilateral Fund for the Implementation of the the production facility for safe manufacture of air Montreal Protocol, which Japan and other developed conditioners using HFC-32. nations contribute to. Thailand, the world’s second Since May 2015, Daikin has been conducting training largest air conditioner producer after China, has stated for service engineers of the 12 Thai manufacturers in that it will limit the use of the conventional refrigerant the installation and repair of HFC-32 air conditioners. HCFC-22, which depletes the ozone layer, beginning in This training will go towards raising the overall level of 2017 and convert to HFC-32. The country has decided technological strength in the Thai air conditioner market to proceed with the conversion to HFC-32 using the so that the Thai service engineers can use what they fund from the Multilateral Fund. have learned from Daikin to teach engineers at their Stakeholder‘s Outstanding Example of Partnership Achieving Both Economic comment Development and Environmental Protection Daikin Industries, Ltd. is helping 12 air conditioner manufacturers in Thailand convert to HFC-32 refrigerant technology as part of a bilateral agreement between the Ministry of Economy, Trade, and Industry (Japan) and the Department of Industrial Works (Thailand). Daikin is spearheading an industry mentoring program that will facilitate the transfer of technology and help Thai industry improve its product performance and reliability. This exemplary commitment by both industry and government is expected to contribute Viraj Vithoontien significantly to global efforts in protecting the ozone layer and climate, and represents an outstanding example of a partnership towards economic development and global environmental protection. Senior Environmental Specialist, The World Bank Group To help bring this agreement to fruition, on April 29, 2015 the Chonburi factory of Daikin Industries (Thailand) hosted a visit by the 12 local air conditioner manufacturers, government representatives, and representatives of Thailand’s vocational schools. Over the next 12 months, Daikin will provide the technicians and engineers from the manufacturers with ongoing training on the development, production process, installation, and servicing of HFC-32 refrigerant so that the Thai air conditioner industry can successfully convert to HFC-32 technology and be more competitive in domestic and international markets. 15 DAIKIN GROUP CSR Report 2015 Factory tour for the representatives of Thai air Installation and repair training for service engineers conditioner manufacturers hosted by Daikin of 12 Thai air conditioner manufacturers Industries (Thailand) Ltd. companies’ dealerships Raising the technical level of Thai service engineers We are also providing the Thai government with the results in fewer refrigerant leaks during installation and HFC-32 technological information that is needed to repair and helps limit emissions of greenhouse gases. It develop safety standards for manufacturing, selling and also gives the service engineers official certification and installing, and disposing of HFC-32 air conditioners. boosts their job status, allowing them to perform highly technical work and thus boost their income. HFC-32 Air Conditioner Installation and Repair Training for Service Engineers NEXT CHALLENGE When we looked at refrigerants’ environmental impact on the entire lifecycle, we realized that no matter how Continuous Search for Technologies to hard you work to minimize the impact of the refrigerant Further Reduce Environmental Impact and the air conditioner, it means nothing if refrigerant We will continue our ongoing support by making the leaks during installation and repair. That’s why we focus most of our technological strength so that other on training the service engineers at manufacturers and emerging countries can make the conversion to HFC-32. their dealerships who will install and repair products. These efforts help protect the ozone layer and reduce Since 2014, Siam Daikin Sales Co., Ltd., Daikin’s sales global warming, as well as raise the technical level of company in Thailand, has been conducting installation companies in emerging countries and contribute to and repair training to boost HFC-32 usage and knowledge economic advancement. The dissemination of HFC-32 for dealer engineers at the training center and at and more widespread use of refrigerants with low locations around the country. In fiscal 2014, 853 engineers global warming impact also lead to business growth were trained. for Daikin. In January 2015, the success of this training earned In addition, it is Daikin’s policy to choose the right it certification as an official skills development and refrigerant for every application. While we are working job-training program under the Ministry of Labour of to spread the use of HFC-32 worldwide in residential and Thailand. The program has been opened to not only commercial air conditioners, we also continue to search the engineers of the Daikin Group but also the engineers for suitable alternative refrigerants that match the specific of other dealers, allowing us to play a role in helping needs of products such as water heaters, chillers, and many service engineers obtain the job license authorized refrigeration equipment. by the Department of Skill Development under the As the only company in the world to manufacture both Ministry of Labour. From January to March 2015, open air conditioners and their refrigerants, we will continue seminars under this program were held in 14 locations to seek ideal refrigerants with low environmental around Thailand, with 721 engineers taking part. Our impact, and thus contribute to protecting the ozone target is to train about 1,000 engineers under this layer and mitigating global warming. program in fiscal 2015. Example of Daikin’s Choice of Refrigerants Choosing HFC-32 Choosing the right refrigerant for each application CO2 Water heaters Residential air HFC-32 conditioners HFC-32 HFC-32 H HFO mix Chillers Commercial air D Daikin’s Choice refrigerant conditioners HFC-32 of Refrigerants o VRV CO2 (multi-split type Ammonia HFC-32 HFC-32 Refrigeration air conditioners for equipment commercial buildings) mix refrigerant DAIKIN GROUP CSR Report 2015 16 8 Environment Spread of Net Zero Energy Buildings Daikin’s Technology and Innovation Center (to open in November 2015) will conduct practical research into net zero energy buildings Net Zero Energy Buildings Help Realize a Low-Carbon Society Why Feature 2 is it Important Increasing Worldwide Prevalence of Net Zero Energy Buildings (ZEBs) DAIKIN’S APPROACH With the increase in energy consumption of office buildings Demonstration Tests Under and other commercial facilities in recent years, the need for Industry–Government–Academia Tie-Up energy efficiency is growing. Net zero energy buildings, or Daikin is working to raise the energy efficiency of VRV ZEBs, are becoming increasingly prevalent in Japan and other (multi-split type air conditioners for commercial developed countries as a major contribution to achieving buildings) and other air conditioning products, as well a low-carbon society. as propose optimal energy management based on the Like the name suggests, a net zero energy building is one specific needs of regions around the world with the that utilizes energy efficiency in its structure and facilities goal of realizing ZEBs. while also creating its own energy through renewable In 2008, Daikin’s Environmental Technology sources so that its net energy use becomes zero. Europe has Laboratory teamed up with a major architectural firm to set a target of having all new buildings be ZEBs by 2020 calculate how much electricity consumption needed to while the U.S. is aiming for 2030. Japan’s target is also for be reduced to achieve a ZEB. It was found that air all new commercial buildings to be ZEBs by 2030, and conditioning-related energy would have to be reduced by this means there must be dramatic reductions in 60%. Toward achieving a ZEB, Daikin began developing the energy consumption of air conditioning, VRV building air conditioners with dramatically greater a large chunk of a building’s electricity use. annual operational efficiency, and in a project under New Energy and Air Conditioning Electricity Net Zero Energy Building Building Building ing Electricity Consumpt Consumption Consumption Reduction Targets Industrial Technology Other Air 100 Development conditioning 30% Organization (Proportion of air conditioner 1 Reduction in building 13% reduction 39% energy use through greater energy efficiency (NEDO), Daikin, the Building in structure and facilities Building 60% architectural firm, and Energy electricity reduction electricity consumption) Use consumption Nagoya University 2 Utilization of renewable energy and untapped Lighting, carried out joint energy Facilities Appliances demonstration tests. Conventional Building Air Creating 12% 36% energy conditioning energy efficiency energy Net energy consumption is zero efficiency Source: The Energy Conservation Center, Japan 17 DAIKIN GROUP CSR Report 2015 Results of demonstration tests In Japan Relation Between Load and Operating Time under NEDO project Demonstration 71 (for Office Buildings; Daikin figures) Four Features of the testing to VRV X-Series Cooling operation Verification System be conducted Actual operating efficiency of Heating operation at Technology air conditioner (current) 1) New scroll compressor % Overseas and Innovation reduction in electricity Center Joint testing (Efficiency, operating time) Possible reduction 2) Fully automatic consumption energy-efficient Demonstration refrigerant control testing in Japan About 90% of annual operating 3) 15% reduction in standby and other countries time is during times of low temperature diﬀerence power consumption Some 4) Combination with DESICA technologies air conditioners incorporated Small Large (Diﬀerence between outside temperature and air conditioner’s set temperature) (Hybrid Desiccant System) The operational efficiency of conventional air conditioners drops drastically when there is a small difference between the outside temperature and the air conditioner’s set temperature. A study of annual usage conditions revealed that air conditioners operate under this small temperature difference about 90% of the time. PERFORMANCE NEXT CHALLENGE Combination with DESICA Air Conditioners Verify ZEB Effectiveness Through Boosts Efficiency During Low-Load Times Demonstration Testing in Japan and During the development process, we discovered Other Countries a technology that could cut air conditioning electricity The air conditioning system we developed will be consumption by 60%. The operational efficiency of incorporated with other systems such as heat storage conventional air conditioners drops drastically when and natural heat usage systems, and employed at our there is a small difference between the outside Technology and Innovation Center (to open in November temperature and the air conditioner’s set temperature, 2015 inside Daikin’s Yodogawa Plant), where we plan to and this low-load period accounts for about 90% of use it to test its effectiveness in reducing energy annual operating time. We therefore focused our consumption in large buildings. To promote the spread development efforts on improving efficiency during of ZEBs overseas, it is necessary to test the effectiveness this low-load time. of systems in a range of environments differing in terms To boost efficiency during low-load times, we of factors like heat and humidity. In fiscal 2015, Daikin developed a number of key technologies. For example, plans to conduct demonstration testing under a joint a new scroll compressor, which dramatically minimizes industry–government–academia tie-up in Singapore the leakage and loss during compression, and fully that will show air conditioning system performance in automatic energy-efficient refrigerant control, which tropical climates. determines necessary load on the go and controls compressor RPM as necessary. Because optimal energy efficiency can be achieved by controlling temperature and humidity with separate Stakeholder’s equipment, we aimed to maintain room comfort while comment reducing energy consumption by controlling temperature with the VRV building air conditioner and humidity with Dr. Tseng King Jet the DESICA air conditioner (humidity adjuster). Associate Professor, Nanyang Technological University; program co-leader, 71% Electricity Reduction with New System BEARS SinBerBEST Using a new system incorporating these new technologies, including the ones which would take time Daikin Technology Holds Promise for to be put into practical use, we embarked on Energy Saving in Humid Tropical Regions demonstration testing under a NEDO project. Test results In highly humid tropical regions such as Singapore, the use of show that electricity consumption can be reduced by conventional air-conditioning and mechanical ventilation 47% during cooling and 27% during heating over systems leads to over-cooling and energy inefficiency. That’s conventional systems. In addition, we conducted why room air comfort and energy savings are more effectively energy simulations of this system installed in a highly achieved by controlling temperature and humidity separately. airtight, highly insulated building, and found that To this end, Daikin and the Building and Construction savings of 71% in annual electricity consumption Authority of Singapore, along with an alliance of three major universities called BEARS*, are testing Daikin’s DESICA in actual could be achieved. working environments to evaluate the effectiveness of this new Some new technologies that could be put to technology in reducing energy consumption. The study results immediate practical use were incorporated in our are expected to lead to the adoption of this green technology VRV X-Series multi-split type air conditioners for in tropical regions. commercial buildings released in March 2015. * BEARS (Berkeley Education Alliance for Research in Singapore): An educational research and development body of the University of California Berkeley that is working in collaboration with institutes such as Nanyang Technological University and the National University of Singapore DAIKIN GROUP CSR Report 2015 18 Quality and Customer Satisfaction Boosting Service Quality Expansion of Japan’s Quality Service Response Capabilities to China Why Feature 3 Service engineer training in China contributes to high customer satisfaction is it Important Building a Much-Needed Service System in China in Response to Expanding Market DAIKIN’S APPROACH The Daikin Group’s expansion of its global air conditioning Daikin Sales and Service Functions business involves more than just selling more air conditioners; Collaborate with Dealers to Boost we are also building a comprehensive service system that Customer Satisfaction includes installation and maintenance with the aim of boosting The Daikin Group’s ultimate aim is to interact sincerely customer satisfaction. We have 27 customer service centers with customers and provide meticulous service rooted around the world and we conduct satisfaction surveys for in exacting technologies. customers to gather their opinions in 22 countries. We also conduct A major cause of air conditioner breakdowns is faulty other efforts such as technical support to Daikin dealers doing installation. Air conditioner manufacturers in China air conditioner installation and maintenance. Ever since establishing a local subsidiary in the rapidly generally do not have their own service engineers but growing Chinese market in 1995, sales have been growing year rather have cooperating dealers who handle the by year as we have rapidly expanded our sales territory from installation and maintenance of products. Daikin, on major metropolises to provincial areas. This rapid growth the other hand, has always established our own service has necessitated that we boost both the quality and companies staffed with service engineers in order to quantity of our service system in providing the crucial improve the quality of installation and maintenance. service quality that will raise customer satisfaction. However, to keep up with the speed of our business expansion, our own service engineers are not enough and so we need to rely on the help of dealers to handle Net Sales in China installation and maintenance. (¥ Billion) Under the slogan “We are the DAIKIN Family,” the 400 353.4 Daikin Group in China has built up strong bonds with 322.9 its dealers. We focus on supporting dealers because 300 234.8 we believe satisfying them will lead to greater satisfaction 215.7 200 182.3 among end users. In fiscal 2014, besides stepping up dealer support, we took every measure possible to raise 100 awareness among our service company employees that 0 dealers are important Daikin partners. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) 19 DAIKIN GROUP CSR Report 2015 Strengthening the Service System in China 100 bases (No. of people) No. of service engineers (No. of bases) 500 No. of service bases 445 people 120 400 100 80 300 60 200 40 100 20 0 0 Number of (FY) Service engineer training for dealers Receiving a banners of ’03 ’04 ’05 ’06 ’07 ’08 ’09 ’10 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 banner of gratitude received gratitude from from dealers a dealer PERFORMANCE to show gratitude to people by presenting 5 times as many as in the previous them with a banner. In fiscal 2014, we were presented fiscal year Stepping up Technical Training at Dealers with five times as many banners as the previous year. Achieves Japanese Level of Service Quality And thanks to stronger ties between Daikin and dealers, Daikin is increasing the number of service bases in China we have better access to customer information gathered and appointing in-house service engineers at these by dealers and this has led to more business in the form bases around the country. In fiscal 2014, we opened 30 of replacement purchases and additional purchases. new bases and placed a particular focus on strengthening We have been working on the assumption that greater the service system in regional cities. Our in-house service satisfaction for dealers means greater satisfaction for end engineers conduct guidance at dealers in addition to users. Thanks to these efforts, on customer satisfaction performing air conditioner installation and maintenance. questionnaires conducted in fiscal 2014 we scored an To ensure they have the capability to provide and lead overall score of 4.7 out of 5, compared to 4.4 on the such service activities, they learn technological prowess fiscal 2011 questionnaires. at Daikin’s in-house Service University. As of the end of fiscal 2014, 455 in-house service engineers had completed NEXT CHALLENGE this training. To help pass on the techniques acquired by our Executive Management Candidates Trained in-house service engineers to the dealers, in fiscal 2014 in Japanese Level of Quality Service Daikin service companies and Daikin sales functions We believe that to further raise the level of service quality collaborated to focus on providing on-site guidance at in China, it is crucial that we train executive management high-sales-volume dealers and new dealers. Our in-house candidates who understand and implement the Japanese service engineers worked with dealers in installing air style of prompt and polite communication with customers. conditioners, with a particular focus on avoiding complex That is why since fiscal 2011 we have been hiring at our pipework that could lead to defects in air conditioner Chinese service companies local staff who have studied operation. As a result, dealers’ service engineers are now in Japan and have experienced firsthand Japan’s high able to perform proper installations that prevent defects. level of customer service. In fiscal 2014, we hired six Chinese students who studied in Japan and they Stronger Ties with Dealers Leads to Greater underwent nine months of training. Besides acquiring Customer Satisfaction air conditioning and service basics at our Service The Daikin Group in China has established customer University in China, they accompanied service engineers service centers in Beijing, Shanghai, and Guangzhou to on the job for practical training in installation and handle customer inquiries. In fiscal 2014, we established maintenance, and they underwent training at a contact dealer support centers for dealers so that we could offer center for firsthand experience in offering the heartfelt them a higher level of comprehensive assistance. service for which Japan is known. We enjoy closer communication with our dealers by We will continue to have more frequent exchange offering more advanced technical support and these with each of our Chinese service companies and dealer support centers. The result has been that they strengthen ties with dealers, as well as ingrain the can foresee potential problems, consult with Daikin, and Japanese style of service so that Daikin can be number quickly solve them on their own. In China, it is a custom one in customer service in China. Stakeholder’s Achieving Satisfaction with Customers Through comment Unparalleled Service We are grateful to Daikin for all the support they give us, such as by offering installation and maintenance guidance on site. Our customers have praised us, especially for things like prompt delivery of parts. The market is becoming increasingly competitive and it is getting harder and harder to distinguish yourself from other companies. We look forward to Daikin’s continuing support in further boosting customer service; by helping us make installation techniques standardized and fully ingrained Ren Weiguo among our service engineers, and by sharing valuable information with us. For example, having Chairman, Jiangsu Dayu Air-condition Facility Co., Ltd. information about simple solutions for customers on the Internet would be valuable during dialogue (Daikin Dealer) between dealers and customers. DAIKIN GROUP CSR Report 2015 20 8 Human Resources Diversity Promotion Indian nationals working in product development at Daikin in Japan Hiring and Training Human Resources Capable of Succeeding Why Feature 4 Anywhere in the World is it Important Outstanding International Employees Help Daikin Globalize Management DAIKIN’S APPROACH The Daikin Group is a global company that has more than 70% Aggressive Worldwide Efforts to Hire of net sales coming from outside Japan and 80% of employees Globally Capable Human Resources working outside Japan. Daikin Industries has for years striven to hire human Against this background, we understand the importance of resources capable of working successfully anywhere in diversity management: utilizing employees from different the world. This includes both Japanese who have done countries with unique personalities and a wide range of values internships or otherwise studied in other countries, and in order to spur innovation and make Daikin more foreign nationals who have studied at Japanese internationally competitive. universities. One of the core strategies of our Fusion 15 strategic management plan is to enhance human resource capabilities. Daikin Group companies outside Japan are also It is crucial that we continue to turn out human resources of hiring local nationals who have studied or worked in numerous nationalities who can drive business growth other countries. anywhere in the world so that the Daikin Group can The race among companies to hire new talent is sure enjoy ongoing growth and advancement. That is why to intensify, as these companies need to hire and train hiring and training globally capable human outstanding human resources of varying nationalities resources is one of the top priorities for Daikin. who can work successfully anywhere in the world. Since fiscal 2009, we have been holding global HR conferences, where human resource managers from Daikin in Japan and overseas look into hiring and training practices that take advantage of the Group’s global strengths. This is Daikin one way that we are linking representatives of the Daikin employees working outside Daikin Group worldwide to improve the way we hire overseas sales as % of total Japan as % and train human resources. of total 74% 80% 21 DAIKIN GROUP CSR Report 2015 PERFORMANCE be determined whether these students have career goals in line with the direction of O.Y.L. Manufacturing, International Internships for and the company can thus hire those who desire to Deepening Understanding grow with it. Since 2012, Daikin Industries has been working with Daikin We have also begun collaborations with Daikin Airconditioning India Pvt. Ltd. to hire graduates of Indian companies in the U.S., Europe, and China aimed at global Institutes of Technology (IITs) (Bombay and Delhi), human resource hiring. which turn out some of the world’s top science-based human resources. NEXT CHALLENGE Many of the leading companies in North America and Europe also visit IITs to recruit talent. On career days at Focusing on Training Globally Capable the institutes attended by companies, it is normal for Human Resources students and companies to agree to employment right Daikin bases stress post-hiring training so that through after the interviews. Making such quick employment their work employees can hone their global thinking, decisions, however, may cause some misunderstandings take on new challenges, and continue growing with the for both Daikin, which hires on the understanding of company. long-term employment, and for Indian students, who Since 1999, we have dispatched 194 young Japanese are leaving their home country and may face Daikin employees to undergo practical training at overseas unexpected problems along the way. To avoid these bases in 21 countries. In May 2015, we launched a similar misunderstandings, Daikin Industries and managers at training program in which young Daikin employees from Daikin Airconditioning India decided on a two-month other countries come to undergo training in Japan. internship in Japan for third-year Indian students during We plan to expand these efforts by having overseas their summer break. After experiencing work at Daikin bases collaborate in human resource exchanges and in Japan, including learning about product development training so that we can foster people with the experience and other process, as well as life in Japan and Daikin’s and skills to work for Daikin anywhere in the world. corporate culture, the students share their goals with Joint seminar hosted Daikin Industries and both sides decide whether they by Daikin bases are willing to enter into a work agreement. in Malaysia, Australia, As a result of this process, over the past three years and Japan. seven graduates of IITs have joined Daikin Industries. Collaborative Hiring Among Group Companies Since fiscal 2009, our air conditioner manufacturing base in Malaysia, O.Y.L. Manufacturing Company Sdn. Bhd., has been collaborating on hiring with Daikin Australia Pty., Ltd. and Daikin Industries. Because many Southeast Asian students who study in Australia have a good Number of Daikin Japanese command of language and are capable of thinking employees who have outside the box, we have been hiring these students at trained overseas 194 universities in Sydney, Australia. During their summer break at university, these students do internships at O.Y.L. Manufacturing in Malaysia where their duties include international business planning. During this time it can Practical training for overseas Daikin Group employee in Japan started Stakeholder’s Learning From Each Other Helps Us Grow Together comment There are currently two Indian nationals working in my group. They are here in Japan to learn about the highest level of manufacturing technologies and they are passionate about making these technologies benefit the rest of the world. That is why they work diligently to acquire every possible bit of knowledge and skill. With their advanced scientific knowledge, they provide stimulus for myself and the other employees through insightful questions that give us new opportunities to improve. They also help make us more globally minded and capable because our young Japanese Tetsuya Yamamoto employees, who may work at Daikin overseas bases in the future, are trying hard to communicate Senior Engineer smoothly with them despite the language and cultural differences. Development Reliability Group, Air Conditioning Manufacturing Division DAIKIN GROUP CSR Report 2015 22 8 Social Contribution Contributing to Environmental Protection Daikin representatives, government officials, and members of the local community and NGOs take part in the opening ceremony in Cambodia “Forests for the Air” Gets Employees Involved in Why Feature 5 Mitigating Climate Change is it Important About 10% of Greenhouse Gases Result from Deforestation DAIKIN’S APPROACH Climate change is causing increasing problems that include more frequent natural disasters and negative effects on food crops. Sustainable Coexistence of “Nature’s Air There are also fears that it will have even more serious effects on Conditioners” and Community Members humankind in future. With the dual aims of growing our business Believing that forests are “nature’s air conditioners” for and helping solve the world’s environmental problems, Daikin has their ability to create a comfortable air environment, been introducing energy-efficient technologies and promoting Daikin has been carrying out reforestation and forest the spread of the low global warming potential refrigerant HFC-32 protection activities since 2008 in Indonesia and since as part of aggressive efforts to reduce greenhouse gases, a major 2011 in Shiretoko, Hokkaido, Japan. Based on these cause of climate change. activities, we launched the “Forests for the Air” project Meanwhile, about 10% of the world’s greenhouse gas emissions are said to be as a result of deforestation in developing in June 2014 in collaboration with Conservation countries since the CO2 stored in these deforested areas is International, an international NGO, and the Shiretoko released into the atmosphere. That is why Daikin is going Nature Foundation in seven locations with rich nature beyond our business activities to contribute to society but threatened by biodiversity loss. through projects to protect the world’s forests. Deforestation in developing countries is mainly due to human activities such as conversion of forest to Global Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions by Source (as of 2010) cropland or firewood collection, and these human Contributions to Reducing GHG Emissions activities arise from the basic problem of poverty. Through Business (Energy Efficiency, Improving the situation requires more than just planting Next-Generation Refrigerants) trees: it requires that we work with local communities to CO2 from fossil fuel combustion........ 65% promote understanding of the value of forests, support and industrial processes sustainable farming so that people can make a living Global GHG CO2 from deforestation...................... and other land use 11% without cutting down trees, provide environmental Emissions (2010) Methane ............................................. 16% education, stop illegal logging and poaching, work Dinitrogen monoxide ........................... 6% towards agreements to conduct these community-based Fluorocarbons ....................................... 2% activities, and train locals to eventually lead all these activities themselves. These activities will eventually lead Contributions to Reducing GHG Emissions Through Social Projects Source: Contribution of Working Group III to the Fifth Assessment to sustainable forest management. (Forest Protection) Report of the IPCC 23 DAIKIN GROUP CSR Report 2015 Examples of Community Support to Protect Forests Size of forest area protected approximately 11 China Supporting agroforestry Japan Daikin employee volunteers million hectares Liberia © Conservation International/ photo by Borwen Sayon Environmental education Indonesia Improving living environments through provision of water Contributed to Brazil and electricity Technical support to approximately 7 improve productivity and sustainability of India agriculture practices Providing energy-efficient stoves Cambodia to reduce use of wood fuel Stopping illegal logging with the help of local communities million tons © Polo Eng of CO2 emissions reductions PERFORMANCE NEXT CHALLENGE Alternative Sources of Helping Mitigate Climate Change Through Income Reduce Illegal Logging in Cambodia Long-Term Support In February 2015, an opening ceremony was held for Our “Forests for the Air” project is aimed at preserving Daikin’s conservation project in Cambodia. The Central about 11 million hectares of forest and contributing to Cardamom Forest in southwest Cambodia is a wilderness CO2 emission reductions of 7 million tons in seven paradise and one of the largest remaining old-growth locations over the next ten years. forests in Southeast Asia. However, the forest still faces In Japan, 93 employees have so far volunteered to threats such as illegal logging and poaching. assist with forest protection in Shiretoko. To solve this problem, Daikin has been supporting Our overseas employees are also volunteering at the ecotourism to give local communities a new form of project sites and participating in donations to the income. The idea is for locals to guide visitors through projects, which provide opportunities for employees to the forests, which are in fact tourist attractions, to create raise their environmental awareness through participation. a source of income and incentive for forest protection. In this way we can foster a “green heart” philosophy We also support patrols by local community members, under which our employees take action with a firm who act as rangers to prevent illegal activities. By understanding of, and consideration for, the environment. cooperating in this government activity in a way that In the process, we can become a corporate group provides an income for themselves, the local people are whose business is integrally connected to the future of motivated to take the initiative in protecting the forests. planet Earth. Getting Employees Involved Daikin is doing more than just providing NGOs with financial support. We are starting schemes at worldwide Stakeholder’s Daikin bases to get employees taking part in our comment “Forests for the Air” project. In fiscal 2014, we asked Daikin employees in Japan to collect unused stationery from their homes. As a Dr. Chheng Kimsun result, over 5,000 pencils were donated to children in Delegate of the Royal Government, Cambodia, enabling Daikin employees to support Head of Forestry Administration, Cambodia children’s education. Sustainable Forest Management Conserves Water Resources Used for Hydropower and Contributes to Poverty Reduction The site of this project, the Central Cardamom Forest, contains a vast reservoir of water that is used to produce hydroelectric power to promote economic growth and raise local people’s standards of living. We appreciate very much the support that will be provided over the 10-year life of this project that will improve not only the lives of the current generation, but those of future Daikin employees generations, as well. The project is recognized to be of global donated pencils to children in Cambodia significance, also, because of its contributions to the United Nation's goals of eradicating poverty and famine, spreading education and ensuring environmental sustainability, and we are committed to making this project a success and a model for other regions to follow. DAIKIN GROUP CSR Report 2015 24 8 Management Performance Report CSR Management The Daikin Group is speeding up the pace at which it introduces CSR activities to overseas Group companies. We believe that CSR means fulfilling our responsibilities to society through implementation of Our Group Philosophy while thoroughly abiding by corporate ethics and society’s laws. CSR Management Structure throughout the entire Group. We also appoint two outside board members and two Comprehensive, Cross-Organizational external Audit and Supervisory Board members with no Action Group-Wide vested interest in our company. Firmly grounded in corporate ethics and legal compliance, Corporate Governance Structure the Daikin Group’s CSR efforts are aimed at contributing to society through its business activities. Shareholders’ Meeting The CSR Committee, chaired by the officer in charge Appointment, dismissal Audit of CSR, sets Daikin’s CSR direction and monitors the Accounting Audit & Board of CSR Committee, Corporate Ethics Auditor Supervisory Directors and Risk Management Committee, progress of CSR activities. Under this committee, staff Board Development Committee in the CSR & Global Environment Center lead for Operational Adequacy Promotion System, comprehensive, cross-organizational CSR activities Audit & Independent Committee, Supervisory Information Disclosure Committee throughout the entire group. Board Members Member of the Advisory Council Corporate Governance Group Human Resources and Auditors Compensation Advisory Committee Meeting Ensuring Soundness, Transparency, Group Steering Group Meeting Management and Diversity in Management Appointment, supervision Meeting Executive The Daikin Group’s corporate governance systems are Officers Meeting designed to help accelerate decision making and Executive operational execution work in anticipation of and Officers response to changes in management tasks and the management environment while concurrently promoting (The rest is abbreviated) consistently high levels of management transparency and soundness, thereby seeking to increase the Group’s Human Resources and Compensation corporate value. Advisory Committee Raises Transparency Rather than adopt a U.S.-style “committees system” To ensure the transparent management of its corporate that completely separates decision making from officer personnel and remuneration processes, Daikin operational execution, the Group has adopted an has established the Human Resources and Compensation “integrated management” system that calls for directors Advisory Committee. This committee engages in to bear responsibility for management as well as for discussions and deliberations regarding issues including operational execution. In view of the special characteristics corporate officer nomination criteria, corporate officer of the Group’s business, it was judged that this is a more candidates, and remuneration. The committee consists effective means of accelerating decision making and of four members, including two external directors and operational execution. In addition, the Group has two in-house directors, with the committee chair being introduced an Executive Officer System to accelerate the chosen from the external directors. speed of execution based on autonomous judgments The remuneration of directors and Audit and and decisions in units handling each region, division, Supervisory Board members is determined so as to fall and function. within the aggregate remuneration ceiling for directors We have the Advisory Council system for providing and corporate auditors as set by a resolution at the independent opinions and advice on management general shareholders’ meeting. Based on a report from issues. And to ensure that the interests of stakeholders the Human Resources and Compensation Advisory other than shareholders are respected and protected, Committee, the directors’ remuneration is determined the Board of Directors oversees the CSR Committee and by a resolution of the Board of Directors while the the Corporate Ethics and Risk Management Committee, corporate auditors’ remuneration is determined by a all of which work to ensure that corporate governance resolution of the Audit and Supervisory Board. is based firmly in corporate social responsibility. Daikin’s corporate officer remuneration system is Directors are selected so that we have a diverse designed to accord with the Group’s management policy range of personnel representing people of varying and respond to shareholders’ expectations by increasing genders, nationalities and experience. As of June 2015, corporate officers’ motivation to promote a sustained we have 12 directors (including one woman and two increase in Group performance over the medium to long non-Japanese nationals) who oversee prompt and term and thereby contributing to a rise in the Group’s strategic decision making and sound management corporate value. 25 DAIKIN GROUP CSR Report 2015 Compliance and Risk Management Working with Overseas Group Companies to Mutually Advance Compliance and Integrating Compliance and Risk Management Risk Management Because the Daikin Group believes that violation of The Daikin Group strives to strengthen compliance and corporate ethics constitutes a risk, we carry out risk management at overseas bases. Corporate Ethics unified efforts aimed at achieving both compliance and and Risk Management Committee members of Daikin risk management. Industries regularly visit overseas Group companies to join The Corporate Ethics and Risk Management Committee compliance committee meetings, where they confirm the is the organ for leading group-wide corporate ethics state of compliance activities. It is headed by the officer in charge of and risk management, compliance and corporate ethics and made up of general and share information. managers and presidents of major Group companies in This process enables Japan. As a rule, this committee meets twice a year to Daikin Industries and discuss and work towards solving a variety of issues. its overseas companies Matters deliberated upon at these meetings are reported to share and to Daikin executives twice a year. implement each At overseas Group companies, Daikin Industries in other’s best practices. Compliance meeting in China (Suzhou) Japan is a model for the creation at each base of compliance and risk management systems that function Risk Management based on the particular needs of each company and their community. Each of these companies has Identifying the Most Important Risks, compliance committees and Corporate Ethics Handbooks, then Formulating and Implementing Measures and they conduct regular self assessments and risk With the Daikin Group expanding rapidly around the management checks. globe, we have introduced company-wide, cross-organizational risk management in order to quickly Corporate Ethics and Risk Management get an overall picture of risks from a global point of view Board of Directors and reduce the risks. All divisions carry out annual risk assessments in which they determine important risks Corporate Ethics and Risk Management Committee and create measures to deal with them. Based on the Organizational body for promoting results of these assessments, the most important corporate ethics and risk management activities company-wide risks are determined, with measures for the entire Group proposed and implemented to deal with them in order to reduce risk. In fiscal 2014, efforts involved six key risk areas: Oﬃcer in Charge of Compliance and Corporate Ethics Officer in Charge earthquakes, product liability and quality, intellectual Person in charge of promoting property, information leaks, overseas crisis management, corporate ethics and risk management Divisions and and improper accounting practices. Group for the entire Group Companies Improving Measures Against Information Leaks People in charge of corporate ethics and risk management Preventing information leaks was a Group-wide concern Promotion Legal Aﬀairs, Compliance and Execution Intellectual Property Department (general managers and presidents of Group companies) in fiscal 2014. IT-related divisions and compliance-related Staff under the officer in charge of Person responsible for divisions cooperated closely, and personal information compliance and corporate ethics taking action on corporate ethics and risk management managers and IT security managers in each division led efforts to minimize the risk of information leaks. Recently, there has been a rash of targeted attack Compliance and Compliance and Risk Management Leaders emails. In response, the Group has stepped up efforts, Risk Management People in charge of including supplementing employee training with actual Leaders Meeting promoting corporate ethics and risk management practice several times a year in dealing with such targeted attack emails. DAIKIN GROUP CSR Report 2015 26 8 Data Other data can be found on our website. Low-Impact Products Recycling of Residential Air Conditioners in FY2014 JG Sample of LCA: Comparison*1 of Life Cycle CO2 Iron 36% Emissions (Energy-Induced CO2) Recycling ratio: Daikin Materials/parts manufacturing Product assembling process Logistics Use*2 Other valuable materials 89% air conditioners: Disposal/recycling process 15% approx. 0.23 million units Total: Weight of Commercial air conditioners Total: 20,059 kg-CO2 Mixture of products recycled non-ferrous and iron 9,661 or reused: 10,783 tons FY2004 model 98.0% composite materials tons Total: 14,468 kg-CO2 Reduce by approx. 28% 34% FY2014 model 97.5% Aluminum 6% Energy conservation efforts enabled an approx. 28% reduction. Copper 9% Residential air conditioners Total: 4,108 kg-CO2 FY2004 model 96.4% Fluorocarbons recovered: Collected residential air conditioners: Reduce by Total: 3,505 kg-CO2 approx. 15% 164 tons approx. 2.22 million units FY2014 model 95.1% Energy conservation efforts enabled an approx. 15% reduction. *1 Based on Daikin standards for 14-kW class commercial air conditioners and 2.8-kW class residential air conditioners. *2 The seasonal power consumption is calculated in accordance with the standard of the Japan Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Industries Association for commercial air conditioners and the Japanese Industrial Standards (JIS) for residential air conditioners. Low-Impact Production Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Production) Verified OJG (Thousand tons-CO2) Substances designated by Kyoto Protocol CO2 (Energy) HFC PFC 5,000 4,000 4,140 3,280 3,000 2,820 2,840 2,000 2,050 1,770 1,700 1,650 1,340 1,560 1,340 1,300 1,460 1,000 920 650 940 840 650 490 650 760 680 500 270 120 120 110 150 140 200 0 540 550 550 510 490 580 590 580 670 680 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) Total Emissions of CO2 from Energy Use, OJG Amount Destroyed in Fluorocarbon Recovery and D *4 CO2 Emissions per Production Output Destruction*3 (At Time of Repair and at Time of Disposal) (Thousand tons-CO2) Japan Overseas CO2 emissions rate for entire Group (%) (Tons) Recovered fluorocarbons at time of repair with FY2005 set as 100% Recovered fluorocarbons at time of disposal 1,000 100 100 400 375 375 83 85 345 353 81 31 333 800 75 74 80 33 58 300 39 30 670 680 600 580 590 580 60 540 200 400 40 306 320 345 303 317 340 420 430 420 500 520 100 200 20 200 0 160 170 160 160 160 0 0 2005 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) *3 Amount destroyed at Yodogawa Plant, Kashima Plant, or one of the contracted destruction facilities around Japan. Release of Substances Designated by the Pollutant JG *4 D until fiscal 2013, and JG from fiscal 2014. Release and Transfer Register Law (Tons) 200 150 132 115 111 100 95 92 50 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) 27 DAIKIN GROUP CSR Report 2015 Verified Data Verified by Third Party Companies covered by data: D Daikin Industries JG Including Group in Japan OG Overseas Group companies only OJG Including Group companies in Japan and overseas Amount of Waste and Recycled Materials/ JG Amount of Waste and Recycled Materials/ OG Amount of Waste and Recycled Materials Amount of Waste and Recycled Materials per Unit of Production Output per Unit of Production Output (Tons) Waste Recycled materials Overall waste generated per unit (%) (Tons) Waste Recycled materials Overall waste generated per unit (%) in Japan with FY2010 set as 100% in overseas with FY2010 set as 100% 60,000 120 100,000 100 109 107 106 91 90 100 100 86 96 96 45,000 90 75,000 75 69,963 66,407 58,122 59,838 59,557 32,801 30,000 30,133 28,458 29,927 60 50,000 50 26,701 42,759 43,256 43,316 50,358 56,996 15,000 26,629 32,746 30,072 28,382 29,826 30 25,000 25 0 72 55 61 76 101 0 0 15,363 16,582 16,241 16,049 12,967 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) Recycling Ratio OJG Water Used/Water Use per Unit of Production Output OJG (%) Entire Group Japan Overseas (Thousand m3) Japan Overseas Overall water used per unit (%) with FY2010 set as 100% 100 99.7 99.8 99.8 99.7 99.7 12,000 100 88 89 91 83.4 86.9 100 81.8 82.0 81.8 93 75 9,000 75 81.5 73.6 76.6 7,310 72.3 72.6 6,740 6,680 6,710 7,070 50 6,000 50 4,160 4,330 4,090 4,590 4,380 25 3,000 25 2,580 2,350 2,620 2,730 2,690 0 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) Green Procurement Rate by Region* 5 (%) OJG Other countries North All Japan China Thailand in Asia and Oceania Europe America regions FY2010 99 89 97 85 82 45 87 FY2011 96 91 98 87 81 3 84 FY2012 99 92 98 90 83 3 89 FY2013 95 96 98 84 86 38 84 FY2014 94 97 98 76 91 39 78 Value of goods procured from suppliers who meet our assessment criteria *5 Green procurement rate= Value of all goods procured Environmental Management Report from Audits (FY2014) JG Ratio of Employees Belonging to Facilities OJG Problems found Problems found That Obtained ISO 14001 Certification (FY2014) from internal by third-party environmental audits certification institutes Major non-conformance 0 0 Minor non-conformance 24 0 Japan 100% Overseas 91% Items improved 157 7 DAIKIN GROUP CSR Report 2015 28 Data Other data can be found on our website. Environmental Action Plan 2015 Environmental Action Plan 2015 Self Action targets FY2015 target values FY2014 results assessment Providing Environmentally Conscious Products Provide the world with products that help customers reduce CO2 emissions. Disseminating energy-efficient air conditioners Through expansion in the widespread use of energy-saving Estimated 28 million to reduce CO2 emissions. products such as those using inverters, aim to help curtail CO2 ton curtailment emissions by 30 million* tons for emerging countries. Note: Underwent * Estimate of CO2 emission reductions from the use of third-party review energy-efficient inverter products sold by Daikin, compared to CO2 emissions from the use of non-inverter products. The emission reductions figure is annual Disseminating heat-pump type heating systems. reduction amount multiplied by product lifespan. Offer energy-saving solutions. Disseminate of air conditioners using the low global warming Sold in 43 countries Develop future refrigerants. potential refrigerant HFC-32. Environmentally Conscious Factories & Offices Minimize environmental impact from production and other activities. Reduce fiscal 2015 levels to 1/3 (67%) of the level compared with fiscal 2005. 65% reduction Greenhouse Reduce per-unit CO2 from energy use by gases Reduce CO2 emissions. Japan 20% against fiscal 2005. 23% reduction Reduce per-unit CO2 from energy use by Overseas 10% against fiscal 2010. 3% increase Machinery-related: Reduce per-unit emissions by 5% against fiscal 2010. 4% reduction Reduce overall amount of Japan Waste waste by effectively using Chemical-related: Reduce per-unit emissions by 10% against fiscal 2010. 11% reduction resources. Overseas Reduce per-unit emissions by 10% against fiscal 2010. 4% reduction Japan Reduce per-unit emissions by 5% against fiscal 2010. 1% reduction Water Reduce amount of water used. Overseas Reduce per-unit emissions by 10% against fiscal 2010. 13% reduction Reduce PRTR substances by 15% against fiscal 2010. 30% reduction Minimize emissions of Japan Chemicals Reduce VOCs by 20% against fiscal 2010. 16% reduction substances of concern. Overseas Reduce per-unit VOCs by 10% against fiscal 2010. 22% reduction Have major production sites certified as 3 bases in Japan, Green Heart Achieve environmentally Super Green Heart Factories. 4 bases overseas Factories conscious oﬃces. 5 bases in Japan, Have all production sites certified as Green Heart Factories. 18 bases overseas Green Heart Achieve environmentally Entrenchment of Offices conscious offices. Have major bases in Japan certified as Green Heart Offices. activities and creation of assessment methods Environmental Cooperation with Stakeholders Expand the Green Heart circle to Daikin worldwide. Join local governments, Environmental citizens, and NPOs to make Continue to carry out environmental and social contribution and social environmental and social activities (forest restoration, tree-planting, environmental Implemented at 16 contribution contributions at each global education, protection of biodiversity within Daikin bases) bases worldwide activities base according to regional at worldwide bases. characteristics. Self assessment: Shows level of achievement of targets in three designations: : Succeeded : Will soon succeed : Doing all we can Quality & Customer Satisfaction Social Contribution Number of Inquiries to the Contact Center JG Donations in FY2014 OJG (Thousands) Repair inquiries Technical advice Parts inquiries Others Disaster relief 2% Others 2% 2,500 International exchange 5% 2,140 2,000 58 1,880 Charity, welfare 10% 359 1,829 1,867 1,811 40 38 42 42 Environmental 1,500 325 315 324 320 Sports, art, culture 15% Donations protection 34% in FY2014 813 Living in harmony 1,000 719 725 735 734 with communities 33% 500 Educational 910 796 support 31% 751 767 715 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) 29 DAIKIN GROUP CSR Report 2015 Companies covered by data: D Daikin Industries JG Including Group in Japan OG Overseas Group companies only OJG Including Group companies in Japan and overseas Human Resources Daikin Industries Employees by Gender D Number of People Periodically Hired D and Women as Percentage of Total Men Women Men Women Women as % (%) 8,000 300 35.1 40 275 6,668 6,733 6,845 262 259 6,553 6,550 60 80 6,000 880 891 942 988 1,048 225 214 30 196 92 30.9 42 4,000 150 37 20 21.8 5,673 5,659 5,726 5,745 5,797 18.9 19.6 2,000 75 10 159 172 215 170 179 0 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) Number of Re-employed Workers and D Number of People with Disabilities Employed and JG Percentage Re-employed after Retiring Employment Rate Number of retirees: men Number of re-employed workers: men (%) Number of people with disabilities employed *1 Employment rate (%) *2 (%) Number of retirees: women Number of re-employed workers: women Percentage re-employed after retiring 300 100 300 301 297 3.00 88.1 88.6 91.9 284 287 294 90.6 92.0 225 75 200 2.49 2.00 187 2.34 2.34 2 172 177 2.19 1 7 156 2.07 150 140 50 139 6 7 126 4 124 4 4 111 102 6 6 100 1.00 75 185 170 25 171 150 136 120 105 96 132 122 0 0 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) *12 Legally, one severely disabled person employed is counted as two people with disabilities. * people Employment rate = number of people with disabilities employed ÷ number of employed. Percentage of Employees Taking All Paid Leave D Employee Taking Childcare Leave D (%) Percentage of Daikin Industries employees Men Women Percentage of Japanese workers in the manufacturing industry (according to Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare of Japan) 100 92.8 93.4 92.9 94.4 94.8 300 231 208 58.7 200 55.3 56.5 57.6 51.6 161 101 50 151 88 122 58 68 100 54 120 130 93 93 68 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) Frequency Rate D Severity Rate D Daikin Industries National average for all industries Daikin Industries National average for all industries National average for manufacturing industry National average for manufacturing industry Number of calamities by industrial injuries Total number of working days lost Frequency rate = x 1,000,000 Severity rate = Total actual working hours Total actual working hours 2.0 0.5 1.66 0.52 1.61 1.62 1.59 1.58 1.5 0.4 0.3 1.0 0.98 1.05 1.00 0.94 1.06 0.2 0.5 0.32 0.09 0.11 0.10 0.10 0.09 0.20 0.25 0.1 0.73 0.06 0.08 0.10 0.10 0.09 0.0 0.0 0.09 0.00 0.01 0.01 0.04 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) Note: This shows the frequency of work-related calamities, expressed in number of calamities Note: This shows the severity of the calamity, expressed in man-days lost per 1,000 for every 1,000,000 working hours. hours worked. DAIKIN GROUP CSR Report 2015 30 Third-Party Verification Statement To ensure the reliability of the content of this report, the Daikin Group had Bureau Veritas Japan Co., Ltd., conduct a third-party verification of the greenhouse gas emission data. Data Covered by Verif ication Environmental Impact Data on Business Operations in FY2014 Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from business operations of four production bases in Japan of Daikin Industries, Ltd., eight production subsidiaries in Japan, and 43 production subsidiaries overseas. Category 1 (purchased goods and services), 4 (upstream transportation and distribution), 6 (business travel), and 11 (use of sold products) emissions of Scope 3 GHG emissions calculated in line with the GHG Protocol’s ‘Corporate Value Chain (Scope3) Accounting and Reporting Standard.’ Scope of Review Contribution to CO2 Emission Reduction through the Use of Products Contribution to CO2 emission reduction through the use of inverter air conditioners sold in emerging countries in FY2014. The Daikin website (scheduled to be updated in October 2015) gives the calculation method for environmental performance data. 31 DAIKIN GROUP CSR Report 2015 Honors for Daikin (FY2014) Overall CSR (Including SRI) Daikin Group Granted the “Nadeshiko Brand,” a designation by Japan’s Chosen for inclusion in the Morningstar Ministry of Economy, Socially Responsible Investment Index Trade and Industry (METI) and the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE) Environment Quality & Customer Satisfaction Daikin Industries Daikin Group Selected for inclusion Emura II residential air conditioner in the Climate Performance honored with the red dot award Leadership Index (CPLI) of CDP, for product design an international NGO Daikin Industries, Ltd. Humidifying Flash Streamer air purifier received For the Ve-up IVR cooling/heating-free the Medical Health Award from the Japan VRV system, awarded the Chairman’s Prize Society of Medical Health Science in the fiscal 2014 Grand Prize for Energy Efficiency and Conservation Daikin Australia Pty. Ltd. by the Energy Conservation Center, Japan Daikin air purifier approved under the Sensitive Choice program of the National Asthma Council Australia Daikin Industries (Thailand) Ltd. and the Asthma Foundation New Zealand Received the Prime Minister’s Daikin Air-Conditioning Industry Award 2014 (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. in the category of Logistics Management from Wins Factory Management Thailand’s Ministry of Industry Award of Good Factory Awards from the Japan Received the Certified Waste Management Association (JMA) Management Award Level Platinum from the Industrial Daikin (China) Investment Co., Ltd. Estate Authority of Thailand Named one of 2014 Best Air Purifiers by the China Household Electric Appliance Research Institute (CHEARI) Selected Excellent Business Partner in the air conditioner category of the 2015 China Real Estate Developers Human Resources Top 500, as reported by the China Real Estate Research Association, China Real Estate Industry Association, and China Real Estate Appraisal Daikin (China) Investment Co., Ltd. Named to the list of 100 Model Daikin Isitma ve Sogutma Human Resource Companies sistemleri sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. in 2014; and to the list of Best HRM Companies in 2014, Named to the Superbrands by 51job, China’s leading human Top 100 list by Superbrands Turkey resource solutions provider O.Y.L. Manufacturing Social Contribution Company Sdn. Bhd. Named a 2014 Best Employer by Daikin Industries, Ltd. KWSP (Employees Provident Fund) Received the Award of Shah Alam Excellence at the Career Education Awards, sponsored by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI), for the Circle of Life environmental P&I Business of American education program Air Filter International (AAF) Joint Research Course conducted with Osaka Named Company of the Year University awarded the Minister in the Tyneside Northumberland of Education, Culture, Sports, district, northeast England Science and Technology Prize in the 12th Conference for the Promotion of Industry–Academia–Government Research Collaboration, sponsored by the Cabinet Office DAIKIN GROUP CSR Report 2015 32 About This Report Editorial Policy Materiality (of Key Initiatives): This report covers the Daikin Group’s corporate social In fiscal 2008, we came up with four key CSR themes of responsibility (CSR) efforts. It reports on our basic CSR the environment, quality and customer satisfaction, philosophy, achievements in fiscal 2014, and plans for human resources, and social contribution based on the future. The report comes in a printed version and a stakeholders’ concerns and what was important to the web version. The printed version focuses on the Daikin nature of Daikin’s business and its plans (materiality). Group’s four key CSR themes of the environment, quality (See pages 9–10.) and customer satisfaction, human resources, and social We then considered the impacts on society of our contribution. The web version provides information such strategies and our globalization in each of these four as detailed data and past case studies. areas, came up with ways to limit these impacts, and formulated CSR targets and plans for the medium Sustainability Website Investor Relations Website term. (See pages 11–12.) We incorporated these into our Fusion 15 strategic management plan with the aim of contributing to sustainable development for Daikin and for society. Materiality Selection Process Materiality evaluation involves selecting which CSR initiatives should take top priority. Evaluation is http://www.daikin.com/csr/ http://www.daikin.com/investor/ conducted with consideration in two areas: concerns Please refer to the following website for the latest and impacts of stakeholders (on the right page), which financial information, annual reports, and other IR information. include stakeholder engagement, international guidelines, and criteria of socially responsible Reference Guidelines: investment survey institutes; and importance to Daikin, This report was created in line with the Environmental which includes Our Group Philosophy and Reporting Guidelines (fiscal 2012 edition) released by medium-term management plans. Japan’s Ministry of the Environment; and the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 3.1 (G3.1) and Version 4 Philosophy of Materiality (G4) released by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). En Use of water En Management of En Making products Guideline comparison tables are on our website. Our resources chemical more energy substances efficient CSR activities are conducted in line with ISO 26000. Soc Regional social Qual Product quality contribution and safety Since 2008, the Daikin Group has been taking part in • Respect for Qual Bringing the United Nations Global Compact, an initiative for human rights satisfaction to customers companies committed to operating based on 10 universally accepted principles in areas including human Most important rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. • Prohibiting HR Occupational HR Workplace diversity Daikin also issues this CSR Report as an annual bribes safety and health HR Human resource • Free competition HR Employee development Communication on Progress (COP) to the United Nations, Stakeholder concerns, impacts and fair business assessment and En Reducing CO2 dealings compensation emissions during a public disclosure on progress made in implementing En Reduction HR Labor-management production of waste relations the 10 principles of the Global Compact. HR Work-life balance En Protecting biodiversity Daikin Organizations Covered: • Compliance and risk management This report covers Daikin Industries, Ltd., and its • Information security Qual consolidated subsidiaries. Environmental performance Protecting customer information data, however, covers four Daikin Industries, Ltd., production bases; eight production subsidiaries in Japan, • Working closely with suppliers and 43 production subsidiaries overseas. (See our website • Respect for intellectual property for company names and other information.) rights Term Covered: Important This report covers fiscal 2014 (April 1, 2014, to March 31, 2015). Publication Date: En : Environment Qual : Quality and customer satisfaction July 2015 (Japanese edition) HR : Human resources Soc : Social contribution The next publication (Japanese) is planned for July 2016. The next English edition is scheduled for publication in Importance to Daikin September 2016. Contact Information: CSR & Global Environment Center, Daikin Industries, Ltd. PHONE: +81-6-6374-9304 FAX: +81-6-6374-9321 Email: csr@daikin.co.jp 33 DAIKIN GROUP CSR Report 2015 Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Engagement Efforts So that we can continue to contribute to society, the Main dialogue methods Main dialogue Daikin Group uses every means possible to gather the Stakeholders representatives and opportunities at Daikin opinions of stakeholders, report these to company officers, and reflect them in our management, all with • Daily sales activities • Contact Center a focus on engaging our stakeholders. • Showrooms Sales divisions The Daikin Group’s main stakeholders are the Customer • Dialogue during repair visits Service Division customers to whom we provide the Group’s products • “Thank You” sales events and product explanations at distributors and services, those directly affected by our business including shareholders, investors, employees, and • Ordinary General Meeting business partners, as well as members of the general Shareholders of Shareholders Corporate • Briefings for investors public, who are affected by our business activities. and investors Communication • Annual Report, business reports Division Moreover, the national and local governments of the • Information for investors on Website countries where we do business, and those countries’ industry groups, are connected to our efforts to • Daily procurement activities • Supplier briefings improve environmental performance and disseminate Procurement • Supplier Quality Conferences Procurement environmental technologies. But no single group of business • Quality improvement announcement Division partners stakeholders has priority over another; they are all meetings important to the Daikin Group. • Quality audits • Interviews based on employee Stakeholder Engagement Case Study self-assessments • Labor-management council meetings, Human Opinion Exchanges on Air Conditioning Employees labor union council meetings Resources and Environment • Group Management Meeting Division Since 1995, the Daikin Group has held air conditioner • Global managers’ meetings forums in Japan where Daikin and noted names in the • Informing local community of field exchange opinions on the future of air conditioning. emergency disaster drills With Daikin’s rapid business expansion worldwide, Companies, Communities • Factory tours for local citizens workplaces since fiscal 2007 we have held forums in Europe, China, • Involvement with local groups and events North America, Asia, and Oceania that have given us ideas to use in our product and business development. NPOs, NGOs • Dialogue with NPOs and NGOs CSR Division In fiscal 2013, Daikin launched its Air Forum at which • Dialogue with government Companies, it conducts dialogue with noted names outside the National representatives in each country workplaces, Company towards solving issues related to air. The title and local • Dialogue with UN representatives PR divisions, governments, of the fiscal 2014 Air Forum was “Achieving air that industry, • Participation in industry activities CSR Division, • Research in joint industry–academia Research matches personal values.” academia initiatives Department • Air conditioner forums (see below) • Environmental forums, Environment environmental exhibitions CSR Division • Various environmental PR and environmental education activities Promoting Open Innovation Through Industry–Academia Collaboration Daikin has worked with numerous academic institutions: Air Forum in 2006 it launched its Joint Research Course with Osaka University, and it conducted joint research aimed at Cooperating in Formulation of Environmental Policies solving social problems with the Nara Institute of Science As it does business in countries around the world, the and Technology (NAIST) in 2012 and with Kyoto Daikin Group ties up and cooperates with national and University in 2013. local governments and industry groups to come up with Daikin will also leverage its Technology and proposals and to call on all parties concerned for the Innovation Center (opening in autumn 2015) in dialogue betterment of society. Particularly in the area of selecting with a range of stakeholders aimed at creating new and enacting the use of next-generation refrigerants, value through industry–academia collaboration. we are participating in international conferences and exhibitions and working closely with representatives of Active Information Exchange with NPOs and NGOs industry groups, UN organs, and environmental ministries We exchange opinions whenever possible with NPOs of governments, discussing regulations, standards, and and NGOs involved in the environment, consumer rights, refrigerant trends and efforts to phase out certain quality of life, and other issues, and the information we refrigerants, and providing as much information as obtain goes into managing Daikin better. In fiscal 2014, possible to help countries choose the new refrigerants we spoke with groups involved in issues such as mothers’ that are best for them. (See pages 13–16 for details.) rights and climate change. DAIKIN GROUP CSR Report 2015 34 Inquiries CSR & Global Environment Center Umeda-Center Bldg., 2-4-12, Nakazaki-Nishi, Kita-ku, Osaka, 530-8323 Japan PHONE: +81-6-6374-9304 FAX: +81-6-6374-9321 You can also view this report on our website. http://www.daikin.com/csr/ We welcome your thoughts and opinions on this report. https://www.daikin.com/csr/report/anq.html Published September 2015 In all of us, a green heart The Daikin Group Environmental Symbol The symbol of the Earth in the shape of a green heart represents a determination on the part of each and every employee of Daikin to think green (think of the Earth and take care of the environment). Certified by Minister of the Environment For its range of environmentally advanced efforts, Daikin has been certified as an Eco-First Company by Minister of the Environment of Japan.
