It’s about communication COMMUNICATIONS ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 The United Nations Global Compact Contents 3 Message from the CEO 4 About Us 5 Human Rights 7 Labour 9 Environment 12 Anti-corruption 13 Actions Implemented 13 Commitment for The Next COP MINISTRY OF HEALTH IN MONROVIA, LIBERIA AV-Huset was commissioned to install an electronic billboard at the Ministry of Health in Monrovia. This was part of the Ebola Reponse for the United Nation Development Program, UNDP in Liberia. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 2 Message from the CEO It has been a very exciting year for us with new milestones and achievements. In March of this year, we won, in collaboration with a partner, Kvorning Design & Kommunikation, the international INNAVATE award at the ISE event in Amsterdam. This is the audiovisual industry’s innovation award for creative communication and innovative utilization of audiovisual technology at the Prisons museum in Horsens, Denmark. The project can be seen here https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t04rKkf3WkI. This award is proof that our philosophy of delivering user-friendly, quality solutions that take aesthetics and design into account is appreciated by our clients. We therefore will continue to deliver the industry’s best value for money by creating solutions that continuously add to our clients. AV-HUSET A/S will continue to take its fair share of social responsibility by actively supporting social and aid organizations such as the Red Cross, Cancer Society and WWF. The company has recently started a collaboration with the Human Needs Project (HNP), an organization working for the empowerment of people living in slums through provision of basic necessities as we will elaborate later on in this report. The period between 2015 and 2016 was marked by more business activities in Africa, which included supply, delivery and installation of audiovisual solutions to among others, Liberia, Kenya and Ivory Coast. We joined the UN Global Compact for over a year ago and our continued support is a testimony of our commitment to the values that we strive to practice as a company. We see the membership of the UN Global Compact as compatible with our attitude towards morality and responsibility in doing business. Jens Ole Ravn Managing Director AV-HUSET A/S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 3 About Us AV-HUSET A/S is an international Audio Visual • A committed staff of project managers and integration company with more than 25 years’ technicians to make sure that the project experience delivering customized solutions to public, and services are delivered according to plan. corporate and non-governmental organizations. AV-Huset specializes in consultancy, development • Aftersales support services including training, and installation of specialized solutions combining remote monitoring, 24/7 help desk service and audio and video together. We create interesting maintenance. opportunities and unique experiences by incorporating technology into new contexts. • The Audio Visual industry’s highest standards of service and expertise. Since its inception, the company has been working based on a philosophy of delivering user-friendly and In collaboration with leading product manufacturers, cost effective quality solutions that take aesthetics we are constantly striving to provide fully integrated and design into account. This has been instrumental systems. We have years of experience working with in ensuring the long-term business partnership the international organisations in many parts of the company has maintained with our clients. What world and we have a very good understanding of matters most is not the technology in itself, but the delivering solutions to remote locations. AV-HUSET value we can bring to you through our solutions. Our A/S is a proud participant of the United Nations Global objective is simply to deliver the industry’s best value Compact and a member of the Global Compact Nordic for money. Network (GCNN). What we offer; AV-Huset has the principle that our actions must • The latest audiovisual technology for among accord with the interests of society. We place our others simultaneous translations equipment, products and services in the interests of the safety conferencing, projection and control, public of people, the economic use of resources and address systems, displays and digital signage. environmental sustainability. SOENDERBORG TOWN HALL Soenderborg, Denmark COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 4 Human Rights – UN Global Compact Principles PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. PRINCIPLE 2: Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. AV-HUSET – A RESPONSIBLE COMPANY AV-HUSET A/S supports all human rights nationally as well as within international law and the company expects partners to do the same. AV-Huset is a socially responsible company and understands the importance of contributing to the community by supporting social causes, organisations and making donations to improve human life. To this end, the company makes annual contributions to organisations such as the WWF, The Cancer Society of Denmark, SOS childrens home. SLOTFELTLADEN Toender, Denmark COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 5 Human Rights – UN Global Compact Principles In 2015, AV-Huset visited the Human Needs Project (HNP) premises in Kibera, Nairobi Kenya. The management was very impressed by the novel way in which HNP is approaching capacity building initiaves. Human Needs Project builds infrastructure for opportunity. AS HNP puts it, “their overriding objective is to provide basic services (clean water, sanitation and energy) and empowerment services (business skills training, microcredit, a wifi, health kiosk, and a green marketplace ) to slums around the world through the creation of replicable, self-sustaining Town Centers. These services are designed to be synergistic, creating economic growth while providing sufficient income for Town Centers to maintain and manage themselves as a co-op structure”. This visit planted the seed for AV-Huset becoming a collaborator to the project. AV-Huset has since donated a high quality Public Address System which included a mixer, loud speaker and microphones. This sound system comes in handy when addressing large crowds thereby ensuring that the important message they need to disseminate is heard by all attendees. HNP has also been able to conduct talent shows for the community around Kibera, a welcome entertainment event for the local young talent. AV-Huset aims to continue working with HNP to support their empowerment agenda. http://www.humanneedsproject.org/about-hnp THE HUMAN NEEDS PROJECT The objective is to provide clean drinking water, sanitation and energy and, subsequently, social and financial empowerment services. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 6 Labour – UN Global Compact Principles PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. AV–Huset recognizes the fundamental right of all associates to form trade unions and to join these trade unions of their own free will. Associates will neither receive undue advantage nor suffer any disadvantage because of their membership in trade unions. Within the framework of respective legal regulations, in so far as these are in harmony with the ILO Convention no. 98, we respect the right to collective bargaining for the settlement of disputes pertaining to working conditions, and endeavor together with our partners to work together in collective negotiations and in a constructive manner marked by mutual confidence and respect. AV-Huset management values the employees well-being very highly which is illustrated by the following measures implemented this year namely; • Provision of fresh fruit for all employees every day. • Provision of height adjustable desks to its employees. This type of working station offers more comfort and variation for people who work at their desk for prolonged periods of time. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 7 Labour – UN Global Compact Principles PRINCIPLE 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Our remuneration and social benefits conform at the very least to national and/or local statutory standards, provisions, or respective agreements. We observe the provisions of ILO Convention no. 100 with respect to the principle of .equal remuneration for work of equal value. We comply with national provisions regarding working hours and vacation. Any employee may complain to their respective line manager or the company’s leadership if they believe they have been subject to unfair treatment or have suffered disadvantages with respect to working conditions. Employees will not suffer any disadvantage because of lodging such complaints. PRINCIPLE 5: Effective abolition of child labor. AV-Huset condemns child labor and respects rights of children. All enterprises in AV-Huset adhere to the stipulations of ILO Convention no. 138 and no. 182. The company does not engage in child labour. PRINCIPLE 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. We uphold and affirm that there is and must be equal opportunity among our associates, regardless of the color of their skin, race, gender, age, nationality, social origin, handicap, or sexual preference. We respect the political and religious convictions of our employees and collaborates as long as they are based on democratic principles and tolerate those of different persuasions. PRISON MUSEUM Horsens, Denmark COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 8 Environment – UN Global Compact Principles PRINCIPLE 7: Perfomance Businesses should support a precautionary 2011 approach 2012 to environmental 2013 2014 challenges. 2015 2016 Indicator KWH 46524 AT 48396 39477 41507 38226 21544* Power ENERGY SAVING THE HEAD OFFICE Consumption At AV-Huset headquarter, the company has, in the last couple of years started to systematically change Achieved the lighting system to the more energy efficient LED technology. It is our expectation to continue on this trend as it has a positive effect on the environment as well as saving energy costs. PERFORMANCE INDICATOR Power Consumption achieved (KWH) Achieved yearly Power Consumption in KWH 60000 50000 46524 48396 40000 41507 39477 38226 30000 20000 * 21544 10000 *Note that 2016 data is from January – October. An expansion in the form of a 35 m2 0 annex has been added to the existing head 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 office buildings. AV-HUSET A/S head office in Denmark *Note that 2016 is from January – October. An expansion in the form of a 35-m annex was has been added to the existing head office buildings. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 9 Environment – UN Global Compact Principles PRINCIPLE 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Our basic principles of environmental protection reflect our duty toward the environment and the basis for many initiatives that are implemented throughout the company. As a member of the WWF, AV-Huset supports WWF’s mission to stop the degradation ZERO WASTE PACKAGING POLICY of the planet’s natural environment and to build a future in which humans live in harmony with nature. AV-Huset has an environmental friendly packaging policy integrated in daily business routines. Consignments are packed responsibly to reduce weight and unnecessary volume. We recycle all the packaging we receive from suppliers and partners. All packaging sent from our warehouse is done by recycled cardboard boxes and pallets. We see these measures as a helpful in reducing our use of resources as well as having a positive impact on our operational costs. HOTEL BELLA SKY Copenhagen, Denmark COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 10 Environment – UN Global Compact Principles PRINCIPLE 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. AV-HUSET A/S observes all requirements in relation to current legislation about disposal of electronic waste. AVHUSET A/S has continually focused on the environment and works continuously to prevent dangerous products that constitute a threat to health and to the environment. We use, wherever possible, products made by environmentally conscious suppliers. AV-HUSET A/S complies with environmental stipulation as described in the WEE (Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment) Directive 2012/19/EU. AV-HUSET A/S WASTE MANAGEMENT STRATEGY Organic waste Collected and treated by the municipality’s waste treatment. Cardboards and cartons All are reused by the company’s warehouse to send goods to customers. The warehouse does not buy any packaging material. Paper Used paper is collected and waste is separated for recycling. Pallets All pallets in good condition are recycled for packaging and safe transportation of goods to our customers. The warehouse does not purchase pallets as they reuse all the pallets the company receives with its products. Electrical waste Recycled in the local recycling centre. IT equipment Recycled in the local recycling centre. Batteries Recycled in the local recycling centre. TIVOLI CONGRESS CENTER Copenhagen, Denmark COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 11 Anti-Corruption – UN Global Compact Principles PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. AV-HUSET A/S understands the importance of anti-bribery laws. We ensure that our employees and business partners understand and comply with all relevant anti-bribery laws. There is a zero tolerance policy against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery. The sales and administration team at AV-Huset has undergone Anti-Corruption course as per our commitment for last year’s COP. As the company is growing and more business activities are done abroad, the leadership has deemed it appropriate to equip employees with the tools of identifying and avoiding situations that can lead to corrupt business practice. The company is proud to have a clean record regarding incidents of corruption and aims to uphold and promote this record. Performance indicators Achieved in 2015 Achieved in 2016 Number of employees who 0 9* have taken the Anti-Corruption course Number of corruption related 0 0 cases *This number indicates the total sales staff at the company. THE AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK Nairobi, Kenya COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 12 Anti-Corruption – UN Global Compact Principles ACTIONS IMPLEMENTED BY THE COMPANY LAST YEAR • Last year, AV-Huset committed to strengthening its anti-corruption training in order to equip its employees on what to look out for during business transactions. This was implement successfully and this will be a training exercise the company will make on regular basis for knowledge sharing among the employees. • Basic amenities such as clean water, hygienic bathroom facilities and access to information are without doubt elements that make a difference for people living in conditions where such amenities are not available. The company has begun collaborating with the Human Needs Project. COMMITMENT FOR THE NEXT COP • AV-Huset is very pleased that the company’s contribution to Human Needs Project (HNP) has been very beneficial in promoting and supporting the organisation’s endevour in Kibera. The company commits its self to providing other audio visual items that will be used in their training facilities at the centre. • Timeline – by the 1st quarter of 2017, we will deliver audio visual aid to support training and learning environment at the Kibera location. • We commit to continued training on anti-corruption. KIBERA TOWN CENTRE Nairobi, Kenya COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2016 13 AV-HUSET A/S Jernbuen 1 4700 Naestved Denmark www.av-huset.com Phone: +45 5577 4030 Fax: +45 5577 2210 Email: info@av-huset.dk Editor: Irene Christensen UN GLOBAL COMPACT Membership date: 26 March 2015 Number of employees: 25 Sector: Audio Visual Integrator Distribution: www.av-huset.com UN Global Compact AV-Huset Board of Directors AV-Huset Office
