Communication on Progress UN Global Compact (COP) 2015 Editor: Christina Schönenberger Version: 1.00 Date: 06/08/2016 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) To our stakeholders: Over more than 80 years SFS has evolved from a family-owned Swiss company into an international group. However the strong roots are still in the St. Gall Rhine valley and the SFS values are transferred to all sites within the group by an appropriate management model. Sustainability in its actions has been the core driver of SFS since its foundation. For SFS sustainability means partnership with  customer  employees  community  supplier Therefore the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact have been implicitly part of the SFS business model since its first days and have a tradition of decades. I am pleased to confirm that SFS reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and AntiCorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions and achievements to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. This year SFS for the first time published a separate Sustainability Report as a part of the Annual Report 2015 (available on the SFS Group website annualreport.sfs.biz. This Sustainability Report was exactly structured based on the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, which is why the Sustainability Report is directly used for this annual Communication on Progress as well. Thereby a consistent information towards our shareholders and stakeholders shall be achieved. Sincerely yours, Jens Breu CEO SFS Group AG Version 1.00 dated 08.06.2016 2 SFS Communication on Progress UN Global compact (COP) 2015 Sustainability report Areas of UN Global Compact – We value sustainable development. Human rights – Labor Partnership with our employees and business associates, acceptance of social reEnvironment sponsibility and respect for the environment Anti-corruption are integral elements of our culture and strategy. Reporting structure based on ten principles of UN Global Compact – Sustainable development as we understand it includes environmental sustainability and social responsibility, and has been rooted in our company since the founding of SFS Group. Our corporate culture and business strategy are governed by a long-term outlook and a holistic, integrative approach that is based on partnership and trust. SFS is a UN Global Compact member and pledges to adhere to its ten principles. We use these these principles as the basis for a comprehensive presentation of our current and planned activities in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. SFS had not previously published a sustainable development report other than the annual Communication on Progress (COP) provided by UN Global Compact members. The reason is that, despite a host of local initiatives over the years, there was no globally consistent approach to reporting in the SFS Group. Following the establishment of a suitable set of guidelines in 2014, a sustainable development report is now set to become an integral part of our annual report. In many cases, the topics and actions do not fit neatly into one specific UN Global Compact principle. To keep things straightforward and easy to understand, we have structured the content according to relevance and logic, and avoided any repetitions. SFS Group AG – Annual report 2015 30 Sustainability Human rights The Code of Conduct sets out guidelines for responsible business practices – – SFS has grown steadily into an international corporation Shared values are set forth in our through selective investment in markets, technologies and Corporate Principles businesses, and as a result of globalization. We therefore – often work today with people from different cultures and Our Corporate Principles are the common basis for approxcountries. Expectations and sensitivity related to ethical imately 8,000 employees and the linchpin of SFS culture. and fair business dealings have also increased. Ethical busiThe common values derived from our Corporate Principles ness conduct on the part of the company implies ethical shape the way we work together and are key elements of conduct on the part of each and every employee. This Code our success. The Corporate Principles also contain a clear of Conduct, which complements our Corporate Principles, commitment to social responsibility and environmental sushas been drawn up in order to provide a set of guidelines tainability. The Principles were introduced more than 20 to work by. The Code of Conduct is based on principles of years ago and are as valid and important now as ever. Our integrity and fair and ethical behavior. Each SFS employee Corporate Principles are now available in eleven languages. must assume responsibility for his or her day-to-day actions in the business environment, and be familiar with and adOur Corporate Principles are designed to be as precise and here to the Code of Conduct. concise as possible. The document is composed of five key principles, each of which comes with a brief commentary. The Code of Conduct is modeled on the SFS Corporate An explanatory document is available for more in-depth disPrinciples. While the Principles set forth the ideal approach cussion. to business, the Code of Conduct provides a set of guidelines for SFS employees to put to use in their work on a More information on the Corporate Principles daily basis. Again with the emphasis on clear and concise wording, the Code of Conduct similarly consists of five Communication of our Corporate Principles is a key elestraightforward principles. A more detailed presentation ment in the onboarding process for newcomers to SFS. is given in the explanatory document, along with practical Workshops and presentations highlighting the themes are examples. The explanatory document is updated regularly, hosted to raise employee awareness. but, like the Corporate Principles, the basic wording of the five principles is designed to remain valid for a long time to At SFS, we put our Corporate Principles into practice. come. More information on the Code of Conduct The Code of Conduct is binding for every SFS Group employee regardless of their responsibilities or position. It is an important element for the sustained positive development of SFS in a constantly changing international environment. Responsibility for consistent compliance with this Code of Conduct lies with each and every employee. The notion of personal responsibility of each individual is conveyed and emphasized through the use of the first person singular. The Code of Conduct was passed by the Board of Directors in the summer of 2014 and subsequently implemented worldwide. Training has been provided in presentations, SFS Corporate Principles workshops and in an e-learning format. – We seek partnership. – We need commitment. – We respect the community. – We seek success. – We want positive change.. SFS Group AG – Annual report 2015 31 Sustainability SFS Code of Conduct – I undertake to comply with laws and regulations. – I act in accordance with ethical standards. – I communicate openly; I protect confidential information. – I am committed to fair competition and do not tolerate any form of corruption. – I am responsible for compliance with the Code of Conduct. Decentralization ensures effectiveness – Employees carry personal responsibility for compliance with the Code of Conduct in their own sphere of responsibility. The segments and divisions are responsible for compliance in operations. A local Compliance Officer has been appointed for this purpose at every SFS Group site. Overall organizational responsibility for compliance lies with SFS complies with the most demanding workthe Group Compliance Officer. The latter is responsible for place safety and environmental standards by utilizing modern machinery and equipment and the content of the Code of Conduct and related documents, raising employee awareness of these issues. coordinates onboarding and further training in this area, and is in charge of centralized reporting to the Board of – Directors of the SFS Group. The Group Compliance Officer also acts as a central point Process for effective reporting established of contact for reporting of compliance incidents. He or she – is bound to secrecy and also accepts anonymous notificaMost violations are dealt with by local Compliance Officers. tions (T +41 71 727 63 73, compliance@sfs.biz). SFS enNotification of the Group Compliance Officer is provided for sures that any person who reports possible violations of the and warranted only in serious cases. Nonetheless, the SFS Code of Conduct suffers no reprisals. Group has a standardized reporting process in place to enable centralized risk analysis once a year. By 30 September Violations of the Code of Conduct are systematically peof a given year, the Group Compliance Officer receives the nalized and may attract disciplinary consequences up to standardized reporting form from each local Compliance and including termination. They may also result in criminal Officer itemizing all compliance incidents at the respective proceedings or compensation claims against the perpetrasite. These local reporting results combine to give a full tor(s). picture of the compliance situation within the SFS Group and enable comprehensive risk assessment. Centralized reThe Code of Conduct applies in conjunction with the Interporting was conducted in 2015 for the first time following national Quality Manual and other internal regulations, comimplementation of the Code of Conduct in 2014. pliance with which is investigated in management reviews and internal and external audits. The Board of Directors accepted the Compliance Report 2015 and drew up an action plan for 2016. SFS Group AG – Annual report 2015 32 Sustainability Involvement in relevant industry initiatives – In addition to its commitment to the UN Global Compact, SFS is also involved in key industry initiatives including EICC (Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition) and BSCI (Business Social Compliance Initiative). The electrical and electronics industries are crucial markets for SFS. EICC plays a very important role in the global electronics industry. Its main objective is to support the rights and wellbeing of workers and communities worldwide affected by the global electronics supply chain. We are committed to, and are held accountable to, the common Code of Conduct, and hence pledge to ensure continuous improvement in areas pertaining to our social, environmental and ethical responsibility. http://www.eiccoalition.org/ The Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI) is a leading business initiative to improve working conditions and practices in global supply chains. The initiative was launched by the textile industry and continues to enjoy the support of major retailers. With a global membership of 1,600 businesses, BSCI represents purchasing volumes in excess of EUR 700 billion. SFS is a member for its specialty retailing operations (Distribution & Logistics segment). Our main suppliers underwent audits in accordance with BSCI specifications in 2015. These efforts will continue in 2016. http://bsci-ch.org/ Constant striving for improvement, and in particular in environmental matters, is an important factor for compliance with the Substance of UN Global Compact also implemented principles of the UN Global Compact. by suppliers – – It has been our policy in the past to conclude contracts with strategic suppliers that address aspects of sustainability, such as environmental compatibility and workers’ welfare. In 2015, we revised our purchasing terms and integrated the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. By accepting the revised purchasing terms and quality management agreement, our suppliers commit to implementing a Code of Conduct of their own that reflects the substance and content of the UN Global Compact. These new provisions will be continuously implemented in all segments with all suppliers. SFS Group AG – Annual report 2015 33 Sustainability Labor All our workers are at liberty at any time to consult the central point of contact for compliance; i.e. the Group Com– pliance Officer. In some countries, workers also have the option to contact external advisory bodies free of charge. Employee rights respected in full The agencies can also provide support in the event of per– sonal or family issues. In Switzerland, SFS works with MovOur employees are at liberty to join trade unions or similar is (http://www.movis.ch/) to this end. organizations in compliance with the core labor standards of the ILO (International Labor Organization). Membership Investing in young people has no negative consequences for workers on the part of – the SFS Group. Worker representation bodies or works SFS has always invested heavily in the development of councils have been created in numerous SFS organizations young talents within its own ranks. The main thrust of these worldwide and are engaged in continuous constructive efforts is vocational training in the form of apprenticeships. dialogue with management. The Employees’ RepresentaThe dual education system has a long tradition in Switzertive Committee Switzerland participated actively in drawing land. SFS trains approximately 160 apprentices in ten proup a package of measures in 2015 designed to mitigate the fessions, corresponding to about 7% of the entire Swiss impact of the Swiss franc’s appreciation and supported the workforce. The proportion of apprentices in the SFS Group package in its communications with the workforce in Switworldwide is about 2.5%, which is notably high compared zerland. to other companies in the sector. Collective agreements such as national collective bargainThe co-founder and honorary president of the SFS Group, ing agreements and wage agreements exist in countries Hans Huber, started his own career as an apprentice. The including Germany, Austria and France, where such instruHans Huber Foundation, which is co-funded by the SFS ments are the norm. The SFS Group is not a party to any Group, assists and awards individuals and organizations for collective bargaining agreement in Switzerland. outstanding services in vocational training. The SFS Group Code of Conduct explicitly prohibits forced labor and child labor. Similarly, the Code of Conduct calls for the equal treatment of all workers and business partners irrespective of their gender, religion or other attributes. Workers are employed and promoted by virtue of their skills and experience. SFS is committed to equal pay for equal work for male and female employees. The proportion of women in the SFS Group as of end of 2015 was 21% (not including Asia). The successful Swiss model of dual education pathways is increasingly being introduced at company locations outside Switzerland; for example, in Germany and the US. – SFS Group AG – Annual report 2015 34 Sustainability SFS is active in its efforts to promote vocational training Sharing knowledge to learn from each other outside Switzerland, particularly in the US and Germany. – The trainee program in our Medina, Ohio site is certified SFS is organized in market-oriented segments, divisions, by the US Department of Labor. Promotion of vocational business units and key account teams, ensuring that we training is a priority at the other two major SFS production understand our customers’ needs from the ground up. To sites in the US. Last year a delegation of US officials visited enable the best possible use of synergies nonetheless, effiSFS in Switzerland on a fact-finding mission about dual cient and effective exchange of knowledge and expertise is education and SFS’s concepts. crucial. Company management defined 10 focus areas for that purpose. Each focus area is dealt with by a peer group The importance of vocational training at SFS can be seen comprising representatives of all the involved segments from the fact that seven of the eight members of the Group and divisions, plus a coach. The peer group concept was Executive Board emerged from the dual education system, formally established in 2014 and has already reaped great and earned their qualifications and credentials by means of rewards. Another tool for knowledge transfer and talent desuitable further education and training. velopment is job rotation, which is being stepped up on an international scale. Commitment to promoting young talent – High employee satisfaction enhances stability SFS aims to fill 80% of management positions by promot– ing of employees through the ranks. We look on the develSFS is proud to be able to count on a very loyal workforce. opment of our employees as a key instrument in protectThe average employee has been with the company for ing, securing and developing SFS culture and the values we almost 12 years (not including Asia), with no more than embody. Our Structured Employee Development Program minimal differences between sites. We see this as evi(SEDP) is a key element in the process. SEDP provides dence of our attractiveness as a workplace and high emthe framework for annual assessment of the development ployee satisfaction. potential of all workers in Switzerland and the provision of suitable qualification measures. SEDP is also being impleEmployee satisfaction trends are important to us and are mented step by step at locations outside Switzerland. measured objectively in periodic surveys. The results are analyzed on a departmental or team level and appropriate Our management development strategy rests on a threecorrective action is identified on that basis. SFS Group last tier management training program: Team Leader, Advanced participated in the Swiss Employer Awards in 2014, taking Leadership Program and International Leadership Develop4th place in the Large Corporations category. ment Program. The training programs are designed and hosted in collaboration with internal organizations and experts. Alongside management training, similar programs are available for specialist training in the various disciplines. For example in Switzerland, we invest about four days per year in the education of each employee. SFS demonstrated the effectiveness of employee development in the course of the extensive reorganization in 2014, which resulted in a significantly larger Group Executive Board: suitable internal candidates were available to fill all the positions. The new Chief Executive Officer (CEO) was appointed according to the same principle. Jens Breu, who succeeded long-standing CEO Heinrich Spoerry on 1 January 2016, has worked for SFS for 20 years, most recently as Chief Operating Officer (COO). SFS Group AG – Annual report 2015 35 Sustainability Environment Investment in efficient solutions and alternative energies – – Constant striving for improvement is firmly anchored in Commitment to sustainable development SFS’s corporate culture. Alongside our achievements in – customer projects, notable examples include our efforts Environmental responsibility is an integral part of SFS culin lean management, the quest for more energy-efficient ture. Commitments and obligations to the environment are solutions and the use of renewable energy. At our site in expressed in our Corporate Principles, Code of Conduct Heerbrugg, for example, more than 60 suggestions for imas well as in the Quality, Environmental and Safety Policy. proving energy efficiency are submitted every year. Systematic monitoring is implemented with the support of a business management system which addresses and One of these resulted in a project to mount an approximatedocuments compliance with the applicable laws and reguly 7,400 m2 photovoltaic system on the roof of a factory lations. A host of activities attest to our adherence to these building. The project was carried out in two stages in 2014 principles in practice. The SFS Group’s largest plant (Heerand 2015. The 4,600-panel system has an output capacity brugg, Switzerland) was issued ISO 14001 certification in of 1.2 GWh, which is enough to provide electricity for about environmental management as long ago as 1996 – the very 300 households. In addition, most of the installation was year the concept of environmental auditing was introduced. completed by SFS apprentices as part of a work project. Another 12 manufacturing sites have received ISO 14001 certification since then. Our plant in Turnov (Czech RepubThe third stage of expansion is scheduled for 2016. Another lic) was issued ISO 14001 certification in 2014, followed by example of our efforts to improve energy efficiency in Heerour Nansha (China) site in 2015. brugg is the recovery of waste heat from air compressors. This is then used to heat all the office buildings at the site as Substantial reduction in emissions through well as for other purposes. The resulting carbon emission cold forming savings amount to approximately 250 tons. – Cold forming is not only a highly productive technology for Harmonized energy consumption reporting the manufacture of large quantities of standardized pro– ducts, it is also a very green technology thanks to its very Energy consumption has been measured at the relevant high material efficiency. sites for quite some time. To obtain more meaningful information and a better basis for comparing sites and their In addition to high productive output, cold forming features data, a harmonized reporting system was implemented in an extremely high level of material efficiency. Unlike alter2015. The following parameters are now measured at the native, machining technologies (e.g. milling or turning), no relevant sites: material is removed in cold forming processes. Instead, the simple blanks are shaped into the desired final form – Energy consumption in two to six successive forming stations with virtually no – Process gas consumption loss of material. The amount of material saved compared – Water consumption to metal-cutting techniques varies depending on the shape – Waste volumes of the final piece, but it is usually significant. Based on the – CO 2 emissions entire spectrum of parts manufactured by SFS, the amount of material saved compared to conventional processes is Robust, comparable data will be available for the first time about 67%. on completion of the 2016 reporting period. Based on our annual consumption of raw material and the All the major sites already prepare a standardized report on emissions associated with producing steel and with maquality, environment and safety. Progress is monitored in chining operations, the use of cold forming technology annual management reviews, which include the identificacompared to metal-cutting techniques avoids approximation of action items. tely 300,000 tons of CO 2 emissions. SFS Group AG – Annual report 2015 36 Sustainability Helping our customers to make more efficient In the Fastening Systems segment, in which SFS typically products designs dedicated fastening systems for selected applica– tions, various products have recently been launched primarSFS generates more than 50% of its sales in the Engiily for use in the construction of energy-efficient buildings. neered Components segment, where we act as a develThese include systems for more efficient insulation attachopment partner for our customers to design and produce ment. Another product innovation enables safe and rapid customer-specific solutions. As SFS’s value proposition installation of windows in energy-efficient buildings, which is leveraged most effectively in the context of innovation pose new challenges for window installation due to the projects, SFS’s advances in technology and innovation are thick insulation layers. mainly driven in collaboration with leading customers in the relevant markets. In alliance with our customers, we develSFS also seeks to improve energy efficiency in its own op products that contribute to sustainable development in a manufacturing processes and monitors each innovation variety of ways. Examples include helping to produce more closely. In the plastic moulding business, for instance, the energy-efficient systems, weight reduction, greater safety company has consistently pursued a policy of investment in and added convenience. all-electric plastic injection moulding machines for the past number of years. These machines use up to 40% less enOne specific example are the fastening systems for the ergy and already account for 25% of the injection moulding cabin interior panels in the latest Airbus models, A380 and machine pool. A350. The new systems are lighter than previous fastening solutions, enable quicker installation and removal for maintenance, and reduce vibration, which lowers noise levels in the interior of the aircraft and gives passengers a more comfortable flight. Another example is the high lift follower. This is a precision-formed part that can now be produced for the first time by cold forming, thanks to SFS’s engineering excellence. The product is used in valve control systems of internal combustion engines, resulting in substantially reduced fuel consumption versus traditional systems. Engaging employees in decision-making processes within their organizational units and providing timely and swift information are important aspects of SFS Group’s lean management policy. – SFS Group AG – Annual report 2015 37 Sustainability Anti-corruption The guidelines also contain information on the measures and procedures implemented to provide SFS Group with – the best protection from corruption. These measures and procedures apply throughout the corporation, but the indiCommitted to fair competition vidual actions taken are adapted to address local laws and – requirements. We are committed to fair competition. The SFS Group Code of Conduct prohibits active and passive corruption of any The introduction of the anti-corruption guideline was supkind whatsoever. SFS is consistent in penalizing offenders. ported by an e-learning program to be completed by all management personnel and employees in sales, purchasAn anti-corruption guideline document was drawn up in ing and finance/controlling units. The objective is to ensure 2015 to complement the Code of Conduct and entered that employees who might be exposed to corruption issues into force on 1 January 2016. The aim is to put the spotin the course of their job are sufficiently aware and know light on corruption and raise the awareness of the workthe dangers. Like the Code of Conduct e-learning course, force of this important issue. The guidelines are intended anti-corruption e-learning is repeated periodically. as a tool to help employees comply safely with the rules in day-to-day business operations. Sustainable power generation technology is an important aspect of infrastructure investment projects. A solar PV system was installed on the roof of a factory building in Heerbrugg, for example, and SFS apprentices performed most of the installation work. – SFS Group AG – Annual report 2015 38 Sustainability Extensive sustainable development activities Environment scheduled for 2016 – – The Medina, Ohio plant is scheduled for ISO 14001 certifiEfforts to promote sustainable development in the larger cation. All relevant sites will provide a quality, environment sense are to continue in 2016. Here is a short update on the and safety report containing the environmental key performain activities planned in the course of the year. mance indicators. Progress monitoring and definition of objectives will take place in annual management reviews. Human rights When the consolidated report is available, the Group Execu– tive Board will conduct an assessment to review the efforts The main focus in this area is to consolidate the still-young so far and take any corrective action that may be warranted. processes and organizational procedures, related to reporting violations of the Code of Conduct. Following revision of We plan to continue developing and producing a host of the purchasing terms and conditions requiring suppliers to innovative products in 2016 to add value for our customers comply with the UN Global Compact, we plan to roll out the and their customers; for example, by improving energy effirelevant contract terms and provisions on a continuing baciency, increasing comfort and convenience, and enhancing sis. Various supplier audits are planned in connection with safety. our BSCI commitment. Anti-corruption Labor – – Our anti-corruption guideline is to be implemented worldExpansion and intensification of vocational training at our wide. The launch will be supported by various training international sites in the US and Germany is a priority. measures, including an e-learning course. The newly revised International Leadership Development Program (ILDP) for internal training is set for launch. This program is pitched at management talents within the SFS Group. An important aspect of the course is the promotion of intercultural cooperation within SFS. SFS plans to continue its participation in the Swiss Employer Awards. Employee responses provide valuable information on employee satisfaction and ways to improve it. SFS Group AG – Annual report 2015 39 Sustainability
