PERMANENT COMMITMENT 2 0 1 5 C O R P O R AT E S O C I A L R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND THE PRESIDENT We have prepared this document as part of our commitment to keeping our stakeholders informed about our efforts in terms of corporate social responsibility. In it, you will find a summary of our most important actions and initiatives in 2015. We are pleased to report that we made progress on a number of fronts, from programs to preserve the health and safety of our fellow workers, to initiatives in support of the communities where we operate, environmental care, and support to our value chains. We also took a big step forward toward strengthening our Corporate Social Responsibility strategy with the migration to the G4 reporting methodology developed by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). To do so, we conducted an exhaustive analysis of the relevant issues we need to address, a study that gave us a more precise idea of the matters that our stakeholders consider to be the most important in our business. This will help us to develop an increasingly effective model of social responsibility management. In addition to ALFA, our subsidiaries Sigma, Alpek and Nemak have joined in the effort by conducting parallel analysis and preparing their own reports on social responsibility actions. During 2015 we executed more than 170 The year 2015 posed a series of challenges, initiatives for the improvement of health and including a decrease in oil prices and an quality of life of our employees, including appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the preventive healthcare, on-site medical Mexican peso, both of which had an impact on attention, nutritional advice, and activities our businesses. Nevertheless, we were able to that promote healthier lifestyles. There overcome these obstacles and once again generate are also personal and family counseling positive results. programs, which served more than 27,600 employees and their family members For ALFA, social responsibility is a part of its during the year. Reductions in the number business philosophy. For more than 40 years, and severity of accidents deserve also we have commited to promoting the welfare special mention. of our employees, being solidary toward our communities, and respect our planet. On the community end, ALFA Foundation’s Educational Project operated three schools Going forward, we will redouble our efforts to in Monterrey and opened the first high consolidate this philosophy, toward which we school. With this, it can continue mentoring have a permanent commitment, as demonstrated students through their educational in the actions described in this report. development after middle school. During 2015, the Educational Project provided San Pedro Garza García, N.L., Mexico, services to almost a thousand students. February 2, 2016. In environmental matters, ALFA placed special attention on managing water usage, as water is both an increasingly vital problem Armando Garza Sada for the human race, and a key input for our Chairman of the Board of Directors companies. Our efforts to optimize the use of this essential resource yielded positive results: we were able to lower our water consumption by 3% compared to 2014. Álvaro Fernández Garza President In this report, we are also highlighting the programs our companies have carried out in support of their respective value chains. These initiatives include everything from actions to improve operations to consultancy on their social responsibility programs. 1 ALFA IS A COMPANY THAT MANAGES A DIVERSIFIED BUSINESS PORTFOLIO: An important One of the A leading provider A leading provider A company in the producer, world’s largest of innovative of information hydrocarbons marketer and producers light-weighting technology and industry in distributor of of polyester solutions for communications Mexico and the foods through (PTA, PET the automotive services for United States. well recognized and fibers). industry, the enterprise brands in Mexico, It also leads specializing in the segment of the the United States, the Mexican development and Mexican market. Europe and Latin market in manufacturing America. polypropylene, of aluminum expandable components for polystyrene and powertrain and caprolactam. body structure. HIGHLIGHTS 2015 REVENUES: U.S. $16.3 BILLION EBITDA: U.S. $ 2.4 BILLION FOOTPRINT: 26 COUNTRIES PLANTS: 126 EMPLOYEES: 72,830 2 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MODEL ALFA’S SOCIAL MISSION RESPONSIBILITY MODEL IS TO BECOME A SOURCE OF PRIDE FOR OUR SUPPORTED BY FOUR PILLARS: WORKERS AND SHAREHOLDERS, AND TO EXCEED STAKEHOLDER EXPECTATIONS THROUGH LEADERSHIP, INNOVATION AND EXCEPTIONAL LONG-TERM PERFORMANCE. VISION COMMITMENTS WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS: STOCKHOLDERS. To achieve outstanding long-term value creation through profitable growth, continuous portfolio optimization and selective investment in new opportunities. EMPLOYEES. To be a great place to work. To attract and develop the best talent, motivating them to achieve their full potential. CLIENTS. To exceed expectations with superior INTERNAL WELL-BEING experiences and innovative offerings. TO PROVIDE CONDITIONS OF HEALTH, SAFETY SUPPLIERS. To build long-lasting, mutually beneficial AND DEVELOPMENT OPPORTUNITIES FOR EMPLOYEES. relationships. COMMUNITY. To encourage safe and sustainable COMMMUNITY operations. To contribute to the development of our TO BE A RESPONSIBLE CITIZEN TOWARDS communities. THE COMMUNITY. ALFA defines its stakeholders based on the level ENVIRONMENT of relationship and the degree of impact of its businesses on them. TO CONTROL AND REDUCE EMISSIONS IN THE AIR, SOIL AND WATER. All stakeholders deserve attention from ALFA. To this end, the company has made a commitment to ECONOMY act toward each of them in a responsible, ethical TO OBTAIN ADEQUATE BUSINESS and transparent manner, including an open and RETURNS BASED ON THE INVESTMENT ongoing communication to understand their needs AND RISK TAKEN. and concerns. 3 PERMANENT COMMITMENT Since its founding in Over the years, ALFA has strengthened its social responsibility efforts, focusing on areas that it considers 1974, ALFA has kept up a to be most important for the communities where it commitment to operating operates. It has also evolved in its way of communicating an ethical and responsible this performance, adopting the reporting standards most commonly used by organizations around the world. business that is respectful of its employees, the community Accordingly, ALFA has prepared its corporate social and the environment. After responsibility reports by applying the criteria, parameters and methodology developed and established by the Global 40 years of existence, the Reporting Initiative (GRI). company remains convinced that this philosophy is the This document was prepared according to that organization’s G4 reporting standards. The following are best formula for achieving the results of ALFA’s materiality analysis, which identifies the development to which it the most relevant aspects relating to the company’s aspires. activities according to its various stakeholders. The study was conducted by an independent firm, in coordination with ALFA’s social responsibility areas. The results of this study will enable the company to continue fine-tuning its corporate responsibility strategy in the future. 4 Following is the result of the materiality RELEVANCE MATRIX study, showing the 13 issues found as most relevant for ALFA’s stakeholders 100% and of greater impact for the company. 90% 80% F B 70% K IMPORTANCE FOR ALFA L G E 60% I H A RESPONSIBLE MARKETING C M J 50% B ENERGY ECO-EFFICIENCY D C CLIMATE CHANGE AND EMISSION STRATEGY 40% A D WATER MANAGEMENT 30% E ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT F LABOR PRACTICES 20% G RELATION WITH NGO´S AND REGULATORY AGENCIES 10% H CUSTOMER AND SUPPLIER RELATIONS I HEALTH AND SAFETY 0% 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% J WEALTH MANAGEMENT K RISK AND OPERATION STRATEGIES RELEVANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS L INVESTOR RELATIONS M COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT HIGH RELEVANCE MEDIUM RELEVANCE LOW RELEVANCE 5 PERMANENTLY COMMITTED TO OUR EMPLOYEES The health of ALFA’s workers is a priority. That is the reason for the KEY FIGURES significant amount of money invested 2015 2014 every year, not only in attending to illness but in preventive campaigns, SAFETY • Accident rate 188.13 201.87 including medical checkups, health • Frecuency rate 7.16 9.10 • Number of accidents 1,305 1,566 fairs and programs that promote • Lost days rate 22,347 24,808 healthy lifestyles. The vast majority • Fatalities 1 2 of ALFA’s facilities have on-site HEALTH medical staff that provides round• Investment (U.S. $ million) 20.2 21 • Programs 178 164 the-clock service. One example of the • Employees benefited 28,689 28,520 companies’ initiatives is the Sigma TRAINING Comprehensive Health program, • Investment (U.S. $ million) 17.3 10.4 • Average man-hours 27.0 28 which provides nutritional information, • Employees benefited 44,879 43,145 • Scholarships for employees 604 483 personalized follow-up and initiatives to encourage employees to become DEVELOPMENT AND RECREATION more physically active. • Investment (U.S. $ million) 6.3 5.1 • Scholarships for employees children 3,157 2,310 • Atendees to events 240,740 256,841 SOME ACHIEVEMENTS PERSONAL AND FAMILY COUNSELING More than 27,600 employees and family members of Nemak, Sigma and Petrotemex received support and attention through a free, confidential service that was designed to guide and assist them in issues relating to their personal and professional life. The system operates through a 1-800 hotline and website (in the case of Sigma), through which an expert counselor helps the employee or family member to find a solution to their concerns. 6 U.S.$20.2 million invested in health programs FAMILY DEVELOPMENT TRAINING More than 240,000 employees and family ALFA invested U.S. $17.3 million in members attended recreational and family development and training programs for development programs organized by ALFA its employees, which included workshops companies in 2015. These programs included in inter-personal relations, leadership, training activities, sports, cultural and social technical training and management events, all of which encouraged families to skills, industrial safety and first aid, feel a part of ALFA. and other topics. It also increased the number of employee scholarships for ongoing education by 20% over 2014, covering studies from high school through graduate programs. 7 PERMANENTLY COMMITTED TO OUR COMMUNITY ALFA Foundation continued to KEY FIGURES develop its Educational Project, 2015 2014 which since 2013 has been providing extracurricular support to middle ALFA FOUNDATION school students in math, science, EDUCATIONAL PROJECT • Extracurricular Talent Center 3 3 Spanish and English, as well as • High school (full time) 1 0 • Students 988 560 classes in art, chess, theater and • Teachers 65 35 music. All this is done under an innovative pedagogical model that encourages students to develop scientific attitudes and interact with the physical and social world, in • Number of events 48 22 • Workshops 14 11 addition to improving their academic • Conferences 9 5 performance. In September 2015, the • Exhibits 6 6 • Number of attendees 308,007 305,000 Project opened its first high school, • School children 99,247 104,000 with educational programs that have official certification. All together, the COMMUNITY SUPPORT Educational Project served almost • Schools supported 115 128 • Students benefited 13,076 19,378 1,000 young people in 2015. • Charitable institutions supported 86 171 • Volunteers 1,251 1,062 • Man-hours of volunteer time 26,575 3,847 • Total contributions (U.S. $) 336,690 259,479 SOME ACHIEVEMENTS ALFA PLANETARIUM For 37 years, this institution has been promoting an appreciation for science and culture, especially among children and young people. Besides its exhibits and interactive shows, the space more than doubled the number of events in the year, welcoming more than 300,000 visitors, including almost 100,000 school children. 8 988 students enrolled in ALFA Foundation’s Educational Project GROWING AS A FAMILY SUPPORT FOR SCHOOLS ALFA Corporate Office began its “Growing as a More than 100 schools at all educational Family” program, which aims to give parents levels received support from ALFA a better understanding of the challenges companies, including in-kind donation, teenagers face today. The program addresses cleanup work and renovation of facilities, issues of personal-family development and talks on environmental issues and ethics. is aimed at parents of students in ALFA Also, students were given the opportunity to Foundation’s Educational Project. It is given complete professional internships. All in all, by volunteers from the company that received some 13,000 students benefited from the training from Tecnológico de Monterrey. joint support of ALFA’s companies in 2015. 9 PERMANENTLY COMMITTED TO OUR ENVIRONMENT Water has become an increasingly important resource for ALFA given its KEY FIGURES importance to life and because it is one 2015 2014 its primary inputs. In 2015, the company invested in new wastewater treatment • Investment (U.S. $ million) 47.5 41 • Direct energy consumption 37.23x106 32.20x106 plants and redoubled efforts to reduce (GJ) consumption and improve waste water’s • Energy produced from 96% 91% natural gas quality. Some examples of the year’s • CO2 emmisions (tons) 3,718,629 3,695,414 accomplishments are: Nemak Mexico * Production increase of 4.2% (est.) in 2015 • Water consumption 105 108 began operating two wastewater (millions of m3) treatment plants with a combined • Wastewater treatment 35 44 plants capacity of 170,000 m3 per year; Terza • Use of aluminium from 642,000 337,907 started construction of a treatment plant recycled sources (metric tons) with an annual capacity of 142,000 m3; • Recycled PET (metric tons) 53,777 48,567 DAK Americas reduced its consumption of filtered river water by 25%, equivalent to saving of 76,000 m3 of water a year; through a process of recovery water from cooling towers, Indelpro reduced the amount of water sent for treatment by 50%. SOME ACHIEVEMENTS CLEAN ENERGY ALFA continued to invest in improving its energy efficiency and reducing CO2 emissions. At the end of 2014 it started up operation of a cogeneration plant in Veracruz, with the capacity to generate 90 MW. It also worked on enhancing the capacity of the Alestra cogeneration plant in Querétaro. By operating with natural gas, these plants avoid the emission of more than 170,000 metric tons of CO2 per year. In 2015, 96% of the energy used by ALFA came from natural gas, the cleanest fuel available today. 10 3%reduction in water consumption from 2014 WASTE REDUCTION RECYCLING Sigma Mexico has succeeded in recycling ALFA has two important recycling programs, or re-using 95% of the waste generated in one for aluminum and another for PET. 75% its operating processes, so that it not waste of the aluminum consumed by Nemak comes does not end up in sanitary landfills. At DAK from recycled sources. Regarding PET, Alpek Americas, the waste reduction program has two recycling plants, one in the U.S. manages more than 200 kinds of waste and the other in Argentina. Together they through recycling processes, composting processed 53,777 metric tons of bottles this or energy conversion. This has reduced the year. Apart from avoiding having to dispose of amount of waste sent to sanitary landfills by these bottles, recycling them helps to reduce 97%. energy consumption and CO2 emissions. 11 PERMANENTLY COMMITTED TO OUR VALUE CHAIN ALFA develops initiatives in support of its value chain, which includes suppliers, distributors and customers. For example, Sigma has been operating a Dairy Farming Support Program, which helps small-scale dairy producers in central Mexico by providing them advice on purchasing better feed, training on financing processes, and by guaranteeing the purchase of 100% of the milk they produce. In 2015, the program supported 176 such producers. Additionally, the company began buying goat’s milk from low-income producers in northeastern Mexico. SOME ACHIEVEMENTS EXCELLENT CLIENT Sigma’s “Excellent Client” Platform continued its program to support clients in the traditional channel (mom-and-pop stores, wholesalers and distributors) through five areas: recognition plans, strategic equipment, comprehensive promotional activity and business development services. Also, 543 mom-and-pops store owners graduated from the Center for the Development of Small Grocery Businesses, which the company supports. 12 63% of ALFA’s purchases are made to local suppliers SUSTAINABILITY CODE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY FOR SUPPLIERS In 2015, ALFA’s Sustainability Committee In line with it’s commitment to promoting began deployment of a program aimed at its social responsibility throughout ALFA’s supply chain. It includes creation of a frame supply chain, in 2015 Nemak developed of reference and a methodology for learning a Sustainable Code for Suppliers, which about suppliers’ practices. This will allow seeks to establish mutually beneficial ALFA’s companies to support them with long-term alliances. In 2016, the Code will development plans that could be reflected in be distributed to the company’s 400 top their performance and economic growth. suppliers around the world. 13 AWARDS AND RECOGNITIONS COMPANY RECOGNITION FROM COUNTRY AKRA POLYESTER ISO 14001 Bureau Veritas France Clean Industry Environmental Protection Agency Mexico DAK AMERICAS CF Support 45 Year NC DOL Gold Award North North Carolina Department of Labor USA GRUPO PETROTEMEX ISO 14000 AENOR Mexico Comprehensive Responsibility ANIQ Mexico Clean Industry Environmental Protection Agency Mexico Safe Company Environmental Protection Agency Mexico INDELPRO Comprehensive Responsibility ANIQ Mexico Environmental Excellence Environmental Protection Agency Mexico Clean Industry Environmental Protection Agency Mexico NEMAK BRAZIL ISO 14001 Det Norske Veritas (DNV GL) Brazil OHSAS 18001 Det Norske Veritas (DNV GL) Brazil NEMAK CANADA ISO 14001 ISO Canada NEMAK DILLINGEN Family-Friendly Company Chamber of Commerce and Industry Germany NEMAK SLOVAKIA ISO 14001 Det Norske Veritas (DNV GL) Germany OHSAS 18001 Det Norske Veritas (DNV GL) Germany NEMAK KENTUCKY Rising Star – Relay for Life American Cancer Society USA NEMAK LINZ Operational Health Fund for a Healthy Austria Austria NEMAK MONTERREY ISO 14001 ABS Quality Evaluations Mexico Clean Industry Environmental Protection Agency Mexico NEMAK POLAND ISO 14001 Det Norske Veritas (DNV GL) Poland OHSAS 18001 Det Norske Veritas (DNV GL) Poland NEMAK TENNESSEE ISO 14001 TRC USA POLIOLES Clean Industry Environmental Protection Agency Mexico Family-Responsible Company Ministry of Labor and Social Planning Mexico SIGMA Clean Transport Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources Mexico Family-Responsible Company Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare Mexico Excellent Environmental Performance Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources Mexico GFSI Certification Global Food Safety Initiative Mexico FSC LOGO www.alfa.com.mx GRI G4 INDEX MATERIAL REPORTING DISCLOSURE AND RESPONSE ASPECT LEVEL GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Strategy and analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about the Mandatory Fully relevance of sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability See page 1. Importance of Sustainability for ALFA For ALFA, operating under a sustainable development framework is fundamental to its viability and long-term business growth. In addition to creating economic value, ALFA promotes the development and well being of its employees and nearby communities, as well as operating in harmony with nature. Strategic Priorities and Key Issues Employees To offer a health, safe and inclusive work environment. To offer opportunities for personal and professional growth. Community To operate in safe facilities To support the development of the community, particularly on education. To offer healthier, more nutritious food products. Environment To reduce the carbon and water footprints of its operation. To reduce, reuse and recycle its wastes. Broader Trends Mexico Reduced water availability in some regions. Stricter environmental legislation. World Effects of climate change (severe winters, droughts, floods, hurricanes, etc.). Compliance with international standards on issues related to the environment, health, nutrition, and others. Main events, accomplishments and challenges Events The prices of oil and other petrochemical raw materials went down drastically. The value of the US dollar against the Mexican peso, the euro and other currencies has risen. Mexico continued experiencing moderate economic growth. 15 Markets The automotive industry showed greater dynamism in the US and in Europe. Food consumption in Mexico improved slightly. Polyester margins started rising again. Accomplishments ALFA’s EBITDA increased 19%, thanks to improved margins in some products, non-recurring earnings and improved productivity. Sigma fully acquired control of Campofrio Food Group. Nemak launched its IPO in the Mexican Stock Exchange, started operating a plant in Russia and began the construction of a new plant in Mexico. Alpek incorporated the Expandable Polyestirene (EPS) operations it acquired from BASF in North and South America. Challenges The rise of the US dollar’s value affected Alestra’s and Nemak’s results (when reported in US dollars). The volatility of petrochemical raw materials’ prices continued to affect Alpek. Stricter environmental regulations, particularly in relation to emissions and water usage. Setbacks One employee passed away in an occupational accident. Investments in Pacific Exploration & Production’s stocks resulted in capital loss. Strategy Invest to improve business efficiency and to develop products and services with improved added value. Participating in markets where a position of leadership can be reached and maintained. Increasing cost competitiveness based on human resources and cutting edge technology. Maintain financial health. Goals To eliminate deadly accidents. To continue reducing the number of workplace and industrial accidents. To continue reducing CO2 emissions. To continue optimizing water usage in our operations. G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities Operational Fully Risk See page 1. Strategy Most significant impacts Stakeholder Polluting emissions (air, ground Community, environment and water). Water scarcity. Community, environment Most significant challenges Stakeholder Workplace accidents Employees Emissions and spills. Employees, community 16 Most significant opportunities Stakeholder Reinforcing safety equipment and Employees, community programs. Optimizing water management. Community, environment Reducing emissions. Community, environment Boosting recycling and reuse of maCommunity, environment terials. To continue supporting education. Community Contributing to community Community development. Organizational profile G4-3 Name of the organization Mandatory Fully ALFA, S.A.B. de C.V. G4-4 Primary brands, products and services Mandatory Fully Business groups and products Group Products/Services Brands Sigma Processed meats (ham, sauFUD, San Rafael, Campofrio, sages, mortadella, bacon); Chimex, Iberomex, Tangamandairy products (cheeses and ga, San Antonio, Zar, Chen, yogurt); prepared meals. Braedt, La Villita, Chalet, Yoplait, Guten, Sosúa, Checo, Norteñita, Bar-S, Zar, Bernina, Juris, Nayar, Aoste, Monteverde, La Chona, Nochebuena, Longmont, El Cazo. Alpek Polyester products (PTA, PET Laser, Melinar, Delcron, Dacron, and fibers); Styropor, Hydrotec, Profax, ValPlastics and chemicals: tec, Terza, Luxor. Polypropylene, Expandable Polystyrene (EPS) and caprolactam. Nemak Aluminum heads and blocks Nemak for gasoline and diesel engines; powertrain and structural aluminum parts. Alestra Telecommunications services Alestra and information technologies. Newpek Exploration and exploitation NA of natural gas and hydrocarbons. G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters Mandatory Fully Ave. Gómez Morín 1111 sur, Col. Carrizalejo, San Pedro Garza García, N.L. México. C.P. 66254. 17 G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates Mandatory Fully 26 countries (Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Costa Rica, Czech Republic, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, France, Germany, Hungary, India, Italy, Mexico, Netherlands, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Russia Slovakia, Spain, and United States.) G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Mandatory Fully ALFA, S.A.B. de C.V. is a stock limited company with variable capital whose regulations comply with Mexico’s laws on Mercantile Corporations and the Stock Market. G4-8 Markets served Mandatory Fully ALFA’s products serve mainly the food and beverage, automotive, packaging, textile, construction, furniture, telecommunications and energy sectors. Their main markets are located in Mexico, United States, Germany and Brazil. Market Presence Geographical zone Industry sectors Type of customer North, Central and Food and beverages, • Producers of packaging South America; automotive, packaging, and containers for food, Europe and Asia. textile, construction, beverages, and electelecommunications, tronics. Construction energy. companies. Nylon manufacturers. • Automotive manufacture and assembly companies. • Retail, supermarkets and convenience stores. • Corporate information and telecommunications market. • Other organizations: restaurants, hotels, hospitals, etc. G4-9 Scale of the organization Mandatory Fully Employees 72,529 Operation sites 126 Revenue U.S. $16,315 million Total capitalization in terms of debt U.S. $15,497 million and equity Number of products and services 35 (main) rendered Total assets U.S. $15,501 million 18 G4-10 Total workforce Labor Fully Practices Workforce by gender: Gender Number Percentage Women 15,435 21% Men 57,094 79% Total 72,529 100% Workforce by contract: Contract type Number Percentage Permanent 68,111 92% Temporary 4,418 6% By fees 1,498 2% *The first table does not include individuals employed by fee. G4-11 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Employee type Number Percentage Unionized 34,508 47.6% Employees 38,021 52.4% G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain RelationFully ships with ALFA uses a wide range of suppliers to satisfy the needs of its diverse business portClients and folio, including petrochemical raw materials producers, industrial equipment manuSuppliers facturers, aluminum recyclers and processers, and poultry, pig and dairy farmers. G4-13 Significant changes in the organization during the reporting period Operational Fully Risk Sigma acquired 37% of Campofrio Food Group, thus assuming full control. Strategy Alpek incorporated the expandable polystyrene operations it acquired from BASF in North and South America. Nemak launched its IPO in the Mexican Stock Exchange and started operating an automotive component manufacturing plant in Russia. 19 G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach is addressed by the organization EnvironFully mental Through various dialogue and engagement processes with stakeholders (see Table ManageG4-15), as well as the Materiality Assessment carried out during 2015, ALFA has ment identified areas that present risks for and from its operations. As a result, ALFA has been able to create and modify its management strategy and to execute new actions that contribute to mitigating any significant risks. 1. Identified Risks Workplace • Workplace accidents. Due to the nature of their operations, some of ALFA’s companies handle raw materials and products, and carry out processes that could pose the risk of an accident. • Strikes. Despite human resources programs and a zero strikes or serious conflict record, this is regarded as a potential risk. Environment • Emissions, spills or discharges that could potentially pollute air, land and water due to the nature of raw materials, products and processes, and their handling and transportation. • Lack of natural resources. The increasing scarcity of natural resources like water is a risk for the continuous long-term operation of ALFA’s businesses. • Product life-cycle. Some of ALFA’s products like PET, polypropylene or expandable polystyrene (EPS) could pose a risk to the ecosystem if handled or disposed incorrectly. Community • Possibility of a community rejecting the operations of a plant because of the potential risk of emissions, explosions, traffic congestion, effects on quality of life, etc. • Product life-cycle: for Sigma, the sale of a product in inadequate conditions for human consumption, for any cause (attributable to the organization or not), could pose a risk for the health of consumers. Economic • Regulatory change in the countries where ALFA operates. • Economic volatility of international markets. • Cyclic nature of certain businesses. • Lesser availability of raw materials and feedstock like water or energy, which could increase their costs. 20 2. Measures taken to mitigate these risks Workplace • Continuous improvement in programs and investments related to health and safety. • Labor relations programs, including training, integral development for employees and their families, connection with employees’ families, competitive compensation and benefits, and other efforts towards a healthy, inclusive, and collaborative workplace. Environment • Investments in cutting-edge emissions reduction technologies, including the use of cleaner energies (one natural gas-based energy cogeneration plant operating and another one, twice as big, in construction). • Investments to promote recycling of final products (promoting the recycling of aluminum, sand and PET). • Complying with regulations set by authorities, suppliers and the industry. • Promoting an environmental culture, in and outside the company, including the creation of commissions to propose and implement specific action points to strengthen environmental management. • Creating alliances with other companies to cooperate in activities in favor of the environment. • Advancing and supporting suppliers to achieve a thorough commitment to environmental and human rights-related topics. Community • Continuing to support education. • Promoting the company’s involvement in community programs. • Supporting communities through volunteering work for natural disaster response and other contingencies. • Community support initiatives (improvements for schools, food banks, etc.). • Contributing to health programs for communities. • Identifying operational risks in communities and implementing effective actions to mitigate them. Economic • Continuously updating the company’s business strategy. • Searching for substitute raw materials and better ways to recycle those that are currently used. • Investment on and support of innovation and technological development. 21 G4-15 Externally developed initiatives to which the organization subscribes RelationFully ships with NGOs and Program Organization Start Regulators Pronatura Noreste, A.C. 2013 CONARTE, Nuevo León 2012 Cultura de la Hagámoslo Bien 2014 Legalidad (Culture of Legality) RED Sumarse 2011 Movimiento Servicios de Administración y 2009 Congruencia Reclutamiento, S.C. (Congruency Movement) Industria Limpia PROFEPA (Federal Bureau of 2011 (Clean Industry) Environmental Protection) Earth Day US Environmental Protection Agency American Cancer Society 2015 JDRF (Juvenile Diabetes Research 2005 Foundation) United Way Universidad del Comercio Emprendedor (UNICEM) 22 G4-16 Membership in chambers and associations RelationFully ships with Country Company Association Does it hold Does it Is the NGOs and a positon provide participation Regulators in the funding seen as governance above strategic? body or memberparticipate ship dues? in committees? Argentina Nemak Association for No No Yes Components Made in Argentina DAK CAIRPLAS Yes No Yes Americas (Plastic Recycling Chamber) Nemak Metal No No Yes Industrialists Chamber DAK CCAM (ArgenNo No Yes Americas tinian-Mexican Chamber of Commerce) DAK CEMPRE (BusiNo No Yes Americas ness Commitment for Recycling) DAK CICAZ (InterinYes No Yes Americas dustry Committee for the Conservation of the Environment Zárate Campana) DAK CIPETAR Yes No Yes Americas (Chamber of the Argentinian PET Industry) DAK CIQyP (ChamNo No Yes Americas ber of the Chemical and Petrochemical Industry) 23 Austria Nemak Austrian Chamber of the Economy Yes No No Nemak ÖGI Österreichisches Gießerei Yes No Yes Institut (Institute for Foundry Research in Austria) Nemak VÖG Verein Österreichischer No No Yes Gießereifachleute (Austrian Association of Foundry Professionals) Brazil Styropek ABIQUIM (Brazilian Association for Yes No Yes the Chemical Industry) Nemak Sindipeças (National Syndicate for No No Yes the Automotive Component Manufacturing Industry) Canada Nemak Canadian Foundry Society Yes No Yes China Nemak Foundry Association (in Chongqing No No Yes and Nanjing) Germany Nemak VDA Verband der AutomobilindusNo No Yes trie e.V. (German Association for the Automotive Industry) Hungary Nemak Association for the Hungarian No No Yes Automotive Industry Nemak MexCham Mexican-Hungarian No No Yes Business Association 24 Mexico Grupo Yes No Yes Petrotemex AISTAC (Industrial Association of Southern Tamaulipas, A. C.) Indelpro Yes No No AKRA Polyester No No Yes Grupo Yes No Yes Petrotemex ANIQ (National Association for Indelpro the Chemical Industry) Yes No No Polioles Yes No Yes Univex Yes No Yes Sigma National Association of TIF OperYes No Yes ations, A.C. Nemak No Yes Yes CANACINTRA (National Chamber Sigma Yes No Yes of the Transformation Industry) Nemak No No Yes Sigma CANILEC (National Chamber of Yes No Yes Milk Industry) Nemak CLAUT (Automotive Cluster) Yes Yes Yes Sigma CONCAMIN (Confederation of Yes No Yes Industrial Chambers) Sigma Conmexico (Mexican Council for Yes No Yes the Consumer Products Industry) Sigma Council for Self-Regulation in Yes No Yes Advertising Sigma Mexican Council for Meat Yes No Yes Sigma National Agricultural Council Yes No Yes Nemak COPARMEX (Mexican Employers’ Yes No Yes Confederation) Poland Nemak Silesian Union of Private No No Yes Employers Slovakia Nemak Association for the Automotive No No No Industry Spain Nemak ACICAE (Automotive Cluster of No No Yes the Basque Country) DAK Americas AFMA (American Fiber ManufacYes Yes Yes turers Association) United Nemak AFS (American Foundry Society) No No Yes States DAK Americas National Associate for PET ConYes No No tainer Resources 25 Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 Entities included in the organization’s financial statements and report whether any Investor Fully of those entities is covered by the report or not Relations This report contains activities from all of the entities reported in ALFA’s financial statements, except for: • Sigma’s activities outside of Mexico (Sigma Alimentos Exterior, S.L.). • Newpek (Newpek S.A. de C.V. and Alfasid del Norte, S.A. de C.V.). G4-18 Process for defining the report content Mandatory Fully See pages 4 and 5. G4-19 Material aspects identified by the organization Mandatory Fully See pages 4 and 5. G4-20 For each material aspect, report the aspect boundary within the organization Mandatory Fully See pages 4 and 5. G4-21 For each material aspect, report the aspect boundary outside the organization Mandatory Fully The chosen option for this report is the Core option, in accordance with the G4 version of the Global Reporting Initiative Methodology. This means that we fully answer at least one of the indicators of each identified material aspect. G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports Mandatory Fully There were no restatements of information from previous reports. G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods Mandatory Fully This is the first time ALFA reports its sustainability activities using the Global Reporting Initiative’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines in their G4 version. Stakeholder engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization RelationFully ships with Shareholders, clients, employees, community and suppliers. NGOs and Regulators G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage RelationFully ships with Selection criteria are based on the direct or indirect impacts the company has or may NGOs and have on specific groups. Regulators G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement RelationFully ships with Most of ALFA’s companies maintain an open and constant dialogue with their stakeNGOs and holders. ALFA’s relationship with its stakeholders is based on the idea that all stakeRegulators holders are important and deserve to be heard in a timely manner. Our companies’ relationships with them are always carried in a professional, ethical and transparent way. Frequency of contact depends on the audience and its particular situation. The company, however, keeps an open door policy for all its stakeholders. In 2015, our relationship with our stakeholders was enriched through our Materiality Assessment Process. We consulted five stakeholder groups about their short, medium and long term concerns and priorities. 26 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised by stakeholders and how the RelationFully organization has responded ships with NGOs and StakeRelevant Frequency Concerns Responses Regulators holder channels ShareShareholders Quarterly Profitability and Monitoring holders meetings Annual growth. Adherence performance Annual reports Bimonthly to corporate governindicator. Quarterly Periodic ance best practices. Business develreports Continuous opment planning, Email compliance with Phone applicable reguPress releases lations. Communication Department. Clients Plant visits Continuous Innovating products Development and conE-mail Periodic and services at a fair of products and sumers Surveys Workdays price. Information services that 01 800 lines 1-2 times regarding products;. serve their needs. Fairs and per year Safety and preventive Investment in special events measures in procesresearch for Focus groups ses. Quality in prodproduct improSocial media ucts and services. vement. Effective Webpage response and Sperto Center guidance. (Alestra) Research and Tech expos problem resoluProduct fairs tion. Coordination Safety training with other plants Press releases to replicate best practices. Improving times and procedures to guarantee quality. 27 EmploSurveys Periodic Safe working Health and safety yees and Transparency Continuous conditions. programs. their Mailbox Annual Competitive salaries Salary reviews/ families Meetings As necesand benefits. benefit programs. Ethics sary Development opporTraining and develCommittee tunities/career plan. opment programs. Training Life-work balance. Family development Human Contributing ideas programs. Resources for process Implementing beneCommunicainnovation. fits such as flexible tion Treventive tasks. time and scholarforums Timely information ships for emploIntranet about current yees’ children. Letters to the projects. Establishing perdirector Information about formance indicators 01800 line sustainability. for clearer results. Open door Project developSafety policies with policy ment. contractors. Orientation sessions Plant visits Focus groups ComSurveys Biannual Less polluting Emission and munities Discussion Periodic emissions. odor reduction panels Continuous Less noise and programs. Plant visits 1-2 times odors. Safety. Investments on E-mail per year Biodegradable safer equipment Website and sustainable and technologies. Social media products. Alliances with other Sports and Emergency companies in favor recreation programs. of community deveevents Preserving nearby lopment. Creation Emergency areas. of collaboration drills programs with Emergency communities. response Participation in engroups vironmental and saNotices fety improvements. Local mutual Training of evacaid commituations brigades. tees Emergency drills. New technologies to reduce noises and odors. 28 SupSuppliers Continuous Support for their Supplier pliers webpage Periodic development. development Meetings Creating sustaiprograms. Surveys nability initiatives. Supplier Audits Feedback when certification. Supplier fairs suppliers are Training through Email not awarded a talks and courses. Bulletins contract. Improvements in Safety measures. the supplier webpage. Participation in joint projects. Improved safety measures. Schools Plant visits Periodic Promoting job Alliances with and uniTalks openings. universities and versities Employment Recruiting of poschools in the fairs tential candidates. communities to Open house Cooperation support the develdays in projects. opment of students. Creation of joint projects. Internship programs. Research agreements. 29 Report profile G4-28 Reporting period Mandatory Fully From January 1st to December 31st, 2015. G4-29 Date of most recent previous report Mandatory Fully Published on April 15, 2015. Its reporting period was January 1st to December 31st, 2014. G4-30 Reporting cycle Mandatory Fully Annual. G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report Mandatory Fully Enrique Flores R. – ALFA Vice President of Corporate Communications – eflores@alfa. com.mx Tel. (52) 81 8748-1207. G4-32 GRI Index Mandatory Fully See pages 15 to 46. G4-33 Policy and practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report Mandatory Fully This report has not been externally verified. Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the organization Mandatory Fully The Board of Directors comprises 11 proprietary members who do not have alternates. Each member was chosen based on their academic background, professionalism, business record and consistency with ALFA’s values. All Board members are Mexican men ranging from 45 to 70 years of age. There are no other relevant diversity indicators in the Board. In order to correctly perform its duties, three committees assist the Board of Directors: a) Audit, b) Corporate Practices, and c) Planning and Finance. Each committee is led by an independent board member and meets six times a year to discuss relevant matters. All board members participate in at least one of these committees. The Audit and the Corporate Practices committees are composed by independent members only.The three committees follow up on topics related to the company’s social and environmental performance. The Audit Committee examines and makes recommendations to the Board on matters such as the external auditor selection and their fees, coordination with the company’s internal audit department and the analysis of accounting policies, among others. ALFA has internal control systems with general guidelines. These are submitted to the Audit Committee for its opinion. Moreover, the external auditor validates the effectiveness of the internal control system and issues the corresponding reports. 30 G4-34 The Corporate Practices Committee makes recommendations to the Board in matters such as employment terms and severance payments for senior executives, and compensation policies, among others. The Planning and Finance Committee evaluates all matters related to its particular area and issues recommendations to the Board on topics such as feasibility of investment, the company’s strategic positioning, alignment of investment and financing policies, and review of investment projects. The Human Capital and Audit department, as well as the Audit and Corporate Practices committees of the Board of Directors, are responsible for monitoring the members of the Board’s ethical performance. Salary compensation for directors is set by comparing the standards of companies similar in size and sector. G4-35 Process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics EnvironFully from the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees mental Management See disclosure G4-34. G4-36 Executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, environEnvironFully mental and social topics mental Management The Auditing, Corporate Practices, and Planning and Finance committees evaluate, together with the Board of Directors as a whole, the company’s strategy, management and results, which includes environmental and social topics. G4-37 Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body Fully on economic, environmental and social topics The channels we use to communicate with our stakeholders are summarized in the answer to disclosure G4-27. The results of these consultation processes, including those related to economic, environmental, and social topics, are transmitted to the Board of Directors in order to address any relevant concerns. G4-38 Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive Fully officer To see the composition of the Board of Directors and the profile of each of its members, see the 2015 Annual Report, page 18. G4-39 Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive Fully officer The President of the Board of Directors does not hold an executive position in the company. He is responsible of convening and presiding all meetings, and preparing the agenda. He is also responsible for the Board’s correct operation and for organizing annual assessments. G4-40 Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its comFully mittees Members of the Board of Directors are elected taking into account their professionalism, business record, leadership, experience and compliance with ALFA’s values. No distinctions are made based on diversity indicators such as gender, race, nationality, or personal beliefs. 31 G4-41 Processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are Fully avoided and managed ALFA has a Conflict of Interests policy for members of the Board and the rest of its employees. This policy states that the responsibilities and duties of the members of the Board of Directors are governed by the Mexican Stock Market Law (LMV, acronym in Spanish), under the regulations applicable in Mexico to listed companies, and taking into account the Mexican Stock Exchange Code of Professional Ethics, the Code of Better Corporate Practices, the internal regulations of the Mexican Stock Exchange, and ALFA’s Code of Ethics. In accordance with the LMV, members of the Board have a duty of due diligence and thus should always act in good faith and in society’s best interest. They should also maintain confidentiality in the company’s information and affairs and keep from participating or being present during deliberation and voting on issues that might pose a conflict of interest. Additionally, by ALFA’s policy members of the Board of Directors who might have a conflict of interests in deciding over any matter are compelled to inform the Chairman and the rest of the Board. ALFA’s policies state that employees must avoid any situation in which their interests might differ from those of the company. All employees who might have interests or relations with current or potential clients and suppliers must immediately inform their superior. G4-44 Processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with reFully spect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics There are several processes for evaluating the members of the Board, including measuring assistance to meetings of the Board and the committees in which they participate, and the effectiveness of the strategic decisions taken by them. G4-45 Highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, Fully environmental and social impacts, risks and opportunities Identification and management of risks are based on ALFA’s business strategy and investments policies, including elements such as: evaluating businesses related to current operations, reinforcement of ALFA’s competitive position, assessment of attractive markets in terms of profitability and growth, creation of synergies, and securing the competitiveness of our supply chain. G4-46 Highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organizaFully tion’s risk management processes for economic, environmental and social topics The Board of Directors follows procedures consistent with those set by the corporate governance standards established in Mexico’s Stock Exchange Law (LMV) and the Code for Better Corporate Practices. Moreover, the Board relies on the Audit, Corporate Practices, and Planning and Finance committees to review the company’s strategy, management and results, which includes risk management processes for economic, environmental and social issues. G4-47 Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental Operational Fully and social impacts, risks and opportunities Risk Strategy These topics are debated and analyzed in the bimonthly meetings of the Board, occurring six times per year. The guidelines established in ALFA’s Code of Ethics and the 10 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact are considered in every decision-making process and action taken by the members of the Board. G4-48 Highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organizaFully tion’s sustainability report The Director of Human Capital. 32 Ethics and integrity G4-56 The organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior Mandatory Fully See page 3. G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful Fully behavior ALFA’s ethics policies and mechanisms are supervised by the company’s President. External consultants advise ALFA on current and necessary measures to maintain the integrity of the company and its employees. G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unFully lawful behavior ALFA and nearly all of its companies have put in place a Code of Ethics. Any action or situation that does not comply with acceptable levels of transparency, trust, and/or security, or that potentially involves unethical or unlawful behavior, can be reported through the Transparency Mailbox, available by email or by phone in several languages. ECONOMIC Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Distribution Fully of wealth Amounts in millions of US dollars. 2014 2015 Revenue $17,224 $16,315 Total assets $15,773 $15,501 Capital investments $1,426 $1,606 Taxes paid (payments to $34 $246 governments) Dividends No dividends were paid $156 in 2014, for they were paid in advance in December 2013. Payments to suppliers $116 $34 Direct economic value $17,251 $16,351 generated Economic value retained $328 $505 Direct jobs 70,453 72,529 Operating costs $14,100 $12,905 Employee wages and $1,851 $1,812 benefits Payments to providers $2,010 $1,756 of capital 33 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s Operational Fully activities due to climate change Risk Strategy See page 1. ALFA pays close attention to climate change and the consequences it could have on the company, including disrupting the availability of certain resources and inputs, such as energy and water, and affecting the distribution of our products as a result of natural events like storms and flooding. ALFA has implemented strategies to operate more efficiently and sustainably, reducing its hydric and carbon footprint and therefore contributing to minimize any impacts that could accelerate climate change. An example of this is our energy cogeneration program, which includes one plant that started operating in late 2014, and a planned second plant that will be twice as large as the first. Programs such as this one, and the PET and aluminum recycling programs ALFA supports, will bring both environmental and economic benefits. EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations Labor Fully Practices Retirement plans, education support and medical assistance are available to all permanent employees. The retirement system consists of a fixed contribution plan, ranging from 4% to 17% of the employee’s salary according to applicable laws, where the company and its employees contribute an equal amount. All employee benefits are covered 100% by the company. EC4 Financial assistance received from government RelationFully ships with In 2015, ALFA did not receive significant financial assistance from any governments, NGOs and except for tax incentives related to technology development projects. Regulators Market Presence EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at Distribution Fully significant locations of operation of Wealth Country Ratio of ALFA’s minimum wage to legal minimum wage Mexico 3.5 to 1 United States 1.85 to 1 *Only information from Mexico and the United States is considered significant and reported, as 72% of ALFA’s workforce is in these two countries. There are no differences between the wages paid by ALFA to men and to women. EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant Community Fully locations of operation Involvement ALFA hires local staff for the companies it establishes and maintains the workforce of those it acquires. 34 Indirect economic impacts EC7 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts Distribution Fully of Wealth Every one of ALFA’s companies and operational sites collaborates with its relevant communities in projects designed to target each community’s needs. Some examples are: improving the infrastructure of local schools, maintaining streets, providing support during natural disasters, and sponsoring local events, among others. In 2015, investments of this kind amounted to U.S. $ 575,423, compared to U.S. $ 98,000 in 2014. Three examples of these investments are: Petrotemex sponsored the paving of the Temex-Cerro Blanco highway; Nemak’s Austria plant installed new technologies to reduce noise pollution; and Nemak Slovakia sponsored community sporting and cultural events. EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts Distribution Fully of Wealth Some of ALFA’s actions that have a significant indirect economic impact are our support for dairy and goat farmers and for grocers. Procurement practices EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation Community Fully Involvement Proportion of spending on local suppliers Mexico 59% United States 80% Europe 47% South America 79% Asia is not considered a significant region for this disclosure. Sigma’s operations are not included in this answer. ENVIRONMENTAL Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Fully ALFA’s companies manufacture several different kinds of products and use a large variety of inputs. For this disclosure, we have listed only the most important materials in terms of quantity. Materials used by Sigma’s operation are not included. Main materials used in production processes: Material Renewable Weight (metric tons) Paraxylene No 1’399,074 Aluminum No 841,652 Ethylene glycol No 518,732 Propylene No 483,006 Styrene No 176,998 35 Main materials used in packaging: Material Renewable Quantity Unit Jumbo bags No 226,818 Pieces Plastic No 206,653 Metric tons Pallets Yes 2,608 Metric tons Wood Yes 1,688 Metric tons Cardboard boxes Yes Over 26 million Pieces Glass bottles No Over 54 million Pieces EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Fully Given the nature of ALFA’s businesses’ products, only Nemak, a company that produces aluminum automotive components, uses a significant amount of recycled input materials. Material Percentage Aluminum 75% Sand 79% Energy EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Energy Fully 6 Ecoefficiency 37.23 x 10 GJ EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization Energy Fully 6 Ecoefficiency 10.7 x 10 GJ EN5 Energy intensity Energy Fully This information is unavailable as of 2015. Ecoefficiency EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Energy Fully 14% Ecoefficiency EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Energy Fully This disclosure is not material for ALFA’s operations. Ecoefficiency Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Water Fully Management Source Total (m3) Water utilities 8’228,976 Rivers, lakes and seas 89’476,542 Groundwater 5’573,672 Others 2’181,376 Total 105’460,566 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Water Fully Management ALFA does not significantly affect any of its water sources. 36 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Water Partially 3 Management 2’714,318.6 m of water were recycled or reused. The information of Sigma’s operations outside of Mexico is not included in this data. Biodiversity EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and Fully areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Seven of ALFA’s plants are near areas of high biodiversity value: • Nemak Monterrey, Mexico • Nemak Dillingen, Germany • Petrotemex Cosoleacaque, Mexico • DAK Americas Charleston, United States • DAK Americas Columbia, United States • DAK Americas Zárate, Argentina • Styropek Guaratinguetá, Brazil These plants have put in place programs to protect the biodiversity in their relevant habitats. For example: Nemak Monterrey operates a conservation program in its 7,500 m2 of yucca gardens, and the Columbia site, which is 15 miles away from Congaree National Park, holds the Wildlife Habitat at Work certification due to its efforts in favor of biodiversity. Additionally, ALFA’s operations carry out actions in favor of nearby green areas, even when they are not protected biodiversity areas. For example, Nemak’s Saltillo site, which is not near any protected area, safeguarded local flora in its 1.5 hectares of gardens. EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiverFully sity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas See disclosure EN11. Some of ALFA’s products may have a negative impact on the environment when handled or disposed inappropriately. Two examples are PET and expandable polystyrene. ALFA is working to reduce this risk through recycling processes inside the company and recycling campaigns outside of it. EN13 Habitats protected or restored Fully ALFA’s plants that are near areas of high biodiversity value have put in place programs to protect them (see disclosure EN11). EN14 Total number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with Fully habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk ALFA’s operations do not affect species at risk of extinction. Emissions EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Climate Fully Change and 1’807,459 ton CO2e Emissions Strategy 37 EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Climate Fully Change and 1’911,170 ton CO2e Emissions Strategy EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) Climate Fully Change and There are no other significant emissions. Emissions Strategy EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Climate Fully Emissions increased by 1%, but estimated production rose by 4%. Change and Emissions Strategy EN21 NOX, SOX, and other significant air emissions Climate Fully Change and Emissions Amount (tons of CO2 e) Emissions 627.35 Strategy Nox Sox 774.92 ALFA does not produce any other significant air emissions. Effluents and waste EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination Waste and Fully Spills Destination Volume (m3) Rainwater 50,900 Retention basins 37,301 Garden irrigation 86,970 Rivers, lagoons and seas 106’222,570 Public water utilities 855,158 Subsoil 211,679 External treatment facilities 1’334,603 Total 108’799,180 All of ALFA’s water discharges are treated to comply with applicable environmental regulations. The quality of each type of discharge is not reported due to the large differences in the types of treatment required by each site’s applicable regulations. 38 EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Waste and Fully Due to the diversity of ALFA’s companies, its operations generate several different Spills kinds of wastes. In this disclosure only the most significant types of wastes are included. Waste Dangerous Weight (metric Disposal tons) Oil Yes 494,594 Treatment and reuse General waste No 391,821 Landfill and composting Sand No 69,917 Recycling and landfill Aluminum No 64,117 Recycling Sludge No 9,336 Composting, landfill and incineration Dust No 3,594 Treatment and landfill Scrap No 2,262 Recycling Sulphuric acid Yes 2,182 Recycling This data does not include Sigma’s operations. EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills Waste and Fully Spills There were no significant spills in 2015. EN25 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous Waste and Fully under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of Spills transported waste shipped internationally ALFA does not transport, import, export or treat this kind of waste. EN26 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related Waste and Fully habitats significantly affected by the organization’s discharges of water and runoff Spills See disclosure EN22. ALFA does not significantly affect biodiversity through its water discharges and runoff. Products y services EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services EnvironFully See pages 10-11. mental Management Compliance EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for RelationFully non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations ships with NGOs and There were no significant fines for non-compliance with this type of laws and regulaRegulators tions in 2015. 39 Transport EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and Climate Fully materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the Change and workforce Emissions Strategy ALFA generally outsources the transportation of its products. One exception is Sigma, which has applied measures to reduce the environmental impact of its distribution operations. An example is its National Fuel Plan, an initiative that includes more efficient fuel management and more ecological driving techniques, and whose results include a reduction of over 900 tons CO2e in emissions. The environmental impact of transporting ALFA’s workforce has not been quantified. Overall EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type EnvironFully mental Type Investment Management Waste reduction and disposal $10’175,799.02 Emissions reduction $26’039,942.54 Remediation costs $98,543.89 Prevention costs $1’973,790.43 Environmental management costs $8’097,761.99 Other environmental actions $2’275,668.68 Total $48’661,506.54 Amounts expressed in US dollars. Environmental grievance mechanisms EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and resolved Operational Fully through formal grievance mechanisms Risk Strategy In 2015 there were no grievances of this kind. SOCIAL: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Employment LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age Labor Fully group, gender and region Practices Employee turnover rate: Voluntary Involuntary Total Unionized 1.01 .79 1.82 Employees 1.03 .83 1.86 Total 1.02 .82 1.84 Number of employees that hired and left their jobs in 2015*: Country Quantity Mexico 8,434 United States 925 *Only information from Mexico and the United States is considered significant and reported, as 72% of ALFA’s workforce is in these two countries. 40 LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or Labor Fully part-time employees, by significant locations of operation Practices Full-time employees are given a Christmas and vacation bonus, food vouchers, savings fund, years of service recognitions and a retirement plan. Temporary employees and part-time workers do not benefit from the retirement plan. Benefits for Sigma’s employees vary according to region and position. LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender Labor Fully This information is unavailable as of 2015. Practices Labor/Management relations LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these Labor Fully are specified in collective agreements Practices The general minimum notice period is two weeks in advance. This provision is specified in collective agreements. The minimum notice period for consultations and negotiations related to collective agreements is 30 days. Occupational health and safety LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker Health and Fully health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health Safety and safety programs 100% of employees are represented. LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeHealth and Fully ism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender Safety Type 2014 2015 Accident rate 201.87 188.13 Frequency rate 9.10 7.16 Accidents 1,566 1,305 Lost days 24,808 22,347 Loss of life 2 1 The accident rate is equal to the number of lost days per million man hours of work. The frequency rate is equal to the number of disabling accidents per million man hours of work. Concept Justified Unjustified Total Absenteeism 1.26 .65 1.91 41 LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation Health and Fully Owing to the industrial nature of ALFA’s operations, there are roles fulfilled by some Safety of our employees that involve a relatively high risk. ALFA and its companies constantly work together to mitigate these risks through the use of the most recent safety technologies, constant feedback from employees of all levels, and a reliable incident analysis process. Approximately 460 of Nemak’s employees and 244 of Alpek’s employees perform high-risk activities. LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Health and Fully Most of ALFA’s employees, including those that participate in unions, contribute in Safety several different ways to our health and safety committees. These committees work permanently to reduce workplace accidents and illnesses. Additionally, all of ALFA’s employees are given the appropriate safety equipment, training and programs to perform their duties in the safest possible way. Training and education LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee Talent Fully category Management and Human Average hours of training 27 Capital Average hours of training per male employee 25 Average hours of training per female employee 19 Average hours of training per unionized employee 27 Average hours of training per non-unionized employee 25 LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued Talent Fully employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings Management and Human In addition to benefits like savings and retirement funds, most of ALFA’s sites have Capital put in place programs that specifically support continued employability and assist in managing career endings. Some examples are: -Talks with external advisers about topics like savings accounts, retirement funds, loans, social security, affordable housing, and more. -Talks about job transitioning and career endings. -Support for writing wills and saving plans. -Counselling for money management, further employment, and other related topics. LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development Talent Fully reviews, by gender and by employee category Management and Human Category Percentage of men Percentage of women Capital Executive level 91% 92% Operative level 90% 89% 42 Diversity and equal opportunity LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee Fully category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity To see the composition of the Board of Directors and the profile of each of its members, see the 2015 Annual Report, pages 18 and 19. See disclosure G4-10 for the composition of ALFA’s workforce. Due to the large number of countries where ALFA operates, our only material indicator of diversity is gender. Equal remuneration for women and men LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by Distribution Fully significant locations of operation of Wealth There are no differences in the basic salaries paid to men and women for the same kind of position, since compensation is determined based on knowledge, capacity, and experience. Supplier assessment for labor practices LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply RelationFully chain and actions taken ships with Clients and In 2015, no negative impacts for labor practices were identified in our supply chain. Suppliers Labor practices grievance mechanisms LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved Labor Fully through formal grievance mechanisms Practices In 2015 there were no grievances of this kind. HUMAN RIGHTS Investment HR1 Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts Investor Fully that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening Relations 100% of ALFA’s and its companies’ investment contracts include human rights clauses. HR2 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concernFully ing aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained In 2015 there were no trainings specifically focused on Human Rights. However, every employee that enters the company goes through a process that includes human rights training, and are informed of ALFA’s commitment to the United Nations Global Compact. Non-discrimination HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Fully In 2015 there were no incidents of discrimination. 43 Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of assoRelationFully ciation and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and meaships with sures taken to support these rights Clients and ALFA’s guarantee of the freedom of association of its employees is one of the central Suppliers labor practices applied by each company’s Human Resources committees. ALFA has no sites where this right cannot be exercised. ALFA avoids business relationships with any suppliers that violate or are at risk of violating freedom of association. We comply with internationally recognized procurement standards through our sustainability practices in our supply chain. For more information, see pages 12 and 13. Child labor HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child Fully labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor ALFA complies with the local laws of every country where it operates and is committed to the UN Global Compact. There are no risks of incidents of child labor in ALFA’s operations. Forced or compulsory labor HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of Fully forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor ALFA complies with the local laws of every country where it operates and is committed to the UN Global Compact. There are no risks of incidents of forced or compulsory labor in ALFA’s operations. Security practices HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s human rights poliFully cies or procedures that are relevant to operations 100% of our security personnel has been trained on human rights policies. Indigenous rights HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples and Fully actions taken As part of ALFA’s commitment to complying with the laws and regulations of every country where it operates, and with other social responsibility documents that go beyond what is strictly necessary, such as the UN Global Compact, we are dedicated to respecting the rights of indigenous peoples. In 2015, there were no registered incidents of violations of the rights of indigenous peoples. Human rights grievance mechanisms HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved Fully through formal grievance mechanisms There where no grievances of this kind in 2015. 44 SOCIETY Local Communities SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact Community Fully assessments, and development programs Involvement See pages 8 and 9. Most of ALFA’s operations carry out community involvement activities and programs, including linking with third sector, international and governmental organizations (such as the Red Cross, Mexican Civil Protection, and other health institutions), and internal programs contributing to the development of communities. Some examples are: ALFA Foundation, Community Advisory Panels (DAK Americas, United States) School-Company Plan CAINTRA (Alestra), neighboring companies program (Alestra), talks in schools (Nemak México), employment fairs and volunteering programs (Sigma y ALFA), Gansos Community (Sigma), and Healthy School (Sigma). SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local commuCommunity Fully nities Involvement ALFA’s sites constantly make an effort to enrich their interactions with local communities. None of our sites has a negative impact on its communities. When a potential impact on local communities is detected, ALFA’s companies work to mitigate or eliminate it. For example, in 2015 Nemak’s Linz site in Austria found that its noise levels where affecting the community, so it made changes in its processes that significantly reduced the noise pollution in nearby areas. Anti-corruption SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corrupFully tion and the significant risks identified 100% of our operations have been evaluated. SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures Fully Depending on the gravity of each case, ALFA and its companies may take corrective action ranging from a direct warning to the termination of any implicated employees, and including taking the appropriate legal action. SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Fully In 2015, there were 351 incidents related to non-compliance of ALFA’s policies and values. 100% of them were investigated. As a result, 77 persons were separated from the company. None of these cases implicated activities of ALFA’s employees involved with governmental authorities. No contracts with commercial partners were rescinded or ceased to renew their contracts because of non-compliance of ALFA’s policies and values. There was also no legal action against ALFA for any incidents related to corruption. Public policy SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary RelationFully ALFA does not make political contributions. ships with NGOs and Regulators 45 Anti-competitive behavior SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopRelationFully oly practices and their outcomes ships with NGOs and There were no legal actions of this kind in 2015. Regulators Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for RelationFully non-compliance with laws and regulations ships with NGOs and There were no fines or sanctions of this kind in 2015. Regulators Supplier assessment for impacts on society SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and RelationFully actions taken ships with No significant actual or potential negative impacts on society were detected in our Clients and supply chain in 2015. Suppliers Grievance mechanisms for impacts on society SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved Community Fully through formal grievance mechanisms Involvement There were no grievances of this kind in 2015. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Customer health and safety PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safeRelationPartially ty impacts are assessed for improvement ships with Clients and Offering products and services that do not negatively impact the health and safety of Suppliers our clients and consumers is a priority in every step of our product development. ALFA’s companies constantly work to mitigate any impacts through the search for and implementation of new technologies and safer and more sustainable raw materials. PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes Fully concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes There were no incidents of this kind in 2015. 46 Product and Service Labeling PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures Responsible Fully for product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant Marketing product and service categories subject to such information requirements The following table shows ALFA’s companies to whom product labelling is applicable. DAK Americas Polioles Sigma Terza Sourcing of components of the Yes No No Yes product Content (with regard to substanYes No No Yes ces that might produce an environmental or social impact) Safe use of the product Yes Yes Yes No Disposal of the product and enviYes Yes Yes No ronmental/social impacts PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes Responsible Fully concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes Marketing There were no incidents of non-compliance with this kind of regulations in 2015. PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Responsible Fully All of ALFA’s companies measure customer satisfaction through channels like teleMarketing phone numbers for complaints and suggestions, email and phone surveys, web pages, meetings, client visits, and others. The average satisfaction score obtained in sites that performed a quantifiable evaluation in 2015 was 92.87%. Marketing Communications PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products Responsible Fully Marketing Two of our sites manufacture products that include flame retardants (HBCD) and nonylphenols, compounds that are prohibited in the European Union and restricted in other markets. In both cases, ALFA’s companies are already searching for alternatives that comply with the strictest standards for the environment and human health. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes Responsible Fully concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and Marketing sponsorship, by type of outcomes There were no incidents of non-compliance with this kind of regulations in 2015. Customer Privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy Operational Fully and losses of customer data Risk Strategy There where no incidents of this kind in 2015. Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations RelationFully concerning the provision and use of products and services ships with NGOs and There were no significant fines for non-compliance with this kind of regulations in Regulators 2015. 47
