COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) United Nations Global Compact 2016 Growing value. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Dear Readers, In December 2015, Amatheon Agri Holding N.V. became a member of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). We were proud and pleased to join a group of like minded companies who strongly believe that caring for the environment and community where one operates goes hand-in-hand with running a sustainable business. Since Amatheon’s inception, sustainable development and corporate responsibility have been central to our business strategy, values and practices. We see this as a way to create more value for investors, staff, customers and nearby communities. Receiving an Environmental Award in Zambia this year was a flattering acknowledgment of our efforts. As a company aware of its unique social environment, we strive to support our stakeholders by conducting business fairly and ethically, respecting human rights, andcomplying with international standards and domestic laws. I’d like to take this opportunity to thank organizations and partners who have helped us on this journey: DEG, World Vision, Musika, WFP, FAO, UNCTAD, World Bank, GIZ, ABI Trust, ZOA International, suppliers and buyers for their significant contribution to Amatheon’s development and success. Together, we are contributing to reaching the Sustainable Development Goals by 2030. I hope you enjoy reading Amatheon Agri’s first Global Compact Progress Report which provides a transparent and detailed account of how we are implementing and measuring the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. We are proud of our achievements and remain committed to these principles. Carl Heinrich Bruhn Chief Executive Officer Amatheon Agri Holding N.V. Harvest In Zambia 1 Communication on Progress 2016 Amatheon Agri AMATHEON AT A GLANCE ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE OUR ACTIVITIES Amatheon Agri is a European agribusiness and food company, headquartered in Berlin and operating in SubSaharan Africa. Focusing on farming, trading and food processing, Amatheon integrates its activities along the agricultural value chain. As a triple-bottom-line company, Amatheon acts as an anchor investor in rural areas to uplift neighboring communities economically, socially and environmentally. It is a combination of international expertise with localized Africa know-how, and a long-term vision with a sustainable approach, makes it set to become a leading player in the African agricultural sector. Founded in 2011, Amatheon established its subsidiaries in Zambia in 2012, Uganda in 2013, and Zimbabwe in 2014. During this relatively short time-frame, Amatheon has proven its business model and demonstrated its ability to build large, replicable, scalable platforms – in both farming and food processing. With over US$100 million invested in its operations to date, Amatheon believes that the key to unlocking Sub-Saharan Africa’s vast agricultural potential is combining world-class farming techniques, partnerships with smallholder farmers, and vertical integration along the value chain. • Farming – Combining large-scale high-tech commercial farming operations and Outgrower programmes with smallholder farmers – Operating over 8,000 hectares of farmland – Training around 6,000 smallholder farmers • Trading – Buying grain from smallholder farmers in over 50 rural depots – Storing and selling grain and livestock to domestic/regional markets UGANDA • Food – Processing fresh and packaged meat products – for wholesale and retail markets ZAMBIA – Operating as the second largest meat company in Zambia ZIMBABWE Figure 1: Countries of Operation 3 Communication on Progress 2016 Amatheon Agri 4 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Amatheon’s core business relies on healthy ecosystems, strong rural communities and talented staff. Knowing that large-scale commercial activities impact the environments and communities where they take place, Amatheon acts as an anchor investor to significantly uplift its surrounding community socially, environmentally and economically. This approach helps create social and economic infrastructure through participatory means to continue rural development in a business oriented and sustainable way. For responsible investment to thrive, participatory and transparent land acquisition and development is essential. Amatheon does not engage in communal land and only works on privatized, titled land. The company carries out intensive and extensive due diligence on each piece of land that appears suitable for development. This due diligence involves public consultations with elders and communities, traditional and statutory representatives, formal and informal verification of ownership and thorough analysis of the land’s history. Only through the joint approval of Amatheon’s Legal, Farming and Sustainability departments, does a land acquisition take place. Additionally, Amatheon is actively engaged in operationalizing the leading frameworks for responsible agri-investments, such as the Principles for Responsible Investment in Agriculture and Food Systems (CFS-RAI), Principles for Responsible Agricultural Investment (PRAI), FAO and OECD’s guideline for Responsible Agricultural Supply Chains and the Analytical Framework for Responsible Land Based Investments in African Agriculture. To achieve greater leverage and impact, Amatheon also partners with NGOs and local non-profits in the area where it works. As of 2016, eight partners for social and economic impact have teamed up with Amatheon Agri to provide finance, in-kind contributions, training, expertise or markets to the company’s growing platform of agricultural productivity. 5 Communication on Progress 2016 Amatheon Agri 6 ECONOMIC EMPOWERMENT In Uganda, Amatheon has provided school furniture to teachers and children of Wii-Anaka Primary School where 300 children were sitting on the floor during study time. Prior to Alongside its large-scale farming operations, Amatheon uses its commercial farms as any developments taking place, Amatheon hires external experts to conduct in-depth a nucleus to support and trade with thousands of small-scale farmers. Leveraging the Environmental and Social Impact Assessments (ESIAs) which include desk research, platform, infrastructure and communication channels that Amatheon has established, the site visits, public consultations, scientific studies and are bound to the approval of the Outgrower Programme provides structured access to a network of smallholders – in turn respective country’s national environmental management authority. In 2015, a new allowing Amatheon to significantly increase its trading volumes while simultaneously partnership was formed involving a local hospital which will see a mobile health achieving rural socio-economic impact. By incorporating smallholder farmers into the rural unit reaching out to Amatheon’s catchment area to deliver medical services. More than value chain, Amatheon helps build vibrant outgrower networks, fosters entrepreneurship, 400 community members attended the first outreach days to seek sexually transmitted stimulates local productivity and diversifies sources of income. disease (STD) testing, immunization and vaccination for children and pregnant women, HIV/AIDS counselling and treatment of basic illness. The Outgrower Programme provides free trainings on conservation farming and business skills, and establishes rural depots to sell inputs and buy grain. In addition, Amatheon ENVIRONMENTAL ENHANCEMENT carefully selects farmers and links them with financial institutions so they can access credit and take their businesses to the next level. To date, more than 7,000 farmers have Amatheon is committed to improving and protecting critical natural resources and been registered in Zambia and Uganda, over 50 depots have been established, and 300 operates using sound environmental practices – all of which are vital to the sustainability loans have been issued out to emerging farmers. The payback rate for loans was 100% of agricultural businesses. Prior to any developments taking place, Amatheon hires external and farmers were able to scale out their businesses. Importantly, more than US$3 million environmental experts to conduct in-depth Environmental Impact Assessments (EIA) which has been injected into the local economies through grain purchases from smallholders include desk research, site visits, public consultations, scientific studies and are bound throughout the past years. to the approval of the respective country’s national environmental management authority. As part of the EIA, an Environmental Management Plan is developed to mitigate any risks SOCIAL IMPROVEMENTS through monitoring key indicators such as water, soil, air and noise. More than 90% of Amatheon’s workforce comes from its areas of operations, and as Amatheon strives to protect the soil and biodiversity, by using low-tillage cultivation an anchor investor, the company is committed to boosting nearby social and economic methods, protecting water sources with appropriate signage, and measuring the infrastructure. Amatheon established Environmental and Community Sustainability company’s environmental impact using indicators such as water, soil, air and noise levels. Committees (ECSC) which bring together local leaders, community members, local To continuously learn and improve performance, Amatheon attends workshops and seminars government representatives and Amatheon staff in an open and participatory forum. focusing on environmental matters, such as the United Nation’s Climate Change Conference This platform enables Amatheon to be constantly engaged with communities; tailoring in Paris in December 2015. support to their needs and engaging in two-way dialogue. On 5 June 2016, Amatheon Agri Zambia was honored to receive an Environmental Award In Zambia, employees and seasonal workers have access to free counseling with regards to by the Zambian Environmental Management Authority (ZEMA) for its contribution to the drug abuse, domestic violence, sexual abuse and HIV. Since Amatheon’s inception, the nearby country’s sustainable development. The prize highlights Amatheon’s consistent engagement social infrastructure has been boosted by the construction of teacher’s houses, extension with the authority over agricultural development, utilization of best environmental of classrooms, initiation of school gardens, and wiring schools for future electrification and technology and practices, a specialized department dedicated to Sustainable Development evening literacy classes. The company also organizes regular football tournaments, bringing and a history of successful compliance with ESIAs. together communities and national talent scouts while staff members compete with community teams. 7 Communication on Progress 2016 Amatheon Agri 8 UNGC PRINCIPLES FOR A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS The table below highlights the four main pillars and Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. In this section, we explain how our activities align with the Ten Principles, how we measure them, and what we’ve achieved this year. UNGC MAIN PILLAR PRINCIPLES Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Communication on Progress 2016 Amatheon Agri 10 HUMAN RIGHTS MEASURES Amatheon supports international conventions on human rights which are well reflected in Recruitment Policy • We adhere to relevant standards concerning working our HR policies and Code of Conduct. This is further demonstrated through our commitments hours throughout the Group to standards of the International Labour Organization (ILO) Conventions and the UN • We ensure that wages comply with the law and industry Universal Declaration of Human Rights. These voluntary commitments underpin our standards in the countries where we operate activities in conjunction with the relevant national legislation. In addition, we carefully select • We never withhold any of workers’ salaries, benefits or executive personnel to ensure an equal understanding the importance of human rights. The any rights acquired or stipulated by law, or any of the right leadership and company culture is helping us to operationalize these commitments. workers’ documents, in order to force them to work or as a disciplinary action • We do not tolerate any discrimination based on color, religion, sex, nationality, age, disability or sexual GUIDING PRINCIPLES orientation • 1. Code of Conduct Occupational Health and • We are committed to the safety of employees Safety Policy (OHS) at the work place Having a main office in Berlin and subsidiaries in Uganda, Zambia and Zimbabwe, we have • We ensure all site personnel go through a safety developed a Group-wide Code of Conduct based on local and international guidelines. induction program before they commence work The Code of Conduct summarizes our principles and rules, applying an internationally • We carry out hazard and risk assessments associated standardised concept of what constitutes responsible corporate behaviours, and binds with work at the farm for the continuous safety every employee within the Amatheon Group. More so, the Code of Conduct is based on the of our employees principles of the UN Global Compact and explicitly reiterates our commitment to respect for • We maintain a safe working environment for all human rights, community, environmental protection and respect for the law. Every potential our employees employee is required to read and sign the Code of Conduct before commencing work. • We ensure Safety Material Data Sheets are always Proven misconduct will lead to disciplinary charges for employees to uphold the up to date and available for consultation company’s integrity and philosophy. • Human Resource Policy • We respect and uphold internationally recognized human 2. International Frameworks rights policies of non-compliance with forced, compulsory or child labour Amatheon is committed to responsible land based investment and sustainable business • We do not promote any type of forced labour, including development. Amatheon follows international recognised guidelines such as the Principles working under the regimen of imprisonment, in of Responsible Agricultural Investment (PRAI), OECD Guidelines for multinational agreement with the International Labour Organization enterprises, OECD-FAO Guidelines for Responsible Agricultural supply chain, UN Guiding (ILO) Conventions 29 and 105 and national labour laws Principles on Business and Human Rights and the International Finance Corporation (IFC) Performance Standards. 11 Communication on Progress 2016 Amatheon Agri 12 Sexual Harassment Policy • We engage in active dialogue with our workers through Social Development • We counsel both employees and community members periodic meetings with regards to drug abuse, HIV/AIDS and Malaria • We ensure that trained counsellors are readily available in Zambia to support employees sensitizing for sexual harassment • We support a local hospital to deploy mobile medical among other topics units to provide access to healthcare information and • We do not tolerate sexual harassment in any way services, particularly Hepatitis B, HIV/AIDS, Sexually • Transmitted Diseases and Malaria in Uganda Disciplinary Policy • We have a Disciplinary Code of Offences which states the • We facilitate access to knowledge for rules and regulations of the company and what smallholder farmers consequences the employee will face when they do not • We create access to markets for smallholder farmers abide to them • We link smallholder farmers to financial institutions • We afford every employee with the right to a fair hearing • We rehabilitate roads for the company and and an opportunity to respond to any accusation of communities benefit disciplinary code breach • We host sport events for our staff and communities to join • • We support local construction projects for social Grievance Policy • We have a grievance procedure in place which stipulates infrastructure how grievances are to be raised and handled through Amatheon’s internal Compliance Committee and Human Resource Office • We make available grievance boxes at the various operating sites which are also available to surrounding community members • We have an independent and anonymous complaints hotline as well as complaints email address accessible to all staff • Anti-Child Labour Policy • We require every worker to be above 18 years old • We check National Registration Cards as prerequisite for recruitment • We oblige contractors to do the same • Environmental and • We have established a ECSC to be a multi-stakeholder Community Sustainability platform in Amatheon’s immediate catchment area and Committee (ECSC) enable dialogue between communities, authorities and Amatheon staff 13 Communication on Progress 2016 Amatheon Agri 14 ACHIEVEMENTS Cultural Diversity • We have a diverse team made up of Zambians, Zimbabweans, Ugandans, Kenyans, Germans, Dutch Russians, British and Australians • We employ people regardless of colour, religion, sex, nationality, age, disability or sexual orientation Zero Child Labour • We received no complaints on child labour in 2016 • Environmental and • We successfully mitigated communities’ and Amatheon’s Community Sustainability concerns around operations, aligned community Committee (ECSC) engagement strategies and jointly planned social development projects • Social Development • We trained over 6,000 farmers in topics like Conservation Agriculture, Farming as a Business, Crop Health and Post-Harvest Handling in Zambia and Uganda • We established over 50 depots for farmers to be able to purchase inputs, sell grain and thereby gain access to market in Zambia and Uganda • We counselled over 500 people about alcohol abuse, domestic violence and HIV in 2016 in Zambia • We reached more than 400 people through our health intervention with a local clinic in Uganda to provide basic medical services to community members • We rehabilitated more than 34km of private and public roads in Uganda which increase community access to social services and markets • We initiated a soccer tournament for 10 teams comprising of staff, surrounding communities and the district team in light of Zambia’s independence celebration • We provided 60 tons of building sand to the construction of a secondary school in Zambia 15 Communication on Progress 2016 Amatheon Agri LABOUR • We conduct regular training sessions to raise employees’ awareness and sensitize them on topics such as first aid, Amatheon strives to create a working environment where all employees are inspired, accidents, chemical handling, fire response, protective motivated and happily engaged in their work. Our labour force is the backbone of our clothing, HIV/AIDS, sexual harassment and security business, so there is a strong focus on health and safety, fair working conditions, zero • corruption, gender equality and non-discrimination. It is essential to create a strong, Anti-Child Labour Policy • We require every worker to be above 18 years old collabourative environment where each employee’s talent flourishes. Importantly, • We check National Registration Cards as prerequisite neighboring communities contribute more than 90% of our workforce which is one of for recruitment many reasons we are committed to a happy and healthy community. • We oblige contractors to do the same • Employee Representatives • We support the establishment and functioning of local GUIDING PRINCIPLES organisations and trade unions • We have representative of the National Union of 1. International Frameworks Plantation, Agriculture and Allied Workers (NUPAAW) present in Zambia We support the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles • In Zimbabwe we follow and comply with Category D and Rights at Work by respecting and promoting its main principles such as freedom of (iv, v and viii) of the Code of Conduct and Grievance association, elimination of discrimination, forced and compulsory labour, and abolition of procedure for the Agricultural Industry (Statutory child labour. Instrument 116 of 2014) • 2. Internal Health and Safety Standards Social Security • We provide social security benefits to employees through the National Pension Scheme, Workers’ Compensation We ensure high standards of health and safety in all of our operations through a continuous Fund, Housing, payment of utilities and medical and verifiable health and safety program, including trainings and the provision of correct and treatment for workers and their families suitable equipment. • Security Policy • We guide responsible security conduct through internal trainings and close supervision MEASURES Promoting Equality • We are committed to increasing the proportion of and Diversity women at all levels of the company and encourage equal opportunities for disabled people • We are committed to diversity among Amatheon’s employees • Occupational Health and • We ensure that all employees have been properly Safety Policy (OHS) inducted and trained in risk assessments that apply to their work 17 Communication on Progress 2016 Amatheon Agri 18 ACHIEVEMENTS Wages • We pay above minimum wages to our staff, which has been verified by the Zambian Ministry of Labour and Social Services • Minimised Health and • We have designed a Safety Management Plan which Safety Risks encompasses working behaviours and safe work practices that are expected from Amatheon employees • We counselled over 500 people about alcohol abuse, domestic violence and HIV in 2016 in Zambia • We cover medical insurance for temporary and permanent employees • We minimised risks of accidents surrounding the working environment through safety trainings, guidelines on vehicle usage, warning signs and effective implementation of our Occupational Health and Safety Plan • We have a specific security policy outlines responsible conduct of security personnel • We have a robust accident reporting scheme in place • Employee • We provide housing facilities and utilities for permanent Accommodations staff and their families • Employment Creation • We facilitate employment creation through providing access to market and finance for smallholder farmers to boost their business • Zero Child Labour • We had zero cases of child labour reported in 2016 19 Communication on Progress 2016 Amatheon Agri 3. Promoting Conservation Agriculture (CA) ENVIRONMENT As part of Amatheon’s Outgrower Programme, the company delivers free training to Amatheon is sensitive to the fact that farming activities have a local and global thousands of farmers in Zambia and Uganda, including modules on business education environmental impact. As a result, environmental management plays an essential role and Conservation Farming. Conservation Farming is specifically addressing sustainable in our sustainable development strategy with a commitment to reduce environmental and environmentally sound agriculture. Three principles guide its implementation minimal footprints. Our aim is to minimise impacts through responsible, sustainable use of natural resoil disturbance, permanent soil cover and crop rotations. Conservation Agriculture is a way sources, to continuously improve environmental protection and to develop a greater sense of combine profitable production with climate change resilience and sustainability and has responsibility amongst employees and suppliers. been proven to work in a variety of agro-ecological zones and farming systems. GUIDING PRINCIPLES MEASURES 1. Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) Environmental Policy • We have an environmental policy which sets the Prior to developing land, there are in-depth studies conducted by external consultants to foundation and operational procedures for the protection identify the scope of environmental and social impacts both, positive and negative. The of soil, ground and surface water, air quality and the process of ESIA is extensiveincluding a variety of stakeholder consultations, creation ecosystem in general of a baseline study about the vegetation, soil, biodiversity, water quality and field work to • capture social survey data about communities in the catchment. Based on the findings, Environmental • We routinely assess environmental hazards and risks Environmental Management Plans are developed to mitigate potentially adverse impacts Management Plan of our operations through environmental audits, and from the start. ESIAs are conducted in line with respective policies, legislations and other appropriate measures are introduced to reduce any institutional frameworks applicable. identified risks • 2. Internal Environmental Management Plans (EMPs) Environmentally Sound • We categorically avoid investments where impact on Processes communities and the environment have not been Environmental Management Plans stem from the ESIA and specifically address each item properly considered and mitigated in design that is exposed to the project development. The EMP guides the Sustainable Development • We attend seminars, conferences and workshops Manager on the implementation of a holistic management system, and looks at land and focusing on environmental friendly agricultural soil, air quality, noise, water management, biodiversity, traffic, health and safety as well as practices to continuously learn and improve cultural heritage sites. Based on this plan, Amatheon carries out regular monitoring to companies performance continuously improve its environmental performance and reduced footprint. • We apply low-tillage cultivation methods in all countries where we operate • We protect water sources with warning posts, pillars and signs 21 Communication on Progress 2016 Amatheon Agri 22 Conservation Agriculture • We train smallholder farmers on soil protective farming • We carry out regular environmental audits to verify through Conservation Agriculture compliance and recommend further improvements • We partner with Conservation Farming Unit, World Vision, • We participated in the United Nations’ Conference of DEG and Musika in Zambia to deliver high quality Parties COP 21 on Climate Change trainings at no cost • We have conducted 16 Environmental and Social • Impact Assessments approved by national authorities Water Utilization • We contract independent scientific bodies, who verify at country levels water tables and ensure water is not contaminated • • We build drainage systems which prevent run off water Zero Environmental • We recorded no environmental incidents which from fields to contaminate streams Incidents had major impact on water, soil or air • • Sustainable Investment • We conduct in-depth environmental and social impact Used Oil being recycled • We partner with certified companies to pick up and Practices assessments prior to developing land recycle used oil • We measure and mitigate the company’s environmental • impact using indicators such as water, soil, air and Waste Disposal • We dispose of domestic and hazardous waste noise levels responsibly through a certified company • We sell affordable solar panels through our Farm Shop to • spread renewable energy among communities to reduce Environmental Award 2016 • We received awarded an Environmental Award by the wood and charcoal usage Zambian Environmental Management Authority – the award was issued on 17 June 2016 to Amatheon Agri Zambia for its significant contribution to sustainable agricultural development in the country ACHIEVEMENTS Conservation Agriculture • We have trained more than 6,000 farmers in conservation farming methods through partnerships with the Conservation Farming Unit, World Vision, DEG and Musika • We practice low-tillage farming approaches in our areas of operation • Access to • We have sold more than 40 solar panels to the community Renewable Energy in the last year • Environmental Protection • We have in place functional environmental management in Production plans, environmental policies and respective on-boarding sensitization for employees 23 Communication on Progress 2016 Amatheon Agri 24 ANTI-CORRUPTION ACHIEVEMENTS Application of Local • We have a monthly register compiled by the HR At Amatheon, we value integrity and ethical behaviour in our dealings with business Codes of Conduct department which reports on work against corruption partners, authorities and employees. Amatheon complies with the relevant legislations • We plan to introduce an anti-corruption training for and is categorically opposed to all forms of corruption, including extortion, bribery and all employees any illegal or immoral behaviour in all our activities and across countries. • Induction requirements • We ensure acknowledgment of our anti-corruption policy GUIDING PRINCIPLES during on-boarding phase of new employees • Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy Anti/corruption component • We ensure there is an anti-corruption component in all MoUs we sign with our partners and contractors The nature of our business requires us to interact with officials of various governments, district authorities and private third parties around the world. Amatheon prohibits its employees from engaging in acts of corruption, and from paying bribes or kickbacks to or accepting bribes or kickbacks from public officials and private individuals such as the personnel of companies with which Amatheon does business. MEASURES Code of Conduct • We do not accept or comply to unethical business practices • Anti-Bribery and • We have a policy in place that defines bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy corruption to sensitize our employees • We encourage staff to take e-learning classes and share specific examples in our policy to establish a clear understanding of the subject • We impose rigorous consequences upon discovery of bribery or corruption cases – this applies to both, staff and contractors 25 Communication on Progress 2016 Amatheon Agri 26 CONTACT Amatheon Agri Holding N.V. Friedrichstraße 95 10117 Berlin Germany info@amatheon-agri.com T +49 (0) 30 5300 090 23 F +49 (0) 30 5300 090 20 Growing value. Communication on Progress 2016 Amatheon Agri
