PARAMOUNT EXPORTS COMMITMENT TO Paramount Exports Social Report PEX upholds the universal principles of the United Nation Global compact . 2015 Paramount reaffirms its support of the TEN Principles of the United nation Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and anti-Corruption Overview Paramount Exports is the largest clothing manufacturer in Zimbabwe. In addition to supplying the local market it exports protective clothing and work wear into the Region and into Europe. It is also the largest supplier of protective clothing and work wear (PPE) to the Zimbabwean market. 1 VISION Paramount’s vision is to grow the business back to its peak days and to re create more employment with the ultimate objective of increasing local sales and exports into the region and internationally. MISSION Paramount’s mission is to continually improve the competency levels of its workforce and to inculcate in them an export quality culture in the standard of production. It will look to continue improving its service delivery and to being the preferred supplier of PPE in Zimbabwe and the region and uphold our commitment to social and environmental responsibility, while striving to uphold the 10 universal principles of the United Nation Global compact. These principles are based on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights; the International Labour Organization’s Declaration of the Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work; and the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development. Human Rights 1. Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2. Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Standards 3. Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4. Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. 5. Business should support the effective abolition of child labor. 6. Business should support the elimination of discrimination of employment and occupation. Environment 7. Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 8. Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 2 9. Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Corruption 10. Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 3 Paramount Exports Global Human Rights Statement a. Human Rights Principle INTRODUCTION Paramount Mission includes the commitment to treat its employees with respect and dignity, and to be a force for positive influence in the community in which it does business. To this end, Paramount is committed to support and uphold the provision of basic human rights and to eliminate discriminatory practices. Paramount respects the inherent dignity of all persons, and seeks to enable all employees to do their best work by embracing and valuing the unique combination of talents, experiences and perspectives of each employee. PURPOSE AND SCOPE Paramount Global Human Rights Policy emphasizes Paramount is commitment to basic human rights as a core component of the way Paramount conducts business and how paramount engages its employees. The Policy supports the company’s Mission Statement by guiding employees toward the fundamental principles and requirements for upholding basic human rights in the workplace. The Policy supports employees in creating and maintaining a work culture that protects the unique rights of children to pursue basic education as a priority over work, prohibits forced labor, supports the rights of employees to engage in free association, and supports the provision of equal human rights to all persons. This Policy provides direction and guidance to employees to ensure that all practices and processes support the fundamental principles of basic human rights, and are developed and implemented in a manner that complies with Paramount core values around human rights and respects the inherent value of each individual. This Policy helps ensure that employees engaged in company business understand their responsibility for upholding human rights and equality in the workplace. Paramount’s goal is to maintain an environment that fosters open and direct communication between managers and employees as the most effective way to work together and resolve differences, and respects its employees’ rights to participate in a collective bargaining process should they so choose. The Global Human Rights Policy applies to all Paramount employees. Paramount expects any parties who do business on Paramount’s behalf to conduct business in ways that uphold the principles of this Policy. 4 b. Labour Principles Child Labour Paramount prohibits all forms of child labor as defined in this Policy. When employing employees under the age of 18, managers must comply with all Paramount-established or legally required limitations on minimum hiring age, hours and tasks performed by these employees to ensure any work performed does not hamper the child’s education, health, safety, and mental or physical development. Forced or Compulsory Labour Paramount will not make use of any form of forced or compulsory labor at any time for any purpose. Paramount prohibits all forms of work or service that is coerced or imposed with little or no freedom of choice and deprives a worker of a genuine possibility of terminating his or her employment without penalty or the threat of penalty, including deliberate withholding or non-payment of wages Free Association Paramount supports and encourages free formation and joining of groups by workers and employers for the promotion and defense of occupational interests, and to influence matters that directly concern them. Collective Bargaining All Paramount managers and employees are expected to engage in active and direct dialog to solve joint problems and deal with mutual challenges. Paramount also respects its employees’ rights to participate in a collective bargaining process should they so choose. 5 Paramount supports a process through which employers or their organizations, and representatives designated by the workers, discuss and negotiate their relations, particularly the terms and conditions of work, to reach mutually acceptable collective agreements Paramount Commitment to Human Rights Paramount is committed to maintaining a work environment that respects and supports the provision of basic human rights to all of its employees, regardless of the country in which they work, to the full extent permitted by law. To this end: • Paramount strictly prohibits all forms of labour in the workplace that are detrimental to the health or safety of children, • Paramount strictly prohibits forced or compulsory labor for any employees, • Paramount respects employees’ rights to engage in free association and to participate in a collective bargaining process should they so choose, and • Paramount promotes, protects and helps ensure the full and equal enjoyment of human rights by all persons, including those with disabilities. Paramount will not tolerate any behavior or actions prohibited by the requirements herein. Paramount does not consider such behaviors or actions within the core values of the company, nor is such conduct authorized by Paramount’s employees, including managers. Complaints Procedure Employees should immediately report any conduct engaged in or endured by a Paramount interested party, or any individual conducting business on Paramount’s behalf, that is a potential violation of the Global Human Rights Policy or may compromise the company’s values around the provision of basic human rights. c. Environmental Principles Environmental Mission Statement Paramount is committed to a role of environmental leadership in all facets of our business. We fulfill this mission by a commitment to: 6  Understanding environmental issues and sharing information with interested parties  Developing innovative and flexible solutions to bring about change  Striving to buy, sell, make and use environmentally friendly products  Recognizing that fiscal responsibility is essential to our environmental future  Instilling environmental responsibility as a corporate value  Measuring and monitoring our progress for each project  Encouraging all interested parties to share in our mission Paramount Environmental Commitment All persons should seek ways to proactively address the environmental impacts of our operations and incorporate the principles of the environmental mission statement into their work. At a minimum, we all must ensure that Paramount business practices and activities comply with the latter and intent of the law and all company policies. Paramount understands that environmental responsibility is necessary if we hope to preserve our world for generations to come. Our commitment to contribute positively to the environment is of the utmost importance to our company to minimizing our environmental footprint. Paramount strives to continuously evolve and expanded our definition of environmental responsibility and what it means to be an environmental leader. d. Anti-corruption Principle and Business practice. Paramount Standards of Business Conduct Individual actions at work shape how Paramount is perceived, which is why it’s so important that we each take responsibility for the Paramount Mission and acting ethically in all situations. The Paramount Standards of Business Conduct support the Global Business Ethics Policy and provide an overview of some of the legal and ethical standards we are each expected to follow every day. If you are unsure of what to do in a situation, you have support. Speak with your manager or HR about your concerns. Asking for Guidance and Voicing Concerns 7 Paramount core values require compliance with the law, as well as ethical conduct. If you feel these standards have not been met, need access to policies, or have any questions, please ask for guidance or voice your concerns by contacting any of the following resources: • Your HOD • HR Department Anti-Retaliation Policy: Paramount does not tolerate retaliation against or the victimization of any person who raises concerns or questions regarding a potential violation of the Paramount Standards of Business Conduct or any Paramount policy that he or she reasonably believes to have occurred Workplace Environment o How We Treat One Another Consistent with Paramount’s Human Rights Standard, Paramount promotes equal opportunity in its hiring practices, makes recruiting decisions based solely on job-related criteria and does not use forced labor. When employing persons under the age of 18, managers must comply with all Paramount-established or legally required limitations on minimum hiring age, and on hours and tasks performed by these persons to ensure any work performed does not hamper the persons education, health, safety, and mental or physical development. At Paramount we treat each other with respect and dignity. This means that all interested parties are entitled to work in an environment that is free of harassment, bullying and discrimination. Harassment, bullying and discrimination take many forms, including: • Unwelcome remarks, gestures or physical contact • The display or circulation of offensive, derogatory or sexually explicit pictures or other materials, including by email and on the Internet • Offensive or derogatory jokes or comments (explicit or by innuendo) • Verbal or physical abuse or threats o How We Treat Our Customers Great customer (internal and external) service is a top priority at Paramount. We strive to make every customer’s experience pleasant and fulfilling, and we treat our customers 8 as we treat one another, with respect and dignity. This means, for example, that we never harass or discriminate against our customers. As we continue to grow, embracing diversity in every aspect of our business—from the way we work together to the way we procure and produce goods and services—is vital to our long-term success. We respect diversity in each other, our customers and suppliers and all others with whom we interact. Our goal is to be one of the most inclusive companies in Zimbabwe and the region, working toward full equity, inclusion and accessibility for those whose lives we touch o Workplace Health, Safety and Security All persons are expected to follow all safety rules and practices; cooperate with officials who enforce these rules and practices; take necessary steps to protect themselves and other partners; attend required safety training; and report immediately all accidents, injuries and unsafe practices or conditions. In order to enhance workplace security, you should be familiar with and follow any work safety information and training provided to you  Individual Responsibilities 9 All employees are responsible for supporting human rights in the work environment. It is every person’s responsibility to: • Understand Paramount’s Global Human Rights Policy concerning basic human rights and uphold the provision of these rights in the workplace • Contribute to a positive experience at Paramount, offering inclusion, equity and accessibility to employees and customers • Treat each other with respect and dignity • Foster free, direct and open communication among all employees • Raise awareness of any behaviors or business situations involving Paramount that may compromise the company’s values around the provision of basic human rights • Report potential violations of the Policy directly to the person involved, or if not comfortable speaking directly to that person, report such concerns to his/her manager. o Compliance with Laws and Regulations Paramount is committed to full compliance with the laws, rules and regulations of Zimbabwe and the countries in which it operates or conducts business. You must comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations when performing your duties. When you think a conflict exists between the Standards and an applicable law, rule or 10 regulation, or if you have a question concerning the legality of your or other persons’ conduct, you should consult with your manager or the HR department o Business transactions Paramount is committed to the highest ethical standards in all business transactions. Persons must follow all applicable laws, rules and regulations when conducting Paramount business. Payments made to any external agent or government official must be lawful under the laws of Zimbabwe and the foreign country where we carry out business. Payments by or on behalf of Paramount to external agents or government officials should always be strictly for services rendered and should be reasonable in amount given the nature of those services. Under no circumstances may a person make payments in violation of the law or to induce government officials or external agencies or agents to do business with Paramount. Persons must comply with all local and foreign laws regarding customs and trade. Paramount and all interested parties will be accurate and truthful in representing business transactions to government agencies. All information that is furnishes to any customs official or to any agent hired by Paramount to facilitate imports and exports must be accurate and truthful. If you conduct business internationally on behalf of Paramount, please make sure you have a thorough understanding of these laws and know enough about any third parties doing business in Paramount’s name to ensure they are making appropriate decisions on our behalf. Paramount interested parties at no time are permitted to influence the outcome of any business decision by exchanging bribes or kickbacks of any kind. Although there is a serious Corruption problem in Zimbabwe especially in the Public Sector, Paramount has a policy of NON Payment of Bribes or Kickbacks. This policy requires patience and an attitude of steadfast resilience on the part of interested parties who come into contact with this problem. Insistence on ethical business behavior and compliance with the law and ensuring that all relevant documentation and other requirements are correct allows Paramount to maintain its Policy against corruption. 11 o Interaction with the Government Paramount is committed to complying with all laws, regulations and codes and to working fairly and honestly with government officials and others in our communities. In doing so, our actions must meet high ethical and legal standards. It is against Paramount policy (and may be a breach of law) to offer or make a payment or gift of any kind in order to facilitate a local process or to influence a local government official. If you are contacted by a government or regulatory representative and asked to provide information or submit to an inspection, you should inform your manager immediately. Your manager will take appropriate actions or contact the appropriate department for guidance. Paramount policy is to deal honestly and fairly with government authorities and to comply with valid governmental requests and processes. Interested parties must be truthful and straightforward in their dealings with the government and may not direct or encourage another partner or anyone else to provide false or misleading information to any government official or representative. Interested parties must not direct or encourage anyone to destroy records relevant to an investigation Paramount’s commitment to working fairly and honestly with the government includes all interactions with government officials. 12 Sales Practices and Advertising Paramount competes on the merits of our products and service in all sales and advertising. Our communications with our customers or potential customers must be truthful and accurate. When we say something about our products and service, we must be able to substantiate it. We sell the quality of what we make and do; we do not disparage our competitors. o Fair Competition Fair competition laws are intended to promote vigorous competition in a free market. It is in Paramount’s best interest to promote free and open competition. Paramount must make its own business decisions, free from understandings or agreements with competitors or suppliers that restrict competition. We consider compliance with these laws of vital importance. When conducting Paramount business, all interested parties must:  Not discuss pricing, production or markets with competitors  Not set resale prices with customers or suppliers  Always present Paramount services and products in a manner consistent with our core values  Not induce a third party to breach an existing agreement  Never act in a manner that could be seen as an attempt to exclude present or potential competitors or to control market prices Conflicts of Interest We all must avoid conflicts of interest. A conflict of interest exists when a personal interest or activity interferes or appears to interfere with the duties that you perform at, or owe to, Paramount. A conflict of interest may unconsciously influence even the most ethical person and the mere appearance of a conflict may cause a person’s acts or integrity to be questioned. Gifts and Entertainment A gift or favor should not be accepted or given if it might create a sense of obligation, compromise your professional judgment or create the appearance of doing so. In deciding whether a gift is appropriate, you should consider its value and whether public disclosure of the gift would embarrass you or Paramount Parties may offer or accept meals and entertainment if they are reasonable, customary, and appropriate, occur infrequently and are not expensive. Please consult the travel and/or expense guidelines for additional guidance. Paramount prohibits offering, giving, soliciting or receiving any form of bribe or inducement. There are serious penalties for engaging in this conduct 13 Intellectual Property and Proprietary Information o Confidential Information During the course of employment at Paramount, all persons gain some knowledge and information that is non-public and belongs to Paramount. You are trusted with maintaining the confidentiality of this valuable information. Confidential information includes things such as supplier information, Paramount technologies, business and marketing plans, internal company communications, and existing and future product information. Paramount information should be used only for company purposes and should not be disclosed to anyone outside of Paramount. Even within the company, only those individuals who truly need to know the information to conduct their business should have access to confidential information. If you leave Paramount, you must return all company materials and property, and any copies. Confidential materials should:  Be stored in a secure place and should not be left out where others can see them  Be clearly marked as confidential  Not be sent to unattended fax machines or printers  Not be discussed where others may hear 14 Paramount is committed to being fair in the areas of confidential information and materials. Just as we take care to protect our information, Paramount respects the information of others. Here are some basic rules to follow:  Do not bring any material from prior employers to Paramount  Do not accept or use anyone else’s confidential information (or agree to maintain anyone’s information in confidence)  Do not solicit confidential information from another company’s present or former employees or suppliers  Do not engage in espionage; be transparent in obtaining information about the marketplace Community Involvement Personal Activities Paramount understands the need for balance between work, personal and family life, and we encourage all interested parties to be involved in their communities. However, they should not impose their personal beliefs or opinions on others or represent their personal opinions as those of Paramount’s. You may keep your personal activities outside of the workplace confidential, but always keep in mind that you are a representative of Paramount. Your conduct can affect perceptions of the Paramount brand. Political Activities Political activities must be conducted on your own time and using your own resources. You must not promote any political or personal views or beliefs (including by posting or distributing notices or other materials) on or around Paramount premises and you may not indicate or suggest that you speak for Paramount or that the company supports your views. Public Relations All information disclosed outside of the company must be accurate, complete and consistent, and disseminated in accordance with Paramount policies. We all represent Paramount; if someone asks you for information (for example, the media), be sure to notify your manager or department head about the request. They will contact the appropriate party to ensure that the correct procedure is followed. Please do not attempt to answer these questions yourself 15 All Paramount Interested parties have a continuing obligation to familiarize themselves with applicable laws relating to their job responsibilities and all Paramount policies. Breach of these standards, Paramount policies or the law may give rise to disciplinary action up to, and including, dismissal Implementation (Labour Principles)  Child Labor Restrictions Paramount will gather and maintain data on the age of employees for auditing and reporting purposes. Additionally, Paramount requires employees under the age of 18 to provide a full birth certificate and Identity documentation where legally required. Zimbabwe Labour Law – Labour Relations Act 28.01 section 11“ No contract of employment shall be enforceable against any person under the age of sixteen years…”and Labour Relations Act Amendment No. 17 ,Section 9 New Section substituted for section 11 of Cap 28:01, which clearly states zero tolerance for “ employment of young persons” Year 2013 2014 2015 Number of 1186 1263 1451 employees Persons employed Nil Nil Nil under 18 years  Equality and Non-Discriminatory Practices Paramount embraces and values the unique combination of talents, experiences and perspectives of each partner. It is expected that all employees are offered equal opportunities to develop knowledge, skills and competencies relevant to the company’s mission through inclusion, equality and accessibility. Paramount employees are required to uphold the elimination of discriminatory practices in the workplace as outlined in its Equal Employment Opportunity Policy and related governance tools. Additionally, Paramount employees are expected to uphold practices 16 that focus on merit and the ability to perform work, rather than a practices that are based on irrelevant characteristics that may lead to exclusions. Paramount employees are requested to report any discriminatory practices to their HOD or HR department. Gender Balance & Total workforce within the Organization 1027 891 827 780 736 627 560 Females employed 450 483 from 2013 to 2015 427 Males employed from 2013 to 2015 227 27 2013 2014 2015  Prohibition of Forced or Compulsory Labour Wages will be paid regularly and according to all Paramount requirements and applicable laws. It is prohibited for any employees to instruct or permit any other interested party or individual doing work on Paramount’s behalf to work any amount of time for which the person is deliberately not compensated. Zimbabwe labour Law Section 4A of the Labour Relations Act No. 17 prohibits forced labour, The Clothing Association Collective Bargaining Agreement and the Clothing NEC ensure compliance to wages and work related activities. 17 Year 2013 2014 2015 Number of 1186 1263 1451 employees Number of signed 1186 1263 1451 employment contracts  Right to Free Association It is every person’s responsibility to uphold employees’ basic rights to engage in free association.  Participation in Collective Bargaining The Collective Bargaining Agreement S.I 1 of 1999 of the Clothing Industry and Section 4 of the Labour Relations Act 28:01 provides for “Employees’ entitlement to membership of trade unions and workers committees. The Constitution of Zimbabwe Amendment (No 20) Act 2013 provides for freedom of assembly and association and states that, “everyone has the right to freedom of assembly and association and the right to assemble or associate with others. No person may be compelled to belong to an association or to attend a meeting or gathering.” Year 2013 2014 2015 Number of 1186 1263 1451 employees Number of Union 148 160 169 Members The Collective Bargaining Agreement S.I 1 of 1999 of the Clothing Industry and Section 4 of the Labour Relations Act 28:01 provides for “Employees’ entitlement to membership of trade unions and elected workers committees who represent the workers needs at the work place. Year 2013 2014 2015 Elected workers yes yes yes representatives Number of Works 9 10 8 council meetings Number of GDC 36 30 33 18 Hearings Reduction of carbon Foot Print  Water Treatment – All wash bay water is pumped to settlement tanks prior to flushing and all chemicals used are AZO free.  Reduce reliance on fossil fuels (Phase 1 2016) Paramount is in the process of switching from coal powered boiler systems to small efficient 4 KW mini electrical boilers to reduce the coal consumption and reduce carbon emissions.  Solar Water Heating (Phase 2 2017) Paramount is researching possible solar technologies for bulk water heating systems to reduce the requirements of electricity in the wash bay. In addition recycling of the final rinse water had reduced the water consumption by 30% 19  Solar Electricity (Phase 3 2018) Paramount is researching solar electricity technologies that will reduce our reliance on the national Power Grid SWOT Analysis HUMAN RIGHTS Strengths 1. Strict conformance to the Labour Laws pertaining to Zimbabwe and are guided by International requirements 2. Encourage active participation in collective bargaining 3. Employs across all genders 4. Encourage employment of physically handicapped 5. Operational Clinic for employees 6. Meal program in operation Weakness 1. Zimbabwe has a poor Human Right Record – low ranking 2. No working Web Page 3. Poor communication of Paramount Human Rights Policy 4. No Formal Management Code of Conduct related to Human Rights Opportunities 1. Set up interactive web Page 2. Formalize a comprehensive Code of conduct that outlines Paramount’s stance on Human Rights 3. Incorporate the UN Global Compact 4 Pillars on all forms of communication,, Orders, Invoices, email signatures, promotion material etc. 4. Incorporate a Human Right policy into the company vision and mission statements 5. Set goals, objectives and measureable bench marks for 3, 5 and 10 years Threats 1. Unstable Political environment 20 2. Decline in business activities due to stagnant economy 3. Poor Government policy 4. Corruption LABOUR STANDARDS Strengths 1. Paramount upholds and encourages the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 2. Paramount is a member of the National Employment Council which is legislated to conduct wage negotiations and set minimum wages. 3. Paramount complies with all labour laws and does not employ people under 16 years of age in line with Labour Relations act. 4. Paramount does not discriminate on any ground and abides to applicable laws and regulations. 5. In-house Training Programs for advancement and acquiring of new skills 6. Tertiary Learning programs available 7. Daily meal program for staff 8. No National Medical Health System Weakness 1. Abide to minimum required standards Opportunities 1. Incorporate Labour standards into company policy, vision and mission statements 2. Set objectives to be achieved 3, 5 and 10 years 3. Set Labour Standards as part of the collective bargaining agenda Threats 1. Break down of law 2. Cost 3. Corruption 4. Poor education related to Labour standards 5. One rule for First and Third world countries 6. Declining Economy 7. Declining Formal markets 21 Environmental Principles Strengths 1. Comply with all laws pertaining to the environment. Regular factory inspections by Local authorities to ensure compliance. 2. Annual certification and licensing 3. Nonuse of AZO chemicals Weakness 1. Reliance on fossil fuel (coal ) 2. Limited water recycling operations 3. Diesel generator for electricity back up Opportunities 1. Reduce carbon foot print by going solar for water heating and electricity generation 2. Build recycling tanks for the last rinse cycle of the washing plant 3. Use of energy saving technology where ever possible Threats 1. Declining infrastructure within the country 2. Corruption 3. Poor service delivery 4. Cost 5. Declining Markets Anti-corruption Principle and Business practice Strengths 1. Strong purchase policy requiring 3 quotes per order 2. Non Bribe/kickback payment policy Weakness 1. Policy based on management instruction Opportunities 22 1. Compile and integrate a comprehensive Anti-Corruption and Business practice policy 2. Educate management and staff on the dangers of a corruption mentality Threats 1. Corruption endemic with in society, government and private sector. 2. Poor law enforcement regarding bribery and corruption 3. Declining economy 4. Declining industrial base formal employment. Objective 1. Paramount Exports will develop a Self-Audit program that will enable assessment of actual practice against prescribed practice. Once completed and functional with in Paramount, we will roll it out to our suppliers who we see as essential business partners and they will be encouraged to sign a declaration that ensures their commitment to following and upholding the 10 Principles encapsulated in the UN Global Compact. 2. Capitalize on our strengths and opportunities, minimize the threats, carry out corrective action where we are weak. Objectives Date Achievement Status Zimbabwe has poor 2015 Although Paramount is a Achieved Human Right Record – Zimbabwean Company we low ranking uphold and subscribe to ILO, Zimbabwean labour Laws and the Collective bargaining process outlined within the National Employment Council pertaining to the Clothing sector. The Paramount FD sits on the NEC Clothing board not only to protect our interests but to promote strong corporate governance and compliance to International/Local Labour Laws and statutes. 23 No working Web Page 2015 The Paramount Web Site is a WIP work in process, Once completed it will contain a full list of our product range, social commitments and reports. Poor communication of 2015 Once sanctioned by the PEX Ongoing Paramount Human MD this report will be made Rights Policy available to all interested parties No Formal Management 2015 A Draft Management Code of WIP Code of Conduct related conduct has been prepared and to Human Rights awaits the MD’s endorsement. Once ratified all management staff will be encouraged to sign and the document will be attached to their appointment letter/contract Abide to minimum 2015 PEX needs to be seen as a WIP required Labour champion for high labour standards standards and as such needs to set standards higher than the minimum required Reliance on fossil fuel 2015 A program has been initiated to WIP (coal ) for steam and hot reduce the reliance on coal. water Over the next year we will introduce mini electric boilers into the operation. Limited water recycling 2015 Paramount at present has a WIP operations steeling tank where the laundry water is pumped to. Once the solids have sunk to the bottom the water is pumped into the municipal drain. The sludge is collected by a waste disposal company who dumps at a city council dumping sight. Over the next year PEX will recycle the hot water from the final rinse and use this water for the first wash cycle, in addition the waste water will be used to preheat cold water prior to washing thus reducing heating costs and energy. Diesel generator for 2015 Zimbabwe does not produce Ongoing electricity back up enough electricity for the 24 countries requirements. It has become a necessity to have backup generators to supply power when we experience load shedding. Diesel is a fossil fuel and a non-renewable energy source. Over the next 3 years PEX will carry out feasibility and sustainability studies related to solar power generation. The main objective is to become selfreliant and to be off the Grid. Anti-Corruption Policy 2015 The anti-corruption stance of WIP based on management PEX is based on verbal instruction communication from higher management. The formalizing of a Management Code of Conduct will help to enforce the PEX stance. 25
