Communication on progress 2015 Growing power. For generations. Sveaskog creates growing power by contributing to customer competitiveness, jobs and a living countryside, to increased forest growth and rising forest values, to employee development and a profitable company. For generations means that we act responsibly in a long-term perspective and we accept responsibility for a green transition and increased climate benefit. The year in brief Net sales decreased by 2% to SEK 6.1 billion Operating profit from continuing operations increased by 2% to SEK 1.3 billion Dividend SEK 800 million proposed to the 2016 Annual General Meeting Improved total productivity Improved employee motivation International recognition of the significance of the forest in climate initiatives Decision on 37th ecopark after forest fire in county of Västmanland Changed discount rate increased value of forest assets Contents The year in brief 1 Innovation 24 CEO’s comments 2 Employees 26 Comments from the Chairman 3 Contractors 28 Overview of operations 4 Biodiversity 30 Vision, mission, strategies and values 6 Climate effects 32 How we create value 7 Risk and sensitivity analysis 33 Targets and performance for sustainable business 9 Dividend and disposition of earnings 36 Financial performance 12 Corporate governance report 37 Forest assets 14 Board of Directors 42 Sawlogs 16 Group Management 44 Pulpwood and chips 18 Sustainability notes 46 Biofuel 20 GRI appendix 51 and www.sveaskog.se Svenska Skogsplantor, concessions, hunting, fishing and lockage 22 The legal annual report including the administration report and financial statements comprises pages 4–6, 12–26 and 33–74 of the Annual Report (in Swedish). The sustainability report that has been reviewed by the auditors is on pages 7–11, 28–32 and 76–80. The GRI Appendix which has also been reviewed by the auditors is published on the company’s website www.sveaskog.se. 1 CEO’s comments Our forests and our sustainable forest management are critical for the climate 2015 was a year of optimism continued to improve in 2015. We have exceeded our owner’s financial targets for the forest industry. In and the Board has proposed a dividend Sweden, major investments of SEK 800 million. During the past were announced in extended five years, Sveaskog has paid a total dividend of SEK 7.9 billion to its owner capacity in sawmills and pulp the Swedish State. and paper mills. The year The commitment of Sveaskog’s ended with forestry being employees and contractors has been decisive for our fine results. We should highlighted in COP21 as a be proud and pleased about what we central area for global climate have achieved together. I would like to objectives. say a big thank you for the excellent performance during the year. Sveaskog made progress in several COP21 important for forest key areas in 2015. We improved our industry operating profit from continuing Optimism returned to Swedish forest operations and exceeded our yield industry last year and major investment target. Confidence in Sveaskog is is now being made in future capacity. In high and customers and contractors total investments were announced of continue to be pleased with us as a approximately SEK 17 billion in ” supplier and partner. Employee extended sawmill capacity and pulp motivation has increased and our and paper mills. This provides jobs and managers are highly regarded. Pride in revenues to society and is also positive working at Sveaskog and willingness for the climate when we use more of to recommend others to apply for jobs the renewable wood raw material. with us have increased. These are key The year also ended on a positive steps on the route towards the target Let us build note at an international level. It was an to be the preferred choice for important step for the industry when employees. more in wood for the the world agreed to highlight the We have continued our efforts to significance of the forest for the reduce the carbon footprint in our own sake of the climate climate in the COP21 Agreement. The operations. It is primarily transports agreement emphasises the positive that cause the largest carbon dioxide climate impact of both standing and emissions. Together with our con­ felled forests. Management of the tractors we have been increasingly successful in intro­ forest is described as a success factor for ensuring the ducing renewable fuels and climate-smart transports. Our Earth’s temperature does not rise by more than two carbon dioxide emissions have therefore continued to degrees. decrease. The climate benefit from the forest is greatest with During the past year we focused on nature conservation active forest management where mature trees are felled to initiatives in our forest management. Both employees and be used for different products and where new trees are contractors have received extensive training and been planted. When renewable wood raw material is used it involved in this work and it is highly satisfactory to see the often replaces energy intensive and fossil resources in improvements we have achieved during the year. Today we construction material, packaging, fuel and energy. maintain 94% of environmental values in forest manage­ Research and development will lead to an increasing ment without significant impact. The target is to maintain number of products being based on wood raw material. 99% of environmental values without significant impact. These include textiles, bioplastics and food. Our former Head of Forestry, Herman Sundqvist, has The COP21 Agreement gives Sweden an opportunity to been appointed by the Swedish government as Director profile itself as a ‘green innovator”. We have the forest, the General of the Swedish Forest Agency. Herman has been expertise and the industrial capacity to be able to develop a strong and clear representative of the Swedish model new renewable products. where production and environment are equally important. Work with the Swedish national forest programme got I wish him well in his move to this new and significant underway during the year and we in the forest industry position. have hopes of a holistic perspective and basis for a long-term forest policy. Three key areas for the national SEK 7.9 billion dividend forest programme are construction in wood, energy and It is positive to note that productivity in Sveaskog biofuel as well as research into bioeconomics. These areas 2 are also significant in an international perspective and open business opportunities for Sweden and Sveaskog. Comments from the Chairman Keeping rural areas alive More than 10% of Sweden By maintaining felling at a high, consistent and sustainable is covered by forest that level over time, we ensure a good return on our forest is owned by the Swedish assets at the same time as contributing to a competitive forest industry. people. Our shared forest Sveaskog operates to a considerable extent in rural meets many needs. It areas. Most of our 688 employees work outside major generates valuable raw cities with the forest as their workplace. Our contractors employee approximately 1,400 full-time employees, material for the country’s important jobs that provide a basis for living communities in successful forest industry. forest counties. Our 40,000 kilometres of forest roads are open to everyone who wishes to visit the forest. Without our A competitive forest active forest management, Sweden would be a more industry contributes to desolate country. jobs and prosperity around Our challenge is the continued depopulation of rural areas. In order to ensure our skills supply over time, we the country. depend on people who can and want to live throughout the country. The forest also binds large amounts of carbon dioxide which The issue of integration was in focus last year and we makes it important for the climate. It binds most when made a business decision to increase our involvement in growth is at its highest. Therefore it is good for the climate breaking the exclusion of rural areas. This gives us an to manage forests. It also provides renewable wood raw opportunity to create new contacts with municipalities, material that replaces fossil and energy-intensive materials. authorities, politicians, other companies and organisations The forest also provides rich opportunities for outdoor at the same time as we broaden the recruitment base for activities and recreation. Our assignment at Sveaskog is to ourselves and our partners in rural areas. Every year we will manage and develop the forest with a good rate of return take on 50 people for a three-month internship and we will at the same time as we meet these needs and protect also increase with 50 places the number of silvicultural important natural values. summer jobs for young people. In our silvicultural youth One prerequisite for success in our assignment is the teams we want to bring together young people with confidence of our business environment. Sveaskog has 688 Swedish and foreign backgrounds. skilled and dedicated employees who go to work every day We have been working for several years to make in order to meet these expectations in the best possible way. Sveaskog a more equal opportunity workplace. An The business is going well and confidence is high among increasing number of employees feel that equal opportuni­ our partners. Despite this there are those who question what ties have increased which is positive. One step in this work we do and some who perceive a lack of transparency on our is equal opportunity training for Sveaskog’s employees. part. We must meet such questions with respect and During 2015, all leaders in the company were trained to humility. We must answer, explain and perhaps sometimes provide courses for employees and feedback is highly even adjust the way we work in order to achieve a situation positive. in which we fulfil our assignment in constructive dialogue Greater diversity and equal opportunity improves our with our stakeholders. recruitment base at the same time as we gain other positive The forest is a key piece of the jigsaw when Sweden effects such as more efficient working groups, greater job wants to convert to a sustainable society. Sveaskog is satisfaction and increased profitability. We also help to actively involved in key projects to drive development create better conditions for viable communities in rural towards more wood-based products and materials. The areas. dialogue with politicians, the business community and The basis for profitable business activities over time is academia is essential for success. We need to help each sustainability. We are signatories to the UN Global Compact other to identify the right activities and control mechanisms and report according to the Global Reporting Initiative. In to accelerate the green transition. this way we show our support for internationally recognised Success factors include creativity and innovation which business ethics and our long-term commitment to sustain­ in turn require greater diversity in the industry. We must ability issues. become more attractive to groups that are under-repres­ The forest has created value for Sweden for many ented today and we will do this with an inclusive leadership centuries. The fantastic thing about the forest is that it will that welcomes different approaches. The entire industry has also create value for future generations. We have a major a job to do here and I am proud to see Sveaskog leading the responsibility to manage the forest in a sustainable way and way in this work and offering employment opportunities to contribute to a good return for our owner, growth in society people who are excluded today. and the highest possible climate benefit. A lot of good things are being done in Sveaskog today. We have every reason to be proud. But there is a lot to do Stockholm, 11 March 2016 before we are satisfied. Helene Biström Per-Olof Wedin Chairman of the Board President and CEO 3 Operations in brief A customer-oriented organisation Sveaskog is Sweden’s largest forest owner and is owned by the Swedish state. The company conducts operations in many places in Sweden while being strongly dependent on global markets. Sveaskog: The assignment • Sweden’s largest forest owner Sveaskog is owned by the Swedish state. According to the • Owns 14% of productive forest land in Sweden state’s owner policy, state-owned companies must have • Sells sawlogs, pulpwood and chips, biofuel and tree value creation as their overall objective. This means that seedlings the companies must operate in a long-term manner, • Has set aside 20% of its productive forest land for efficiently and profitably, be allowed to develop and create nature conservation value through sustainable business. • Has 688 employees According to the articles of association, Sveaskog owns • Has offices in some 50 locations and manages real and personal property, conducts forestry • Works with 1,200 contractors operations and forest industry as well as related business • Has 36 ecoparks activities. The core business is forest management. • Is Sweden’s largest owner of roads and lakes Sveaskog must also be an independent player without major interests as an end user of wood raw material. The The business company can also conduct related activities if these Sveaskog is Sweden’s largest forest owner with 4.0 million contribute to higher returns. Sales of land on market terms hectares of land of which 3.1 million hectares are shall enable reallocation of land holdings and add-on productive forest land. The forest holdings are located in purchases for private forestry, particularly in rural areas. 200 of Sweden’s 290 municipalities. From its own forests, Sales of land shall be carried out until 10% of the land Sveaskog supplies sawlogs to sawmills, pulpwood to pulp area owned by the company at its formation in 2002 has and paper mills and biofuel to energy companies. In order been divested. Operations shall be conducted on a to meet customers’ wood raw material requirements, commercial basis and generate a market return. Sveaskog complements deliveries from its own forests with wood raw material purchased from other forest The organisation owners, exchanges or imports. Sveaskog has a presence Sveaskog’s operations are organised in three geographical in Latvia through a subsidiary since most of imports are market areas, Svenska Skogsplantor and other business. from the Baltic countries. The division into market areas is based on the forest Sveaskog also produces and sells tree seedlings and assets, customer structure and trade flows. provides silvicultural services. The company leases land Market areas have customer, production and delivery and water for wind power, hunting and fishing. responsibility for the wood raw material. They are also The majority of Sveaskog’s customers are located in responsible for concessions and one of the market areas Sweden. Customers export a large proportion of their includes Mörrum salmon fishing. Other business includes products which means that Sveaskog’s sales depend on Hjälmare Canal. the economic climate in many markets outside Sweden. Product area in % of net sales Product offering Customers Sawlogs Sawmills Pulpwood and chips Pulp and paper mills Biofuel Heating plants, CHP plants, pulp and paper mills Tree seedlings Forest owners Silvicultural services Forest owners Sågtimmer Sawlogs 50% 50% Leases Energy companies, companies with peat, rock or Massaved Pulpwood andochchips flis 39% 39% gravel pit operations, hunting teams, fishing, Biobränsle Biofuel 4% 4% private individuals, associations, municipalities, Övrigt 7%(seedlings, Other 7% (skogsplantor, upplåtelser leases, etc.) m m) telecom companies, and others 4 Sveaskog creates growing power by contributing to customer competitiveness, jobs and a living countryside, to increased forest growth and rising forest values. 5 Vision, mission, strategies and values To be the leading forest company Governance of Sveaskog is based on the company’s vision, mission, strategies, shared values and objectives. Sveaskog’s vision describes the position the company Strategies wishes to reach. The mission describes why Sveaskog Sveaskog’s strategies are intended to achieve the vision exists and the values the company creates. Values indicate of being the leading forest company. The strategies are how employees should act and react to each other and broken down into different activities with clear respons­i­ their business environment. The various strategies are bility and regular follow-up. linked to the targets for sustainable business. These The strategies are based among other things on the targets are measured regularly and reported on pages regular dialogue that Sveaskog has with the company’s 9–11. various stakeholders. By systematically collecting customers’ opinions and measuring customer satisfaction, Vision the company obtains basic material for use when Sveaskog’s vision is to be the leading forest company strategies and targets are discussed and adopted. which means Sveaskog must be: Values • The most profitable forest company over the short and Sveaskog’s work is characterised by the values Customer long term Focus, Innovation, Simplicity and Transparency. • Customers’ preferred and most knowledgeable partner The company works with value-driven leadership and • The preferred choice for employees and contractors employeeship. These values indicate how Sveaskog • Leading in innovation and efficiency conducts business, how employees should act as • Leader within sustainable forest management co-workers and colleagues as well as the responsibility managers and leaders have for developing employees Mission and conducting business. The values mean among other Sveaskog’s mission is “Growing power. For generations.” things that employees must be professional and under­ Sveaskog creates growing power by contributing to stand customer needs, take initiatives and be innovative. customer competitiveness, jobs and a living countryside, Leaders have a special responsibility for creating an to increased forest growth and rising forest values, to innovative climate and an open culture with feedback employee development and a profitable company. where both managers and employees learn from suc­ “For generations” means that we act responsibly in a cesses and failures. long-term perspective and we accept responsibility for a green transition and increased climate benefit. Sveaskog’s objectives and strategies Result focus before To be the leading The most profitable Reduce emissions from volume focus ________________ forest company in the forest company Leader within sustainable forest burning fossil fuels short and long term management ____________________ High confidence in forest manageStrengthen biodiversity ment among stake­ and experience values holders Customers’ pre____________________ ________________ ferred and most knowLeading in innovation and efficiency Sustainably maximise Long-term value ledgeable partner Preferred choice removals of timber from development for employees and own forests contractors ____________________ Establishing the business Improve efficiency from Manage the forest for throughout the value chain seedling to customer and highest long-term profit________________________ Develop cooperation with in supporting processes ability and increase contractors _____________________ positive climate impact Develop the supply of goods _____________________ Increase revenues and and services to increase value creation for customers Strengthen attraction earnings from land use ________________________ and increase diversity to _____________________ Deliver the right quantity ensure best possible skills Contribute to the green and the right quality at the base over time transition _____________________ _____________________ right time Establish a culture and Increase value of and working methods charac­ consumption of wood terised byCustomer Focus, Innovation, Simplicity and Transparency 6 How we create value Sveaskog creates value for generations With a high local presence in Sweden, Sveaskog is at the centre of society. The company is Sweden’s biggest forest owner and its operations affect many stakeholders. Sveaskog therefore has a broad perspective for its operations and strategic choices. Sveaskog analyses the entire value chain in order to Confidence identify and work with the most relevant environmental, Sveaskog is dependent on the confidence of its business social and economic issues. This gives the company an environment. The code of conduct clarifies how employees understanding of how its operations affect others. and the company should behave in relation to each other, Since its operations affect and influence many people, to customers, contractors and other stakeholders. Sveaskog has dialogues with a large number of stake­ In all procurement processes, Sveaskog also requires holders. Ten principal stakeholder groups that either affect contractors and suppliers to comply with the code of or are affected by operations have been identified. These conduct, the UN Global Compact and general sustain­ groups are customers, owner, employees, contractors, ability requirements. timber suppliers, tourism companies as well as hunters, How well contractors and suppliers are complying with anglers, etc., reindeer herders, credit providers, authorities these requirements is regularly monitored through and nature conservation organisations. self-assessments and internal audits. If non-conformances Dialogues with stakeholders are ongoing both in daily are found, a dialogue is initiated and the cooperation can operations and at a company-wide level. These dialogues be discontinued if action is not taken to correct the provide insight into what stakeholders expect from non-conformances. Sveaskog and provide a basis for strategic choices and Sveaskog has a whistleblower function on its website priorities for operations. where suspected breaches of the code of conduct can The stakeholder dialogues carried out in 2015 are be reported anonymously. Since the end of 2015 such reported in Note S3. notifications have been managed and examined by an external party. No notifications were received during 2015. Materiality assessment Stakeholder dialogues, the directive from the owner and Read more about how Sveaskog works with its contractors its own experience provide the basis for the assessment on page 28. How contractors and suppliers perceive their Sveaskog makes of the company’s value chain and its relationship with Sveaskog is reported on pages 9–11. impact on the economy, environment and society. This results in a materiality assessment where the issues Economic performance Sveaskog assesses as strategically important and By maintaining felling at a high, consistent and sustainable stakeholders regard as most significant are weighed up. level over time, we ensure a good return on our forest Based on this, Sveaskog develops its strategies and assets at the same time as contributing to a competitive priorities. forest industry. Sveaskog delivers significant values to The strategic areas that Sveaskog and its stakeholders society. The direct economic values created in the regard as important are: company and at stakeholders can be measured and are reported on page 8. • Confidence Sveaskog also contributes significant indirect economic • Economic performance values to society. For example, the company has 688 • Climate effects employees and uses approximately 1,200 contractors. • Customer satisfaction Most of these work in rural areas or small communities. • Biodiversity Sveaskog is Sweden’s biggest owner of forest roads which • Equal opportunity, diversity and skills supply it maintains. The forest also creates significant indirect economic values for society by binding carbon dioxide and Regular and systematic measurements are performed to therefore helping to counteract climate change. monitor how well the company has succeeded with its strategies. The results of these measurements are Financial performance is reported on pages 12–13. reported on pages 9–11. 7 Climate effects efforts to increase natural values. The forest and how wood is used play a key role in climate Habitat management is the collective term for a large work. Through photosynthesis the growing forest binds number of different management methods used by the carbon dioxide. When the forest binds carbon dioxide it company in order to maintain or develop biodiversity in the acts as a carbon sink. The forest provides the greatest forest. Sveaskog also works to restore contaminated land climate benefit with active forest management where on which earlier forest industry activities, mining or other mature trees are felled to be used for various products. lease-based activities took place. Wood is a renewable raw material unlike finite fossil resources. Products made of wood continue to store Read more on pages 30–31 about Sveaskog’s efforts to carbon dioxide and this become an active carbon sink. maintain or develop biodiversity in the forest. The company tries to adapt forest management to unwelcome future climate effects such as storms and Equal opportunity, diversity and skills supply global warming. Mixed groups perform better and Sveaskog therefore wants to increase the number of women in the company. Read more about how the forest counteracts climate Greater diversity is important for ensuring the skills change on page 32. On the same page and on page 11 requirement is met and for continued development of read about how Sveaskog works to reduce its own carbon operations in the longer term. Sveaskog operates in dioxide emissions. places where depopulation is a problem and therefore wants to continue to help keep rural areas alive by offering Customer satisfaction employment opportunities. Satisfied customers are the basis for value-creating sustainable business. Sveaskog works continuously to Read more about Sveaskog’s employees on page 26. How develop its customer relationships. This work includes well Sveaskog is succeeding in achieving its objective of developing the business and business models together increasing the proportion of women is reported on page with customers. Customer satisfaction is high in all 10. customer categories. Sustainability reporting Sveaskog reports its measurement of customer satis­ Sveaskog complements its financial reporting with a faction on page 9. sustainability report prepared according to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI G4 level Core) and reviewed by Biodiversity the auditors. Notes to the sustainability report are provided All activities within forest management can affect bioon pages xx–xx. Sveaskog’s entire GRI index with diversity. Sveaskog therefore works with nature conser­ explanation of indicators is provided on the website at vation activities on different scales, from landscapes to www.sveaskog.se. individual forests as well as trees and tree groups. Nature Sveaskog has also supported the UN Global Compact conservation includes leaving areas untouched and active since 2005. Breakdown by stakeholder of values generated by Sveaskog: SEKm Stakeholder 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Revenues From customers 7,257 6,619 6,361 6,500 6,381 Operating expenses To suppliers and contractors –5,048 –4,850 –4,468 –4,411 –4,245 Employee wages and benefits and social security costs To employees –578 –535 –552 –522 –526 Net interest expenses To loan institutions –246 –317 –291 –280 –207 Tax To the Swedish state –220 –117 –131 –155 –174 Dividend to shareholder To the Swedish state through paid during the year the Government Offices –856 –4,473 –435 –450 –800 Value retained 309 –3,673 484 682 429 Sveaskog also invests in local communities among other things with maintenance of roads and trails as well as road and information signage. The table only contains the values that can be measured and they are reported according to GRI indicator EC1. 8 Targets and performance for sustainable business Increased efficiency and high confidence Sveaskog has set clear and measurable targets linked to its strategies. The targets are measured regularly and the results are central components when business plans and strategies are revised. Sveaskog’s overall priorities are to create profitability Sveaskog also focuses on long-term value development. and long-term growth in value, to ensure a high level of This includes the company working to streamline the confidence in forest management and to contribute to forest holdings through purchases as well as sales and the green transition. exchanges of land. Sveaskog must create a good value development for its Sveaskog is one of the leading players within forest owner in both the short and long term. In the short-term management. It is important that the general public, perspective operating profit from continuing operations is customers and employees have high confidence in both the driving force. In the long-term it is important to have the company and forest management itself. Good ethics satisfied customers and motivated employees in order to are essential for building confidence and a strong brand. In conduct sustainable and profitable operations. order to build greater confidence, the company is involved Targets 2019 relate to the final year in the present in public debate and participates in industry initiatives business plan. aimed at gaining public confidence that the forest is being managed responsibly. The most profitable forest company Confidence in Sveaskog was at a high, stable level in in the short and long term 2015. The Confidence Index is high compared with other The owner has set a profitability target of an average yield Swedish companies. The metric is based on questions put of 4.5% per year. This target was met in 2015 with a yield to customers, contractors and suppliers. of 4.7%. The most profitable company in the short and long term Indicator Metric Value 2013 Value 2014 Value 2015 Target 2019 Average yield 4.5% Yield 3.9 5.0 4.7 At least per year 4.5 Confidence in Sveaskog Confidence Index 71 78 78 80 Customers’ preferred and tomers to contribute to their value creation. most knowledgeable partner In 2014 almost half of customers felt that their attitude Satisfied and profitable customers are the foundation of to Sveaskog as a partner had become more positive. value-creating sustainable business. Work on developing Customers were particularly satisfied with availability, customer relationships continued during 2015. delivery quality and contacts. The highest values were The most important thing for customers is that the noted among sawmill customers. Customer satisfaction company delivers the right quantity and quality at the was not measured in 2015. The next measurement will right time. Sveaskog also focuses on developing its range take place in 2016. of products and services in order together with cus­ Customers’ preferred and most knowledgeable partner Indicator Metric Value 2013 Value 2014 Value 2015 Target 2019 Satisfied customers Customer Satisfaction Index 74 75 –1) 80 sawmill customers Customer Satisfaction Index 45 66 –1) 55 pulpwood customers Customer Satisfaction Index 61 68 –1) 67 biofuel customers Satisfied suppliers Supplier Satisfaction Index 67 73 –1) 70 (2012) 1 Next measurement in 2016. 9 Sveaskog creates significant values for society. The company’s operations create a foundation for development of communities in rural areas. Preferred choice for employees and contractors works with motivated and skilled contractors. In recent Value initiatives are important for strengthening the years the company has systematically developed coopera­ corporate culture and employee motivation. This work tion with selected contractors. The focus has been on includes internal communication about Sveaskog’s mission method and technology development in order to also and developing leaders. In order to ensure access to contribute to value development for contractors. skilled leaders in the future, the company conducts a talent Contractor and supplier satisfaction were not measured programme. in 2015. The next measurement will take place in 2016. Employee motivation increased during the year and the positive opinion of leaders strengthened. This is the Equal opportunity result of efforts to develop a value-driven leadership and A more even gender distribution and increased diversity employee­ship. Managers have also continued to develop a are significant for strengthening Sveaskog’s attraction culture with more coaching and feedback. The response and ensuring the best possible skills base over time. This rate in this year’s employee survey was high, 86%, which will also lead to improved efficiency and profitability. shows involvement in the company and that employees Good opportunities for development and a clear find it meaningful to give their views. acceptance of responsibility are significant to both During 2015 there was an internal dialogue on how and employees and contractors. The company is therefore why the company manages forest as well as Sveaskog’s taking part in a project to develop the industry’s profitabil­ assignment. This dialogue will continue in 2016. The ity, working conditions and quality. By actively marketing discussions also concerned different local conditions the industry towards both existing and new target groups, and challenges for forest management in terms of forest more women and more employees with a non-Swedish growth and customer demand. The background to this background will be attracted. An internal, web-based initiative is that for some time a far too high proportion training course in equal opportunity which all leaders are of employees have felt that trees are felled too early. holding for their employees started in autumn 2015. Contractors and suppliers Contractors are important to both Sveaskog’s ability to deliver long-term value growth and confidence. Sveaskog Preferred choice for employees and contractors Indicator Metric Value 2013 Value 2014 Value 2015 Target 2019 Good leadership and employeeship Employee Motivation Index – 64 70 75 Leadership Index 70 65 73 72 Contractor Satisfaction Index 70 70 – 1) 72 felling (2012) Contractor Satisfaction Index – 73 –1) 72 silviculture At least 30% women by 2020 and more Gender balance 20 20 21 28 employees with non-Swedish backgrounds 1 Next measurement in 2016. 10 Leading within innovation and efficiency Monitoring efficiency involves measuring total aggregate Sveaskog makes active efforts to increase consumption of productivity and total productivity per volume unit. The and therefore the value of wood. Together with customers target is an increase of at least 2% per year. and other stakeholders the company works to convert Total productivity is the percentage change in operating research and development into actual wood consumption profit from continuing operations in the forestry business and value-creating solutions. The target to increase between two years and at fixed prices. The target means revenues is part of these efforts and includes the that every krona of profit is important. Total productivity development of new applications such as fuel and improved by 3.2% in 2015. replacements for plastic. The company also wants to Total productivity per volume unit is the percentage contribute to the green transition and is therefore involved change in operating profit from continuing operations per in various initiatives designed to replace fossil products. volume of roundwood from own forest between two years Sveaskog has a target to increase efficiency. Achieving and at fixed prices. The target means that the company this involves productivity programmes and new working must continually develop value from its deliveries. Total methods based on the lean philosophy which are being productivity per volume unit increased by 2.5% in 2015. implemented in several workplaces. Leading in innovation and efficiency Indicator Metric Value 2013 Value 2014 Value 2015 Target 2019 Increased efficiency, change % Total productivity +18.6 +12.3 +3.2 At least 2% per year Total productivity/volume unit +12.7 +5.3 +2.5 At least 2% per year Leader within sustainable forest management Sveaskog. The Consideration Index which measures the By managing the forest Sveaskog guarantees the highest proportion of environmental values achieved in forestry long-term profitability as well as increased positive climate without major impact, has risen since 2014. Improvements impact. Returns are maximised over time while carbon have primarily been related to sensitive biotopes and dioxide retention increases. Timber removals from own protective edge zones. forests will be maximised sustainably so that levels do not Sveaskog also has a target to reduce its own and need to be reduced in the future. contractors’ emissions of fossil fuels by using renewable The quality of nature conservation will be improved in fuels and climate-smart transports. In line with this the forests at the same time as forest management is development work is under way to increase the load adapted to outdoor and experience values in popular factor on the large lorries that transport timber. The areas. Biodiversity as well as maintaining valuable cultural company’s carbon dioxide emissions continued to environments in the forest landscape are important to decrease in 2015. Leader within sustainable forest management Indicator Metric Value 2013 Value 2014 Value 2015 Target 2019 99% of environmental values maintained in Consideration Index 95 87 94 99 forest management without significant impact Carbon dioxide emissions to be reduced by CO2 emissions tonnes per 14.8 14.1 13.6 11 at least 30% 2010–2020 delivered thousand m3sub 11 Financial results Good profitability 2015 Operating profit from continuing operations increased in 2015. Sveaskog’s financial position is strong and cash flow is stable. The total dividend over the past five years is SEK 7.9 billion. In 2015 net sales fell by 2% to SEK 6,078 million (6,232). and standing timber amounted to SEK million (68). Both delivery volumes and average prices fell by 1%. The Operating profit before change in value of forest lower delivery volume reduced sales by SEK 48 million assets amounted to SEK 1,368 million (1,386). Change and lower prices reduced sales by SEK 65 million. in value of forest assets was SEK 1,432 million (1,032). Demand for sawlogs and tree seedlings increased during The increase is mainly an effect of a change in the the year while delivery volumes of pulpwood and chips discount rate used when calculating the value of assets decreased slightly. Demand for biofuel continued it weak from 6.25% to 5.95%. After change in value of forest development from 2014. assets, operating profit amounted to SEK 2,800 million (2,418). Higher operating profit from continuing operations Net financial items were SEK –214 million (–261) Operating profit from continuing operations increased by which is mainly attributable to lower interest rates. Profit 2% to SEK 1,280 million (1,254). Delivery volumes from before tax rose 20% to SEK 2,586 million (2,157). Tax Sveaskog’s own forests were in principle at the same level for the period amounted to SEK –569 million (–466). as in 2014. The proportion of deliveries from stocks Profit for the period rose 19% to SEK 2,017 million previously recognised as revenue increased, however, and (1,691). had a negative impact on operating profit of SEK 48 million. Earnings were positively affected by SEK 36 Strong cash flow million attributable to a VAT remission from the beginning Cash flow from operating activities amounted to SEK of the 2000s which was settled during the year. Earnings 909 million (769). The increase was mainly due to a were also positively affected by slightly higher capital positive change in working capital. gains from development land and improved productivity. Investments in property, plant and equipment amounted to SEK 329 million (132) and mainly com­ Change, operating profit from continuing operations prised forest land and forest machines. Investments in shares amounted to SEK 1 million (1). Sales of property, 2014 1,254 plant and equipment, primarily forest properties, Price, own wood raw material –1 amounted to SEK 234 million (194) and sales of shares Delivery volume, own wood raw material 3 amounted to SEK 2 million (0). Cash flow includes a Change in stocks –48 dividend from the associate company Setra Group AB VAT remission 36 of SEK 32 million (0). Capital gain development land 23 Other 13 Strong financial position 2015 1,280 Sveaskog’s interest-bearing net debt decreased by SEK 118 million during the year and at 31 December Capital gains from property sales related to forest land amounted to SEK 8,089 million (8,207). At the end of Total delivery volume, thousand m 3sub Net sales, SEKm Operating profit from continuing operations, SEKm thousand m3sub SEKm SEKm 12,000 8,000 1,500 10,748 1,280 10,000 6,078 1,200 6,000 8,000 900 6,000 4,000 600 4,000 2,000 300 2,000 0 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Deliveries solid under bark (sub) decreased Net sales decreased by 2% in 2015 due to Operating profit from continuing operations by 1% in 2015. slightly lower delivery volume and average increased by 2% in 2015. The increase was due ­prices. to a larger proportion of deliveries from revenue recognised stocks and non-recurring income. 12 the year, the loan portfolio mostly comprised loans issued items was SEK 3 million (–3). The Parent Company’s under Sveaskog’s MTN programme as well as a Swedish costs mainly comprise interest expenses. The company commercial paper programme. Approximately 5% of the has no employees. portfolio consists of bank financing. The loan volume under the commercial paper programme amounted to Number of employees SEK 2,720 million (2,110) and is refinanced regularly. The number of employees at year-end amounted to 688 Under the MTN programme the outstanding volume at (678). The average number of employees during the year 31 December was SEK 4,290 million (5,190). was 851 (877). The lowest average fixed interest period during the year was approximately 30 months (29). The net debt/ Share of profits of associates equity ratio amounted to 0.41 (0.44). Interest cover Sveaskog owns shares in companies where a group amounted to 6.2 (4.8) and the gross borrowing cost was relationship does not exist. The holding in the wood 1.86% (2.55). products company Setra Group AB is the largest holding where Sveaskog owns 50% of the shares. 50% of Setra SEK 7.9 billion dividend 2011–2015 Group’s profit is recognised as share of profits of A dividend of SEK 800 million (800) is proposed to the associates in Sveaskog’s income statement. Annual General Meeting. In 2011–2015 Sveaskog has Setra Group’s net sales increased by almost 1% to distributed at total of SEK 7.9 billion to its owner the SEK 4,218 million (4,194) and operating profit amounted Swedish state. to SEK 47 million (201). Operating profit was affected by a less favourable market situation that was counteracted Financial targets by a weaker Swedish krona and completed efficiency Sveaskog’s owner, the Swedish state, has set the improvements. Earnings also included discontinuation following financial targets for the company costs for the planing mill in Valbo of SEK 19 million. Setra Group’s cash flow from operating activities was • Yield to amount to an average of at least 4.5% per strong. Sveaskog’s share of profits amounted to SEK year. Yield in 2015 amounted to 4.7% (5.0). 10 million (64). • Net debt/equity ratio 0.3–0.6. The net debt/equity ratio for 2015 was 0.41 (0.44). • Dividend payout ratio to amount to 65–90%. Over time the ordinary dividend to correspond to 65–90% of profit after tax excluding non-cash adjustments in value Condensed income statement of standing forest after tax. A dividend is paid provided the capital structure target after the dividend falls SEKm 2015 2014 % within the target interval and taking into account implementation of the Group’s strategic and investment Net sales 6,078 6,232 –2 requirements. The dividend payout ratio is 89% for the Operating profit from proposed dividend in 2016. The dividend payout ratio continuing operations 1,280 1,254 2 was 90% in 2015. Change in value of forest assets 1,432 1,032 39 Parent Company Operating profit 2,800 2,418 16 Sveaskog AB (publ.), 100% owned by the Swedish state, Profit before tax 2,586 2,157 20 owns and manages forest properties and shares in subsidiaries and is responsible for Group-wide financing. Profit for the year 2,017 1,691 19 Operating income for Sveaskog AB (publ.) in the year Cash flow from operating amounted to SEK 15 million (16). Profit after net financial activities 909 769 18 Net debt/equity ratio, multiple Yield,% Assets, equity and liabilities Times % SEK billion 0.6 6 40 Cash and cash 35 equivalents Other liabilities 5 4.7 0.5 Other assets Target Target Deferred tax 0.41 0.3–0.6 4.5 30 0.4 4 25 Forest land Liabilities 0.3 3 20 and standing forest 2 15 0.2 10 Equity 0.1 1 5 Operating 0.0 0 0 capital 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Assets Equity and liabilities The target was decided by the 2014 Annual The target was decided by the 2014 Annual The majority of the assets comprise standing General Meeting. The target is a net debt/equity General Meeting. Yield is to be an average of forest which is measured according to inter­ ratio of 0.3–0.6. This metric specifies net interestat least 4.5% per year. Yield shows return on national accounting principles. bearing liabilities in the company in relation to operating capital where capital gains from equity. property sales and change in value of forest assets are excluded. 13 Forest assets Major values in the forest The forest is the basis of Sveaskog’s operations. The forest is managed in a long-term sustainable manner to ensure that coming generations can also create value through forestry. Nature conservation and biodiversity are central issues in Sveaskog’s forest management. Sveaskog is Sweden’s largest forest owner. The company In 2015 the company scariﬁed, sowed, planted, cleaned owns 14% of productive forest land in Sweden. To conand fertilised 77,375 hectares (65,276) of its own land. tribute to biodiversity, Sveaskog sets aside 20% of its productive forest land for nature conservation. Felling on own and others’ land The forest that has not been set aside by Sveaskog for Sveaskog fells both on its own land and on assignment nature conservation is managed so as to generate the from other forest owners. Felling is carried out by the highest long-term profitability and increased positive company’s own personnel and machines or by contractors. climate impact. The forest is planted, cleaned, thinned and Sveaskog’s own felling organisation consists of some regeneration felled. Cleaning is a prioritised activity and in 40 machine teams with a total of 143 operators. general the company tries to carry out cleaning early in Sveaskog cooperates with just over 140 felling contractors newly planted and young forests. through­out the country who together have some 600 Every year Sveaskog carries out felling activities employees. (thinning and regeneration felling) on just over 40,000 When felling on other’s land, the same demands are hectares of its land. All felling is planned based on the made on nature consideration as when felling on own land. requirements of the Swedish FSC® standard which takes into account economic, environmental and social factors. Method and technology development Sveaskog’s nature conservation management for Innovation is a prioritised area and the company works contributing to biodiversity and consideration for nature continually with method and technology development in is described on pages 30–31. forest management. Sveaskog has a key role as manager and regularly tests new technology together with innova­ Felling lower than growth tors and suppliers as well as universities and colleges. Removals from our own forest are the parameter which Cooperation with contractors in silviculture and felling is has the greatest effect on Sveaskog’s earnings. Felling key to the development of methods and work processes. levels shall be maximised in the long term. Felling levels The aim is to increase efficiency while keeping to are lower than growth in the forest. During the year felling Sveaskog’s nature conservation rules. Transports to corresponded to 71% (72) of growth on managed land. and from the forests are a significant area for ensuring For each tree which Sveaskog fells, an average of three efficient deliveries to customers and reduced environ­ new ones are planted. At the same time, the proportion of mental impact. sowing as a regeneration method continues to rise. When planting, it is important to protect the plants from insect Forest purchases and sales pests. Sveaskog therefore uses Conniflex, an eco-friendly Sveaskog is actively engaged in the purchase, exchange and effective protection against the pine weevil. and sale of forest land and is one of the bigger players Sveaskog’s forest capital Forest age classiﬁcation for the whole of Sweden, Sveaskog and all owners ,% 2013 2014 2015 Total land area, million ha 4.04 4.04 4.04 25 of which productive forest land, million ha 3.12 3.12 3.12 23 22 22 22 of which managed, million ha 2.65 2.65 2.65 20 20 of which nature conservation and nature 17 Sveaskog50% Sawlogs consideration including montane region 0.7 0.7 0.7 Alla ägareand chips 39% Pulpwood Book value according to IAS 41, SEKm 31,531 32,518 34,097 15 Taxable value, SEKm 55,135 64,196 64,149 Timber extraction as proportion 10 10 10 9 9 of net growth on managed land, % 66 72 71 7 7 7 1 m3fo (forest cubic meter) corresponds to approximately 0.82 m3sub (cubic 6 5 meters solid under bark). Sub relates to the real volume of wood without bark. 5 4 0 0-19 20-39 40-59 60-79 80-99 100120140+ 119 139 14 in the market. The aim is to improve land consolidation Sveaskog has the following certificates: based on customer structure. FSC® forestry certiﬁcate own forest and group, FSC® In accordance with a parliamentary decision, Sveaskog traceability certiﬁcate, PEFC traceability certiﬁcate, PEFC must divest 10% of the land area the company had when forestry certiﬁcate group, ISO 14001 and AEO customs it was created in 2002. Sales must be made under simpliﬁcation/security and protection. Sveaskog’s FSC market terms and aim to strengthen private forestry. license number is FSC-C008344. During 2015, 9,323 hectares (5,629) ware sold. A total of 339,472 hectares or 7.79% has been sold in 2,096 deals. FSC® is an independent international organisation for certiﬁcation of responsible forestry. The aim is socially beneﬁcial, Large nature conservation forests environmentally appropriate and economicSveaskog has set aside 600,000 hectares of productive ally viable responsible forest management. forest land for nature conservation. Of this nature FSC®’s logotype on products represents conservation area, half is set aside as nature conser­ independent certiﬁcation of forestry and product manufacturing according to FSC®’s vation forests. The remaining 300,000 hectares are rules. landscape set-asides in the form of ecoparks or nature consideration when felling. A summary of nature conservation areas and Sveaskog’s work to retain and develop natural values can be found on pages 30–31. Sveaskog sets aside those forests that have the highest natural values as nature conservation forests. When the company discovers new forest worthy of protection, for example with key biotopes, it exchanges this for land with lower natural values. In this way the quality and nature conservation utilisation of the set-aside forests is increased. All forest holdings including the nature conservation forests can be found on the interactive map on our website www.sveaskog.se. High values in the forest Sveaskog calculates the value of its forest assets every quarter according to the international accounting standard IAS 41. This value is reported in the financial statements. The calculated fair value of Sveaskog’s forest assets has a signiﬁcant effect on the reported operating proﬁt but does not affect cash ﬂow. Calcula­ tions and changes in value as well as assumptions and a sensitivity analysis will be found in Note 15. Sveaskog has forests in 200 of In addition to the value of the standing forest, the Sweden’s 290 municipalities. forest lands have their own value for concessions such as hunting, tourism, wind power and ecosystem services which are not included in the valuation. The forest assets also provide high indirect values through the forest’s contribution to sequestering large amounts of carbon dioxide and silviculture creates jobs in rural areas and smaller towns. Sveaskog’s nature conservation work also contributes to biodiversity and higher recreational values. Sveaskog’s certificates All Sveaskog’s forests are FSC® certiﬁed, which provides a guarantee that the forest is managed responsibly. The FSC® standard is also applied when felling is commis­ sioned by a third party. For imports the requirement is that the timber must be certiﬁed. Sveaskog also has a FSC® traceability certificate which makes it possible to trace the origin of a product. This helps both consumers and companies to make responsible purchases. 15 Sawlogs Wood growing in importance Sawlogs are the largest product area measured by sales and second-largest by volume. Sveaskog complements timber from its own forests with purchases of sawlogs from other forest owners. The market was stable during the year and demand for sawlogs is expected to increase in the long term. Sveaskog has a wide range of sawlogs to satisfy customer Market requirements for volumes, species, grades and dimensions The market for sawlogs is above all dependent on the in an even ﬂow throughout the year. The range includes state of the construction market. Nearly 70% of Swedish timber from spruce, pine and various deciduous trees such sawn timber is exported, which creates significant as beech, oak and birch. Sales can cover everything from dependence on the international construction market and standard deliveries to complex customer-specific orders. the exchange rate for the Swedish krona. To meet customer demands Sveaskog can exchange The four largest export countries for Swedish sawlogs timber with other forest owners or sell less common are the UK, Egypt, Germany and Norway. Just under 15% species such as maple and ash. The company also of Swedish exports are to North Africa. The trend is that complements timber from its own forests with bought-in Europe’s proportion of Swedish exports is increasing. volumes. Construction in Europe has been stable during 2015, Deliveries of sawlogs increased by 2% in 2015 to 4,713 but at a relatively low level. Construction in the US has thousand m3sub (4,620). Prices were stable during the certainly increased but this has mainly been apartment year but fell at the end of the period. blocks which are not built of wood. In North Africa demand increased after a couple of years characterised by Customers economic and political unrest. In China and Japan demand There are some 130 sawmills in Sweden each producing slowed during the year as a result of the weaker economic at least 10,000 m3 annually. Sveaskog supplies about 70 climate. of these. Customers are privately-owned family companies or global groups, often based in Sweden. They deliver in Outlook turn to primarily the construction and furniture industries. The global demand for sawn wood products is expected to To retain its competitive edge, Sveaskog must be a rise but probably not to any significant extent in the short reliable supplier, listen to customers and continually term. Construction activity in Europe is falling even if it is improve. It is therefore essential to have skills along the rising in Sweden. North Africa and the Middle East are key entire value chain – from seedling to architect’s plans and export markets with significant political and economic conditions on building sites and in joineries. instability. In Japan and China development is also Since Sveaskog’s value creation together with the uncertain in the short term. sawmill customers begins out in the forest, close coopera­ In the longer term Sveaskog believes that demand for tion throughout the production chain is key to guarante­ sawlogs will increase driven by a desire to build more in eing quality and delivery reliability. The company therefore wood since wood is a renewable material. encourages close and intense contact between machine operators, hauliers, felling foremen and other professional groups. With wise and prudent felling, Sveaskog will be a reliable supplier. Delivery volumes sawlogs, thousand m 3sub Share of total delivery volumes Share of net sales thousand m sub 3 5,000 4,713 4,000 3,000 44% 50% 2,000 1,000 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Sveaskog’s deliveries of sawlogs increased by 2.0% in 2015 and amounted to 4,713 thousand m3sub (4,620). 16 Wooden frames are also becoming more common in apartment blocks in Sweden. 17 Pulpwood and chips Brighter future for pulp industry Pulpwood is the largest product area measured by volume and second-largest by sales. Sveaskog complements timber from its own forests with purchases from other forest owners, imports and purchases of chips from sawmill customers. The Swedish pulp and paper industry has announced significant investments which create a positive demand for pulpwood. Sveaskog delivers pulpwood to the pulp and paper correlation between personal incomes and use of soft industry. The company has a wide range of pulpwood paper. which comes both from its own forests and from purIt is a competitive advantage for Sveaskog to have a chases. The company also buys cellulose chips from its wide range of fresh pulpwood and cellulose chips. The sawmill customers. company’s strength also lies in its long experience of The largest volume of pulpwood comes from thinning. working with pulp and paper customers. To meet customer Pulpwood also comes from regeneration felling since not demands, it is important for Sveaskog to have an in-depth all parts of the tree trunks can be used for sawlogs. These understanding of the industry’s processes and the are usually trunks that are too thin of have quality defects. international end market for its products. Sveaskog Pulpwood must not, however, have rot damage since this develops product logistics together with its customers. affects the quality of the paper pulp. Deliveries of pulpwood and chips decreased by 1.0% in Market 2015 and amounted to 5,167 thousand m3sub (5,219). About 80% of Swedish pulp is exported, mainly to Europe, Prices were in principle unchanged. followed by Asia. The industry’s demand is therefore dependent on the global economic climate and exchange Customers rates. Sveaskog has some 20 pulpwood customers in Sweden The export level for Swedish pulp was stable during the who manufacture pulp and paper for packaging, graphic year. The trend of increased demand and rising prices for papers and newsprint. Pulp is also used for hygiene cartonboard products continued. As expected, demand for products such as nappies, kitchen paper, toilet paper and graphic papers continued to weaken during 2015. feminine care products. Pulpwood from Swedish forests The availability of pulpwood and chips was good. has qualities that make it especially good for packaging with high demands such as liquid cartons for milk and Outlook juices. Global market forecasts predict continued increased use As a result of reduced demand for graphic papers in of packaging and packaging material which will generate recent years, the industry has made closures or switched increased demand for paper pulp. production to packaging material. Despite this the demand Investments in the Swedish and Finnish pulp and paper for pulpwood has only been marginally affected since the industries are increasing. In Sweden alone investments of market for, among other things, hygiene products has the order of SEK 17 billion in the next years have been grown strongly. China, for example, has significantly announced. This will create increased demand for pulpincreased its imports of toilet paper driven by a clear wood which is positive for Sveaskog. Delivery volumes pulpwood and chips, Andel av total leveransvolym Andel av total nettoomsättning thousand m 3sub thousand m3sub 6,000 5,167 5,000 4,000 3,000 48% 39% 2,000 1,000 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Sveaskog’s deliveries of pulpwood and chips decreased by 1.0% in 2015 and amounted to 5,167 thousand m3sub (5,219). 18 Global demand for cartonboard is increasing strongly driven by improved prosperity. 19 Biofuel Biofuel a renewable energy source The market for biofuels has been tough for the last couple of years. Demand has fallen significantly and prices forced down due to competition for other combustible material. In the longer term demand will rise due to increased demand for, among other things, renewable vehicle fuel. The biofuel that Sveaskog delivers is mainly branches and Market tops (felling residue), thin trees and energy wood. The fuel The biofuel market is local since lengthy transports incur comes from cleaning, thinning and regeneration felling. increased costs which weaken the competitiveness of Sveaskog’s deliveries of biofuel decreased by 13.1% biofuel. Sveaskog mainly supplies customers in Sweden. in 2015 and amounted to 868 thousand m3sub (999). The market for biofuel has been weak since 2013 and Sveaskog’s delivery volumes have fallen. The main reason Customers for the weak market is competition from other fuels such Sveaskog delivers to some 60 customers, primarily heating as garbage. Power stations and heating plants can be plants, CHP plants and pulp and paper mills in Sweden. fuelled with in principle anything that will burn. As well as Examples of biofuel customers are Fortum’s CHP plant forest biofuel and chips from sawmills, they can use at Värtan in Stockholm and Falu Energi och Vatten’s garbage and waste wood. datacentre. The plant at Värtan is Europe’s largest bioOther factors that have contributed to weak market fuelled combined heat and power plant and will be development are more efficient production and distribution commissioned in 2016. The CHP plant is an important step of energy and low electricity prices. The European pellets in the development of sustainable energy provision in market has also been characterised by oversupply and Stockholm. The plant is expected to reduce carbon dioxide falling prices. emissions by 650,000 tonnes annually. This is as much as the traffic on the streets of Stockholm emits in six weeks. Outlook The plant will produce both heat and electricity and is To improve its competitiveness, Sveaskog is focusing on fuelled with chips, bark, branches and twigs. developing production methods, improving efficiency and The municipal energy company Falu Energi och Vatten developing the product range. A brief hike in consumption is building the world’s first climate-positive datacentre. of biofuel can occur when, for example, the CHP plant in The electricity for the datacentre comes from renewable Värtan comes on stream. However, prices are expected to energy and biofuel. Sveaskog will meet about 40% of Falu continue to be under pressure in the short term. Energi och Vatten’s biofuel requirements. The datacentre will be ready in 2016. Delivery volumes biofuel, thousand m 3sub Share of total delivery volumes Share of net sales thousand m3sub 1,600 1,200 868 800 8% 4% 400 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Sveaskog’s deliveries of biofuel decreased by 13.1% in 2015 and amounted to 868 thousand m3sub (999). 20 We both heat and cool buildings with biofuel. 21 Svenska Skogsplantor, concessions, hunting, fishing and lockage Operates Mörrums Kronolaxfiske och the Hjälmare Canal Sveaskog is more than just forestry and trade in wood raw materials. The company cultivates and sells tree seedlings as well as silvicultural services and leases land for hunting, fishing, wind power, etc. Sveaskog also operates Mörrums Kronolaxfiske (salmon fishery) and the Hjälmare Canal. Svenska Skogsplantor leases and other concessions. Concessions for hunting Sveaskog cultivates and sells tree seedlings under the and fishing dominate. The number of hunting rights brand Svenska Skogsplantor. The company is Sweden’s amounted to about 3,100 across some 3,000 hunting largest seedling supplier with approximately 4,000 teams. A total of about 25,000 hunters have the chance customers. Svenska Skogsplantor also offer silvicultural to hunt on Sveaskog’s land. services such as soil scarification and planting for external Sveaskog is Sweden’s largest water owner and makes customers. the lakes available for fishing. At year-end 2015 the Operations consist of seven nurseries, a seed proces­ company had about 1,500 fishing rights. sing unit and about 110 seed plantations. During the year Among other concessions are rental contracts and sales amounted to 117.6 million plants (107) of which 37% leases for such things as farming, peat, gravel and rock were delivered within the company. The bulk of the range quarrying as well as wind power. During the year 25 wind is evergreen seedlings. Svenska Skogsplantor has also power plants (30) were commissioned. To date some successfully worked on breeding seedlings with non-­ 240 wind power plants have been built on Sveaskog’s poisonous insecticide and on improving efficiency through land with an annual production of 1.5 terawatt-hours. technology developments. Sveaskog strives to lease land to established companies Seedling operations were conducted in a wholly-owned which work on a long-term, targeted basis for the subsidiary until the end of March 2015. On 1 April development of wind power. operations as a corporate entity ceased and became a business area within Sveaskog. Mörrums Kronolaxfiske and Hjälmare Canal Sveaskog also owns Mörrums Kronolaxfiske (salmon Concessions – fishing, hunting, wind power, etc. fishery) which was visited by 250,000 tourists during It is important for Sveaskog to make the forests available 2015. The Mörrum fishery provides up to 50 jobs. for both recreation and business activities. This is achieved Hjälmare Kanal AB is owned by Sveaskog. The through, among other things, various types of concessions. 14-kilometre long canal was completed in 1639 and is Holders of concessions include companies in the energy Sweden’s oldest navigable canal. It has nine manually-­ and construction industries, tourism, private individuals, operated locks. A comprehensive restoration of the associations, municipalities and telecoms companies. Hjälmare Canal was finished in 2015. At year-end 2015 there was a total of about 7,600 (7,800) Svenska Skogsplantor’s Hunting, fishing share of total net sales and other business’s share of total net sales 5% 2% 22 Svenska Skogsplantor is Sweden’s leading company within forest regeneration and seedlings. Anders Svensson uses water to remove the wings from seeds at the seed processing unit in Lagan. 23 Innovation Innovation for the climate Innovation and development are to a great extent an integrated part of business operations. Sveaskog is active in projects such as the production of plastics and fuel from wood raw materials. Sveaskog’s work with innovation and development projects long-term plans to use wood raw material to produce has a clear focus. The company participates in projects to biodiesel, pyrolysis oil, methanol and ethanol. increase productivity in forestry as well as developing new In this area there are a number of ongoing different uses for wood raw material and forest land. Together with projects for wood-based fuel. These include research customers the company carries out development to projects as well as the development of commercial maximise the value of wood raw material, especially solutions. Participation in SunPine AB in Piteå, which sawlogs. makes raw tall oil diesel, resin and biooils from tall oil is Activities to increase the use of wood raw material are one example of commercial cooperation in this area. intended to enhance Sveaskog’s business while contrib­ uting to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. Chemicals The areas that Sveaskog has identified as key to the Sveaskog has participated in a number of projects to development of use of wood raw material are timber, fuel, extract chemicals from wood raw material. Sveaskog has chemicals, mining and steel as well as pulp and paper. among other things participated in the project Närodlad Sveaskog participates actively in various research and Plast (locally grown plastics) in order to find business development projects with universities, colleges, research models and technology solutions for manufacturing institutes and other companies. Sveaskog also takes part plastics from forest residues. The project has wide support in company-specific projects which can be aimed at with representatives for the entire value chain such as the research and development or which have a focus on consumer products industry and the chemical industry. The commercialisation. challenge for the project is the low price of crude oil which To improve awareness of the forest’s significance for the makes it difficult to compete on price with fossil plastics. climate, Sveaskog arranged a climate seminar in conjunc­ tion with the Annual Meeting in April 2015. Speakers from Mining and steel Tetra Pak, Borealis, Preem, Svensk Fjärrvärme and The mining and steel industries are big energy users. Folkhem agreed that it is possible to affect the climate and There is considerable interest in these industries for that the forest plays a key role. They all also underscored replacing coal with biofuel. In order to reduce emissions a how important the forest is for Swedish and international new method using natural gas has been developed (direct industry and the environment. reduction of iron). A project is underway where biogas is Innovation projects in which Sveaskog participates run used instead of natural gas. Using this new method, the for many years. It usually takes at least five years from idea steel industry could reduce its carbon dioxide emissions by to commercial product. Sveaskog therefore places great 500–1,000 kilogrammes of carbon dioxide per tonne of importance on risk assessment before any decision on steel, a reduction of 25–50%. For the forest industry this participation is made. means that residues that would otherwise go to waste are used. Test results thus far look promising. Sveaskog’s key development areas: Pulp and paper Timber In the pulp and paper area Sveaskog works among other The focus is on developing more valuable products and things with vehicle fuel solutions and logistics develop­ timber value chains for use in interiors as well as construc­ ment to optimise deliveries to existing customers. There tion. This is done by such things as research and know­ are also ongoing projects to produce fuel, chemicals and ledge transfer in cooperation with sawmills, wood products materials from the lignin found in wood and which is a companies, sector institutions and knowledge centres. by-product of sulphate pulp mills. Fuel Ecosystem services Sveaskog believes that wood raw material will play a Projects around the development of new applications decisive role in the green transition and transformation to for forest land are among other things about ecosystem a fossil-free society. Work on developing new technologies services and compensation land. In Sweden, like the rest and products is prioritised and takes place in close of the EU, work is in progress for regulation of ecological cooperation with players in the forest industry, universities, compensation. When these regulations are in place, colleges and other research institutes. In Sweden there are Sveaskog expects a growing market. 24 SunPine in Piteå is among the first in the world to produce green diesel from wood raw material on an industrial scale. 25 Employees Motivated employees key to success Sveaskog has many skilled employees who strive to deliver that little bit extra that makes a difference – not just to the bottom line, but for everybody affected by the business: customers, contractors and the communities in which Sveaskog operates. Sveaskog has 688 full-time employees. During the labour market days and offers students the opportunity to planting season the company has many part-time do their thesis work in the company. Sveaskog started a employees. The average number of FTEs in 2015 was 851. trainee programme during 2015. This runs for 18 months The largest personnel categories among full-time and the positions are based in Ljusdal and Uppsala. The employees are 143 machine operators, 96 forest field trainee programme is important to attract new employees assistants, 33 nurserymen, 29 timber buyers and 26 felling and thus secure the long-term skills supply. foremen. The proportion of women at Sveaskog is 21% which is Clear management and organisation somewhat higher that the average for the forest industry Sveaskog’s competitive edge depends on motivated and of 15%. Men dominate senior management as well as the committed employees. This is achieved through, among forest machines out in the field. other things, clear management and organisation with good, value-based leadership. The company has worked Broaden recruitment base for the past two years with leadership development to To create long-term value growth, motivated employees create a culture with more coaching and feedback. During are needed who have different skills and backgrounds. the year employees have been involved in discussions Sveaskog therefore works to increase the proportion of about Sveaskog’s mission and significance. These women and diversity in the company. conversations have resulted in the mission statement One of the activities to improve equality is that there “Growing power. For generations”. must always be a candidate of each gender when The response rate in this year’s employee survey was positions are being filled. During 2015/2016 all employees high, 86%, which demonstrates a commitment to the will get web-based training in equality. All managers will company and that employees consider it worthwhile to provide this training for their employees. The training contribute their views. focuses on gender, standards and jargon. The activity is A good basis for participation is well-executed perform­ the result of cooperation with Luleå University of Tech­ ance reviews. These reviews also allow the manager to nology which carried out a survey of equality at Sveaskog. identify the employees’ needs for skills development. The employees consider that equality has improved. The Skills supply in prioritised areas is a condition for meeting number of female employees who feel that equality has targets. Skills development through daily transfer of skills improved has risen to 68% from 53% in 2013 and for men and experiences as well as high internal job rotation are this ratio has risen to 83% from 81%. key tools. As a step to increasing diversity and the recruitment 96% of all employees had a performance review. base, during the year Sveaskog invited municipalities, Through job rotation, 64% of vacant positions were filled contractors and authorities for discussions around the by internal applicants during the year. Employee turnover needs and possibilities Sveaskog has to offer jobs and was 5.5%. The average number of training days per work experience to new immigrants. The company has for employee was 5.4. many years offered seasonal work with planting to young A good working environment is an obvious component unaccompanied refugees. As a result of the discussions of running a long-term sustainable business and applies during the year the company has decided to increase the to both employees and contractors. A good working number of seasonal jobs for young people by 50 places. environment is also a key competitive tool. The working Activities have also been arranged for new Swedish environment must be safe and characterised by respect citizens as well as new immigrants during the year. To and trust. contribute to reduced exclusion and increase the number of potential employees within forestry, Sveaskog will offer Improvement of the year 50 work experience places in 2016 through the Swedish For many years employees have been involved in the Public Employment Service. internal campaign “Improvement of the year”. Employees nominate and vote for “Improvement of the year” in various Give youth a chance categories. For 2015 the improvements of the year were Students on forestry courses are offered summer jobs in a more efficient process for consultation with reindeer the company and pupils from agricultural colleges are herders, forest days for new Swedish citizens, new offered work experience. Every summer schoolchildren instructions for felling in areas used extensively for can also work with such things as planting. Youth teams outdoor activities, and customer films about the forest consist of half girls and half boys. Sveaskog participates in and climate benefits. 26 Anna Ahlin is a roundwood logistician at Sveaskog and participates in the internal talent programme. 27 Contractors Same high demands as on ourselves Contractors carry out assignments in the forest and transports for Sveaskog. They are often small companies that operate locally. They are frequently family-owned and the contractor has only a few forest machines or lorries. Sveaskog cooperates with over 1,200 contracting silvicultural contractors must be PEFC certified was companies throughout Sweden. Contractors carry out all introduced. Providers must also participate in training assignments in the areas of roads and transports and 95% and start-up meetings arranged by Sveaskog. of assignments in silviculture. Contractors carry out 75% Compliance with the service agreement is checked of felling assignments. Together contracting companies through Sveaskog or a third party making ongoing employ approximately 1,400 full-time equivalents. During follow-ups as well as field checks or on-site audits at the 2015 Sveaskog procured services in these areas for about contractor. Checks are targeted or made as spot checks. SEK 2 billion. Sveaskog’s forest management thus creates Sveaskog permits subcontracting at one level only. Only a strong base for local care and development. subcontractors approved by Sveaskog may carry out the Cooperation with contractors has been identified as a work. If the contractor has employees from abroad, all strategic area and the aim is to work and develop together regulations, for example current EU and tax legislation, with committed and skilled contractors. As part of this the work and residence permits, must be complied with. The company has worked systematically with selected contractor must be able to provide valid permits and contractors on method and technology development, certificates for all personnel affected. among other things. Through this cooperation the contractors’ business is also developed to create more Mandatory training every year value. The company requires all field personnel within silviculture to undergo the training using Sveaskog’s web-based Everyone must follow the code of conduct silviculture school each year. The training is followed by an In 2015 cooperation was started with a new contractor. exam and a pass result is needed to be allowed to carry All contractors, just like suppliers, must follow Sveaskog’s out activities in Sveaskog’s forests and at Sveaskog’s code of conduct and the UN Global Compact’s general customers. Affected personnel also receive annual training sustainability requirements. For suppliers, eight out of nine in Sveaskog’s implementation requirements for felling, for new framework agreement suppliers signed the UN Global example. Compact’s requirements. This means that 52 out of 60 framework agreement suppliers or 88% (89) have signed Good communication basis for good cooperation the requirements. A follow-up with a site visit took place Sveaskog strives to have good communication with its during 2015 at one framework agreement supplier. contractors. A good dialogue is a prerequisite for achieving Sveaskog has developed a service agreement for all efficiency, high-quality on-time deliveries and the goals business relations within silvicultural contracting, logistics of a nature-conserving management of the forest and and plant. In the service agreement the contractor commits reduced carbon dioxide emissions. The dialogue is not to following all laws and regulations. In addition Sveaskog just about personal contacts and follow-up. It is equally makes a number of specific demands in the service important to work with common IT tools such as planning agreement such as the providers’ skills and training. It and logistics systems. covers aspects such as working environment and During 2015 Sveaskog has developed a system to environmental consideration. simplify invoice processing for contractors. They have also Sveaskog prefers, among other things, that all certific­ been given access to IT support to simplify use of the ation requirements are met. In 2015 a requirement that all IT-based services that Sveaskog offers. 28 Tobias Nilzon and Emil Löthgren have received Sveaskog’s training for contractors in nature and cultural environmental conservation in order to meet the skills requirements for PEFC certification. 29 Biodiversity Forest environments for all Sveaskog’s nature conservation work will lead to the forests becoming more varied and species-rich in the future. Sveaskog has identified biodiversity as a strategically Sveaskog inaugurates its 37th ecopark important area. All activities that the company carries out Nature protection can take the form of formally protected in the forest can affect biodiversity. Sveaskog therefore areas or voluntary set-asides. Sveaskog has chosen to works with nature protection and habitat management. handle 20% of its productive forest land as nature Sveaskog’s nature conservation covers everything from conservation areas. This is achieved in three different landscapes to individual forests, trees and tree groups. The ways: ecoparks, nature conservation forests and so-called company leaves forests untouched and works with habitat consideration for nature which is left untouched in management. production forests. All methods aim to retain or develop biodiversity in the Ecoparks are large contiguous landscapes with high forest. Activities are primarily aimed at conserving old natural values. How the ecoparks are managed depends natural forests, re-establishing or developing new on their ecology and roughly half are set aside as nature deciduous forests and saving existing deciduous forests conservation forests. In autumn 2016 Sveaskog will from threatened invasion by spruce. Nature conservation inaugurate its 37th ecopark. The new ecopark covers work increases the proportion of old forest and creates 1,300 hectares of forest land between Sala and Virsbo forests that are more varied and species-rich. which was destroyed by fire in August 2014. The forest The largest direct impact on the landscape and fire in Västmanland was the biggest to have occurred in biodiversity is made by felling. Sveaskog therefore leaves modern times. As well as the personal tragedies resulting key environments for flora and fauna untouched. These from the fire, considerable economic values were lost. areas can include edge zones, sensitive biotopes and From a nature conservation viewpoint a forest fire on this ­natural value trees. scale is a unique event. A forest fire favours or is even Sveaskog also works to avoid hauling damage and has essential for hundreds of species of insects, fungi, lichens as a target no serious hauling damage when felling. During and herbs. By creating an ecopark, the survival of fire2015, among other things, Sveaskog developed a soil favoured and fire-dependent species in the entire central humidity map of sensitive areas. This means that haulage Sweden forest region was ensured. routes can be planned prior to the harvesters arriving at Sveaskog sets aside those forests that have the highest the felling site. Good planning and communication with natural values as nature conservation forests. Most of and between contractors is also significant in order to Sveaskog’s nature conservation forests in the northern select the best time for felling to minimise hauling damage. part of Sweden are left to develop freely. Further south, extensive management is used to restore or reinforce Regular follow-up natural values. If the company discovers new forest worthy Working methods are continually developed to ensure of protection, it exchanges this for forest with lower natural that Sveaskog meets its commitments and certifications. values. Compliance is regularly checked through audits and spot Consideration for nature in production forests consists checks. All non-conformances are reported in the environ­of trees or tree groups, edge zones and sensitive biotopes ment and quality management system and result in which are left untouched in the forest when felling or immediate action. thinning and cleaning. Reported non-conformances can include hauling damage, damage to sensitive biotopes, damage to Cooperation with reindeer herders archaeological or cultural remains, inadequate planning Prior to felling, Sveaskog consults reindeer herders and compensated by a machine team, quality of thinning, felled makes husbandry plans. In 2016 models will be developed natural value trees, too high stumps and thinned areas. to produce and display management plans per Sami During 2015 Sveaskog carried out broad field training village. The management plans will be tested and of machine operators, contractors, planners, etc., on evaluated at several Sami villages. protection of archaeological or cultural remains in the forest. Common remains are cairns, charcoal pits, building The forests will change foundations and pitfalls. In 2014, surveyors from the Sveaskog’s work with improving its forest management will Swedish Forest Agency visited nearly 250 felled areas on result in the forests looking different in the future. The five Sveaskog’s land that were scarified. In total the surveyed changes Sveaskog has identified are: areas contained 753 cultural environments. The results showed that Sveaskog left 93% of known cultural and • More mixed forest archaeological remains without significant damage and Swedish productive forest land is dominated today by 79% with no damage at all. conifers but amount of deciduous dominated forest is 30 increasing. Large mixed forests result in better resistance • More fish in the streams to pests, bigger recreation and experience values and Greater consideration when felling around lakes and better conditions for avian species. watercourses retains the water quality. When vegetation is left in the edge zone there is an increase in richness of • More big trees species and production of fish. Today’s areas of consideration and set-asides of pro­ ductive forest will result in additional older, large trees. Environmental responsibility Sveaskog’s main environmental risks can be attributed to • More deadwood various historical operations by companies in the group. Today there are fallen tree trunks and other deadwood in Some of these earlier operations have caused contamin­ the forests. Many species are dependent on fallen trunks ation of land and water on properties which the group and enjoy better habitats when more wood is left in the owns or has owned. The company can have a responsibility forests. to clean up these areas. • Greater viability Today a large number of species are threatened with extinction in Sweden, including the white-backed woodpecker. Action to conserve and recreate the habitats of these species improves the possibility of more viable populations. Sveaskog’s work to retain and develop natural values Nature conservation areas below the montane forest region which constitute 20% of Sveaskog’s productive forest land: Definition Status 31 Dec 2015 Size 3rd party measurement Cooperation 36 ecoparks 36 ecoparks inaugurated. Ecopark 80,000 ha. Swedish Forest Agency, 50-year agreement agreements with the Swedish The ecoparks County Administrative with the Swedish Forest Agency are in place for 34 cover a total area Board Forest Agency, WWF of these ecoparks. The 37th of 145,000 ha ecopark will be inaugurated in below the autumn 2016 in the fire-ravaged montane forest area of Västmanland region* Nature conservation Reported at www.sveaskog.se 300,000 ha Swedish Forest Agency, WWF, Swedish Forest forests County Administrative Agency, County Board Administrative Board and Swedish Society for Nature Conservation (deciduous forest restoration) Nature consideration Control self-assessments 220,000 ha Swedish Forest Agency, Method development when felling FSC® audit with the Swedish Forest Agency Nature conservation in montane forest region Definition Status 31 Dec 2015 Size 3rd party measurement Cooperation Sveaskog’s montane Nature reserves and ecoparks c. 100,000 ha Swedish Forest Agency, Dialogue with the forest region boundary formed and quality assurance of County Administrative Swedish Forest is based on the nature conservation forests is Board, FSC® audit Agencyn Swedish Forestry Act underway and FSC® Restoration Definition Status 31 Dec 2015 Size 3rd party measurement Cooperation Restoration of wet­ The objective of 100 restored – – Swedish Wetlands lands and aquatic wetlands has been achieved. Five Foundation Swedish landscapes aquatic landscapes identified Ornithological Society * Additional 30,000 ha ecoparks located in montane forest region. 31 Climate effects The forest is important for a fossil-free society The forest is a fantastic resource for binding carbon dioxide. The Swedish forest binds twice as much carbon dioxide as Sweden’s total carbon dioxide emissions. In addition, the wood from the forest is a renewable raw material. The forest is important for counteracting climate change and creating a fossil-free society. Sveaskog has identified climate effects as a strategically operations in 2010 and has become one of Piteå’s largest important area. Climate change creates both threats and companies. The raw material is a by-product of paper pulp opportunities for a forest owner such as Sveaskog. The production. SunPine contributes to reducing emissions of threat is that weather and temperature changes will carbon dioxide in Sweden by about 250,000 tonnes damage the forest. The opportunities consist of renewable annually. Other co-owners in SunPine are Kiram, Preem, fuels from the forest becoming a key part of the transition Lawter and Södra. to a fossil-free society and that demand for wood is Sveaskog also contributes to the green transition by increasing. Sveaskog is actively working to address both leasing land for wind power. threats and opportunities. Reduce own emissions of carbon dioxide Manage the forest using sustainable methods Sveaskog’s own carbon dioxide emissions arise mainly Sveaskog works with a planning horizon of 100 years to from timber transport by road. Sveaskog has about ensure that removal levels are sustainable over several 290,000 lorry journeys annually or 795 per day. Each future generations. Silviculture with planting, cleaning and journey is on average 100 kilometres which means that thinning is carried out on a long-term basis. By managing Sveaskog’s road transports cover two trips round the the forest responsibly the positive climate impact globe each day. increases with the increased sequestration of carbon The company’s own emissions from burning fossil fuels dioxide. are being reduced by using renewable fuels, climate-smart The company is preparing forest management for transport solutions, improved load factors and ecodriving unwanted future climate effects such as storms and a training for machine operators and lorry drivers. warmer climate. These preparations include adapting the During the next few years the focus will be on increas­ tree stocks to the future conditions for a stand, adapting ing the proportion of renewable fuels for transports and cleaning and thinning, developing propagation in unfa­ felling. The use of ecofuel made from slaughterhouse vourable conditions and continued work with developing waste for heavier transports will increase. This is a key seeds and plant material. contribution to Sveaskog’s target of reducing carbon dioxide emissions by 30% by 2020. Increase use of wood Smart logistics make transports more efficient and Sveaskog participates in various development and reduce emissions. For Sveaskog this means among other innovation projects and lobbies for the increased use of things increasing the proportion of backhauls and moving wood. In the near future it will be possible to produce fuel, long road transports to rail. However, there is often no train chemicals, plastics and textiles from renewable wood raw that can be used and so the company is contributing to the material. development of lorries that can take greater volumes. The company also sees great potential is using existing products in a new way. Some examples are the possibility of increasing the amount of wood in new buildings and Sveaskog’s carbon footprint including constructing taller buildings of wood. One initiative is contractors and hauliers cooperation with Luleå University of Technology aimed at enabling the construction of 22-storey buildings of wood. Tonnes carbon dioxide 2013 2014 2015 About 10% of apartment blocks were built with timber Forestry and felling 41,000 50,000 56,000 frames in 2013. Sveaskog believes this proportion will Transports 81,000 84,000 69,000 Road building 10,000 13,000 16,000 increase for several reasons: Wood is the only renewable Electricity and heating 5,000 5,000 4,000 building material, wood is lightweight and strong with good Travel 1,000 1,000 1,000 thermal insulation properties, building times can be halved Total carbon dioxide footprint 138,000 153,000 146,000 and carbon dioxide emissions from the building process The forest’s uptake of carbon are reduced. dioxide 2,000,000 2,000,000 2,000,000 Net uptake of carbon dioxide 1,862,000 1,847,000 1,854,000 Contribute to the green transition The company contributes to the development of forestSince 2014 both production and distribution of fuel are included in the emission calculations which means that the carbon dioxide emissions increased. based biofuels and vehicle fuel. One example is particip­ The calculation of how much carbon dioxide Sveaskog’s forests can bind is ation in SunPine AB in Piteå which makes raw tall oil based on a study of the role of the forest in climate work (2008) by the Swedish diesel, resin and biooils from tall oil. SunPine started University of Agricultural Sciences (SLU) and GEOpartner AG. 32 Risk and sensitivity analysis Major spread of risks One important aspect for creation of long-term values is to understand and be able to manage the risks that exist in operations. The entire company is involved in risk management and this is part of business planning. Significant risks are reported in the system for operational monitoring and planning. Since the forest is regularly felled and replanted, Sveaskog has stable cash flows. This means that Public opinion Sveaskog’s economic risks are limited. There are, 5 risks however, other risks that are systematically inventoried by Sveaskog. Sveaskog is exposed to financial, legal, market-related, operational, public Financial risks 4 opinion and social risks. The forests are also Social I mpact if r i s k occu rs risks exposed to biological risks as well as weather and climate risks. Operational The extensive storm fellings in recent years have risks Weather, Market highlighted the weather and climate risks. At the 3 climate and risks same time, Sveaskog’s forest holdings are spread environmental risks throughout Sweden which evens out weather risks and biological risks. The forests are also insured against major extra costs via direct insurance and 2 Biological risks in the reinsurance markets. Sveaskog works to develop new products and businesses such as biofuel and ecosystem services. The company also increases revenues 1 from the forest by granting leases for hunting, fishing, eco-tourism and wind power. These 1 2 3 4 5 activities provide a broader income base but can Probab i lity that r i s k mate r iali s e s also involve risks. Responsibility Sveaskog’ Board is responsible for the company managing risks correctly and ensuring compliance with adopted evaluation provides the total risk value as illustrated in the principles for financial reporting and internal control. The above risk matrix. CEO has overall operational responsibility and has The identified risks are evaluated and prioritised on the delegated to the CFO to conduct the risk management basis of the total risk value. Subsequently remedial actions process. Operational responsibility rests which each profit are identified for assessed risks. Each remedial action is units and staffs and is following up at management level. evaluated on the basis of its effect and how timeand cost-demanding the action is. Remedial actions are Risk management process at Sveaskog prioritised on the basis of what generates the greatest Risk management is an integrated part of annual business benefit per activity. These are carried out according to planning in the company and includes both profit units and priority and available resources. Once an action has been staffs. All significant risks are identified, reported and taken, an assessment is made of whether it was sufficient compiled in the company’s system for operational to manage the risk concerned and the benefits of the monitoring and planning. Reporting includes a description action. The system for monitoring and reporting provides of the risk and actions taken as well as who is responsible. support for follow-up throughout the entire financial year. Each risk is assigned an evaluation of probability and How Sveaskog manages its key risks is shown on the consequence on a five-point scale. The result of this next two pages. Identification, revision Reporting/registration Implement, follow-up and evaluation of risks Prioritising remedial actions of risks and actions actions 33 Biological risks Risk Management Spruce bark beetle Insect pest that has grown in number in the north of Fast processing of storm-felled timber and recently Sweden and the control area has been extended. In the attacked standing trees. south, attacks have subsided leading to a reduced control area. Shortage of Problems with spruce cone rust continue. Flowering has Collection of stand seeds and/or external purchases. been absent for several years. Shortage of processed spruce seeds seed in Norrland can result in growth losses. Root rot Value of standing forests decreases, trees die. Prevent attacks by treating stumps during felling with spores. New pests If, for example the nun moth, the mountain pine beetle Monitoring. or other pests become established in Sweden, largeestablished scale destruction could result. Game grazing Game which graze on trees and seedlings reduce Hunting, measures to increase access to feed, forest growth. increased knowledge of game populations. damage Game grazing damage is a fact and amounts to approximately SEK 250 million per year on Sveaskog’s land. An increase of 10% affects operating profit from continuing operations by SEK 25–50 million. Financial risks Risk Management Financing risk Assets are partly financed by external loans. This constitutes a risk if a large borrowing requirement A well-diversified loan portfolio of lenders and investors with good flexibility and competitive pricing. arises in a tight credit market. Interest rate risk The risk that Sveaskog is exposed to a disadvanta­ geous interest rate situation with a large loan portfolio. Sveaskog’s policy is an average fixed interest term on the loan portfolio of 12–48 months. Credit risk The risk that a counterparty is unable to fulfil obligations. The finance policy regulates maximum credit exposure in the investment portfolio. For commercial credit exposure some major customers are exempted, otherwise credit insurance is taken out for other customers. Regular credit committee meetings and information to the Board. Sveaskog’s financial risks are described in detail in Note 28. Operational and legal risks Risk Management Loss of Lack of quality in silvicultural activities and consider­ ation for nature as well as deficiencies in work and Documented routines and work processes in all parts of the business, internal and external audits as well as FSC® certification follow-up of social responsibility, can result in Sveaskog training for continual improvements. losing its FSC® certificate, which would have a significant impact on the timber business. Forest management The impact of various EU directives (at present primarily the Habitats Directive) on forest management Follow and be present and influence the debate. Note interpretations made. impact of various as well as uncertainty in interpretation by national EU directives authorities. Urbanisation Sveaskog’s operations are represented in rural areas to a considerable extent. Urbanisation makes it difficult to Profiling of Sveaskog as an attractive employer. Cooperation with educational programmes. Working to recruit new labour and restricts access to contractors. achieve a functioning supplier market with healthy competition. Increased integration initiatives. Impact of political National and EU directives, interpretations from Follow, participate in and influence debate. Monitor authorities and their impact on forest management. interpretations. decisions IT related risks Interruptions, computer hacking, virus attacks. High IT security and reliable backup routines. Information and training. 34 Market risks Risk Management Sawmill industry At times poor profitability leads to sawmill closures and credit losses for Sveaskog. Restructuring may lead to Active selection of customers and credit insurance. Priority given to cooperation with customers with fewer customers in local areas for Sveaskog’s forest long-term survival and profitability potential. Prioritise holdings. product development and innovation. Pulp and paper A few, dominant companies means a lack of competition and few alternative business and marketing opportunities. To increase market and customer capital. More efficient logistics and increased exports. Biofuel industry Expand market and customer capital. More efficient increases market outlets. Prioritise product logistics and increased exports. Biofuel increases market development and innovation. outlets. Prioritise product development and innovation. Energy sector Increased competition from substitutes and low energy prices lead to limited market outlets. Elimination of Be an efficient supplier of advanced, customer-oriented business concepts that provide added value and companies and customers within Sveaskog’s traditional increased profitability for all parties. Prioritise product markets. development and innovation. A change in the average price of wood raw material from own forests of 10% affects operating profit from continuing operations by approximately SEK 300 million. A change in delivery volume from own forests of an average of 10% affects operating profit from continuing operations by approximately SEK 200 million. Weather, climate and environmental risks Risk Management Climate change Changed climate can increase the risk of storms, cause changes in precipitation, worsen forcing conditions and Tract adaptation, adapted thinning and clearing, developed forcing in poor conditions and work with change vegetation boundaries. processed seed and seedling material. Insurance. Storm felling Direct economic loss through lower operating profit, Silvicultural measures that reduce risks: thinning, planting, increased proportion of deciduous trees, reduced value of forest assets, cleaning up puts a strain on the organisation, damage from bark beetle. final felling at economic maturity. Good crisis organisation and logistics. Ability to move felling resources to storm-felled areas. Insurance against damage. Contaminated Responsibility for contaminated land from earlier possible pollutants. Inventory, strategy and action plan for management and ongoing operations and possible treatment. land In 2005 the storm Gudrun caused gross damage of SEK 750 million. Given today’s insurance cover, a similar damage would affect operating profit from continuing operations by approximately SEK 450 million. Sveaskog’s insurance cover is described in detail in Note 28. Social risks Risk Management Timber imports Purchases from, for example, Russia and the Baltic countries can present risks linked to illegal felling, Sveaskog’s code of conduct as well as certification and clear guidelines for tracing and documentation of from undesirable corruption and labour law. purchased raw material, which govern the company’s origins actions and follow-up. Contractors Contractors which fail to meet commitments can constitute a risk linked to working environment, health, Code of conduct, guidelines for procurement of contractors as well as follow-up and control of safety and labour law. compliance reduce risks. Corruption Unclear guidelines and routines lead to a risk of bribes, bribery and corruption. Continuous training and dialogue, code of conduct, clear guidelines, internal control, possibility to report violations anonymously. Public opinion risks Risk Management Opinions about Opinions about the use of the forest which restrict forestry can affect profitability and the value of forest Active in the forest debate. the forest land. Reduced The brand and confidence in the company can be affected and thus customer relations and cooperation. Code of conduct, internal routines, active information work and ongoing dialogue with stakeholders. confidence 35 Dividend and profit distribution The Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting a total dividend for 2015 of SEK 800 million, which corresponds to SEK 6.76 (6.76) per share. Proposed profit distribution, SEK specified in the Articles of Association and the published Unappropriated profit available to Annual Report. The operations conducted in the company the Annual General Meeting: and the Group do not entail risks in addition to those that exist or can be assumed to exist in the industry or risks Profit brought forward 9,920,090,875 inherent in conducting business activities. The company’s Profit for the year 3,202,564 and the Group’s dependence on business cycles do not Total 9,923,293,439 differ from those otherwise occurring in the industry. The Board’s opinion is that after the proposed distribution of The Board proposes that profit profit the company will have sufficient restricted equity in be distributed as follows: relation to the size of its operations. Dividend to shareholder 800,000,000 The Board has taken into account the company’s Carried forward to new account 9,123,293,439 consolidation needs through a comprehensive assessment Total 9,923,293,439 of the company’s financial position and ability to meet its commitments over time. The company’s financial situation is disclosed in the Annual Report. Here it is disclosed that the Group’s net debt/equity ratio is 0.41. Sveaskog’s Following the Board’s dividend proposal, the Board adopted target for the net debt/equity ratio is 0.3–0.6. of Sveaskog AB (publ) hereby makes the following The Group’s financial position is therefore strong. statement pursuant to Chapter 18 Section 4 of the The proposed dividend does not jeopardise the Swedish Companies Act. company’s ability to make any necessary investments. The company has financial resources to meet unexpected Sveaskog ABs (publ) profit brought forward from the events and temporary variations in payment flows to a previous year amounts to SEK 10,720,090,875. Together reasonable extent. The company’s financial position does with profit for the year of SEK 3,202,564 and dividend of not give rise to any assessment other than that the SEK 800,000,000 unrestricted equity in the Parent company is able to continue its operations and that the Company amounts to SEK 9,923,293,439. company is expected to meet its commitments in the According to current financial targets, the ordinary short and long term. dividend over time shall correspond to 65–90% of the The Board has taken into account the position of the Group’s profit after tax excluding non-cash adjustments Group and the company in other respects. The Board has in value of standing forest after tax. A dividend is paid therefore taken into account known circumstances that provided the capital structure target after the dividend might be significant for the company’s financial position falls within the target interval and taking into account and which have not been taken into account within the implementation of the Group’s strategic and investment framework of the assessment of the company’s consolid­ requirements. ation requirements and liquidity. Among such circum­ The Board proposes to the Annual General Meeting stances taken into account by the Board can be noted that the total dividend for 2015 be SEK 800,000,000, such events and circumstances about which the company corresponding to SEK 6.76 per share. The dividend, which has provided information in the Administration Report, comprises 89% of the dividend base, is proposed to take including those attributable to the period after the 2015 the form of a cash distribution. financial year was taken into account. Provided the 2016 Annual General Meeting resolves in With reference to the above, the Board is of the opinion accordance with the Board’s proposed profit distribution, that the dividend is justifiable in view of the demands that SEK 9.123,293,439 will be carried forward to new the nature, scope and risks of operations place on the size account. Full coverage exists for the company’s restricted of the company’s and the Group’s equity, as well as the equity after the proposed distribution of profit. consolidation requirements, liquidity and position in The nature and scope of the company’s operations are general of the company and the Group. 36 Corporate governance report Sveaskog is a limited company owned by the Swedish state. Governance of Sveaskog is based on the Swedish Companies Act, the State ownership policy, the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance (the Code) as well as applicable Swedish and foreign legislation and regulations. This corporate governance report has been prepared as Nomination of members of the Board is presented in the part of Sveaskog’s application of the Code. The report has notice of the meeting and on Sveaskog’s website. The been reviewed by the company’s auditors. Government Offices of Sweden is responsible for election In accordance with the State ownership policy and of auditors and a decision on this is made at the Annual guidelines for state-owned companies, Sveaskog has General Meeting. A proposal for election of auditors is deviated from the Code in three instances: presented in the notice of the meeting and on Sveaskog’s • Preparation of decision on nomination of the Board and website. Auditors are appointed with a mandate period of auditors, which means that Sveaskog has not appointed one year. The practical work of procurement of auditors is a nomination committee. handled by the Board’s audit committee together with the • With regard to reporting of Board members’ indepen­ company and owner. dence in relation to the state as a major owner, which is not reported since the Code in this respect focuses on Board of Directors companies with a diverse ownership base. The Board is responsible for the company’s organisation • Date and location of the Annual General Meeting shall and management of the company’s affairs. According to be stated on the company’s website in conjunction with the articles of association, the Board shall consist of a the interim report for the third quarter. Here Sveaskog minimum of five and a maximum of nine members. In has chosen to comply with Nasdaq Stockholm’s rules addition, there are two employee representatives with two for issuers and therefore provided details of the deputies. The articles of association do not contain any planned date of the Annual General Meeting in the regulations on the appointment or dismissal of Board year-end report. members. The company’s legal counsel is the secretary to the Board. Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting is Sveaskog’s highest Composition of the Board decision-making body. The Annual General Meeting of the Seven Board members were elected at the Annual Parent Company Sveaskog AB (publ) was held on 23 April General Meeting. Following new election of Helene 2015 in Stockholm. The 2016 Annual General Meeting will Biström as Chairman, the Board consists of six members be held on 26 April 2016. More information about the of whom four are women and two are men. The Board also 2016 Annual General Meeting is provided on page 84 in has two employees representatives and two deputies for Sveaskog’s Annual Report with Sustainability Report 2015 them. (in Swedish) According to the State ownership policy, guidelines for The work of the Board companies with state ownership and the articles of The work of the Board is governed by the Board’s formal association, members of parliament are entitled to attend work plan. The Chairman of the Board shall ensure that and ask questions at Sveaskog’s general meetings. The the work of the Board is conducted efficiently and that the meetings are also open to the public. Board meets its commitments. According to the formal In addition to the Annual General Meeting, an Extraordi­ work plan the Board shall normally hold eight meetings per nary General Meeting was held on 16 June 2015 in year, in addition to its statutory meeting in conjunction with Stockholm, due to Göran Persson having relinquished his the Annual General Meeting. The formal work plan place on the Board. At the Extraordinary General Meeting, stipulates which issues should be examined at each Helene Biström was elected as Chairman of the Board. meeting and which specific issues should be submitted to the Board. The work plan also states that the Chairman, on Nomination process behalf of the Board, shall consult with representatives of The State ownership policy and guidelines for state-owned the owner on matters of decisive significance to Sveaskog. companies specify a different nomination process than The work plan also contains details of the Chairman’s role that prescribed by Code with regard to the Board and in the Board and on assignment of responsibilities and auditors. tasks between the Board and the CEO. Every year the Nomination of the Board is coordinated by the Board evaluates the work of the Board and monitors the Government Offices of Sweden. The Government Offices work of the CEO on an ongoing basis. At least once a year of Sweden also submit a proposal for the Chairman of the the work of the CEO is evaluated without any member of Board and chairman at the Annual General Meeting. group management being present. 37 The Board held ten meetings in 2015, including two Remuneration Committee strategy meetings. In addition to processing standing items Prepares issues related to remuneration and terms of on the agenda, the Board made the following decisions: (i) employment for senior executives. Until the Annual to change the discount rate used in fair value measure­ General Meeting the Remuneration Committee consisted ment of standing timber, (ii) to acquire a large forest of Göran Persson (Chairman) and Mats Ringesten. After property in Katrineholm, (iii) to sell all shares in Sågedet the Annual General Meeting the committee members were Fastighetsbolag and therefore the sawmill in Seskarö in Göran Persson (Chairman) and Helene Biström. After the Haparanda municipality, (iv) the company shall participate Extraordinary General Meeting the Remuneration in a joint communications initiative for the forest industry Committee consisted of Helene Biström (Chairman) and and (v) invest in a new IT system for planning and control Eva Färnstrand. of timber flows. The Board also received presentations of the company’s risk map, the follow-up performed of the Property Committee company’s entertainment, an account of the company’s Prepares issues relating to property acquisition, manage­ environmental risks and the work being conducted within ment and divestment. Until the Annual General Meeting environmental issues as well as an account of the the Property Committee consisted of Göran Persson company’s integration initiatives. (Chairman), Birgitta Johansson-Hedberg and Eva-Lisa On 1 April 2015 Svenska Skogsplantor AB ceased to be Lindvall. After the Annual General Meeting, Eva-Lisa a separate legal entity and these operations are conducted Lindvall was replaced by Sofia Gilliusson. After the within Sveaskog Förvaltnings AB. Extraordinary General Meeting the Property Committee consisted of Helene Biström (Chairman), Johan Hallberg, Board committees Birgitta Johansson-Hedberg and Sofia Gilliusson. The Board’s three committees prepare issues ahead of a decision by the Board. Guidelines for the work of the Audit Committee committees are found in the Board’s formal work plan. In Tasks include preparing the Board’s work on quality addition, there are special instructions for the property assurance of the company’s financial reporting, regular committee and the audit committee. Issues examined by meetings with the company’s auditors in order to be the committees are minuted and reported at the next informed of the focus, scope and result of audits as well as Board meeting. to discuss coordination between external auditors and Board meetings 2015 7 December 29 January • Reports from committees • Reports from committees • Financial report • Special review function • Budget • Year-end report 2014 • Insurance policy • Auditors’ review • Finance policy • Financial targets • Forest policy • Evaluation of Board work • Evaluation of Board work • Report on the company’s hunting entertainment • Review of company’s environmental work • Report on the company’s integration work 10 March ber Janu • Reports from committees cem arY • Financial report 19 October De • Annual accounts including review of • Reports from committees Fe r auditor’s opinion on the company’s be br • Financial report risks • Property issues m • Auditors’ information to the Board • Audit plan No Y • Auditors’ review ve uar without presence of group manage­ ment • Interim report • Ahead of Annual General Meeting • Strategic personnel issues • Business plan process ER ch MAR 23 April OctOB • Reports from committees • Financial report • Interim report 2–3 September • Reports from committees 2015 • Decision on participation in communication initiative Septem • Financial report Svensk Skog • Interim report il • Strategy Statutory Board meeting • Business plan including review of Apr 23 April significant risks and their impact • Review of the company’s risk map be r 16 June • Reports from committees Au • Financial report g u aY • Managing challenges st M • Forest policy • Strategy 21 July • Acquisition of a large forest property in • Reports from committees Jul E • Financial report Y Jun Katrineholm • Investment in an operational flow system • Interim report • Decision on divestment of shares in Statutory Board meeting after ExtraSågedet Fastighets AB ordinary General Meeting on 16 June 38 internal control activities and approach to the company’s CEO and management risks. During the year the Audit Committee consisted of Sveaskog’s CEO is responsible for ongoing management Anna-Stina Nordmark Nilsson (Chairman), Johan Hallberg of the company in accordance with the Board’s instruc­ and Sture Persson. tions. The CEO gives presentations at meetings of the At the beginning of the year, the committee worked with Board. The CEO is responsible for ongoing business procurement of auditors. At the Annual General Meeting activities and contacts with the Chairman and external the audit firm Deloitte AB was elected as new auditors stakeholders. The CEO also leads the work of group with Hans Warén as auditor in charge. management. Group management consists of six men and five women. A new market area manager for the Central Principles for remuneration to the board market area was appointed on 1 March 2015. A reorgan­ Fees to the Board are decided by the Annual General isation was announced in the autumn which means that Meeting. Fees to Board members on committees are also the group staffs for communications and HR will be decided at the Annual General Meeting. In 2015, remuner­ merged into a single unit in February 2016. ation to the Board totalled SEK 1,255,365. The Board does not have a bonus or incentive programme. Employee System for internal control and representatives on the Board and the member employed risk management in conjunction by the Swedish Government Offices do not receive a fee. with financial reporting Eva Färnstrand, Anna-Stina Nordmark Nilsson and Göran The Board’s responsibility for internal control is regulated Persson invoiced fees through their own companies. An in the Swedish Companies Act and in the Swedish Code additional charge has been made for social security of Corporate Governance. Internal control is intended to contributions. This arrangement is cost neutral for provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of Sveaskog. external financial reporting in the form of year-end reports, interim reports and annual reports. Control shall also Corporate structure include external financial reporting and that this is Sveaskog’s forestry operations with forestry and sales are prepared in accordance with legislation, applicable organised in three geographical market areas as well as accounting standards and other requirements on a limited Svenska Skogsplantor. The operating activities are company. supported by group wide staffs. Sveaskog also owns shares in companies where there Framework for internal control is not a Group relationship, where the holding in the wood A description of how internal control is organised in products company Setra Group is the largest. relation to financial reporting is provided below. Organisation and governance • Owner guidelines • Owner policy Owner • General Meetings • Articles of Association Board • Policies • Property Committee • Remuneration • Group Organisation Committee • Audit Committee • Governance of operations (Targets and governance CEO Group Management principles) • Risk management • Internal control External HR & Communications Forest Management • Reporting audit Accounting, IT, Legal Business Development • Roles, responsibilities and control systems Affairs and Properties and innovation Market Area Market Area Market Area Svenska North Central South skogsplantor 39 Control environment local follow-up. Operational responsibility rests, however, The Board has overall responsibility for maintaining an with the market areas and other operating areas. The effective system for internal control and risk management. Board believes that there is no need for a special review The Board has appointed an audit committee which function in the company. The CFO unit is headed by the prepares matters related to risk assessment, internal CFO Per Matses and comprises the finance and account­ control, financial reporting and audit. The Board’s risk ing staffs, IT staffs as well as legal and property staffs. management has been given greater scope in recent years. Audit Responsibility for maintaining an effective control The task of the auditors is on behalf of shareholders to environment and day-to-day work with risk management examine the company’s annual accounting and accounting and internal control relating to financial reporting is records as well as the administration by the Board and the delegated to the CEO. Managers at different levels in the CEO. The Board communicates with the auditors through company have corresponding responsibility within their the audit committee, by auditors attending Board meeting respective areas. The most significant parts of the control at which issues ahead of annual accounts and annual environment relating to financial reporting are handled in report are examined. At least once a year the auditors the governing documents relating to accounting and meet the Board without the CEO or another person in financial reporting and in the accounting handbook which group management being present. The auditors particip­ is published on the intranet. ated in six of the audit committee’s eight meetings. Remuneration to auditors is specified in Note 6 of the Risk assessment and control structures Annual Report (in Swedish). The Board is responsible for ensuring that the company manages its risks in the right way and that adopted Sustainable business principles for financial reporting and internal control are Sveaskog has an integrated sustainability perspective complied with. Risks in connection with the financial throughout its operations. Sveaskog’s objectives for reporting are loss or misappropriation of assets, unlawful sustainable business are broken down into operational benefit of another party at the company’s expense and targets which are regularly monitored. This work is other risks relating to material misstatement in the supported by a number of policies and guidelines which financial statements, for example relating to recognition are available on Sveaskog’s intranet and website. and measurement of assets, liabilities, revenues and The Deputy CEO who is also the CFO has overall expenses or discrepancies in disclosure requirements. responsibility for sustainability issues and operational These issues are prepared by the audit committee responsibility rests with managers in the line organisation. before consideration by the Board. A number of items in Sustainability initiatives are monitored on an ongoing basis the income statement and balance sheet have been both internally and externally. The CFO and CEO have identified where the risk of material misstatement is regular business follow-ups with the market areas and significant. These risks can mainly be attributed to Svenska Skogsplantor. The Board submits the sustain­ measurement of standing forest, accruals and the IT ability report and the audit committee prepared work with systems which support operations. the report. Cooperation with local contractors and suppliers is Information and communication important for Sveaskog’s development. The code of Sveaskog has information and communication channels conduct, general sustainability requirements linked to the designed to promote the completeness and accuracy in Global Compact and detailed requirements for contractors financial reporting. For external communication there are control assessments of contractors. Follow-up takes the guidelines designed to ensure that the company meets the form of self-assessments and internal audits. Nonowner’s requirement that reporting is carried out in conformances are reported in the business management accordance with Nasdaq Stockholm’s listing agreement. system. There is also an annual follow-up of framework agreements with external suppliers. Monitoring The external review consists of auditors reviewing the Monitoring is regulated in the Board’s formal work plan Sustainability Report. There is also an external audit and instructions to the CEO. according to ISO 14001 of the integrated business management system. There is an external audit of the Special review function FSC® certificate and annual surveys for customers, The Board considers that Sveaskog’s significant risks and employees, contractors, suppliers and the brand. risk areas are covered by the risk management process applied by the company. The CFO unit is assigned by the Values and code of conduct CEO to be responsible for risk inventories and con ducting Sveaskog’s values must permeate the corporate culture the risk management processes. The CFO unit is also and help all employees to adopt a common approach to responsible for a number of central controls combined with their day-to-day activities. 40 Sveaskog’s values: system for non-conformances or violations. This whistle­ • Customer focus blower function is available on the website and provides • Innovation guaranteed anonymity. Since the end of 2015 tis function • Simplicity has been external which means that the information is • Transparency managed and investigated by an external party. No notifications were received during 2015. The values cover: Under the leadership of lawyers and HR specialists, regular meeting are held in the different profit areas where • How Sveaskog conducts business questions about the code of conduct, entertainment Employees must be professional and understand customer guidelines and other ethical issues are discussed. needs, take initiatives and be innovative. • How employees should act at employees and If you wish to read more: colleagues Employees must be led by the vision, goals and strategies State ownership policy and show respect for the integrity and knowledge of their www.regeringen.se/regeringens-politik/bolag-medcolleagues. statligt-agande/sa-styrs-bolagen/ • How managers and leaders take special Sveaskog’s articles of association responsibility www.sveaskog.se/om-sveaskog/bolagsstyrning/ Managers and leaders must create an innovative climate and an open culture with feedback. Sveaskog’s code of conduct www.sveaskog.se/om-sveaskog/uppforandekod/ Sveaskog has a code of conduct that applies to all employ­ ees. Anyone concluding an agreement with customers, Swedish Companies Act suppliers, contractors and consultants must ensure and www.regeringen.se monitor that these comply with the code of conduct. Sveaskog’s managers shall ensure that the code of Swedish Code of Corporate Governance conduct is complied with in daily operations. The code www.bolagsstyrning.se must always been gone through with new employees, at performance reviews, procurements, operational followNasdaq Stockholm’s rules for issuers up, etc. The code of conduct is included as an appendix to http://www.nasdaqomx.com/digitalAssets/100/100963_ business and cooperation agreements. In order to ensure nasdaq-stockholms-regelverk-f--r-emitten­ compliance with the code there is a special reporting ter---2016-01-01.pdf 41 Board of Directors Helene Biström Eva Färnstrand Thomas Hahn Johan Hallberg Birgitta Johansson-Hedberg Education MSc.Eng MSc.Eng PhD Agronomics MSc.Econ BA, Psychology Degree Elected 2014 2008 2007 2012 2001 Born 1962 1951 1964 1974 1947 Position Chairman Board member Board member Board member Board member CEO Färnstrand projekt AB Researcher at Stockholm Investment Director/Under Resilience Centre Secretary at Swedish Government Offices Other assignments Ordförande Cramo Oyj. Chairman of Infranord AB and Board member of the Royal Board member of Lernia AB Chairman of Almi Stockholm Board member of KTH and Inlandsinnovation AB. Board Swedish Academy of and SOS Alarm Sverige AB Sörmland and Svenska Pöyry PLC member of Indutrade AB. Agriculture and Forestry. Linnésällskapet. Deputy Member of IVA, Royal Board member of the Nuclear Chairman of Resolutionsdele­ Swedish Academy of Waste Fund gationen. Board member of Engineering Sciences Copenhagen Economics, Sankt Lukas and Vitec AB Previous experience CEO of Norrenergi AB, Plant Manager Södra Cell Secretary to the Committee Investment banker HSBC President and CEO of Vattenfall in various positions, Mönsterås, CEO Tidningsof Inquiry on the Value of Investment Bank, Stockholm FöreningsSparbanken including Deputy CEO tryckarna, Business Area Ecosystem Services. Corporate Finance, Lenner & and Lantmännen Manager SCA. Board member Chairman of Economists for Partners. Chairman Teracom of Domsjö Fabriker, Södra the Environment. Involved in Group AB, Springwell Group Cell, Handelsbanken’s The Millennium Ecosystem AB, Oak Capital AB. Board regional bank in Stockholm Assessment and Intermember of Metria AB, City, Schibsted Trykk and governmental Platform for Arbetslivsresurs AR AB, Profilgruppen Biodiversity and Ecosystem Teracom Boxer Group AB Services (IPBES) and Infranord AB Board meetings Attendance 10 of 10 9 of 10 10 of 10 10 of 10 10 of 10 Remuneration ComChairman – – – – mittee Attendance 1 of 1 Audit Committee – – – Member – Attendance 8 of 8 Property Committee Chairman – – Member Member Attendance 2 of 2 2 of 2 5 of 5 Remuneration 2015, SEK Board 285,417 150,000 150,000 – 150,000 Committee 26,889 40,000 Board members who resigned 2015: Göran Persson (resigned 16 June): attendance at Board meetings (Chairman) 5 of 5, attendance at Remuneration Committee (Chairman) 2 of 2, attendance at Property Committee (Chairman) 3 of 3. Total remuneration SEK 207,432. Mats G Ringesten (resigned 23 April): attendance at Board meetings 3 of 3, attendance at Remuneration Committee 1 of 1. Total remuneration SEK 50,222. Employee representatives who resigned ahead of 2015 Annual General Meeting: Per Eriksson, appointed deputy by Akademikerföreningen: attendance at Board meetings 3 of 3. Eva-Lisa Lindvall, appointed by Association of Managerial and Professional Staff: attendance at Board meetings 2 of 3. 42 Anna-Stina Sofia Gilliusson Sture Persson Thomas Esbjörnsson Lars Djerf Nordmark Nilsson Education BSc.Econ Elected 2006 2015 2003 2015 2010 Born 1956 1973 1957 1962 1966 Position Board member Employee representative, Employee representative Employee representative, Employee representative appointed by SI/Naturvetarna appointed by the Swedish appointed by Association of appointed by the Swedish Forest and Wood Trade union. Managerial and Professional Forest and Wood Trade Union. Harvester operator Staff. Logistician Harvester operator Other assignments Deputy Chairman of Svenska Kraftnät. Board member of Dedicare AB, PartnerInvest AB, Swedish Academy of Board Directors Previous experience CEO Företagarna, authorised public accountant and manager PwC, Healthcare Director Stockholm County Council, County Council Director Norrbotten. CEO Piteå-Tidningen. Director of Roads. Directorships in companies, hospitals, universities, foundations and organisations Board meetings Attendance 10 of 10 6 of 7 10 of 10 7 of 7 7 of 10 Remuneration Com– – – – – mittee Attendance Audit Committee Chairman – Member – – Attendance 8 of 8 8 of 8 Property Committee – Member – – – Attendance 3 of 3 Remuneration 2015, SEK Board 150,000 – – – – Committee 40,000 Auditors Audit firm Deloitte AB with Hans Warén, born 1964, as auditor in charge. Deloitte AB has address Rehnsgatan 11, SE-113 79 Stockholm. 43 Group Management Per-Olof Wedin Per Matses Nina Arkeberg Viveka Beckeman Eva Karlsson Berg Fredrik Klang Tommy Nilsson Position President and CEO Deputy CEO, CFO PA to the CEO. co-opted SVP Legal Affairs and SVP Central Market SVP South Market SVP North Market member of Group Mgmt Property Area (from March 2015) Area Area Education MSc.Eng MBA MSc Business AdminisLLB MSc.Eng MSc Forestry and PhD MSc Forestry tration & Management from SLU Born 1955 1958 1967 1971 1959 1970 1954 Employed 2011 2010 2011 2012 2015 2000 1999 Assumed current position 2011 2010 2011 2012 2015 2012 2012 Previous experience CEO of Svevia, Head Executive Vice PA to CEO of Svevia General Counsel Managerial positions Regional Manager Forest Manager at and other of Stora Enso business President and and Grycksbo Aditro Holding, lawyer within Stora Enso past Sveaskog Götaland, Domänverket (the assignments areas Uncoated Administrative Director Pappersbruk at Advokatfirman 20 years District Manager and Swedish Forestry Magazine Paper and at Apoteket AB, Vinge, Clark at the Head of Silviculture, Service), Account Pulp, head of Transport Finance Director at Court of Appeal, law AssiDomän Forestry. Executive at Assiand Distribution unit, Postgirot Bank and clerk at Helsingborg Domän, Market Area CEO of Grycksbo Finance Director at District Court Manager at Sveaskog Pappersbruk, managePosten ment positions at SCA Other assignments: Other assignments: and Modo Other assignments: Deputy Chairman of Board member of Board member of SunPine AB Shorelink and Other assignments: Setra Group AB Effektivare Board member of Skogsbränsle System Setra Group AB Lena SammeliInger Thorén Jan Wintzell Linda Andersson Karin Ericsson Herman Sundqvist Johansson Emilsson Position SVP Svenska SVP HR and CommuSVP Business DevelSVP Communications SVP HR SVP Forestry Skogsplantor nications (fr Feb 2016) opment & Innovation Education MSc Forestry BA HR and Psychology MSc Forestry BA Communications BSc Sociology MSc Forestry and Science PhD, SLU Born 1959 1965 1961 1971 1956 1963 Employed 1985 2016 2013 2004 2001 1994 Assumed current position 2005 2016 2013 2004 2001 2008 Previous experience Nursery Manager, Leading positions at Leading positions at Partner and communicPersonnel Manager, Forest Strategy and other Regional Manager, TeliaSonera, Stora Pöyry Management ations consultant Administration Manager at Sveaskog, assignments Marketing Manager at Enso and Akademiska Consulting Gullers Grupp, MR Manager, Personnel Silvicultural Manager at Svenska Skogsplantor sjukhuset in Uppsala Manager at Posten, Secretary and Welfare AssiDomän Forestry MR Officer at Vattenfall Officer at Norrbotten Other assignments: Other assignments: County Council. Board Chairman of Skogforsk, Chairman of the Member of the Swedish member of the SLA Chairman of Swedish Committee for Forest Industry FederForest Section and Forestry Association, Seedling Protection ation’s Communications Chairman of SLA Norr Member of the Board in Forestry and the Council of KSLA, the Forestry Swedish Forest Industry’s Forest Nursery Association. Committee and Swe Tree Technologies Member of Group Management through February 2016 44 Älvsbacka Strand in Skellefteå comprises three six-storey buildings, built mainly of wood, where each building contains 18 apartments. 45 Note S1 | About the sustainability report Sveaskog describes its sustainability work and reports its for Sveaskog’s external and internal stakeholders to take performance against objectives for sustainable business in into account, the work is based on a materiality assess­ a sustainability report which is published in March each ment carried out and decided upon by the Sustainability year and relates to the period 1 January–31 December. Council. First, all aspects of GRI’s requirements were From 2014 the report is prepared in accordance with the analysed on the basis of how important they are for the Global Reporting Initiative’s guidelines (GRI G4) and work with sustainable development which Sveaskog has externally assured. The report thereby adheres to the identified as significant and where each aspect’s effect owner’s guidelines for external reporting. The Global is greatest, within or outside the company. Based on the Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a network-based organisation identified aspects the various indicators were analysed working in cooperation with the UN Environment Pro­ and a decision taken in the Sustainability Council as to gramme. The organisation has drawn up global guidelines which should be reported. for how companies report information related to sustain­ The report includes a total of 21 of GRI’s indicators able development. Detailed information about GRI and its which are listed with page references in the GRI index regulatory framework is available at www.globalreporting. published on www.sveaskog.se. All GRI’s profile dis­­org. clos­ures are reported. Sveaskog complies with GRI’s guidelines and reports the results achieved for the reporting period against the Boundaries background of the undertakings, strategies and sustain­ The information applies to the whole of the Sveaskog ability governance. The intention is to present, measure Group, unless stated otherwise. The Group includes the and accept responsibility towards stakeholders, both within wholly owned subsidiary Sveaskog Baltfor SIA. The and outside the company, for what has been achieved in sawmill group Setra Group AB, which is owned to 50% by work towards sustainable business. Sveaskog AB, is not included in the sustainability report The 2015 sustainability report, which comprises pages except for that part of the financial result for Setra Group 6–11, 28–32, 76–80 in Sveaskog’s Annual Report AB which affects Sveaskog Förvaltnings AB’s earnings. with Sustainability Report 2015 and the GRI Index on Sveaskog has two members on Setra Group AB’s board www.sveaskog.se, meets the requirements for criteria and is thus able to influence Setra’s sustainability work. according to Core GRI G4 and is reviewed by the audit firm Deloitte AB. GRI guidelines are implemented in Global Compact internal work with sustain­ability issues and the information Sveaskog has supported the UN Global Compact initiative in the indicators meets GRI’s criteria in the indicator since 2005 and thereby takes a clear stance on issues protocol. The Board’s signature of the 2015 Sustainability related to human rights, social conditions, environmental Report and the Auditors’ limited assurance report will responsibility, freedom of association and anticorruption. be found on page 74 in Sveaskog’s Annual Report with The Global Compact is derived from the Universal Sustainability Report 2015 (in Swedish) and on page Declaration of Human Rights, the Rio Declaration on 81 respectively. Environment and Development which means that Sveaskog commits to working proactively to minimise Scope of the report environmental risks throughout the company, the ILO’s Sveaskog’s ambition is to provide a comprehensive report Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at of sustainability initiatives, where both negative and Work and the OECD’s principles and guidelines for how positive development is clearly stated. Sustainability work multinational enterprises should conduct responsible is based on the code of conduct and the policies and business. More information about the Global Compact is guidelines which govern operations. The undertakings available at www.globalcompact.org. Sveaskog works to resulting from certification and various memberships, substantiate how these principles are reflected in the ­including FSC® and Global Compact, are of major business. Each year a “Communication on Progress” (CoP) significance for sustainability work. report is submitted to the Global Compact presenting the To support the issues that have the most effect on GRI indicators associated with the principles. Sveaskog as a company and which are most significant 46 Note S2 | Materiality assessment Every year, the company performs an analysis of the entire of the issues that Sveaskog regards as strategically value chain in order to identify and work with the most important and the issues that stakeholders regard as most relevant environmental, social and economic issues. This important. The order of the aspects within each of the four provides the company with an understanding of how it fields has no significance. affects others. The materiality assessment is an aggregate Hunting, fishing and outdoor activities Confidence Local work and assignment providers Economic performance Coexistence Climate effects High Customer satisfaction Biodiversity Equal opportunity, diversity and skills supply Significance for stakeholders Occupational health and safety Discrimination Research and development Low Use of land and water Low High Significance for Sveaskog and opportunities to influence For the most significant areas within sustainability the GRI aspects and indicators as well as where influence mainly occurs are specified below. The entire GRI index with explanations is available at www.sveaskog.se. Identified Influence mainly GRI aspects occurs GRI indicators Confidence Supplier assessments relating to environ­ Outside the company EN32, LA14, HR10, SO9 ment, labour practices, human rights and impact on society Economic Economic performance Within and outside the EC1 performance company Climate effects Energy, Emissions, Economic Performance Outside the company EN3-4, EN15-17, EC2 Customer satisfaction Labelling of products and services Within the company PR5 Biodiversity Biodiversity Within and outside the EN12-13 company Equal opportunity, Employment, Occupational health and Within the company LA1, LA6, LA9, LA11-13, HR3 diversity and skills safety, Training and education, Diversity supply and equal opportunity. De värden Sveaskog skapar fördelas på olika intressenter enligt nedan: 47 Note S3 | Stakeholder dialogues Sveaskog has structured and documented stakeholder dialogues. This overview shows the key issues for the ten principal stakeholders. Issues 2015 What is Sveaskog doing? Dialogue opportunities Customers Product quality, efficient logistics, FSC® certification, measures delivery Survey Customer Satisfaction Index, renewable vehicle fuels, technical precision, develops new fuels, timber business development discussions development, FSC® and traceability, traceability, market prices, code of Sveaskog’s role in the market, conduct reliability, long-term relationships Owner Market return, profitability and Financial targets and targets for susGeneral meetings, Board meetings, sustainable business tainable business, corporate govdialogue with the Chairman of the ernance report, sustainability report Board Lending Financial targets, stable financial Reports financial targets, financial Company presentations, business institutions flows, sustainable business, new policy, prioritises long-term business discussions and credit business opportunities relationships and customers with providers profitability potential Employees Skills development and supply, equal Internal training programmes, Performance reviews and employee opportunity, occupational health and supports job rotation, active recruit­ days, employee survey, leader days, safety, organisation ment, work environment efforts and leader programme, trade union cooperdevelops the organisation ation, valuation dialogue with “the growth game”, workplace meetings Contractors Developed and long-term cooperation, Long-term cooperation, partner Contractor Satisfaction Index, renewable energy, sustainable forest contractors, cooperation projects, business development discussions, management, contract/ remuneration information and evaluations evaluations issues, training and working environ­ ment, attractiveness of forest industry Timber Ability to pay, market prices, renew­ Good liquidity, market prices, FSC® Supplier Satisfaction Index, FSC® suppliers able energy, quality of felling assign­ planning for felling assignments, cooperation, forest days ments, skills supply, working environ­ develops new fuels, information ment, information about services, activities technical development Tourism Grants land concessions, lease prices, Leases, investments in recreation Ecopark inaugurations, hunt leader companies, forest and land for outdoor activities areas and ecoparks, roads and signs, meetings, consultations, business hunters, as well as grazing damage information on the website discussions, SVP Forestry Herman anglers, etc. Sundqvist’s blog Reindeer Considerate silvicultural measures and Formalised consultations, better Consultations about silvicultural herders concessions that do not affect rein­ maps, projects to develop land usage measures, cooperation within deers’ winter grazing – coexistence Swedish FSC® Authorities Swedish Forestry Act, national Annual audits, business management Consultations regarding ecoparks and environmental objectives system, follow-up of goals and key inaugurations, annual general meetings, indicators SVP Forestry Herman Sundqvist’s blog Nature Biodiversity, national conservation Targets for sustainable business, Excursions, cooperation, SVP Forestry conservation environmental objectives and targets, Herman Sundqvist’s blog organisations FSC® membership, nature con­ servation strategy 48 Employees Relates to the entire Sveaskog Group unless otherwise specified. All employees Note S6 | Breakdown of employees included in the data have employment contracts with the Group. Since the number of contractors hired during the year varies, these are not included in the audit. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Women, %* 20.2 19.9 19.7 19.8 21.0 Men, %* 79.8 80.1 80.3 80.2 79.0 Note S4 | Number of employees Women/men on the Board, %** 67/33 50/50 43/57 50/50 67/33 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Women/men in group management, % 33/67 30/70 36/64 36/64 45/55 Permanent employees 726 702 693 678 688 Women managers, % 23 27 26 22 24 Average number of employees incl. temporary employees* 1,008 949 899 877 851 * Starting in 2015 relates to proportion of permanent employees and not average. Number of wage-earners 314 288 293 287 282 ** Elected by Annual General Meeting. Number of salaried employees 412 414 400 391 406 Year of birth of Board members and members of Group Management specified Proportion of part-time/ in the presentations on pages 42–44. permanent employees, % 1.2 1.3 2.2 1.6 1.3 Proportion of full-time/ permanent employees, % 98.8 98.7 97.8 98.4 98.7 Note S7 | Relation between men’s and women’s Number of HR managers 102 93 95 91 96 salaries Average age, years 48 48 48 48 48 Employees within different age groups 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 –29 122 97 94 89 92 Wage earners 30–49 415 403 384 369 336 Women/men 17/283 16/252 21/250 18/248 23/241 50– 471 449 421 419 423 Women’s median salary Proportion recruited internally, % 50 79 60 61 64 in relation to men’s, % 95 91 86 86 87 * Total number of hours worked/1,650. Salaried employees Women/men 113/283 113/285 108/277 103/274 115/279 Women’s median salary in relation to men’s, % 98 99 99 99 97 The comparison does not take into account that different requirements are Note S5 | Number of permanent employees made for different positions but only provides an overview of salary structure by market area per agreement area. Salary information and number of employees refer to permanent employees in Sweden (excluding foreign subsidiaries). Market area/region 2012 2013 2014 2015 North* 239 214 207 215 Note S8 | Employee turnover Central* 233 257 249 247 South* 139 131 135 141 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Stockholm** 55 54 52 55 Total, % 6.6 5.9 6.2 4.6 5.5 Latvia/Lithuania 33 34 34 29 Finland 3 3 1 1 Women/men By age group By market area * Including employees in staffs stationed within the market area. Joined Left Joined Left Joined Left ** Stationed at the head office in Stockholm. 22/30 5/33 –30: 14 3 North 14 4 30–50: 29 13 Central 19 16 50–: 9 22 South 15 12 Stockholm 4 1 Latvia 0 5 Note S9 | Sickness absence * Proportion of employees employed for at least three years with no sickness absence during the past two years. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 ** Work-related injuries: accidents, travel accidents, Sickness absence total, % 2.0 2.1 2.6 2.7 2.5 work-related illnesses which on reporting date are expected to lead to absence. Also includes minor Sickness absence women, % 2.4 3.4 3.1 3.4 3.4 injuries at a first-aid level. Contractor’s accidents are not included. Work-related injuries are reported in Sickness absence men, % 1.9 1.8 2.5 2.6 2.2 SKIA, the forest industry’s information system for Long-term sickness absence, % of total sickness absence 41.4 36.1 49.7 45.4 34.5 working environment operated by AFA Insurance on behalf of the industry. Injuries are not reported by Long-term health, %* 42.9 43.3 44.4 41.3 36.1 region, but follow-up takes place in the local safety committees within each market area. Notified work-related injuries**/1,000 average employees 6.0 9.5 4.4 6.8 3.5 *** Total number of injuries divided by hours worked Notified work-related injuries, according to GRI*** 7.2 11.5 5.4 8.3 4.3 x 200,000. Total absentee days due to work-related injuries (working days)**** 52 261 33 128 14 **** All absentee days (of planned working days) commenced within two days of the work-related Sickness absence due to work-related injuries, % 0.02 0.13 0.02 0.10 0.008 injury. 49 Note S10 | Average number of training hours by employee and year breakdown by employee category* 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Number of training hours, wage earners, average 39 37 46 37 52 Number of training hours, salaried employees, average 47 41 45 33 35 Key number training hours/employee 5.3 days 4.9 days 6 days 4.4 days 5.4 days 43 hours 39 hours 46 hours 35 hours 43 hours * Average number of employees. Note S11 | Proportion of workforce covered by a collective agreement In Sweden, 100% of employees are covered by a collective agreement. Those not covered by a collective agreement are employed in the subsidiary SIA Sveaskog Baltfor registered office in Riga, Latvia. The proportion of employees covered by collective agreements is therefore 96%. Note S12 | Environmental data 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Production All deliveries, thousand m3sub 10,605 10,721 10,807 10,838 10,748 Deliveries form own forests, thousand m3sub 5,704 5,962 6,255 6,561 6,570 Biofuel deliveries, thousand m3sub 1,498 1,479 1,359 999 868 Energy consumption Non-renewable fuels, TJ 1,750 1,781 1,806 1,752 1,519 Renewable fuels, TJ – – 109.1 80.5 233 Indirect energy consumption, MWh 10,143 9,509 9,254 9,222 9,136 Emissions to air * Fossil CO2, ktonnes 133 134 138 153** 146 Of which direct emissions, ktonnes 18.5 14 13 16 14 Of which indirect emissions, Scope 2, ktonnes 0.067 0.056 0.051 0.052 0.052 Of which indirect emissions, Scope 3, ktonnes *** 114.5 120 125 137 132 Land Total land area, million ha 4.1 4.1 4.0 4.0 4.0 Of which productive forest land, million ha 3.1 3.1 3.1 3.1 3.1 Proportion of unfelled total growth, % **** 44 39 40 35 36 * Sveaskog reports the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide and complies with the guidelines of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. ** Starting with 2014 reporting both production and distribution of fuel are included in the emissions calculation which means that carbon dioxide emissions have increased. *** Scope 3 includes felling, transport by road, sea and rail, road building, silviculture and business travel. **** Including uncultivated forests. 50 GRI index The below index provides an account of Sveaskog’s reporting according to Global Reporting Initiative’s guidelines GRI level Core and where the information can be found. P = page All page references below refer to Sveaskog’s Annual Report/Sustainability Report 2015, in Swedish W = www.sveaskog.se Content index Standard disclosures Where to find information Comments Strategy and Analysis Indicator G4-1 Statement from the CEO about the relevance of sustainability for the organisation and its strategy 2–3 Organisational profile Indicator G4-3 Name of the organisation Cover G4-4 Primary brands, products and/or services 4 G4-5 Location of the organisation’s headquarters Back cover G4-6 Number of countries where the organisation operations and names of countries where the organisation has significant operations 4 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 2, 4, 37, 60 G4-8 Markets served 4, 16, 18, 20, 22 G4-9 Scale of the organisation 4, 13, 47, 80 G4-10 Number of employees by employment contract, employment type, region and gender 3, 7, 14, 28, 80 G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 80 96% G4-12 Description of organisation’s supply chain 14, 28 G4-13 Change regarding the organisation’s size, structure, ownership or supply chain 28, 37–41 G4-14 How the precautionary principle is approached 8, 30–31, 76 G4-15 List of externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives 3, 8, 28, 40, 76 Global compact, The Haga to which the organisation subscribes or which it endorses Initiative, BioInnovation G4-16 Membership of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organisations 3, 8. 15, 28, 40, 76 Sveaskog is a member of several industry organisa­ tions: The Forestry Research Institute of Sweden, IVA, Svebio, Forest Stewardship Council, UN Global Com­ pact, Eustafor, SLA, Forest Based Sector Technology Platform Identified material aspects and boundaries Indicator G4-17 Entities included in the organisation’s consolidated financial statements 76 G4-18 Process for defining the report content (materiality assessment) 7–8, 76–78 G4-19 Aspects identified in the process for defining report content 7–8, 77 G4-20 Aspect boundary within the organisation for each material aspect 77 G4-21 Aspect boundary outside the organisation, for each material aspect 77 G4-22 The effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements 9–10, 32, 80 G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries 76 Stakeholder engagement Indicator G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation 7–8, 77–78 G4-25 Basic for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 7–8, 77–78 G4-26 Organisation’s approach to stakeholder engagement 7, 78 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has 7–8, 77–78 responded to these key topics and concerns Report profile Indicator G4-28 Reporting period 76 G4-29 Date of most recent report 76 G4-30 Reporting cycle 76 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Inside back cover G4-32 GRI content index www.sveaskog.se G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 8, 76 Governance Indicator G4-34 Governance structure for the organisation 37–41 Ethics and integrity Indicator G4-56 Organisation’s values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour such as codes of conduct and code of ethics 6–7, 26, 28, 40–41 51 Report content Specific standard disclosures Material aspects Governance (DMA) Where to find information Comments Economic impact Economic performance G4 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 2, 7, 13, 32–35, 40–41, W 7–8 G4 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organisation’s, 2, 7–8, 33–35, 40–41, W 32, 33–35 activities due to climate change Environmental impact Energy G4 EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation 7–8, 11, 15, 30–32, 80 33–35, 40–41, W G4 EN4 Energy consumption outside the organisation ” 80 Biodiversity G4 EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in ” 8, 11, 30–31, W protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas G4 EN13 Habitats protected or restored ” 30–31, W Emissions G4 EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) ” 11, 32, 80 G4 EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2) ” 11, 32, 80 G4 EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3) ” 11, 32, 80 Supplier Environmental Assessment G4 EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 7, 10, 28, 33–35, 40–41, W 28 Social impact – Labour practices and decent work Employment G4 LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group 8, 10, 26, 33–35, 40–41, W 79 gender and region Occupational health and safety G4 LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and ” 79 Sveaskog deviates and does total number of work-related fatalities, by region and gender not report work-related injuries by region and gender 1) Training and education G4 LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category ” 26, 80 Sveaskog deviates and does not report training days by gender 2) G4 LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, ” 26 Sveaskog deviates and by gender and employee category does not report perform­ ance reviews by gender and employee category 3) Diversity and equal opportunity G4 LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category, ” 42–44, 79 Sveaskog does not register according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity employee minority group membership or ethnicity. G4 LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, ” 79 by significant locations of operation Supplier assessment for labour practices G4 LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labour practices criteria 7, 10, 28, 33–35, 40–41, W 28 Social impact – human rights Non-discrimination G4 HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 7, 26, 33–35, 40–41, W 7, 41 Supplier Human Rights Assessments G4 HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria 7, 10, 33–35, 40–41, W 28 Social impact – organisation’s role in society Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society G4 SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society 7, 10, 28, 33–35, 40–41, W 28 Social impact – product responsibility Product and service labelling G4 PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 8–9, 33–35, 40–41, W 8–9, 77–78 1) Since this applies in so few cases which means that anonymity cannot be guaranteed. 2) Sveaskog will examine the feasibility of also breaking down this information by gender in future. 3) Sveaskog will examine the feasibility of also breaking down this information by general and employee category in future. 52 Sveaskog AB Reg. no. 556558-0031 SE-105 22 Stockholm Tel +46 8 655 90 00 Visitors’ address: Torsgatan 4 Mail: info@sveaskog.se www.sveaskog.se Contact: Charlotte Jönsson charlotte.jonsson@sveaskog.se Tel: +46 8 655 92 74 53
