Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group MUFG Report 2015 Integrated Report Editorial Overview We, Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, or MUFG, have compiled our integrated report, MUFG Report 2015, in order to explain our efforts to create sustained value to our investors and other stakeholders. Referencing the framework provided by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC)*, this report introduces our business model through the opening section (“Who We Are”), and explains our methods to create sustainable value through “Corporate Value Initiatives” and “Corporate Value Foundation.” Further detail information on our Corporate Social Responsibility is available on our website. * A private sector foundation established in 2010 by companies, investors, accountant organizations and administrative agencies to develop an international framework for corporate reporting. Page 2 Page 10 Who We Are Management Message In order to convey a full understanding of MUFG’s Group CEO Nobuyuki Hirano looks back on the past business model, we outline our current situation ten years since our establishment, describes the and give an account of our ten-year history. results and challenges of the previous medium-term plan, and outlines the new medium-term plan which 2 MUFG Overview starts in April 2015. Group CFO Muneaki Tokunari 8 MUFG – The First Ten Years explains MUFG’s financial and capital management. 10 CEO Message 18 CFO Message Disclaimer This report contains forward-looking statements in regard to forecasts, targets and plans of Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. (“MUFG”) and its subsidiaries and affiliates (collectively, “the Group”). These forward-looking statements are based on information currently available to the Group and are stated in this document on the basis of the outlook at the time that this document was produced. In addition, in producing these statements certain assumptions (premises) have been utilized. These statements and assumptions (premises) are subjective and may prove to be incorrect and may not be realized in the future. The Group has no obligation or intent to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document. In addition, information on companies and other entities outside the Group that is included in this document has been obtained from publicly available information and other sources. The accuracy and appropriateness of that information has not been verified by the Group and cannot be guaranteed. All figures contained in this report are calculated according to Japanese generally accepted accounting principles, unless otherwise noted. MUFG Report 2015 Page 22 24 Business Group Strategies Corporate Value 24 Retail Banking Business Initiatives 28 32 Domestic Corporate Banking Business Global Business Our vision is to be the world’s most trusted financial 36 Trust Assets Business group. We explain how each business group creates value in their efforts to reach this vision. 40 Global Markets Business 44 Special Feature: Becoming a Leading Financial Group in Asia In December 2013, we converted the leading Thai commercial bank, Bank of Ayudhya, into a subsidiary. We give an outline of the Bank and its future strategy. 46 Special Feature: Strategic Alliance with Morgan Stanley In 2008 we started our strategic alliance with Morgan Stanley. We describe our deepening relationship and the growing areas of cooperation. Page 48 50 Special Feature: Corporate Value Building a Governance Structure which Supports Corporate Value Foundation 54 Interview with Outside Director We explain our management system, including 56 Management Team corporate governance and risk management 59 Advisory Board Members framework, and outline our human resources 60 Risk Management and ICT strategies. We explain our approach 64 Compliance to Corporate Social Responsibility. 65 Internal Audit 66 Responding to Global Financial Regulation 68 Human Resources Strategy 70 ICT Strategy 71 Sustainability 76 Supporting SME Growth, Regional Economies 78 Financial Data / Company Data 84 Consolidated Financial Statements 78 Five-Year Major Financial Data (FY 2010-FY 2014) 88 Company Overview 79 Financial Review for the Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2015 MUFG Report 2015 1 Who We Are MUFG Overview Corporate Vision The corporate vision serves as the basic policy in conducting our business activities, and provides guidelines for all group activities. The corporate vision also is the foundation for management decisions, including the formulation of management strategies and management plans, and serves as the core value for all employees. OUR MISSION To be a foundation of strength, committed to meeting the needs of our customers, serving society, and fostering shared and sustainable growth for a better world. OUR VISION Be the world’s most trusted financial group 1. Work together to exceed the expectations of our customers 2. Provide reliable and constant support to our customers 3. Expand and strengthen our global presence OUR VALUES 1. Integrity and Responsibility 2. Professionalism and Teamwork 3. Challenge Ourselves to Grow Details on our corporate vision are available on our website. http://www.mufg.jp/english/profile/philosophy/ 2 MUFG Report 2015 MUFG Value Creation Model Providing High-quality Services Group Comprehensive Strength Strong Sustainable Global Customer Base Growth Network Enhancing Trust Financial Strength Evolution and Reform for Further Growth MUFG Report 2015 3 Comprehensive Group Strength MUFG provides high-value-added financial services to customers through group companies including commercial bank, trust bank and securities company, and through its strategic partners. Strategic Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. alliance (MUFG) Morgan Stanley*1 Holding Company Mitsubishi UFJ Mitsubishi UFJ The Bank of TokyoMitsubishi UFJ Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Securities Holdings Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. NICOS Co., Ltd. Lease & Finance Corporation Co., Ltd. Company Limited*1 (BTMU) (MUN) (MUTB) (MUSHD) Mitsubishi UFJ Mitsubishi UFJ MUFG Kokusai Asset Morgan Stanley Union Bank, N.A. ACOM CO., LTD.*2 Management Securities Co., Ltd. (MUB) Co., Ltd. (MUMSS) Bank of Ayudhya Morgan Stanley Public Company MUFG Securities Limited Co., Ltd.*1 (Krungsri) (MSMS) *1 Mitsubishi UFJ Lease & Finance, Morgan Stanley and Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities are equity method investees. *2 Acom is an equity method investee under U.S. GAAP. Financial Strength As a financial institution that plays a vital role in providing social and economic stability through generations, our own financial stability and sound management are essential to us. MUFG already satisfies the global capital standards required by Basel III in 2019: Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Ratio, Tier 1 Capital Ratio and Total Capital Ratio. MUFG also maintains high ratings from both Japanese and global rating agencies. Long-Term Ratings Secured by Major Group Companies (as of June 30, 2015) S&P Moody’s Fitch R&I JCR MUFG A A2 – A+ AA– BTMU A+ A1 A AA– AA MUTB A+ A1 A AA– AA MUSHD A A3 – AA– AA MUB (U.S.) A+ A2 A – – Krungsri (Thailand) BBB+ Baa1 A– – – Reference: Japanese Government AA– A1 A AA+ AAA 4 MUFG Report 2015 “Business Groups” to Activate Comprehensive Group Strengths The five business groups established under the holding company manage the relevant subsidiaries and promote horizontal initiatives across the Group. Breakdown of Net Operating Profits by Business Group Global Markets Business Group Retail Banking Business Group We promote market-related business We provide a wide range of products (bonds, forex, equities, derivatives) and services to meet the needs of and are responsible for Asset Liability individual customers from housing Management (ALM). 21% 18% loans to asset management, inheritance and consumer finance. 4% 27% 30% Domestic Corporate Banking Business Group We provide lending, settlement, Trust Assets Business Group forex, and asset management We provide asset management and Global Business Group services to meet the diverse needs fund administration services: pensions, (including Bank of Ayudhya) of our clients, through our domestic investment trusts, global asset We respond to the funding needs of corporate and overseas networks. We also management and investor services. customers around the world as well as utilize our Group-wide expertise to providing cash propose solutions for client’s busimanagement and ness strategies and challenges. advisory services. We also provide retail service in the United States and Thailand. MUFG Capital Ratios and Basel III Requirements % 18 MUFG 15.68 12.62 12 12.0 11.14 11.0 10.0 10.0 Total Capital Ratio 9.0 9.0 8.5 8.0 8.0 7.5 7.0 6.5 6 6.0 Tier 1 Capital Ratio 5.5 4.5 Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Ratio 0 Mar 31, 2015 Mar 31, 2015 Mar 31, 2016 Mar 31, 2017 Mar 31, 2018 From Mar 31, 2019 (Results) Levels required by Basel III regulations* * The capital levels required will be progressively raised up to 2019. Levels shown in the graph show projections as of June 30, 2015. 5 MUFG Report 2015 Global Network MUFG has a well-balanced domestic network and an extensive overseas network which outstrips any domestic peer. With approximately 90,000 domestic employees and 50,000 overseas employees, it is well placed to serve the global financial needs of its customers. Domestic Network*1 We have more than 1,100 locations in Japan. Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ and Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking provide a comprehensive ATM network through their own bank locations and through tie-ups East Japan with convenience stores and other banks. (incl. Tokyo) 553 locations Retail: 410 Corporate: 143 West Japan (incl. Osaka) Domestic Employees*2 Approx. 327 locations Central Japan (incl. Nagoya) Retail: 229 90,000 Corporate: 98 223 locations Retail: 149 Corporate: 74 Domestic ATMs Approx. 53,500 In-branch ATMs ATMs outside branches ATMs placed in Approx. Approx. convenience stores 4,800 3,700 Approx. (As of March 31, 2015) 45,000 Strong Customer Base In Japan, MUFG has a wide customer base spanning 40 million individual accounts and 400,000 corporate accounts. We also have many individual and corporate customers around the world. Deposits (As of March 31, 2015) Loans (As of March 31, 2015) Ranking Financial Institution Name Country Balance Ranking Financial Institution Name Country Balance name (trillion yen) name (trillion yen) 1 Industrial and Commercial China 307.0 1 Industrial and Commercial China 214.2 Bank of China Bank of China 2 China Construction Bank China 264.7 2 China Construction Bank China 185.0 3 Agricultural Bank of China China 256.4 3 Bank of China China 166.7 4 Bank of China China 223.8 4 Agricultural Bank of China China 157.3 5 JPMorgan Chase & Co. U.S. 164.3 5 HSBC U.K. 114.8 6 HSBC U.K. 158.3 6 MUFG Japan 108.3 7 MUFG Japan 153.3 Source: Compiled by Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Economic Research Office based on company financial materials * Loans exclude provision for credit losses Excludes governmental institutions MUFG Report 2015 6 Overseas Network*1 MUFG has over 1,150 locations in over 40 countries. Bank of Ayudhya Americas 426 (Krungsri) 658 locations locations Europe, Middle East and Africa 35 locations Asia and Oceania 64 locations Overseas Employees*2 Approx. 50,000 *1 Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking, Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Holdings (as of March 31, 2015) *2 Based on recruitment location Global Top-Class Deposits and Loans Balance Our loan and deposit balances are number one among private sector financial institutions in Japan and also rank high globally. Other (trillion yen) 2.1 Housing Overseas Loans Deposits 15.8 35.4 Domestic Overseas Individual Loans Deposit Deposits Loan Domestic Balance 41.0 Balance* Corporate 70.4 153.3 109.4 Loans Domestic 42.4 Corporate Deposits Government 47.4 Loans 7.9 * Bank account + Trust account (As of March 31, 2015) MUFG Report 2015 7 Who We Are MUFG – The First Ten Years MUFG is approaching its tenth anniversary. During this period, we have created the foundation for sustainable future growth. 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2010 Establishment of Bank of Establishment of Formation of Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS, Stanley Securities and Morgan Complete repayment of Mitsubishi UFJ Lease & Stanley MUFG Securities public funds Finance 2005 2008 2011 Establishment of Mitsubishi UFJ Strategic capital partnership Capital and operational tie-up with Financial Group (MUFG) with Morgan Stanley AMP Capital (Australia) After reaching a Amid the global financial crisis, MUFG Establishment of the Scholarship basic agreement invested US$9 billion in Morgan Stanley Program of the MUFG NFUAJ East on integration in (U.S.) as part of its efforts to strengthen Japan Earthquake Recovery and August 2004, investment banking. Scholarship Fund. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group (MUFG) was created through the merger of Mitsubishi Tokyo Financial Group and UFJ Holdings in October 2005. Establishment of Mitsubishi UFJ MUFG made UnionBancal Trust and Banking Corporation a wholly owned Establishment of Mitsubishi UFJ subsidiary Securities Investment and capital tie up with Establishment of Advisory Board Aberdeen Asset Management (U.K.) Formation of Jibun Bank ¥20,000 ACOM was made a consolidated 2.0% 6.0 billion shares subsidiary of MUFG (JGAAP only) 10-year JGB interest rates ¥15,000 1.5% 4.5 billion shares Nikkei 225 ¥10,000 1.0% 3.0 billion shares TSE First Section trading volume ¥5,000 0.5% 1.5 billion shares Domestic and overseas economic and social trends 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Transition to limited BOJ terminated Japan Post Overall population Nikkei 225 recorded European deposit guarantee zero interest rates privatization in Japan falls for its lowest postsovereign debt (“payoff”) scheme policy the first time in bubble closing crisis Start of subprime in Japan its history price of ¥7,054.98 Economic expanloan problems in General agreement Revaluation of sion surpasses the the United States L  ehman Brothers Start of Obama on Basel III in Chinese Renminbi largest post-war Shock administration in Europe boom the United States 8 MUFG Report 2015 Corporate Value Initiatives Corporate Value Foundation 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2012 2014 MUFG corporate vision was renewed Integration of Union Bank operations and Bank of MUFG corporate vision is renewed along with the start of the Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Americas business medium-term management plan from April 2012. Mediumto long-term vision is to be the world’s most trusted financial group. 2013 Conversion of Bank of Ayudhya (Krungsri), major Thai commercial bank, into a subsidiary. Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ converts Krungsri into a subsidiary. Formation of Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Start of full-fledged provision of PB Securities comprehensive financial services in ASEAN region, which is key to growth strategy. Capital and operational tie up with Vietnam Joint Stock 2015 Commercial Bank for Industry and Trade (VietinBank) Merger of two asset management Acquisition of Butterfield Fulcrum Group (current Mitsubishi companies to form Mitsubishi UFJ Kokusai UFJ Fund Services) Asset Management Driven to strengthen global asset administration business Change governance structure to a Establishment of Global Advisory Board company with three committees In order to create more transparent and effective governance as a global financial institution, MUFG changed from being a company with a board of corporate auditors to a company with three committees (nomination, remuneration and audit). Establishment of MUFG corporate governance plan Indicates the corporate governance direction and framework 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Great East Japan Start of second BOJ introduces NISA starts JGB interest rates Earthquake Abe administration quantitative and lowered, 10-year Consumption tax and Abenomics qualitative easing bonds under 0.2% Yen records postraised to 8% for the first time war high versus US Tokyo chosen to United States dollar (¥75.32 at host 2020 Nikkei 225 recovers quantitative one point) Olympics to ¥20,000 level easing ends Europe introduces quantitative easing MUFG Report 2015 9 CEO Message Linking the Achievements of the Past Decade to the Promise of the Decade to Come This year marks the tenth anniversary of the establishment of the Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group (MUFG). We have established a strong foundation as a comprehensive financial group based on our leading domestic position and expanding overseas business. In this section, Group CEO Nobuyuki Hirano reflects on our progress so far and our profile for the next decade. 10 MUFG Report 2015 CEO Message Retrospective on 1 Our Tenth Anniversary Strong progress as a comprehensive financial services group A start made under tough conditions This year marks the tenth anniversary of the establishment of the Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group (MUFG). In 2005, the Japanese economy was in a modest recovery phase despite the fact that the financial industry was still dealing with the repayment of public funding it had received during the Lost Decade and its aftermath. Once this issue was resolved, the industry believed that it could realistically look forward to a new phase of growth, only to be plunged into the financial crisis of 2008. The birth of MUFG took place at an inauspicious and difficult time. However, I believe that our response to the crisis, which so deeply marked the financial industry, allowed us to build our business structure. MUFG weathered the crisis successfully because of our strong capital foundation and lack of exposure to risky securitized financial assets such as subprime loans. The crisis also presented us with unprecedented opportunities. With an investment of US$9 billion, we forged a strategic relationship with Morgan Stanley and embarked on our long-held goal to create global investment banking capabilities. Over the last ten years, we have made strong progress toward our original vision of being number one in terms of providing the best customer service, embracing a global outlook, and being one of the most trusted financial institutions in the world. We have solidified our position as the leading bank in Japan and we have become one of the leading global financial institutions. Leveraging our four key strengths: an integrated group, a global network, strong customer base and a firm financial foundation, we are moving steadily toward achieving our goal of becoming a leading provider of comprehensive global financial services. Our competitive Group companies contribute to our comprehensive group capabilities MUFG’s domestic business spans a wide range of financial areas including banking, trusts, securities, as well as credit cards and leasing. In each sector, our Group companies have carved out leading positions, in many cases unmatched by our competitors, and synergies with and between the Group companies allow us to provide seamless services to our customers. Over the past ten years, our investment banking capabilities have improved dramatically. We have been able to tap the expertise and experience of Morgan Stanley through the merger which created Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities, and this company leads in the increasingly active business of Japanese company cross-border M&A. Like a world-class soccer team, we are combining the talents of individual players to generate higher levels of performance. MUFG Report 2015 11 CEO Message Global network and strong customer base MUFG operates in over 40 countries with over 1,150 worldwide locations. Our workforce is becoming increasingly diverse and global with 50,000 of our 140,000 employees outside of Japan. As a result, overseas business increasingly drives our profits. In our customer segment (retail banking business, domestic corporate banking business, global business and asset management/investor services business (trust assets business)), the proportion of net operating profits generated by our global business group has increased from 20% three years ago to around 40% now. In Japan, we have worked very hard to build and sustain trust with our customers, and our business now covers 40 million individual customer banking accounts and 400,000 corporate accounts. However, we know that financial institutions do not build trust with customers overnight, so we focus on long-term relationships. Over the past ten years, we have expanded our business to include not only Japanese companies, but also overseas corporations. Over 70% of our overseas corporate business profits now come from nonJapanese companies. Global Business Group Share of Customer Segment Net Operating Profits* Has Grown to around 40% in the Past Three Years 24% 39% FY 2011 FY 2014 * Global business group ÷ Customer segment (retail banking business, domestic corporate banking business, global business and asset management/investor services business (trust assets business)) 12 MUFG Report 2015 CEO Message Results and Challenges from Our 2 Previous Medium-Term Business Plan Three years of steady progress toward our goal to become the world’s most trusted financial group We have strengthened our domestic business over the past three years The previous medium-term business plan, which ended in fiscal 2014, set out two main objectives: “enhance and expand global business as a driving force for growth” and “contribute to the revitalization of the Japanese economy.” Looking back on the past three years, we can see we have made steady progress on both of these objectives. In Japan, the economy has offered limited opportunities for expansion and, as a result, the financial sector has been challenged by a period of market contraction. Consequently, our domestic profits have declined since the establishment of MUFG. However, our goal has always been to contribute to the recovery of the Japanese economy and we have re-invigorated our domestic business to support that aim. Leveraging our group strengths, we have worked to provide our retail and corporate customers with products that meet their needs in a timely manner. We have also introduced a number of products and services that meet the diverse asset management needs of our retail customers. In the corporate sector, we have paid particular attention to SMEs, providing them with value-added services. These include consultation banking to address issues they may be facing and assistance with business continuity processes when new generations of management emerge. Together with improvement in the market environment and consumer sentiment that have been the result of Abenomics, we have been able to overcome some of the negative impact caused by prolonged low interest rates and to move our domestic business onto a path of solid recovery. This is perhaps the most significant achievement during our medium-term business plan. Overseas business is the group growth driver Our overseas businesses have continued to be our main growth driver with our global business group producing an annual net operating margin trending at over 10%. In order to provide comprehensive financial services including retail in North America and Southeast Asia, we merged Union Bank in the United States with the Americas business of Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (BTMU); and in Thailand, we acquired the Bank of Ayudhya (Krungsri) and merged its operations with the Bangkok branch of BTMU. In addition, we have become the global number one* in project finance for three consecutive years. * Source: Project Finance A further challenge has been to move our profit driver to the customer segment and International Magazine away from the market segment where interest rates have made it difficult to generate gains on JGB sales. Our customer segment initiatives have helped to achieve this rebalance; this is another major achievement of the previous medium-term business plan. MUFG Report 2015 13 CEO Message Recognizing challenges in the previous medium-term business plan The previous medium-term business plan set a number of fiscal objectives based on growth, profitability and financial strength and we have worked steadily to achieve these goals. We succeeded in meeting targets for all categories with the exception of the consolidated expense ratio which was impacted by our aggressive investment in overseas business. We hit our target for the Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Ratio, which is a key indicator of financial health. This is the case even for the provisional figures which apply based on regulations to be implemented at the end of March 2019. Three major challenges became evident during the implementation of the medium-term business plan. The first was improving productivity, which can be viewed from a triple perspective: enhancing per-capita employee productivity; improving return on investment; and further increases in capital efficiency. The second challenge is to strengthen global corporate governance. Our overseas business profile is becoming more prominent as it continues to drive earnings and an appropriate response to global financial regulations is crucial. We need to be fully aware of and in compliance with, regulations in different markets and jurisdictions and to manage each region effectively from headquarters. Objective external viewpoints are crucial in strengthening corporate governance, whether they be customers, local communities, or regulatory authorities. We believe the role of independent non-executive directors as the representatives of these varied stakeholders is particularly important. The final challenge is calibrating our business model to respond to changes in the environment. This is a perennial issue, but it will become more important. For instance, new industries emerge and companies reconfigure their businesses in order to compete globally. To support this, financial institutions will need to create a model based not only on lending, but also rooted in a diverse and robust business mix. Review of Previous Medium-Term Business Plan (FY 2012-FY 2014) Growth FY 2011 results FY 2014 targets FY 2014 results Consolidated net operating profits 20% increase ¥1,044.8 billion ¥1,522.8 billion (+46%) (customer segment)*1 from FY 2011 Profitability Consolidated expenses ratio 56.9% Between 55-60% 61.1% (Non-consolidated) 50.4% Between 50-55% 54.8% Consolidated net income RORA*2 0.8% Approx. 0.9% 0.92% Consolidated ROE*2 7.75% Approx. 8% 8.74% Financial Strength Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Ratio Approx. 9% 9.5% or above 12.3% (full implementation)*3 9.6%*4 *1 Total of consolidated divisional profits for retail banking business, domestic corporate banking business, global business and asset management/investor services business (trust assets business) plus Bank of Ayudhya (Krungsri) *2 Fiscal 2011 results exclude negative goodwill associated with the application of equity-method accounting on our investment in Morgan Stanley *3 Calculated on the basis of regulations applied at the end of March 2019 *4 Excludes impact of net unrealized gains/losses on securities available for sale 14 MUFG Report 2015 CEO Message 3 Long-Term Management Strategy Consolidating our leading domestic position, aiming for Asian top league, US top ten The next ten years With all of these issues in mind, MUFG has framed its new medium-term business plan. We tried to predict the business environment ten years from now and then adopt measures for the next three years as a first step to meet the new challenges. Ten years from now, the aging of the Japanese population and the declining birthrate will still be critical problems and we have identified a number of additional key issues. Prominent among them are how to promote the role of women and seniors in society and how to nurture the next generation. The demographic and social structure will change along with transformative shifts including the evolution of compact cities and the explosive growth of information and communications technology (ICT). In this environment, the way we interact with customers will change and we believe the omni-channel format will become the effective way to do business*1. In the corporate sector, new industries will transform the way in which *1 Providing services to customcompanies emerge and the pace of globalization will increase. ers through the best mix of branches, ATMs, telephone In this new landscape, what course should MUFG follow? Our foundation remains the and Internet banking domestic business where we will continue to contribute to the revitalization of Japan and consolidate our position as the leader of the financial sector. In our overseas business, we will maximize the potential of Bank of Ayudhya and MUFG Union Bank, aiming to be in the top league in Asia while targeting a top ten position in appropriate sectors in the United States. In global corporate banking we plan to strengthen our business model, shifting from the current loan-centered business to include areas like transaction banking*2. We will also maximize asset efficiency through origination and *2 Business, such as deposits, distribution. The asset management business will become increasingly important as settlements and trade finance, that works through trade flows personal income levels rise and assets accumulate in regions with growing economies like the emerging markets. We want to build our presence and enhance our recognition as a financial group both domestically and overseas. We will not only strengthen our operational platform through ICT, which we expect to be a key in transforming the financial industry, but also enhance our management foundation comprising better corporate governance and information systems. MUFG Report 2015 15 CEO Message 4 Our New Medium-Term Business Plan Evolving to meet change while focusing on customer perspective, group-driven approach, and productivity improvements Responding to change, implementing reform Our new medium-term business plan is based on our view of the environment in ten years’ time and the goals we hope to achieve. It includes five basic policy pillars under the theme “Evolution and reformation to achieve sustainable growth for MUFG”. Under this theme, MUFG will implement strategic initiatives driven by the shared focuses of “customer perspective”, “group-driven approach”, and “productivity improvements”. “Customer perspective” calls on us to develop businesses based on an effective and accurate appreciation of changing needs. “Group-driven approach” urges us to emphasize inter-group company unity and find ways to optimize our business on an enterprise-wide basis. “Productivity improvements” is our commitment to boosting competitiveness by pursuing higher levels of effectiveness and efficiency. The intention is not simply to increase scale, but to pursue higher returns on capital and enhance capital efficiency. Based on our three shared group focuses, we have established seven group business strategies and four administrative practices and business foundation strategies linking all parts of our business both domestically and globally. New Medium-Term Business Plan (FY 2015-FY 2017) Our Vision Be the World’s Most Trusted Financial Group Basic Policy Group Business Strategies Evolution and reformation 1 Support wealth accumulation and stimulation of to achieve sustainable growth consumption for individuals 2 Contribute to growth of SMEs 1 Contribute to the revitalization of the 3 Reform global CIB*2 business model Japanese economy and strengthen Customer 4 Evolve sales and trading operations the business foundations in Japan to support steady growth Perspective 5 Develop global asset management and investor services operations 2 Enhance and expand global businesses Productivity 6 Further reinforce transaction banking operations as a driving force for growth 7 Strengthen commercial banking platforms in Asia and Improvements the United States 3 Upgrade and reform our business model and explore new business areas and Group-Driven customer segments Approach Administrative Practice and Business Foundation Strategies 4 Maintain a strong capital base and 1 Enhance Group administration practices and integrated improve ROE with sophisticated risk management financial and capital management 2 Strengthen and streamline the Group business platform 3 Upgrade Group financial and capital management 5 Build administration practices appropriate for a G-SIFI* 1 4 Promote MUFG global-based corporate communication *1 G-SIFI: Global Systemically Important Financial Institution *2 CIB: Corporate Investment Banking 16 MUFG Report 2015 CEO Message In Conclusion Maintaining the bonds of trust and confidence The market environment, including the financial sector, is constantly changing. Regulations are also in flux, often changing in tandem with economic and societal trends. However, for MUFG, one thing remains constant: no matter how much our environment changes, our fundamental social mission is the lifeblood of the economy. In addition, we want our business to contribute toward solutions that can help form a sustainable society. The Japanese economy is on the path to recovery and we feel this is exactly the right time for us to continue to provide our unique and strong support. As we pursue these initiatives, by far the most important element is the trust and confidence we have forged over a long period of time with our stakeholders. Through our long-term relationship of trust with our customers, we will grow together. We wish to share the results of this growth with our shareholders and investors and we are ever mindful of our fundamental social role. Thank you for your continued support and goodwill. July 2015 Nobuyuki Hirano President & Group CEO MUFG Report 2015 17 CFO Message We will implement “financial management” for sustainable growth and the enhancement of productivity, and “capital management” maintaining a balance of financial soundness, strategic investments for growth, and further enhancement of shareholder returns. July 2015 Muneaki Tokunari Managing Executive Officer Group CFO ROE Earnings (losses) per Share (EPS) % Yen 10 8.77 9.05 8.74 80 68.29 73.22 7.75*2 58.99 6.89 7.4*2 8.0 8.1 60 47.55*2 4.92 7.4 39.95 6.6 5 40 29.57 4.9 20 0 0 (3.97) (20) (4.0) (25.04) (5) FY*3 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (40) FY*3 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Tokyo Stock Exchange definition MUFG definition*1 *1 MUFG definition *2 Without the one-time effect of negative goodwill associated with the {Net income – Equivalent of annual dividends on nonconvertible preferred stocks} application of equity-method accounting on our investment in × 100 Morgan Stanley: {(Total shareholders’ equity at the beginning of the period – number of nonconvertible ROE (Tokyo Stock Exchange definition) = 10.6% preferred stocks at the beginning of the period × issue price + foreign currency translation adjustments at the beginning of the period) + (total shareholders’ equity at the end of the ROE (MUFG definition) = 11.10% period – number of nonconvertible preferred stocks at the end of the period × issue price EPS = ¥68.09 + foreign currency translation adjustments at the end of the period) ÷ 2} *3 Our fiscal year starts on April 1 and ends on March 31. 18 MUFG Report 2015 1 Financial Management CFO Message Establishment of Financial Targets Focusing on Sustainable Growth and Enhancement of Productivity Earnings review Fiscal Targets for the New Medium-Term Business Plan Results of the Fiscal Year 2014 (ended March 31, 2015) Targets in the Gross profits grew during the Fiscal Year 2014, driven Metrics fiscal year ending by overseas loans and the investment banking business. March 31, 2018 Net business profits for the fiscal year were ¥1,644.9 billion, an increase of ¥180.8 billion from the previous Increase 15% or more fiscal year as the growth in gross profits exceeded the Growth EPS from fiscal year ended increase in expenses. Bank of Ayudhya (Krungsri), which March 31, 2015 was newly consolidated from Fiscal Year 2014, contributed ¥107.8 billion to the increase in net business profits. ROE Between 8.5%-9.0% Profitability Net income for the Fiscal Year 2014 was ¥1,033.7 billion, Expenses ratio Approx. 60% an increase of ¥48.9 billion from the previous fiscal year, as increases in the earnings from equity method investees Financial Common Equity and extraordinary income more than offset an increase in 9.5% or above Strength Tier 1 Capital Ratio* credit costs and a decrease in net gain on equity securities. MUFG achieved its announced target for net income * Calculated on the basis of regulations applied at the end of March 2019 of ¥950 billion and recorded an historic high. (See P. 78 for Financial Data) Sustainable Growth In the new medium-term business plan, we introduced Progress on Financial Targets in the Previous “earnings per share (EPS)” as a new financial target to Medium-Term Business Plan announce the top management’s goal of achieving With the exception of the consolidated expenses ratio, sustainable profit growth. More specifically, in the next we achieved all the financial targets projected in the three fiscal years, we are aiming to increase EPS by 15% previous medium-term business plan. Expenses or more compared to the level recorded in the Fiscal Year exceeded our target because we aggressively allocated 2014. In order to achieve this growth, which surpasses the our resources to overseas businesses where we expect economic growth rate in Japan, we will implement all the significant growth in the near future. We also incurred business strategies, including global business expansion, higher expenses due to the cost of responding to set forth in the medium-term business plan, and appropriincreasingly more stringent global regulations. ate initiatives in capital management. (See P. 14 for Review of Previous Medium-Term Business Plan) Enhancement of Productivity in Human Resources, Financial Targets in the New Medium-Term Business Goods, and Capital Plan (ending March 31, 2018) To enhance productivity, which has been a challenge Concepts of the financial targets in the new since the previous medium-term business plan, we have medium-term business plan—Financial metrics set the following two productivity metrics as our financial for growth and productivity targets. “Return on equity (ROE)” is a metric for capital MUFG will enhance productivity during the new productivity while the “expenses ratio” measures producmedium-term business plan under the slogan of “evolutivity for human resources and goods including staff tion and reformation to achieve sustainable growth.” We and non-staff expenses. have established multiple financial metrics as targets for growth and productivity and we are working to meet Over the next three fiscal years, we will focus on sound these targets. financial management to meet these targets. The financial metrics for the final year of the mediumterm business plan are as stated in the following table. MUFG Report 2015 19 CFO Message 2 Capital Management Capital management with an appropriate balance of financial soundness, strategic investments for sustainable growth, and further enhancement of shareholder returns MUFG positions commercial banking as its core busiFurther Enhancement of Shareholder Returns ness, with a base in Japan, while also expanding its Our basic policy is to achieve stable and sustainable business globally. We believe that financial soundness is increases in the “dividend per share (DPS)” by increasing the foundation for us to take the role to provide both the our profits. We will also continue to consider repurchase economy and society with vitality and resources. We are of own shares, based on having a sufficiently strong implementing well-balanced management from the capital base even after complying with regulatory standpoint of financial soundness, strategic investment requirements, and also even after considering payout for for sustainable growth, and further enhancement of possible and foreseeable strategic investments for our shareholder returns. future growth. Capital Management Outline Dividend Per Share and Dividend Payout Ratio Yen 41% 30% 25%* 22% 23% 25% 27% Further Enhancement 20 12 12 12 13 16 18 18 of Shareholder Returns 15 9 9 9 10 6 6 6 7 5 9 9 6 6 6 6 7 Maximize MUFG 0 FY 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (Estimate) Corporate Value Strategic Maintenance Interim dividend per share Year-end dividend per share Investments of a Solid Dividend per share Dividend payout ratio (%) for Sustainable * The fiscal year 2011 dividend payout ratio excludes the one-time effect of negCapital Base Growth ative goodwill associated with the application of equity-method accounting on our investment in Morgan Stanley. Financial Soundness Seeking the Best Capital Mix As a Global Systemically Important Financial Institution Basel III is being progressively implemented and (G-SIFI), MUFG is required to maintain higher capital regulators in a number of countries are discussing the adequacy ratios compared to non G-SIFIs. As of March new capital requirements. In order to respond to those 31, 2015, we had already met the Basel III capital ratio regulatory requirements and to enhance ROE at the requirements for March 2019, as a result of strengthening same time, we will pursue the best capital mix among our capital base well in advance of the deadline. Common Equity Tier 1 Capital (i.e., capital and capital surplus); Additional Tier 1 Capital (i.e., perpetual subordiStrategic Investment for Sustainable Growth nated debt); and Tier 2 Capital (i.e., subordinated term We believe both organic growth based on our existing debt). During the Fiscal Year 2014, we issued Basel III customer base and businesses, and non-organic growth compliant bank capital securities in Japan, which was through strategic investments including M&A to capture the first time for a Japanese bank to issue such bonds new customers and business, are important for our in the domestic market. sustainable growth. We will use our capital in a timely and efficient manner to take advantage of opportunities for strategic investments, which support the long-term enhancement of our corporate value. Won the Bond of the Year award in Thomson Reuters DEALWATCH AWARDS 2014 20 MUFG Report 2015 3 Framework Supporting Financial and Capital Management CFO Message “Financial and Capital Management to Support Our Sustainable Growth” and “Enhancement of Internal and External Communication” Financial and Capital Management to Support Tax Management Sustainable Growth In order to strengthen our group tax management The followings are certain examples of our financial functions, MUFG has introduced a consolidated tax and capital management frameworks to support growth payment framework. We are working to enhance the tax of the entire MUFG group. management framework which supports our global business expansion, taking into account the fact that Finance Committee authorities around the world are focusing on collecting The Finance Committee is a sub-committee of the the appropriate levels of tax. Executive Committee. Its purpose is to deliberate on the optimal capital mix, adequate and appropriate responses Internal and External Communication to regulations and other related matters. These topics are Dialogue with Shareholders and Investors also actively discussed with outside directors and memOur financial management mission includes providing bers of the Advisory Board. stakeholders with our financial information in a transparent and timely manner. Our intent is to clearly and Risk Appetite Framework accurately communicate management intentions MUFG emphasizes the concept of “risk and return” in and strategic direction. making management decisions. More specifically, we We work to build a constructive dialogue with sharehave introduced and are currently using the Risk Appetite holders and investors through earnings briefings and Framework to take appropriate risks to achieve manageseminars as well as through other appropriate disclosure ment targets and ensure that profits are consistent with of financial information. our risk taking. (See P. 60 for Risk Management) Investment Monitoring Committee MUFG has criteria for making decisions about strategic investments. We require that the return from the investment should exceed our cost of capital in several years after the investment is made. We focus on the productive use of capital. The Investment Monitoring Committee regularly checks investments, and establishes guidelines stating how to cope with the investments which missed Earning briefing return targets, not excluding exit decisions, to ensure financial discipline. Some Examples of Investments during the Three-Year Period of the Previous Medium-Term Business Plan ( : Consolidated subsidiaries, : Equity method investees) FY 2012 Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Japan Acquisition of all of the holdings of Merrill Lynch Japan Securities PB Securities Co., Ltd. AMP Capital Holdings Limited Australia Investment and tie-up with Australia’s largest asset management company FY 2013 Bank of Ayudhya (Krungsri) Thailand Acquisition of Krungsri, a major Thai commercial bank, to create an integrated commercial banking platform in Asia Vietnam Joint Stock Commercial Bank Vietnam Investment and tie-up with VietinBank, Vietnam’s largest state-owned bank for Industry and Trade (VietinBank) in terms of assets Butterfield Fulcrum Group Bermuda Entry into fund administration business for overseas customers (currently Mitsubishi UFJ Fund Services) MUFG Report 2015 21 Corporate Value Initiatives Our vision is to be the world’s most trusted financial group. We explain how each business group creates value in their efforts to reach this vision. 24 Business Group Strategies* 24 Retail Banking Business 28 Domestic Corporate Banking Business 32 Global Business 36 Trust Assets Business 40 Global Markets Business 44 Special Feature: Becoming a Leading Financial Group in Asia 46 Special Feature: Strategic Alliance with Morgan Stanley * Financial data in this section is based on managerial basis. 22 MUFG Report 2015 Corporate Value Initiatives 23 MUFG Report 2015 Business Group Strategies Retail Banking Business We provide a wide range of products and services to meet the needs of individual customers from housing loans to asset management, inheritance and consumer finance. Composition of Gross Profits* Gross Profit Breakdown 30% Consumer finance and card 39% Loans and yen deposits 24% ¥1,311.3 billion Investment product sales 15% Securities business* 11% Inheritance and real estate 1% * Gross profit total for five business groups Other 10% * Fees and commissions on stocks and bonds, etc. Fiscal 2014 Earnings Summary Gross Profits Net Operating Profits ¥1,311.3 billion ¥347.1 billion up 1% up 4% Retail Banking Business Group gross profits rose 1% (¥15.0 billion) over the previous fiscal year to reach ¥1,311.3 billion. Net operating profits rose 4% year on year (¥12.7 billion) to reach ¥347.1 billion. Revenue from loans and deposits declined, but this was covered by investment product sales and consumer finance. Gross Profits and Net Operating Profits Billions of Yen Billions of Yen 1,400 500 Our Group companies are working as a unified whole to deliver the best for customers. 1,200 400 Takahiro Yanai 1,000 300 Managing Executive Officer Group Head, Retail Banking Business Group 0 FY 2012 2013 2014 0 Gross profits (left axis) Net operating profits (right axis) 24 MUFG Report 2015 Investment Product Sales Customer Base, Asset Scale and Revenue all Growing In aiming for sustained growth in its investment product 2014, we saw growth in the base (number of Nippon sales business, MUFG seeks a balance between its base Individual Savings Account [NISA] accounts opened); (number of accounts, etc.); asset scale (assets under as well as the amount of assets under management management from customers) and revenue. In fiscal (Asset Scale) along with revenue. No. of NISA Accounts Requested Assets Under Management* Investment Product (Cumulative Total) Sales Revenue Thousands of accounts Trillion of Yen Asset Billions of Yen Base Revenue 900 28 Scale 200 197.5 Corporate Value Initiatives 791 27 27 195 193.4 700 26 190 475 25 500 25 185 0 Mar 31, 2014 Mar 31, 2015 0 Mar 31, 2014 Mar 31, 2015 0 FY 2013 FY 2014 * Total for Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation and Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities. Excludes yen accounts. Consumer Finance and Card Business Revenue Growth as Card Loan Balance and Card Transaction Volume Increases In consumer finance business, both balances and revenues are growing in Consumer Finance and ACOM card loan business and BANQUIC business (the consumer finance Card Business Revenue products provided by Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ). Card business transaction Billions of Yen 550 volume is growing and revenue is up on an increased use of revolving and installment payments. 511.8 500 485.2 450 0 FY 2013 FY 2014 Inheritance and Real Estate Inheritance Trust Balance Rising Steadily We focused on the development and sale of various products which can take advantage of legal changes related to inheritance and donations. Our real estate brokerage business performed well. Executable Testamentary Inheritance-Related Revenues and Trust Asset Balance Real Estate-Related Revenues Trillions of Yen Billions of Yen 7.5 16.5 16.2 7.1 16.0 7.0 6.8 16.0 6.5 15.5 0 Mar 31, 2014 Mar 31, 2015 0 FY 2013 FY 2014 MUFG Report 2015 25 Business Group Strategies Retail Banking Business Our Long-Term Vision Retail Banking Business Group The Top Financial Group Chosen by a Wide Variety Our Long-Term Vision of Customers Spanning the Generations Business Environment MUFG Strategy Asset Asset Long-term asset Management Succession management and Business Business Decreasing birthrate succession needs and aging population growing Promoting a shift from Income and asset saving to investment; Borrowing needs polarization revitalizing personal consumption expanding ICT evolution and Settlement methods penetration Settlement Consumer diversifying, growth of cashless society Business Finance Projected Business Environment and Management Strategy In Japan, the trend toward a decreasing birthrate and Demographic Structure of Japan aging population is deepening, and it is predicted that % in ten years’ time 30% of the population will be over 65. 100 We are also seeing a polarization of income and assets 20 and under while the spread of information and communications technology (ICT) is bringing a diversification of settlement methods. 75 In this environment, we see MUFG contributing to sustained economic growth in Japan in two ways. Firstly, by promoting a move to investments from savings 20-64 through the asset management business, and promoting 50 the circulation of funds in the economy. Secondly, by revitalizing personal consumption through our settlement and consumer finance business. We aim to become the top financial group in the retail business segment, chosen Increase to by a wide variety of customers with our business 25 about 30% spanning the generations. 65 and over 0 FY ’08 ’10 ’12 ’14 ’16 ’18 ’20 ’22 ’24 Source: Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications Population Estimates; National Institute of Population and Social Security Research Population Projections. 26 MUFG Report 2015 Medium-Term Business Plan (Fiscal 2015-2017) Strategy Focus By promoting the shift to investments from savings and revitalizing personal consumption, we aim to expand our customer base, Asset Management strengthen our stock business (increase our assets under NISA promotion management) and ultimately grow our revenues in a balanced Investment products that support drive for growth. mediumto long-term asset formation Reconfigure investment product sales Net Operating Profit Plan*1 Assets Under Management*2 structure Asset Succession +24% +17% Expand new product lineup Corporate Value Initiatives ¥33 trillion Group-wide total asset consulting approach from the perspective of asset ¥340.6 ¥27 succession billion trillion Settlement (cards) Provide multiple settlement formats Strengthen transactions with FY 2014 FY 2017 (plan) Mar 31, 2015 Mar 31, 2018 (plan) corporations *1 Based on managerial accounting basis *2 Total for Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Consumer Finance to apply from fiscal 2015 Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation Expand customer base Forex rate applied to business plan is and Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities ¥115/US$ Excludes yen deposits FOCUS Meeting Total Asset Needs Not Limited to Financial Assets Customer asset needs are becoming more sophisticated and diverse, from asset formation through to effective utilization and smooth arrangements for succession. Own To meet these needs, “total asset consulting”, which Company includes non-financial assets like real estate, is becoming Stock more important. MUFG is able to leverage the knowhow Measures and expertise of its Group companies in banking, trust, Asset securities and real estate brokerage to deliver a total Management Wills asset approach based on its comprehensive financial group power. Customer Real Estate and Own Financial Assets Company Stock, etc. Total Assets Loans Inheritance Real Estate Brokerage MUFG Report 2015 27 Business Group Strategies Domestic Corporate Banking Business We provide lending, settlement, forex, and asset management services to meet the diverse needs of our clients, through our domestic and overseas networks. We also utilize our Group-wide expertise to propose solutions for client’s business strategies and challenges. Composition of Gross Profits* Gross Profit Breakdown 22% Investment banking 37% ¥965.2 billion Deposit and lending 33% Settlement 19% Other 11% * Gross profit total for five business groups Fiscal 2014 Earnings Summary Gross Profits Net Operating Profits ¥965.2 billion ¥517.1 billion up 4% up 7% Gross profits rose 4% year on year (¥41.2 billion) to ¥965.2 billion. Net operating profits were up 7% year on year (¥31.6 billion) to ¥517.1 billion. Net interest income fell on a contraction in lending spreads as well as a decrease in deposit revenues on lower interest rates. However, this was covered by an increase in revenue from fees and commissions, and overall profits rose. Gross Profits and Net Operating Profits Billions of Yen Billions of Yen We contribute to our clients’ growth through pro1,000 600 viding the best solutions to their diverse 900 500 needs ranging from management issues to business strategies. 800 400 Hidekazu Fukumoto Senior Managing Executive Officer 0 FY 2012 2013 2014 0 Group Head, Corporate Banking Business Group Gross profits (left axis) Net operating profits (right axis) 28 MUFG Report 2015 Earnings Highlights Loan Balance Up and Investment Banking Revenue also Increasing The domestic corporate average loan balance (excluding government) rose 5% year on year (¥2.1 trillion). This reflected our initiatives such as fund demand Domestic Corporate Average creation and responding to event finance including M&A finance. Investment Loan Balance banking revenues* rose as we provided our customers with high-value-added Trillions of Yen proposals to meet their challenges, and forex revenue also grew as we met 50 transaction needs in a rapidly changing market. Corporate Value Initiatives 43.2 * Revenue from structured finance, syndicated loans, derivatives. 41.2 39.5 40 Breakdown of Change in Gross Profits Billions of Yen Investment 1,000 banking 965.2 +51.5 Other 30 950 924.0 Settlement +7.8 +9.8 900 Loans and deposits (27.8) 0 FY 2013 FY 2014 0 FY 2012 2013 2014 Large Corporate Business Maintaining Our Leading Presence in the M&A Advisory and Project Finance League Tables As we make various proposals to our clients for further ranked number one globally in project finance (originaenhancement of corporate value, MUFG ranks second tion volumes) on strong performance in electric power, among Japanese financial institutions in cross border resource and infrastructure projects. M&A advisory business. Continuing from 2013, MUFG is M&A Advisory Project Finance (cross-border projects/transaction value base)* (global ranking, based on funds raised) (April 2014-March 2015) (January-December 2014) Transaction Value Origination volumes Ranking Advisor Ranking Arranger (Billions of Yen) (Millions of US Dollars) 1 Mizuho Financial 2,965.9 1 MUFG 16,227 2 Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities 2,689.7 2 SMBC 13,451 3 Nomura 2,447.7 3 Mizuho Financial 9,848 Source: Thomson Reuters (data compiled by Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley) Source: Project Finance International Magazine * Any Japanese involvement announced including property acquisitions. Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley includes deals advised by Morgan Stanley. SME Business Promoting a “Solution Providing Approach” Our SME customers’ needs are diversifying from fund both loan balances and fee and commission revenue in raising and business succession to sales channel expana tough competitive environment. sion. We respond with order-made support and See pages 76-77 for details on our support to SMEs. meticulously planned proposals, resulting in growth for MUFG Report 2015 29 Business Group Strategies Domestic Corporate Banking Business Our Long-Term Vision Domestic Corporate Banking Supporting Growth and Providing Value Beyond Business Group Expectations: We Aim to Be Our Customers’ Our Long-Term Vision First-Choice Financial Institution Business Environment MUFG Strategy Company overseas Strengthen domestic business base Companies increasingly business needs globalized and industry expanding structures changing Greater M&A needs Supporting growth and providing Company management Business succession value beyond expectations is aging needs growing Companies maintaining Corporate asset more internal reserves management needs rising Establish new business model Projected Business Environment and Management Strategy The globalization of Japanese companies is proceeding Japanese Company Business Expansion Overseas apace and we expect overseas expansion to extend to an No. of Japanese Companies with Local Affiliates by Region increasing number of SMEs. We project the number of Thousands of Companies 30 corporate M&A deals to increase in certain sectors as companies attempt to become more globally competitive. The aging trend among Japanese management is 25 accelerating and as the economy improves, we forecast Increasing that some companies will expand internal reserves. MUFG perceives these changes as an opportunity and 20 through the strengthening of our domestic business and establishment of a new business model, we intend to contribute to our clients’ growth and deliver new value 15 beyond their expectations, becoming their first choice as a financial institution. 10 5 0 CY ’01 ’02 ’03 ’04 ’05 ’06 ’07 ’08 ’09 ’10 ’11 ’12 ’13 Americas Asia Europe and Middle East, etc. Source: Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, Basic (Trend) Survey of Overseas Business Activities 30 MUFG Report 2015 Medium-Term Business Plan (Fiscal 2015-2017) We aim for sustained growth based on the basic policies set out below and in line with the direction of strengthening our domestic Strategy Focus business base and establishing a new business model. Large Corporations 1 Contributing to 2 Supporting 3 Providing Promoting sector-by-sector approach Japan’s economic companies’ overseas new valueHigher level of overseas business revitalization growth added service SMEs Net Operating Profit Plan* Average Loan Balance for SMEs Strengthening base transactions +5% (loans, settlement) Corporate Value Initiatives ¥15.0 Promoting support for growth +5% trillion companies ¥493.2 ¥14.3 Enhanced support on business billion trillion succession Establishing corporate asset management business FY 2014 FY 2017 (plan) FY 2014 FY 2017 (plan) * Based on managerial accounting basis to apply from fiscal 2015 Forex rate applied to business plan is ¥115/US$ FOCUS Supporting the Development of Next-Generation Core Industries The Industry Design Office is a new strategic team We will promote a value chain which discovers growth formed by Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ and Mitsubishi companies; develops innovative technology; provides UFJ Capital, designed to support the creation of nextbusiness expansion chances; and offers an exit strategy. generation core industries. The objective is to support the growth of key sectors and industries that will form Industry Development Value Chain the core of the future Japanese economy, enlisting not only MUFG Group companies but also outside experts. Provision of The intention is to make this an MUFG business pillar in Discover Development business Exit chances the long term. Large Management (growth) support company M&A Supporting Main Initiatives R&D global Discovering the seeds of innovative technology Analysis of business Venture development Analyzing industry prospects as technology seeds are industry IPO capital innovation applied in business prospects Developing Developing CEO talent to continue innovation and management supporting commercialization on a global basis Rise Up resources Client Festa* introduction * Please see page 76 for details on Rise Up Festa. MUFG Report 2015 31 Business Group Strategies Global Business We respond to the funding needs of corporate customers around the world as well as providing cash management and advisory services. We also provide retail service in the United States and Thailand. Composition of Gross Profits* Gross Profit Breakdown* 30% Americas 50% ¥1,351.3 billion Asia 22% Bank of Ayudhya (Krungsri)  18% Europe, Middle East, Africa 10% * Gross profit total for five business groups * Prior to adjustment for other business and overlap between regions Fiscal 2014 Earnings Summary Gross Profits Net Operating Profits ¥1,351.3 billion ¥588.6 billion up 43% up 56% Gross profits rose 43% year on year (¥407.5 billion) to ¥1,351.3 billion due to the consolidation of Bank of Ayudhya (Krungsri) as well as forex impact and rises in net interest income and fee income. Net operating profits were up 56% year on year (¥211.6 billion) to ¥588.6 billion. The average loan balance increased 33% (¥10 trillion) to ¥40.8 trillion, with the average deposit balance up 38% (¥7.3 trillion) to ¥26.5 trillion. Gross Profits and Fiscal 2014 Net Operating Profits Average Loan Balance and Average Deposit Balance By establishing a strong presence in every region Billions of Yen Billions of Yen Trillions of Yen of the world, we aim to be the First Call Bank 1,500 900 50 40.8 trillion for clients. 40 1,000 600 26.5 trillion Takashi Morimura 30 Senior Managing Executive Officer 20 Group Head, Global Business Group 500 300 10 0 FY 2012 2013 2014 0 0 Average Average loan balance deposit balance Gross profits (left axis) Americas Asia Net operating profits (right axis) Bank of Ayudhya (Krungsri) Europe, Middle East, Africa 32 MUFG Report 2015 Regional Highlights Asia (Asia, Oceania, East Asia) Americas With the economic growth of Asia, profits steadily Profits were strong, helped by the recovering United increased on expanding lending business with global States economy. corporates (non-Japanese companies). Net Operating Profits Net Operating Profits Billions of Yen +31.3 Billions of Yen +52.1 200 167.1 300 258.8 135.8 206.8 Corporate Value Initiatives 100 150 0 FY 2013 FY 2014 0 FY 2013 FY 2014 Net Operating Profits Net Operating Profits Billions of Yen (0.3) Billions of Yen Consolidation 70 150 65.6 65.3 116.6 100 60 50 0 FY 2013 FY 2014 0 FY 2014 Europe, Middle East, Africa Bank of Ayudhya (Krungsri) Our revenues have grown, mainly in corporate & investBank of Ayudhya was consolidated on the P/L statement ment banking despite the following negative factors: the from fiscal 2014 and has had a positive net operating stagnating European economy and economic situation in profit impact of ¥116.6 billion. Russia. Net operating profits were broadly flat. TOPICS Aiming for the United States Top Ten Integrating Americas Business In July 2014, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ and MUFG Union Bank integrated operations for Americas business. MUFG Union Bank offers a wide range of financial services from retail to corporate banking mainly on the West Coast. As of September 2014, our total deposit volume ranked 13th overall in the United States. We plan to introduce more advanced services, strengthen our US dollar funding capabilities and improve governance with a view to be in the top ten banks in the United States in terms of scale and earnings. MUFG Report 2015 33 Business Group Strategies Global Business Our Long-Term Vision Global Business Group Be the First Call Bank for Customers Our Long-Term Vision around the World Business Environment MUFG Strategy Developing business based on Accelerated globalization unique strength of each region Sustained growth of the of our client companies United States economy Increased business chances Relatively high growth in United States/Asia Deliver high-quality of Asia Growth of local companies services globally Stronger and more and financial markets in Asia complex financial regulations Global expansion in trade flows/money flows Enhanced group-wide products and services Projected Business Environment and Management Strategy We foresee continued growth of the United States as the Nominal GDP Trend (2010 nominal GDP set as 100) world’s biggest economic power. We also expect relatively high growth to continue in Asia. In this environment, 300 MUFG aims to leverage its strengths to achieve growth. Forecast China These include Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ’s extensive global network and the strong local commercial banking 250 operations of MUFG Union Bank in the United States and Bank of Ayudhya (Krungsri) in Thailand. We will exploit our unique strengths in each region as well as offering Asia emerging enhanced products and services across regions to deliver 200 markets (excluding high-quality services globally. China) United 150 States Eurozone 100 Japan 0 CY 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Source: IMF World Economic Outlook April 2015 34 MUFG Report 2015 Medium-Term Business Plan (Fiscal 2015-2017) We implement business strategies for sustained growth and strengthen our business foundation in line with the basic policies Strategy Focus set out below. Strengthening business based on 1 2 3 trade flows between Japanese and Challenge new business Pursuit of Strengthen global corporates efficiency business foundation opportunities Expanding retail and SME business in North America and Thailand Net Operating Profit Plan* Non-interest Income from Strengthening products from a groupTransactions with Global driven perspective Corporate Value Initiatives Corporates* Enhancing transaction banking*1 +24% ¥270.0 Strengthening O&D business*2 +40% Enhancing administration practice and billion ¥217.0 ¥483.1 billion establishing robust operational systems billion Promote non-organic strategy*3 *1 Business, such as deposits, settlements and trade finance, that works through trade flows. *2 Origination and distribution business (loans, etc.) based on investor demands. *3 Growth strategy based on acquisition of assets and FY 2014 FY 2017 (plan) FY 2014 FY 2017 (plan) business through M&A, etc. * Based on managerial accounting basis to apply from fiscal 2015 Forex rate applied to business plan is ¥115/US$ FOCUS Transaction Banking for Global Cash Management and Trade Finance Needs The global cash management and trade finance needs In May 2015, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ established of companies are growing as globalization of company a Transaction Banking Group to effectively coordinate activities takes hold, ICT progresses, and world trade related regional divisions and the related divisions of volumes increase. MUFG considers this transaction MUFG Union Bank and Bank of Ayudhya. We plan to banking business (cash management, trade finance, develop products with the most advanced systems etc.) as an important business strategy which can lead and to enhance marketing. to the capture of non-interest income and foreign currency deposits. Transaction Banking Example Cash management needs Need for early conversion (cross-border, differing currencies) of sales proceeds to cash Sales proceeds Company (HQ, Regional HQ, etc.) Company Product Subsidiary Subsidiary Subsidiary Cash management service Trade finance Collection Example: Cash pooling Example: Purchase of service accounts receivable US dollar Euro Renminbi Customer Customer Customer MUFG MUFG Report 2015 35 Business Group Strategies Trust Assets Business We provide asset management and fund administration services: pensions, investment trusts, global asset management and investor services. Composition of Gross Profits* Gross Profit Breakdown 4% Pensions 39% Investment Trust Management 26% ¥172.2 billion Investment Trust Administration 10% Global Asset Administration* 15% Other 10% * Gross profit total for five business groups * Services provided under the MUFG Investor Services brand, custody and fund administration services, etc. Fiscal 2014 Earnings Summary Gross Profits Net Operating Profits ¥172.2 billion ¥70.1 billion up 8% up 8% Gross profits rose 8% year on year (¥12.5 billion) to ¥172.2 billion while net operating profits were up 8% (¥5.1 billion) to ¥70.1 billion. We steadily accumulated assets under management in our main businesses including pension trusts, etc., leading to an increase in revenues. Gross Profits and Net Operating Profits Billions of Yen Billions of Yen 200 100 We continue striving to provide distinctive products 150 75 and services which meet customer needs. 100 50 Junichi Okamoto Senior Managing Executive Officer 50 25 Group Head, Trust Assets Business Group 0 FY 2012 2013 2014 0 Gross profits (left axis) Net operating profits (right axis) 36 MUFG Report 2015 Pensions Pension Trusts and DC Pension Business Growing Steadily Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking maintains the top-level Pension Trust Balance, DC Pension Administration Balance, domestic share in pension trust balances. The asset and DC Pension Investment Product Sales Balance administration balance and investment product sales Trillions of Yen Trillions of Yen balance for defined contribution (DC) pensions both 20 ¥16.5 trillion 5 ¥14.7 trillion grew steadily. Pension trust balances from the public 15 ¥3.0 trillion 4 ¥2.8 trillion sector (cooperative societies, etc.) also increased. 10 3 ¥1.7 trillion ¥1.9 trillion 5 2 Corporate Value Initiatives 0 Mar 31, 2014 Mar 31, 2015 0 Pension trust balance (left axis) DC pension administration balance (right axis) DC pension investment product sales balance (right axis) Investment Trust Decision on Merger of Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management and KOKUSAI Asset Management We decided to merge the relevant Group companies to Investment Trust Management Balance and further enhance our asset management business. With Investment Trust Administration Balance our full product lineup and extensive sales network, we Trillions of Yen ¥50.0 trillion Trillions of Yen are in a position to meet our clients’ comprehensive asset 18 ¥41.9 trillion 50 ¥12.9 trillion management needs. ¥11.6 trillion 12 40 6 30 0 Mar 31, 2014 Mar 31, 2015 0 Investment trust management balance (left axis) Investment trust administration balance (right axis) Global Acquisition of Overseas Fund Administration Company Meridian Holdings Limited We acquired Meridian Holdings Limited in order to Overseas Asset Administration Balance increase our competitiveness and scale in the fund Trillions of Yen ¥93.9 trillion administration market where rapid growth is anticipated. 100 ¥80.1 trillion The acquisition was made through Butterfield Fulcrum 75 Group (overseas fund administration company made 50 into a subsidiary in fiscal 2013, currently Mitsubishi UFJ Fund Services). 25 0 Mar 31, 2014 Mar 31, 2015 TOPICS Adoption of the Japanese Stewardship Code The asset management companies in the MUFG Group they invest in. Through this, the companies’ corporate (including Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking) have value will be enhanced and their sustained growth will announced their adoption of the Japanese version of the expand mediumto long-term returns to investment benStewardship Code framed by the Financial Services eficiaries. The Code gives us the opportunity to promote Agency. The Code aims to encourage a constructive diafurther sustained corporate growth and to support the logue between institutional investors and the companies Japanese economy from the financial perspective. MUFG Report 2015 37 Business Group Strategies Trust Assets Business Our Long-Term Vision Solidifying our Domestic Base while Trust Assets Business Group Our Long-Term Vision Becoming a Global IS (Investor Services) and AM (Asset Management) Player Business Environment MUFG Strategy Responding to structural changes Progressing trend from Expanded domestic in the Japanese market savings to investments investment management in Japan needs Expanding global IS (Investor Services) Shrinking welfare pension fund, Structural change of and AM (Asset Management) business reform of pension system domestic pension market with both organic and inorganic strateIncreased global investment Global growth in asset gies while maintaining the Group’s flows management business strong domestic business foundation More sophisticated and Growth in alternative fund diverse investment products administration business Tap overseas growth Projected Business Environment and Management Strategy In Japan there is a shift from savings to investments and Forecast of Asset Management Business Asset Balance we forecast an expansion of asset management needs. Trillions of US dollars At the same time we see structural changes in the 120 Japanese pension market with the welfare pension fund shrinking and DC pensions growing. 100 We project continued global growth in the overseas 80 asset management business and high growth in the alternative fund asset administration segment. 60 In this environment, MUFG will respond to the structural changes in the Japanese market while tapping 40 into the opportunities for global growth. We aim to become a global IS (Investor Services)/AM (Asset 20 Management) player. 0 CY 2004 2007 2012 2020 (Forecast) North America Europe Asia Pacific Other Source: PwC Asset Management 2020 Group-wide Investment Product Development Researching products that Offer investment Providing knowhow will meet customer needs products Asset Management Sales company Mitsubishi UFJ Trust Investment company Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Technology Institute Mitsubishi UFJ Kokusai Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Customer Mitsubishi UFJ Trust Asset Management and Banking Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities 38 MUFG Report 2015 Medium-Term Business Plan (Fiscal 2015-2017) Driving growth through responding to structural changes in the domestic market while expanding overseas revenues Strategy Focus Global Expand global asset management and Net Operating Profit Plan* Foreign Investment Trust Balance administration business through investment and strategic alliances 2.9 times Investment Trust US$353.0 Leverage strength of the new +13% Corporate Value Initiatives billion investment trust company to provide high-value-added services and core ¥68.0 products for customers who are billion US$123 forming assets. billion Pensions Strengthen consulting and advisory FY 2014 FY 2017 (plan) FY 2014 FY 2017 (plan) functions in response to systemic changes * Based on managerial accounting basis to apply from fiscal 2015 Forex rate applied to business plan is ¥115/US$ FOCUS Established Mitsubishi UFJ Kokusai Asset Management —Aiming to Be an Investment Trust Company Chosen around the World On July 1, 2015, Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., Ltd. and KOKUSAI Asset Management Co., Ltd. merged to take a new step forward as Mitsubishi UFJ Kokusai Asset Management Co., Ltd. The management vision of the new company is to “always live up to our customers’ trust and act on their behalf in order to fulfill our fiduciary responsibility as an investment trust company,” “always provide value-added service that exceeds our customers’ expectations as a truly professional group” and “become the No. 1 investment trust company in Japan and a leading one in Asia that is chosen by customers around the world.” We intend to build on the strengths that have been built up by both companies over their more than 50-year histories. We will refine our product development and investment capabilities, as well as the network of distribution partners (global sovereign and Takashi Kanagami open) and customer support functions. Through this, we hope to make a contribution to Mitsubishi UFJ Kokusai Asset Management both customer asset formation and the revitalization of the Japanese economy. President & CEO We are deepening our product development, delivering wrap investment trust products like First Wrap and Smart Quality Open, which cater to customers’ mediumto long-term asset formation needs, as well as Internet-related index funds like eMAXIS. We sincerely request your continued support. MUFG Report 2015 39 Business Group Strategies Global Markets Business We promote market-related business (bonds, forex, equities, derivatives) and are responsible for Asset Liability Management (ALM)*. * ALM: Integrated management of liquidity risk and interest rate risk inherent in assets (loans, etc.) and liabilities (deposits, etc.) Composition of Gross Profits* Gross Profit Breakdown 14% Sales & Trading 47% ALM, Others 53% ¥609.4 billion * Gross profit total for five business groups Fiscal 2014 Earnings Summary Gross Profits Net Operating Profits ¥609.4 billion ¥418.1 billion up 8% up 8% Gross profits rose 8% year on year (¥46.2 billion) to ¥609.4 billion. Net operating profits were up 8% year on year (¥31.4 billion) to ¥418.1 billion. Net interest income on bonds fell given the prolonged period of low interest rates; however, this was more than covered by securities trading profits amid high stock prices and low interest rates, and also by robust performance in sales and trading as the yen depreciated and stocks rose from summer. Gross Profits and Net Operating Profits Our target is the creation of new synergies through Billions of Yen the integrated MUFG Group and we aim to provide 800 services that exceed customer expectations. 600 Naoto Hirota 400 Senior Managing Executive Officer Group Head, Global Markets Business Group 200 0 FY 2012 2013 2014 Gross profits Net operating profits 40 MUFG Report 2015 ALM Net Interest Income Down but Investment Management Revenues Strong Interest rates trended low in fiscal 2014 in Japan, Europe profits were strong on the buoyant stock market and and the United States on additional monetary easing by investment management revenues reached the highest BOJ, the falling oil price and the Greek crisis. As a result, level since MUFG’s establishment. The market valuation the contraction in long-short spreads caused a decline in of bonds also improved on lower interest rates, bringing net interest income. On the other hand, equity trading some unrealized gains. Corporate Value Initiatives Yen and US Dollar Interest Rate Trend Unrealized Gains or Losses on JGB and Foreign Bonds %¥ Available for Sale 4 22,000 Billions of Yen Nikkei Average (right axis) 1,000 870.8 3 19,000 800 600 2 16,000 US dollar interest rate 400 1 (left axis) 13,000 114.7 200 Yen interest rate (left axis) 0 March 2013 March 2014 March 2015 (200) Mar 31, 2014 Mar 31, 2015 JGB Foreign Bonds Sales and Trading Revenue Rising for Three Consecutive Years Volatility was extremely low in the first half of fiscal 2014 Sales and Trading Gross Profits on concerns over a potential hike in the United States Billions of Yen Federal Fund Target Rate and various geopolitical risks 500 461.0* such as Ukraine. However, customer transaction volume picked up from summer onward as the yen depreciated 450 and on movement in various markets. Sales and trading 399.0 400 revenues therefore rose. 355.2 350 0 FY 2012 2013 2014 * Not including Bank of Ayudhya TOPICS Top J-MONEY Ranking for Ninth Consecutive Year As a result of positive feedback from customers, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ was ranked first overall for the ninth consecutive year in the financial magazine J-MONEY’s survey of the Tokyo forex market. MUFG Report 2015 41 Business Group Strategies Global Markets Business Our Long-Term Vision Global Markets Development of Optimal Group-Wide Business Group Formation of Market Operations; Our Long-Term Vision Enhancing MUFG’s Brand Presence Business Environment MUFG Strategy Economic activity Money flows increasing, picking up, especially especially in Asia Group-wide operations to strengthen in Asia sales and trading Diversifying customer Corporate activity needs Sophisticated balance sheet increasingly borderless management spanning domestic/ More emphasis on overseas, foreign currency and Strengthened global financial regulations yen operations financial regulation and compliance Projected Business Environment and Management Strategy With economic growth and corporate activity picking up, Systemically Important Financial Institution (G-SIFI). especially in Asia, we expect to see an increase in crossWe pursue Group-wide management of Bank of Tokyoborder commercial and money flows. Since the 2008 Mitsubishi UFJ and the domestic and overseas securities financial crisis, financial regulations on risk management subsidiaries under Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Holdings with have become tighter. At the same time, higher complia view to strengthening our sales and trading business. ance standards are required for markets business. We are also working to enhance MUFG’s brand presence, Accordingly, companies are placing greater emphasis on especially in the domestic and Asian markets. personnel and system infrastructure to meet these regulations and standards. In this environment, MUFG’s Group-wide ALM is Money Flows Increasing, Especially in Asia establishing the control systems necessary for a Global Asian economic growth Expansion of cross-border commercial and money flows 42 MUFG Report 2015 Medium-Term Business Plan (Fiscal 2015-2017) We are pursuing the following strategy, in line with the basic policies below: Strategy Focus 1. Strengthen sales and trading business Group-wide management of Bank of 2. More sophisticated balance sheet management Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ and Mitsubishi 3. Build system infrastructure to comply with regulations UFJ Securities Holdings’ sales and and enhance operational efficiency trading business Review of ALM management stance Sales and Trading Gross Profits* Strengthen Group-wide risk +11% management; respond to global Corporate Value Initiatives financial regulations ¥550 billion Construct Group-wide market-related core systems ¥495 billion FY 2014 FY 2017 (plan) * Based on managerial accounting basis to apply from fiscal 2015 Forex rate applied to business plan is ¥115/US$ FOCUS Enhancing the MUFG brand We aim for more competitive pricing and more attractive products and solutions for our customers as we integrate our forex and interest rate transaction flows and coordinate banking and securities functions. Meeting the needs and gaining the confidence of customers who range from corporations to institutional investors, we are working to enhance the penetration of the MUFG brand in global markets. Enhancing the MUFG brand Gaining the confidence of customers Group-wide management of sales and trading Price Price Trading functions competitiveness competitiveness Attractive Commercial Attractive Investors Securities Corporations products bank products Attractive Attractive Customer base solutions solutions Heightened productivity MUFG Report 2015 43 Special Feature Becoming a Leading Financial Group in Asia The Mekong economic region,* with Thailand at its center, continues to experience rapid economic growth, even relative to the rest of the ASEAN region. MUFG acquired a majority stake in Bank of Ayudhya Public Company Limited, known locally as “Krungsri,” in December 2013, and subsequently integrated the BTMU Bangkok branch into Krungsri. Through this integration we are developing a full-scale, comprehensive commercial banking business in the region. * The countries of the Mekong Delta region are Thailand, Vietnam, Myanmar, Cambodia, and Laos. Bank of Ayudhya (Krungsri) Sawadee (Hello) Branches are furnished using a uniform yellow color, Krungsri’s corporate color, and customers are greeted by staff wearing uniforms of the same color. With a 70-year history, Krungsri is Thailand’s fifth largest commercial bank. Providing a wide range of services to both retail and corporate customers, Krungsri boasts top-tier domestic market shares, particularly in consumer finance segments including personal loans, credit cards, and auto finance. At a Glance 658 branches ¥6 trillion No. 1 21,000 employees Building on 70 years’ experience as a major Thai commercial bank, our total We have top-tier performance in the Thai consumer finance segment, with With 658 branches, mainly in Bangkok, assets are ¥6 trillion, the fifth largest in number one positions in personal loans and around 21,000 group employees, we the sector in Thailand. and credit card business. provide a wide variety of financial services. (As of March 31, 2015) A Wide Range of Financial Services Financial Highlights (Million THB*1) FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 Gross Profit 61,188 68,275 70,760 Commercial Operating Profit 30,391 34,883 36,460 Personal Loan & Sales Banking Net Income*2 14,625 11,864 14,170 Securities Finance Total Assets 1,071,965 1,179,606 1,211,362 Loan Balance 830,008 943,502 1,012,761 Deposit Balance 687,159 764,050 837,556 Credit Card Factoring *1 Reference: JPY3.69/THB (as of March 31, 2015) *2 Attributable to equity holders of the Bank Loan Portfolio Auto Hire Total ¥4.6 trillion Purchase and Leasing Leasing Micro Asset Corporate 43% Finance Management SME 17% Retail 40% (As of March 31, 2015) 44 MUFG Report 2015 Integration with BTMU Bangkok Branch BTMU Bangkok Branch was the largest foreign bank in Thailand with settlement services and business matchin Thailand, and was integrated into Krungsri in ing opportunities, as well as retail deposits, fund transfers, January 2015. This has created a hybrid bank that and partnered loans for those companies’ employees. offers higher value-added services utilizing Krungsri’s At the same time, as Thai companies become more solid operating base and local network in Thailand international, they can use MUFG’s global network to and MUFG’s global network. access trade finance, global syndication structuring, and For example, Krungsri can use its local network to support for overseas business development, all through provide Japanese companies developing businesses a single contact point. Corporate Value Initiatives Becoming a Leading Financial Group in Asia With this year’s launch of the ASEAN Economic Community (AEC), the Mekong economic region is Ongoing Initiatives in the Market seeing further advances by Japanese companies and the growth of local companies, and cross-border business in Cooperative Initiatives the region is expected to become increasingly active. MUFG is positioning Krungsri as the core of our Business Matching Mekong business, to contribute further to our customers’ Krungsri and BTMU growth and the economic growth of the Mekong region, organized a Business while also aiming to be “Asia’s leading financial group.” Matching Fair in Bangkok in September 2014. The fair was attended by approximately 50 Japanese companies looking to sell Thai products and services or procure raw materials from Thailand, and approximately 80 Thai companies. Krungsri and BTMU Locations BTMU branch Krungsri Credit Card BTMU Representative Office Krungsri branch The number of tourists from Krungsri JV Krungsri Representative Office Thailand visiting Japan has grown significantly in recent Myanmar Laos years, and MUFG is offering North services to these customers using its comprehensive 36 branches group strength and global network. One initiative enables holders of the Krungsri Credit Card to receive discounts or special offers when using their North-East Central/ 86 branches card at designated stores and restaurants in Japan West that accept Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS credit cards. MUFG 93 branches Thailand will continue to develop services going forward that East allow Krungsri cardholders and Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS Bangkok 70 branches affiliates to enjoy mutual benefits. region 655 283 branches Cambodia Vietnam branches in Thailand (3 outside Thailand) South 87 branches MUFG Report 2015 45 Special Feature Strategic Alliance with Morgan Stanley Since the Fall of 2008, MUFG and Morgan Stanley have collaborated to better meet the diverse needs of clients and to deliver best-in-class financial services and products. Morgan Stanley Office, Tokyo, JP Morgan Stanley at a Glance Morgan Stanley (NYSE: MS) is a leading global financial services firm providing investment banking, securities, Founded: September 16, 1935 wealth management and investment management services to corporations, governments, institutions Number of Employees: 55,802 and individuals. Network: 967 offices in 43 countries Total Assets: $802 billion Wealth Management Total Client Assets: $2.0 trillion Market Cap: $75.7 billion MS Contribution to MUFG Net Income Website: www.morganstanley.com Millions of US Dollars Billions of Yen 4,000 200.0 Twitter: @morganstanley 3,152 3,000 2,655 150.0 As of December 31, 2014 2,314 88.3 2,000 74.8 100.0 1,000 36.0 50.0 0 2013 2014 2015Q1 0 MS: Earnings applicable to common shareholders (left scale) (Fiscal year runs from January 1 till December 31) MUFG: MS contribution to net income (right scale) (Fiscal year runs from April 1 till March 31 in the following year) Morgan Stanley Headquarters in New York, USA Major Milestones of the Alliance October 2008 June 2009 May 2010 March 2014 MUFG made a $9 billion Loan Marketing Joint Venture Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley equity investment in MS (LMJV) was established for Securities (MUMSS) and PB Securities Co., Ltd. promoting lending and Morgan Stanley MUFG (MUMSPB) was established capital markets services in Securities (MSMS) were the Americas founded in Japan 46 MUFG Report 2015 Japan JV The Japan JV consists of three entities: MUMSS, MSMS, and MUMSPB. MUMSS and MSMS leverage MUFG’s domestic institutional and retail client base and MS’ global reach for M&A advisory and equity and debt offerings, while MUMSPB delivers private banking services. Driven by the Japan JV entities, the financial results of MUSHD have increased. JV Structure Collaboration Cases in Japan 22% Acquisition of Beam by Suntory Holdings MUFG Morgan Stanley MUMSS acted as exclusive financial advisor for Suntory 100% Holdings in its approx. $16 billion acquisition of Beam. Corporate Value Initiatives Global IPO by Recruit Holdings MUSHD 49% 51% MS/MSMS/MUMSS acted as Joint Global Coordinator and Joint Bookrunner for both domestic and interna60% tional tranches for the approx. ¥213.8 billion IPO for MUMSS 40% MSMS Recruit Holdings. • Investment Banking • Capital Markets Financial Results of MUSHD • Capital Markets • Sales & Trading Billions of Yen • Sales & Trading 114.9 120.0 • Retail Markets Business 90.0 75% 60.0 51.0 41.0 MUMSPB 28.7 30.0 • Private Banking 0 2009 2014 Ordinary income Net income (Fiscal year runs from April 1 till March 31 in the following year) Global Collaboration Best Practice Sharing The LMJV offers MUFG and MS clients a world-class MUFG and MS exchange best practices in many nonlending platform. Since the LMJV’s inception, MUFG and business areas consistent with our commitment to MS have jointly provided commitments for numerous continuously im­proving processes and responding to the transactions. changing environment. Collaboration Case in the Americas Internal Audit Risk Management Regulatory On March 4, 2015, AbbVie Inc. announced its acquisition of Pharmacyclics Inc. for $20 billion. MUFG jointly committed with MS in financing AbbVie’s MUFG Morgan Stanley bid on Pharmacyclics. Morgan Stanley advised AbbVie on the transaction. MUFG and MS jointly underwrote Compliance Human Capital IT Sourcing 100% of the bridge loan. Aiming for Further Development Through the Global Steering Committee, executive managers from MUFG and MS discuss possible areas for collaboration that benefit both MUFG and MS. MUFG and MS continuously seek the best strategic alliance appropriate for different clients and market circumstances. From left: MUFG Group CEO Nobuyuki Hirano with Morgan Stanley Chairman & CEO James Gorman MUFG Report 2015 47 Corporate Value Foundation We explain our management system, including corporate governance and risk management framework, and outline our human resources and ICT strategies. We explain our approach to Corporate Social Responsibility. 50 Special Feature: Building a Governance Structure which Supports Corporate Value 54 Interview with Outside Director 56 Management Team 59 Advisory Board Members 60 Risk Management 64 Compliance 65 Internal Audit 66 Responding to Global Financial Regulation 68 Human Resources Strategy 70 ICT Strategy 71 Sustainability 76 Supporting SME Growth, Regional Economies 48 MUFG Report 2015 Corporate Value Foundation 49 MUFG Report 2015 Special Feature Building a Governance Structure which Supports Corporate Value In June 2015, MUFG moved to a company with three committees structure as part of its efforts to enhance corporate governance. In this section, we look at the initiatives taken so far to strengthen corporate governance and explain our new structure. MUFG Board of Directors Meeting held on June 23, 2015 Steps to Improve Corporate Governance Since its establishment in October 2005, MUFG has Governance Committee under the Board of Directors. worked to build a stable and effective corporate Those five outside directors reflect a wide range of governance structure in order to ensure that external experience from corporate management in the oversight of the company is working properly. We have manufacturing, retail and finance fields to a university increased the number of outside directors and formed professor and lawyer. We have also introduced a voluntary committees (including the Nomination and framework to regularly evaluate the Board of Directors’ Compensation Committee and Internal Audit and working practices. Compliance Committee). Responding to various developments such as the Main Meetings in Fiscal 2014 revised Companies Act and tightened global financial Board of Directors 19 meetings (outside director regulations, we have continually debated the best forms attendance rate 95%) of corporate governance at study committees with Board of Corporate Auditors 21 meetings (outside auditor outside parties such as lawyers, and at Governance attendance rate 97%) Council with our outside directors. Governance Committee 7 meetings As a result, we have implemented several measures to Nomination and 12 meetings enhance our corporate governance approach. In 2013, Compensation Committee we established the Risk Committee under the Board of Directors. In 2014, we both increased the number of Risk Committee 4 meetings outside directors* from three to five, and formed the Internal Audit and 15 meetings Compliance Committee * Outside directors include non-executive directors with a high degree of independence from MUFG. The same applies to all references on pages 50-57. 50 MUFG Report 2015 Corporate Governance Development October 2005 Establishment of MUFG June 2013 June 2014 June 2015 Governance Company with a Board of Corporate Auditors Company with Three Committees Structure Outside 2005 2006 2015 Three Five Seven Directors Four Three Two Governance Committee Nominating and Governance Committee 2005 (statutory Nominating Committee) Nomination Committees Committee 2008 under the 2005 Nomination and Compensation Committee Board of Compensation Compensation Committee (statutory) Directors Committee 2005 Audit Committee (statutory) Internal Audit and Compliance Committee Risk Committee Advisory Board Advisory Board Global Advisory Board Evaluation of Board of Directors Board of Directors Independent Outside Directors Meeting Operations Appointment of Lead Independent Outside Director Policy MUFG Corporate Governance Policies Corporate Value Foundation Outline of MUFG Corporate Governance Policies 1. Purpose 6. Operation of the Board of Directors Demonstrate our approach to, and framework for, MUFG’s The role of Chairman of the Board of Directors and the role corporate governance and serve as a guide for the actions of President & CEO shall be separated, and a suitable of directors and management. director shall be appointed as Chairman to ensure that the Board of Directors effectively fulfills its role of manage2. Approach to corporate governance ment oversight. Aim for sustained growth and increase in corporate value over the mediumto long-term, in consideration of the Independent outside directors may appoint a Lead perspectives of its stakeholders, including shareholders, Independent Outside Director from among themselves. customers, employees, and local communities. 7. Committees 3. Role of the Board of Directors In addition to the establishment of the statutory Nominating The Board of Directors is responsible for oversight of and Governance Committee, Compensation Committee management. Decisions on matters of business execution and Audit Committee, a Risk Committee shall also be other than specific matters stipulated by law shall, in established. principle, be delegated to Corporate Executive Officers. The Nominating and Governance Committee will deliber4. Duties of Directors ate on matters pertaining to corporate governance as well Directors, as appointed by the shareholders and entrusted as the appointment and removal of directors. as managers, owe a duty of loyalty and a duty of care. The Audit Committee shall have one or more full-time 5. Composition and other matters regarding the committee member. Board of Directors 8. Corporate Executive Officers The Board of Directors shall have a balanced composition Corporate Executive Officers shall execute business and providing a wealth of knowledge and expertise, with at make decisions on the execution of business delegated least one-third of the board members being independent by the Board of Directors. outside directors, and a majority being non-executive directors, including independent outside directors. 9. Relations with shareholders and other stakeholders MUFG will act appropriately to ensure shareholder rights To ensure the effectiveness of oversight of Group manageand their appropriate exercise. ment, the Presidents and CEOs of Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking and Mitsubishi UFJ 10. Appropriate disclosure of information Securities Holdings will, in principle, also serve as directors MUFG will ensure transparency through appropriate discloof MUFG. sure of information, with the aim to ensure that stakeholders evaluate MUFG based on a proper understanding. Please see the site below for a full explanation of our corporate governance structure and policy. http://www.mufg.jp/english/profile/governance/structure/policy.html MUFG Report 2015 51 Special Feature: Building a Governance Structure which Supports Corporate Value Move to a Company with Three Committees Structure MUFG moved to a company with three committees framework that will be more familiar and transparent to structure in June 2015 as part of our efforts to further overseas stakeholders, in line with our status as a G-SIFI enhance corporate governance from a medium-long(Global Systemically Important Financial Institution). term perspective. With the aim of enhancing group To set out the policy and framework of the corporate management, the functions of oversight and execution in governance of MUFG and to serve as a guide for the the holding company are separated, thereby strengthenactions of directors and management, MUFG Corporate ing the oversight function of the Board of Directors. The Governance Policies has been formulated. committee system has also been reorganized for more effective governance. We are aiming for a governance Establishment of C-Suite C-Suite is the general term for the Chief Financial Officer and management divisions. By managing each function (CFO), Chief Risk Officer (CRO) and other positions. MUFG across the Group, the C-Suite aims to strengthen its positions the holding company C-Suite as the C-Suite for support for Group-wide business strategy, and enhance the entire Group, coordinating the functions of planning governance structures to a level appropriate to a G-SIFI. General Meeting of Shareholders Oversight Statutory Committees Nominating and Governance Committee* Compensation Committee Board of Directors Audit Committee Optional Committee Risk Committee Execution Executive Committee Global Advisory Board President & CEO Advisory Board C-Suite Executive Responsible Planning and Control Divisions Business Groups * Nominating and Governance Committee is a “Nominating Committee” as provided for in the Companies Act. 52 MUFG Report 2015 Outline of Board of Directors and Committees The Board of Directors is responsible for the oversight The outside directors are a balanced group (corporate and direction of the Group. It is composed of 17 memmanagement, a university professor, a lawyer and an bers, of whom 7 (over one third) are either outside accountant) with a diverse range of experience directors or non-executive directors with a high degree and expertise. of independence. Of the 17 directors, the majority (9) are non-executive directors. Nominating and Governance Committee Audit Committee The Committee is composed of outside directors and the The Committee is composed of outside directors and President & CEO, with an outside director as Chairperson. non-executive directors, with an outside director as The Committee decides on proposals for appointment or Chairperson. The Committee examines the execution of dismissal of directors which will be submitted to the business by directors and corporate executive officers General Meetings of Shareholders. It also discusses and prepares auditing reports. It also examines the busimatters related to the Chairman, Vice-Chairman, ness and financial situation of the holding company and President, and other major management positions in the subsidiaries, conducting fieldwork where necessary. holding company or major subsidiaries and makes recommendations to the Board of Directors. It examines corporate governance policy and framework and makes recommendations to the Board of Directors. Corporate Value Foundation Compensation Committee Risk Committee The Committee is composed of outside directors and the The Committee is composed of outside directors and President & CEO, with an outside director as Chairperson. outside experts, with an outside director as Chairperson. The Committee decides the compensation policy for The Committee examines matters related to Group-wide directors and corporate executive officers and also risk management and reports to the Board of Directors. It decides the details of individual compensation. It examexamines major issues related to risk management and ines the compensation systems for senior management compliance, as well as other issues that need to be at the holding company and major subsidiaries and examined by the Risk Committee and makes recommenmakes recommendations on establishment and reform to dations to the Board of Directors. the Board of Directors. Committee Membership Chairperson Member Nominating and Compensation Audit Risk Governance Committee Committee Committee Committee Yuko Kawamoto* Outside director Haruka Matsuyama Outside director Kunie Okamoto Outside director Tsutomu Okuda Outside director Hiroshi Kawakami Outside director Yukihiro Sato Outside director Akira Yamate Outside director Nobuyuki Hirano President & Group CEO Takashi Mikumo Non-executive director Takehiko Shimamoto Non-executive director Akira Ariyoshi Outside expert, graduate school professor Kenzo Yamamoto Outside expert * As Ms. Yuko Kawamoto previously worked for the Bank of Tokyo (currently the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ), she does not fulfill the requirements of outside director under Japan’s Companies Act. However, during the more than 25 years that have passed since her employment at Bank of Tokyo she has gained a wealth of experience and discernment as a business consultant and university professor, and we therefore believe that her independence from MUFG is equivalent to that of an outside director. Moreover, as a result of revisions to Japan’s Companies Act, following the conclusion of the June 2016 General Meeting of Shareholders Ms. Kawamoto will meet the requirements of outside director. MUFG Report 2015 53 Interview with Outside Director Yuko Kawamoto, an Outside Director* of MUFG and professor at the Waseda Graduate School of Finance, Accounting and Law, discusses MUFG’s efforts to strengthen its corporate governance, and the role she plays in those efforts. Yuko Kawamoto Career Summary Ms. Kawamoto holds a BA degree in Social Psychology from the University of Tokyo and a Master’s of Science degree in Development Economics from the University of Oxford Outside Director (St. John’s College). After working at the Bank of Tokyo, she joined the Tokyo office of Professor, Waseda Graduate School of Finance, McKinsey and Company in 1988, and was based in Paris from 1995 to 1999. She took Accounting and Law up a professorship at the Waseda Graduate School of Finance, Accounting and Law in 2004. Ms. Kawamoto has served as an outside director of the Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group since June 2013. Q. What is your opinion of MUFG’s efforts to strengthen its corporate * Having previously been an employee of the Bank of Tokyo governance? (the present Bank of TokyoMitsubishi UFJ), Ms. Kawamoto does not meet the requirements A. I take a positive view of the various changes being made to make of an outside director stipulated in management more open, both outside the Company and outside the Companies Act, but in light of the fact that more than 25 years Japan. Nevertheless, we cannot rest on our laurels. I believe that have elapsed since her retirement reforming corporate governance requires constant effort. from the Bank of Tokyo and given her wealth of experience as a management consultant and uniThe success or failure of corporate governance in Japan holds the key to whether Japan versity professor, the Company will resume its place as a key component of the global economy, and there is currently a considers her to be sufficiently great deal of interest in this issue worldwide. At the same time, there are numerous issues independent to serve as an independent director. With the revithat need to be overcome, including the inconsistent separation of execution and oversion of the Companies Act, Ms. sight, the weakness of boards of directors’ oversight function, the risk from a lack of Kawamoto will meet the requirediversity within companies, and insufficient transparency in personnel decision making. ments of an outside director from Over the past two years, through the leadership of top management and the diligent the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders work of staff, MUFG has been a leader in reforming corporate governance at Japan’s to be held in June 2016. megabanks. A variety of changes have been implemented that make management more open outside the Company and outside Japan. 54 MUFG Report 2015 The Board of Directors is pursuing structural reforms like increasing the number of independent directors. There have been major changes, not only regarding the selection of members, but also in terms of operations, including reviews of proposals to promote effective discussion. I feel that both the quantity and quality of discussion have increased significantly compared with two years ago, when I assumed office as an Independent Director. In addition to the previously existing Nomination and Compensation Committee and Internal Audit and Compliance Committee, the Board has effectively broadened the scope of discussion by establishing a new Governance Committee and Risk Committee. The Board has also clarified its corporate governance policy. Along with striving to maintain diversity through initiatives including the appointment of more than one female director, I expect that the change of our corporate governance structure in 2015 will strengthen the oversight function. MUFG’s global presence is growing. I feel that as a financial institution subject to special regulations, including those of overseas regulatory agencies, management cannot forget for a moment that there is a great deal of interest internationally in MUFG’s corporate governance. This is why we cannot rest on our laurels. We need to make constant efforts to reform corporate governance going forward, based on the three strategic focuses of “Customer perspective,” “Group-driven approach,” and “Productivity improvements” laid out in the medium-term business plan. Corporate Value Foundation Q. What role can you play as an independent director toward achieving MUFG’s vision of being “the world’s most trusted financial group”? A. I would like my role to be one of a “supporter of reform,” using my position of being independent from operational execution to provide direct input through dialogue with management including the Board of Directors. I would like to be a “supporter of reform.” Management strives to maximize corporate value while maintaining a balance among the Company’s stakeholders including shareholders, customers, employees, and local communities. In terms of maintaining this balance, I feel that, in fact, it is very difficult to “make correct decisions.” I believe independent directors play an important role in examining and determining whether the Board’s management policies have this balance. Within a company, people can become overly cautious and as a result discussion of certain subjects can become taboo. To ensure that this does not happen, independent directors can make executionside managers aware of the situation by asking questions based on “common-sense intuition.” If this process works properly, I believe the Board of Directors is more likely to be able to make good decisions that are truly balanced, and that will lead to the maximization of corporate value. Having a Board of Directors that is not biased in its decision making is in itself a foundation from which to gain trust. To become “the world’s most trusted,” MUFG needs to be sensitive to changes in both the Japanese economy and the global economy, and be flexible in its response to those changes, to achieve the position it wants to attain as social infrastructure and as an economic engine. The fact that independent directors are separated from operational execution is the reason they are able to contribute to management. By extending our “outside antennae,” we can be sensitive to the expectations of investors and the needs of customers, and I hope to be able to enhance discussion by providing direct input through dialog with the Board of Directors and other senior managers. I am confident that this will ultimately lead to the enhancement of corporate value. MUFG Report 2015 55 Management Team 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Board of Directors (as of July 1, 2015) Kiyoshi Sono 1 Nobuyuki Hirano 4 Muneaki Tokunari 7 Director Director Director Chairman President & Group CEO Managing Executive Officer Deputy Chairman of Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ President & CEO, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Group CFO Mr. Sono joined Sanwa Bank in 1976. In 2012, he Mr. Hirano joined The Mitsubishi Bank, Ltd. in 1974. In Mr. Tokunari joined Mitsubishi Trust and Banking became group head of MUFG’s Integrated Corporate 2012, he was appointed as President of Bank of Corporation in 1982. He became Senior Managing Banking Business Group, and he was made Chairman Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, and a year later, in 2013, he Director of Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking in 2013 in 2014. He was appointed Director, Representative became President of MUFG. In June 2015, he was and in 2014 Managing Officer of MUFG. In June 2015, Corporate Executive Officer and Chairman of MUFG appointed as Director, Representative Corporate he was appointed as Director and Managing in June 2015 (incumbent). Executive Officer and President of MUFG Executive Officer of MUFG (incumbent) and (incumbent). Managing Director of Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Tatsuo Wakabayashi 2 (incumbent). Director Takashi Oyamada 5 Deputy Chairman Director Masamichi Yasuda 8 President & CEO, Chairman of Mitsubishi UFJ Deputy President & Group COO Director Trust and Banking Corporation Mr. Oyamada joined The Mitsubishi Bank in 1979. In Managing Executive Officer Mr. Wakabayashi joined The Mitsubishi Trust and 2014, he was appointed as Deputy President of Bank Group CRO Banking Corporation (MTB) in 1977. He assumed the of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (incumbent). In May 2015, he Mr. Yasuda joined the Bank of Tokyo in 1983. In 2014, office of Deputy Chairman of MUFG in 2013 and in became Deputy President of MUFG. In June 2015, he he became Managing Officer of Bank of Tokyothe same year became President and Chairman of was appointed as Director, Representative Corporate Mitsubishi UFJ. In June 2015, he was appointed as Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation Executive Officer, and Deputy President of MUFG. Managing Director of Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (incumbent). In June 2015, he was appointed as (incumbent) and Director and Managing Executive Director, Representative Corporate Executive Officer Tadashi Kuroda 6 Officer of MUFG (incumbent). and Deputy Chairman of MUFG (incumbent). Director Senior Managing Executive Officer Takashi Mikumo 9 Takashi Nagaoka 3 Group CSO Director (non-executive) Director Mr. Kuroda joined Sanwa Bank in 1981. In 2014, he Mr. Mikumo joined Toyo Trust Bank in 1980. He Deputy Chairman was appointed Managing Director of MUFG and in became a Senior Managing Director of Mitsubishi UFJ President & CEO of Mitsubishi UFJ Securities the same year a Director of Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Trust and Banking in 2012, and in June 2013, he was Holdings Company Banking Corporation (incumbent). In June 2015, he appointed as Corporate Auditor of MUFG. In June President & CEO of Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan was appointed as a Director and Senior Managing 2015, he was appointed as a Director of MUFG Stanley Securities Company Executive Officer of MUFG (incumbent) and a Senior (incumbent). Mr. Nagaoka joined Mitsubishi Bank in 1976. In 2011, Managing Director of Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ he became Deputy President of Bank of Tokyo(incumbent). Takehiko Shimamoto 10 Mitsubishi UFJ. In 2014, he became President and Director (non-executive) CEO of Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Mr. Shimamoto joined Mitsubishi Bank in 1982. Company and President and CEO of Mitsubishi UFJ In 2012, he became a Managing Officer of MUFG and Securities Holdings Company (incumbent). In the a Managing Director of Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ. same year, he was appointed as a Director of MUFG. In June 2015, he was appointed as a Director of In June 2015, he was appointed as Director, MUFG (incumbent). Representative Corporate Executive Officer and Deputy Chairman of MUFG (incumbent). 56 MUFG Report 2015 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 Corporate Value Foundation Yuko Kawamoto 11 Kunie Okamoto 13 Yukihiro Sato 16 Outside Director* Outside Director Outside Director Professor, Waseda Graduate School of Finance, Chairman, Nippon Life Insurance Adviser, Mitsubishi Electric Accounting and Law Mr. Okamoto joined Nippon Life Insurance Company Mr. Sato joined Mitsubishi Electric Corporation in After working at The Bank of Tokyo from 1982 to in 1969 and became president in 2005. In the same 1969, and was appointed director, representative 1986, Ms. Kawamoto joined McKinsey & Company in year, Mr. Okamoto was appointed as a corporate executive officer, and executive vice president in 1988. At McKinsey, she was promoted to senior auditor of MUFG. He continues to serve as chairman 2007. In 2009, he became senior corporate adviser. expert of the Tokyo branch in 2001. After leaving of Nippon Life Insurance, a position he has held since From 2013, he served as special adviser of Mitsubishi McKinsey, she took up a professorship of the Waseda 2011. In June 2014, Mr. Okamoto was appointed as an Electric. In 2014, he was appointed as a Corporate Graduate School of Finance, Accounting and Law in outside director of MUFG (incumbent). Auditor of MUFG and in the same year an Adviser 2004. From 2006, Ms. Kawamoto has served as an to Mitsubishi Electric. In June 2015, he became an audit and supervisory board member of Tokio Marine Tsutomu Okuda 14 outside director of MUFG (incumbent). Holdings, Inc. In 2013, she became an outside direcOutside Director tor of MUFG (incumbent). Senior Advisor, J. Front Retailing Akira Yamate 17 Mr. Okuda joined The Daimaru, Inc. in 1964. In 1997, Outside Director Haruka Matsuyama 12 he was named president of Daimaru and in 2003 Certified Public Accountant Outside Director chairman and chief executive officer. In 2007, he Mr. Yamate joined Price Waterhouse in 1977, becomPartner, Hibiya Park Law Offices assumed the office of president and chief executive ing a certified public accountant in 1983. In 1991, he Ms. Matsuyama became an assistant judge to the officer of J. Front Retailing Co., Ltd., where he became a Representative Partner of Aoyama Audit Tokyo District Court in 1995. Upon becoming an became chairman and chief executive officer in Corporation and a Partner of Price Waterhouse. In attorney-at-law and joining the Daini Tokyo Bar 2010. Since 2014, he has served as a senior advisor of 2000, he became a Representative Partner of Chuo Association in 2000, she joined Hibiya Park Law the company. In 2014, Mr. Okamoto was appointed Aoyama Audit Corporation and a Partner of Offices, where she was promoted to a partner in as an outside director of MUFG (incumbent). Pricewaterhouse Coopers. From 2006 to 2013, he 2002. Ms. Matsuyama has also been serving as a corwas a Representative Partner of Pricewaterhouse porate auditor of Vitec Co., Ltd. since 2012, a director Hiroshi Kawakami 15 Coopers Aarata. In 2013, he was appointed as a of T&D Holdings, Inc. since 2013, and a corporate Outside Director Corporate Auditor of Nomura Real Estate Holdings auditor of Mitsui & Co., Ltd. since 2014. In 2014, she and Nomura Real Estate. In June 2015, he was Senior Advisor of Central Japan became an outside director of MUFG (incumbent). appointed as an outside director of MUFG and in the International Airport same year appointed as a director of Nomura Real Mr. Kawakami joined Toyota in 1972. He became Estate Holdings, and a Corporate Auditor of Managing Executive Officer of Toyota in 2003, and Prudential Holdings of Japan (incumbent). Senior Managing Director in 2007. In 2008, he became Vice President of Toyota Tsusho Corp. and in 2009 he was appointed President of Central Japan International Airport Co., Ltd. In June 2015, he became a Senior Advisor of Central Japan International Airport and also an outside director of MUFG (incumbent). * Having previously worked at The Bank of Tokyo (currently, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ), Yuko Kawamoto does not satisfy the requirements for outside director under the Companies Act. Her subsequent experience of more than 25 years as a consultant and graduate school professor, however, is deemed to establish her sufficient independence from the Company. According to the amended Companies Act, she will meet the requirements for an outside director after the conclusion of the June 2016 Annual General Shareholders’ Meeting. MUFG Report 2015 57 Management Team Executive Committee (as of July 3, 2015) Kiyoshi Sono Muneaki Tokunari Satoshi Murabayashi Director Director Senior Managing Executive Officer Chairman Managing Executive Officer Group CIO Group CFO Tatsuo Wakabayashi Saburo Araki Director Masamichi Yasuda Senior Managing Executive Officer Deputy Chairman Director Group CHRO Managing Executive Officer Takashi Nagaoka Group CRO Takashi Morimura Director Senior Managing Executive Officer Deputy Chairman Akira Hamamoto Group Head, Global Business Group Managing Executive Officer Nobuyuki Hirano Group CCO & Group CLO Junichi Okamoto Director Senior Managing Executive Officer President & Group CEO Yoichi Orikasa Group Head, Trust Assets Business Group Corporate Executive Officer Takashi Oyamada Group CAO and Hidekazu Fukumoto Director General Manager of Internal Audit Division Senior Managing Executive Officer Deputy President & Group COO Group Head, Corporate Banking Business Group Kouji Nishimoto Tadashi Kuroda Managing Officer Naoto Hirota Director Senior Managing Executive Officer Senior Managing Executive Officer Iwao Nagashima Group Head, Global Markets Business Group Group CSO Managing Officer Takahiro Yanai Managing Executive Officer Group Head, Retail Banking Business Group Officers (as of July 3, 2015) Managing Officers Executive Officers Toru Matsuda Akihiko Nakamura Atsushi Murakami Masayasu Tsukada Hiroshi Naruse Masahiro Hosomi Yuichi Okura Tetsuro Shinohara Go Watanabe Masato Matsumoto Makoto Kobayashi Hiroshi Takekawa Shigeru Asai Mikio Ikegaya Randall Chafetz Masatsune Okada Masahiko Kato Makoto Hayashi Shigeru Yoshifuji Masaki Miyazaki Eiichi Yoshikawa Hisashi Ito Hiroaki Cho Toshikazu Mukohara Hiroshi Nakanishi Shuzo Iwasaki Kazuo Koshi Hideaki Onishi Koji Nishimoto Iwao Nagashima Ritsuo Ogura Yukihiro Yamamoto Takami Onodera Akio Ninomiya Kazuto Uchida Tetsuya Yonehana Atsuo Sakurai Hiroyuki Noguchi Takenobu Inaba Yoshitaka Shiba Masato Miyachi Yukio Yahagi Hiroki Kameda Junichi Narikawa Kanetsugu Mike Hironori Kamezawa Toshiya Kaneko Masakazu Ikeda Masato Tamaki Eiji Ihori Sunao Yokokawa Junichi Hanzawa Takanori Sazaki Atsushi Miyata Naomi Hayashi Koji Ishizaki Yasushi Itagaki John Woods Hideki Kishimoto Hisashi Kanamori Yasushi Ishikawa Kazuji Tanikawa Tsuyoshi Nakagawa Johannes Worsoe Kazuaki Tanaka Tsutomu Sambai Norihiko Sumita 58 MUFG Report 2015 Advisory Board Members MUFG has established the Global Advisory Board advice and recommendations on global governance, and Advisory Board to function as advisory bodies to business strategy, and other management issues from a the Executive Committee, and both Boards hold global perspective and from an independent standpoint. regular meetings. The Advisory Board is made up of external experts and The Global Advisory Board is made up of members provides valuable advice and recommendations related from Europe, Asia, and the Americas who are external to Group-wide management by actively discussing the experts in areas such as corporate management, financurrent management situation and issues from an indecial regulation, and government policy. They provide pendent perspective. Global Advisory Board (as of July 1, 2015) Corporate Value Foundation 2 5 6 1 4 3 Mr. John C. Dugan 1 Lord (James) Sassoon, Kt 4 Partner, Covington Burling LLP Director, Jardine Matheson Holdings Limited Former Comptroller of the Currency, United States Treasury Department Former Commercial Secretary to the Treasury, United Kingdom Dr. Victor K Fung 2 Associate Professor Simon S.C. Tay 5 Group Chairman, Fung Group, Hong Kong Chairman of the Singapore Institute of International Affairs Former Honorary Chairman, the International Chamber of Commerce Former Member of Parliament, Singapore Ambassador John V. Roos 3 Dr. Gertrude Tumpel-Gugerell 6 Former United States Ambassador to Japan Member of Supervisory Board, Österreichische Bundesbahnen-Holding AG Former Member of Executive Board, European Central Bank Advisory Board (as of July 1, 2015) Mr. Toshio Iwamoto Mr. Toru Nagashima Representative Director, Senior Advisor, President and Chief Executive Officer, Teijin Limited NTT DATA Corporation Mr. Akio Mimura Dr. Mariko Fujii Senior Advisor, Honorary Chairman, Professor, Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal Corporation the University of Tokyo, Research Center for Advanced Science and Technology MUFG Report 2015 59 Risk Management Introduction Since the 2008 financial crisis, financial institutions have global and preventive in its approach. Our goal is effecbeen compelled to adopt more comprehensive and tive risk governance which is consistent across regions, sophisticated risk management systems. This risk mansubsidiaries and the holding company. agement function has also grown in importance for The new Risk Appetite Framework provides a guideline MUFG as a global bank with subsidiaries spanning the for effective risk management to support our business commercial, trust and investment banking sectors. strategy and will strengthen the Group’s overall risk-return MUFG aims to strengthen its group risk management management. through the diffusion of a Risk Culture which is unified, Risk Management Overview Risk Appetite Framework Recognition of Environment Basic Policy Strengthened global Promote enterprise risk management throughout the Group. financial regulations Unified The holding company will adopt a unified approach across Higher market volatility on approach business groups, regions (US, EMEA, and Asia), subsidiaries predicted end to monetary and affiliates. easing Internal and Create a global governance structure founded Response to conduct risk* on business domains and regions external * Risk of damage to corporate value as a Global environment result of negative impact on the public Comply effectively with international regulations (MUFG focus) interest, effective competition, market which mutually interact integrity, or customer protection, due to inappropriate response to laws and regulations or insufficient attention to Avoid unexpected losses through forward-looking the viewpoint of customers. risk recognition Preventive Rapid expansion of Maximize risk-return through risk management global business based on business strategy Strengthen risk management framework Diffusion of Risk Culture, develop Management Information Systems, maintain effective data governance Risk Appetite Framework The Risk Appetite Framework aims to clarify MUFG’s to increase management transparency and generate risk appetite (types and amount of risks that it is more profit opportunities in an environment where risk willing to accept) as it works to achieve its business is properly controlled. strategy and financial plan. The framework is designed Overview of Risk Appetite Framework Management Plan Financial Plan Risk Appetite Net operating profit  apital allocation plan and C Net income RWA plan Organic correlation Capital strategy and distribution ROE based on risk RORA L iquidity risk Expenses ratio Risk appetite for difficult-toquantify risk Common equity Tier 1 Risks associated with the Business Strategy implementation of business strategies Group business strategy Profit downside risk 60 MUFG Report 2015 Risk Appetite Framework Management Process In the formulation and execution of its business strategy Appetite Framework, risk evaluation and verification and financial plan, MUFG will set the appropriate level of procedures (capital allocation system, stress tests, Top risk appetite and proceed to monitor and analyze risk Risk management) will be applied at every stage of the volume. The process to set and manage risk appetite is management planning process. set out below. In order to effectively implement the Risk Risk Appetite Setting and Management Process 1 Before formulating the overall business plan, assess pressure points for business strategy and financial and capital operations based on Confirming assumptions for the internal and external environment business plan formulation Future balance sheet simulation based on macroeconomic scenarios 2 In pursuing management’s vision, formulate a business plan proposal based on business strategy, financial plan and risk appetite. Formulate business Clarify risks to be accepted and risks to be avoided on the basis of Risk Culture plan proposal Corporate Value Foundation Revise strategy based on results 3 The risk management divisions will mainly assess the appropriate level of risk appetite. The strategy proposal will be amended if the stress tests indicate that the maximum level Risk appetite assessment of acceptable risk will be exceeded. and verification Evaluation of strategy profitability and soundness based on stress tests Evaluation of risks associated with the implementation of business strategies (quantitative, qualitative) 4 The Executive Committee and Board of Directors discuss and subsequently make decisions based on an integrated view of business strategy, the financial plan and risk appetite. On the basis of the capital allocation system, capital is allocated to subsidiaries and Business plan decision operational divisions in accordance with the level of risk. 5 The risk management divisions of the holding company and subsidiaries monitor risk volume in relation to allocated capital and risk appetite. Forward-looking valuation of internal and external environment based on Top Risk management Risk monitoring Assess overall risk for individual business strategy based on monitoring of risk appetite results and predictive control Cases where risk volume exceeds upper limit 6 The risk appetite plan will be revised if monitoring reveals that risk appetite and actual levels of risk diverge, or if environmental factors increase the level of risk. Stress tests may be conducted again in order to reset risk appetite. Revision of risk appetite MUFG Report 2015 61 Risk Management Enterprise Risk Management MUFG makes every effort to recognize the risks that approach, promoting stable profits commensurate with emerge in the course of business execution, assessing risk as well as the appropriate allocation of resources. them according to uniform criteria. Enterprise risk Enterprise risk management is composed of three main management is then conducted while maintaining strands: the capital allocation system, stress tests and business stability and striving to maximize shareholder Top Risk management. value. Enterprise risk management is a dynamic (1) Capital allocation system In this framework, latent losses associated with risk are the appropriate distribution of capital throughout the converted to a required capital amount, and capital is Group as MUFG monitors to preserve financial soundthen allocated across group companies and between ness, evaluate capital adequacy versus risk, and judge different risk categories according to business strategy impact on overall capital strategy. and the profit plan. The framework is intended to allow (2) Stress tests Stress tests for capital adequacy assessment Liquidity stress test In formulating its business strategy, MUFG regularly In liquidity stress tests, the impact of MUFG-specific or assesses its internal capital adequacy through stress tests overall market stress on the balance sheet is assessed so based on two perspectives: regulatory capital, based on as to implement MUFG’s business strategy and financial capital adequacy regulations (Basel III), and its own plan. Various options are examined to respond to shorteconomic capital, based on internal risk assessment. term fund outflows or long-term structural changes in Stress tests analyze both the internal and external environthe balance sheet with a view to ensuring there is no ment, and use three-year-period preventative scenarios. funding shortage. (3) Top risk management The potential losses that emerge from scenario analysis impact and then respond dynamically when they actually are classified as risks and then their relative importance is emerge. As Top Risks are discussed Group-wide, includweighed according to degree of impact and probability ing management, consistent risk recognition is (internal and external factors). The risks that need to be maintained widely throughout the Group and effective watched most closely over the next year are classified as solutions implemented. As an example, in the Top Risk Top Risks* and a risk map is created to allow preventive report submitted to our Board of Directors via the risk management. Corporate Risk Management Committee in March 2015, By identifying Top Risks, MUFG and its affiliates can “Risk of higher losses due to increase in long-term interdiscuss countermeasures to mitigate the potential est rates” was cited as a major Top Risk. Establishment of Risk Committee In enhancing its corporate governance and risk management, MUFG places a special emphasis on stakeholders who can view the Company from the outside. To that end, in 2013, the Company established the Risk Committee, composed of independent external directors and external specialists, which reports directly to the Board of Directors on Group-wide risk management matters. 62 MUFG Report 2015 Enhancing the Effectiveness of Risk Management Effective risk management and a strong Risk Appetite Framework depend on a Risk Culture which enables meaningful discussion and clear communication throughout the Group. Developing and diffusing a Risk Culture MUFG defines a Risk Culture as the basic approach which for credit business, market business and overall business specifies how to take risks and risk management for and then formulated in the Risk Appetite Statement. In MUFG’s organizational and individual behaviors. This order to share this Risk Culture throughout the Company, standard of conduct on risk taking is then spread management issues regular strategic messages and throughout the Company. A Risk Culture is established schedules regular global meetings. Risk Culture Outline Points of view to keep in mind in taking on risk Credit business Market business Overall business Stability S  ecure earnings based on fair Sincerity Profitability transactions Accuracy Contribute to maintenance of Promptness Growth soundness of the market Public nature Efficiency Pursue adequate risk management Corporate Value Foundation Risk Appetite Statement The Risk Appetite Statement elucidates the Risk Appetite and management process) as well as specific business Framework which embodies MUFG’s attempts to achieve strategies, financial plans and risk appetite details. an integrated group strategy along with effective risk A summary of the Risk Appetite Statement is distributed management. The Risk Appetite Statement contains an throughout the Group in an effort to spread the basic overview of the Risk Appetite Framework (basic policy philosophy behind the Risk Appetite Framework. MUFG Report 2015 63 Compliance Basic Policy We have clarified our Group mission, long-term vision globally, to acting with honesty and integrity, and to and shared values in the Corporate Vision and expressed behaving in a manner that supports and strengthens the our commitment to meeting the expectations of customtrust and confidence of society. ers and society as a whole. Furthermore, we have In addition, as we expand our business globally, we are established the Principles of Ethics and Conduct as the committed to keeping abreast with developments in the guidelines for how the Group’s directors and employees laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which we act to realize the Corporate Vision. This expresses our operate including anti-money laundering and anti-bribery, commitment to complying with laws and regulations as well as paying attention to trends in financial crimes. Compliance system Compliance management divisions have been estabCommittee while the three companies have Compliance lished at the holding company Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Committees which deliberate important matters related Group, and at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Mitsubishi to compliance. UFJ Trust and Banking, and Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Additionally, the holding company has the Group Chief Holdings (referred to as the three companies below). Compliance Officer (CCO) Committee composed of the Each compliance management division formulates CCO of the holding company and CCOs of the three compliance programs and organizes training courses to companies. This committee deliberates important matters promote compliance, and regularly reports to each related to compliance and compliance-related issues for company’s board of directors and Executive Committee which the Group should share a common understanding. on the status of compliance activities. The holding company has the Group Compliance Compliance System Holding Company (Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc.) Board of Directors Audit Committee Executive Committee Group Compliance Committee CCO (Chief Compliance Officer) Group CCO Committee Compliance Division (Coordinates compliance issues) Consultation and report Guidance, advice and instruction Group Companies 64 MUFG Report 2015 Internal Audit Role of Internal Audit Internal audit functions within MUFG seek to verify the Internal audit results are reported to senior manageadequacy and effectiveness of internal control systems ment. An additional role of internal audit is to make from a standpoint independent of the operating functions. suggestions to help improve or rectify any issues or This includes monitoring the status of risk management specific problems that are identified. and compliance systems, which are critical to the maintenance of sound and appropriate business operations. Group Internal Audit Framework The holding company has instituted MUFG’s internal audit holding company monitors and, as necessary, guides, policy to define the policy, function, and organizational advises, and administers the internal audit divisions of position of internal audits. Separate internal audit divisubsidiaries and affiliated companies. sions have been created within the holding company and The internal audit divisions within the major subsidiaries certain subsidiaries. Through close cooperation and conduct audits of the respective head office and branch collaboration among the internal audit divisions of the operations of these companies. In addition, each of these holding company and these subsidiaries, these internal internal audit divisions undertakes direct audits of their audit divisions provide coverage for the Group and also respective subsidiaries, and monitors and oversees the support the board of directors in monitoring and overseeseparate internal audit functions established within them. ing all MUFG operations. This helps to evaluate and verify the adequacy and In addition to having primary responsibility for initiating effectiveness of internal controls within MUFG on a and preparing plans and proposals related to internal consolidated basis. audits of the Group, the internal audit division at the Implementing Effective and Efficient Internal Audits Corporate Value Foundation To ensure that internal audit processes use available and the frequency and depth of internal audit activities. resources with optimal effectiveness and efficiency, the The internal audit divisions ensure that audit personnel internal audit divisions implement risk-focused internal attend key meetings, collect important internal control audits in which the nature and magnitude of the associdocuments and access databases to facilitate efficient ated risks are considered in determining audit priorities off-site monitoring. Reports to the Internal Audit Committee The holding company has an audit committee within its the internal division reports to the committee on imporboard of directors as required by the Company Law of tant matters including the results of the internal audits Japan, and the major subsidiaries have voluntarily estaband basic policies for planning internal audits. lished internal audit and compliance committees. Within each of the holding company and the major subsidiaries, Internal Audit Framework Holding Company (Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc.) Board of Directors Internal Audit Committee (Chairman: Outside Director) Reporting Executive Committee Internal Audit Division MUFG, Each Division Auditing Consultation and report Guidance, advice and management Group Companies MUFG Report 2015 65 Responding to Global Financial Regulation Since the global financial crisis of 2008, financial institutions have been required to hold to stricter standards of financial soundness and management discipline. New regulations have been introduced and existing regulations like capital adequacy ratios have been tightened in the quest to establish a more stable financial system. At the same time, new challenges and issues have been thrown up in the process. In this section we look at the trend for global financial regulation and our response. Trend in Global Financial Regulation 2007 Fragility of financial system spurred stronger global regulation US housing bubble bursts As subprime loans to low-income households in the US went bad, 2008 Lehman Brothers (which held a large number of subprime-related financial products) filed for bankruptcy. This caused a sharp Lehman Brothers collapse contraction of credit in the global financial markets and exposed the 2010 fragility of the financial system. European sovereign debt crisis Announcement of Basel III New regulations to ensure the soundness of banks engaging in 2013 international business Start of application of capital In 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (composed of adequacy ratio requirements representatives from the main bank supervisory agencies around the (to be phased in up to 2019) world) introduced Basel III, designed to ensure the continued soundness of major banks engaging in international business. 2015 It has three main elements. Start of application of Liquidity Capital ratio requirements Banks must keep their capital adequacy ratios above a certain level in Coverage Ratio (LCR) relation to risk-based exposure (risk assets). Leverage ratio Banks must keep their capital adequacy ratios above a certain level in After 2016 relation to non-risk-based exposure (total assets shown on financial statements and off-balance-sheet assets). Start of application of leverage Liquidity requirements This is composed of the Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) and the ratio rules Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR). Start of application of Net LCR: Banks must keep liquid assets that can be converted easily and immediately into cash above a certain level in order to cover Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR) any fund outflows. NSFR: Banks must maintain stable funding sources (which can effectively respond to stress for one year) above a certain level. Higher financial standards expected of G-SIBs G-SIBs refers to Global Systemically Important Bucket 5 Bucket 2 Bank of America Banks, institutions whose failure would have a (3.5% capital Empty (1.5% capital (United States) surcharge) surcharge) major impact on the global financial system Bucket 4 Credit Suisse (Switzerland) according to the Financial Stability Board (2.5% capital HSBC (United Kingdom) whose membership derives from financial surcharge) Goldman Sachs JP Morgan Chase (United States) supervisory authorities around the world. Basel (United States) III stipulates a surcharge on the required MUFG (Japan) Bucket 3 capital ratio of G-SIBs (from 1.0% to 2.5%) to be (2.0% capital Barclays (United Kingdom) phased in from 2016. This would represent a surcharge) Morgan Stanley BNP Paribas (France) (United States) surcharge of 1.5% for MUFG up to 2019 under Royal Bank of Scotland the current bucket allocation. Citigroup (United States) (United Kingdom) Bucket 1 (1.0% capital 18 Banks Deutsche Bank (Germany) surcharge) 66 MUFG Report 2015 MUFG’s Response MUFG has already achieved levels required by Results Required level the end of March 2019 From March 31, March 31, 2015 March 31, 2015 As the table at right shows, MUFG is in compli2019 ance with the levels required by end-March 2015 Common Equity Tier1 11.14% 4.5% 8.5% and it has already reached the levels required by Capital Ratio end-March 2019. Tier1 Capital Ratio 12.62% 6.0% 10.0% Total Capital Ratio 15.68% 8.0% 12.0% Liquidity Coverage Ratio 124.60%* 60.0% 100.0% * Figures differ from the quarterly average based on the end-June 2015 standard derived from Financial Services Agency disclosure. MUFG stance In order to avoid a reprise of the financial crisis, reform the impact of new regulations, as well as the coherence and strengthened regulations are required both for between different sets of regulations, all in the context of individual institutions and the system as a whole. On the the global regulatory framework. MUFG believes the other hand, we must ensure that the new regulations do fundamental mission of a financial institution is to supnot bring uncertainty to both financial markets and the port economic growth and to that end we support the real economy or hamper healthy development and creation of a global regulatory framework based on innovation. It is therefore necessary to carefully consider international cooperation and public/private partnerships. Corporate Value Foundation Key Issues Going Forward The following regulatory issues are at the center of global debate: Total Loss Absorbing Capacity Interest rate risk in the banking Review of risk-weighted asset (TLAC) book (IRRBB) measurement methodologies In addition to Basel III capital The valuation of assets and liabilities Measurement methodologies for requirements, there is a call for held in the banking book may credit, market and operational risk additional capital and liabilities fluctuate in accordance with are being reviewed with a view to (which meet certain subordinated interest rate changes. Whether to restoring trust in regulatory capital conditions) which will allow orderly require to hold capital enough to and to improve comparability. resolution not dependent on an cover IRRBB is being discussed. injection of public funds. Positioning of Capital Ratio Regulatory Items Total Loss Absorbing Capacity (TLAC) Capital Capital Ratio = Credit Risk + Market Risk + Operational Risk  eview of standardized R IRRBB R  eview of standardized approach* Fundamental review of approach* Review of internal ratingsthe trading book* Review of advanced based approach* measurement approach* Review of capital floor* * Items related to review of risk asset measurement methodologies MUFG Report 2015 67 Human Resources Strategy Personnel Development which Enhances the Motivation and Expertise of our 140,000 Global Employees, Allowing them to Deliver Superior Services to Customers Core Strategy High-Value-Added Services with the MUFG Touch The development of human resources is key to creating more satisfied customers and stakeholders and to achieving steady growth for MUFG. Our workforce is at the heart of our corporate activity and the provision of value-added services. Japan is undergoing a period of rapid change with a decreasing birthrate and aging population, greater participation of women in society and globalization. As a result, companies are increasingly composed of employees with differing nationalities, values, lifestyles and approaches to work. In order to engage and motivate these employees, a very different personnel system is required to the traditional model which assumed a homogeneous workforce. Further, as customer needs diversify, we need to create a structure where Group companies work together to provide seamless, value-added services which have unique characteristics. We are therefore working to develop the potential of our global workforce of 140,000 employees so that through their motivation and expertise they provide highvalue-added services to our customers. 68 MUFG Report 2015 Understand, Believe & Live Our Corporate Vision MUFG Values Talk is a regular dialogue workshop where In July 2014, we launched a new global logo as part of young employees can discuss their work and the our brand strategy. At the launch, we organized workCompany as they address such themes as personal shops in San Francisco, Los Angeles, New York, London, growth and exceeding the expectations of our customSingapore and Shanghai in order to foster understanding ers. MUFG Values Talk gives employees a chance to of our corporate vision that lies behind the brand. All consider how their personal stance and targets fit into overseas employees had a chance to see a video which our corporate vision. This allows a shared sense of the portrayed the MUFG brand and the corporate vision. Company direction and can translate directly into workplace practice. Initiatives to Enhance Group-Wide Collaboration Responding to Globalization In addition to joint training programs implemented by all The MUFG Group has more than 1,150 locations in over Group companies, each division organizes specific 40 countries and we are developing a workforce that can programs. support operations on this global scale. Retail Business Division Programs for Overseas Employees The Retail Academy is responsible for personnel developBank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ has implemented a number ment planning and implementation. It conducts training of programs for employees recruited overseas aiming at programs for mid-level employees aimed at developing the development of managers with a global perspective. Corporate Value Foundation skills and nurturing group awareness. By dispatching These include the Global Leaders Forum for branch/ trainers throughout the Group and mutually developing division managers the Leadership Enterprise-wise and enhancing training programs, it aims to improve the Accelerated Development program for deputy branch/ level of skills and develop highly skilled employees for the division managers and the Global Rotation Training whole Group. Program for midto junior-level staff which spans countries/regions and runs for one year. The Global Talent Corporate Business Division Committee plans successors for very important positions. The CFA job rotation program has been in place since 2007, aimed at improving the level of corporate finance Programs for Domestic Employees skills in MUFG. Within the framework of overall career Junior employees receive regular language training and development, the program is designed to produce placements to improve their abilities and we have also employees equipped to work with large corporate cusintroduced intensive English language training for tomers. Participants in the program learn investment selected mid-level employees. These initiatives are banking business at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley designed to develop a workforce capable of handling the Securities and then move to the large corporates division challenges of overseas locations, international departof Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ. Around 150 employees ments and an increasingly globalized customer base. have participated so far, learning about investment banking, honing their presentation skills, and strengthening teamwork. Developing Human Resources from a Group Perspective Our human resources development program is designed to fit a rapidly diversifying society and to support MUFG as its business model evolves and it strives for sustained growth. We aim to motivate our employees by enhancing the workplace environment, and developing training systems which allow them to chart a clear career path. We recognize the need to create a suite of personnel development and support programs based around the core themes of sharing a strategic vision, enhancing the workplace environment, and providing training and career support. To meet these objectives, in July 2015, MUFG established a new Human Resources division in the holding company. To ensure our Group companies deliver consistent levels of service, the division Takashi Oyamada focuses on personnel development and exchanges, and a new Global Learning Center Director, Deputy President has also been established. MUFG Report 2015 69 ICT Strategy Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Fintech Challenge 2015 ICT Strategy Humanoid Robot NAO The financial sector environment is changing rapidly as Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ has started the experimenICT, exemplified by Big Data, AI and robotics, makes huge tal operation of the humanoid robot NAO, which is made strides and as new players such as retail and venture by the French company Aldebaran, at selected branches. companies enter the sector. NAO is 58 cm tall and has the ability to understand and In this environment, we recognize that to maintain our speak 19 languages. NAO currently helps with basic competitive advantage we must make full use of emerging inquiries, such as technologies and our long-accumulated information assets ATM guidance, but to improve existing business and create new business as further AI is segments. To this end, MUFG is working to strengthen its integrated in the ICT initiatives and promote digital innovation. future, we hope the As an example, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ has robot will be able to established an Innovation Center in Silicon Valley which respond to more aims to pool knowledge, perspectives and technology sophisticated from outside the company. It examines new technology questions. research and potential alliances with venture firms who possess innovative business models. Further, as part of Humanoid robot NAO: our strategy to provide new financial services using ICT, Speaks 19 languages and we organized Fintech Challenge 2015, which presents helps with ATM directions ideas on new technologies, business models and services and opening an account. mainly from startups and individuals. Introducing AI IBM’s Watson is a cognitive system capable of understanding and learning from complex dialogue and questions as well as making forecasts and projections. Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ is planning to use AI such as Watson on its websites, and at call centers and branches. Thereby, we will improve services as AI supports answers to inquiries and operations more generally. 70 MUFG Report 2015 Sustainability Detailed information on our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities can be seen at http://www.mufg.jp/english/csr/ MUFG’s Goal in CSR Financial institutions have a responsibility to help stabilize solve social issues through our core financial businesses and maintain financial systems and contribute to the sound as well as fulfilling our inherent social mission as the growth of society. MUFG’s goal in CSR is to contribute to foundation of society and realize a sustainable society. CSR Strategy and CSR Materiality The social and business environment is changing rapidly considering how best to achieve growth from the twin as Japan experiences a declining birthrate and aging perspectives of “Importance to Stakeholders” and population and MUFG’s operations progressively “Impact on Business Success”. We designated three globalize. This means that the kinds of impact a company priorities as MUFG’s CSR materiality: “Customers;” makes through its corporate activities also change. To “Community;” and “Responsible Finance.” respond, MUFG has revised the areas it will prioritize, Resolving Social Issues CSR Materiality 1 Customers 2 Community 3 Responsible Finance Corporate Value Foundation Responding to customer Contributing to the Supporting the development feedback and providing resolution of environmental and invigoration of local products and services that and social problems through communities exceed customer expectations our core business Importance to Stakeholders Impact on Business Success We work to fulfill our corporate social responsibility through our business, using our Corporate Vision and Principles of Ethics and Conduct as guidelines. 1 Customers Exceeding Customer Expectations We continue to attract new customers and establish lasting relationships with them by quickly responding to a diverse range of needs, opinions, and requests and making continuous efforts to reflect these in our products and services. Initiatives Systems for collecting and monitoring Response to the needs of the elderly customer feedback Thorough quality management for products and services in line with our “Customer Perspective” MUFG Report 2015 71 Sustainability Results and Cases Improvements based on Customer Feedback Improvements 562 cases* MUFG Feedback Monitoring System Customers Based on feedback 262,000 comments and from 262,000 customers* requests from customers * Total for Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking, Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities, Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS and ACOM Government between April 2014 and March 2015. Collect Branches, Call Centers, Postcards, Agencies/ Websites, Questionnaires Industrial Issues on which we received substantial feedback Associations Analyze customer views Group Companies Analyze Customer Feedback Identify issues “My ATM card is no longer usable. Improve products & services; I want to have it reissued without Improve reform business processes; going to the bank teller counter.” conduct employee training; Monitor etc. Improvement Report Verify improvements The process for reissuing a customer’s Management, committees, etc. ATM card that is no longer usable due to magnetic failure or damage can now Report be done over the telephone. Corporate Social Customer MUFG Responsibility Complaint Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Committee Monitoring Meeting Making Our Elderly Customer Experience Safe and Pleasant Barrier-Free Branches Streamlining Procedures We are working to make our branches safe and pleasant Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ and Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and locations for elderly customers to visit with slope access Banking are making efforts to improve and adapt adminand wheelchair-compatible parking areas. istrative procedures to the needs of elderly customers, including the simplification of administrative procedures and the observance of family proxies. Simplification of Administration by Proxy In cases where a customer finds it difficult to fill out or stamp a document due to visual or other physical disabilities, it may be possible for an accompanying family member to serve as a proxy, depending on the type of transaction. Simplification of procedures to allow payment by proxy when the intent of the depositor cannot be verified When the intent of the depositor cannot be verified, it may be possible to arrange for a family member or other proxy to make necessary payments on their behalf for hospital/treatment fees, care facility fees, or tax/social insurance fees on request. Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ and Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking are engaged in the training of “dementia supporters” to help customers with dementia. We work to ensure that elderly customers can use our services with comfort and peace of mind. Going forward, we endeavor to contribute to a society where people with dementia can continue to live comfortable lives. 72 MUFG Report 2015 2 Community Supporting Community Development We plan to raise our value as a corporation by strengthening our bonds with local communities and endeavoring to build trust and confidence, not only with customers, but also with regional societies in Japan and overseas. Initiatives Economic and Financial Education Donations and Support Activities We promote financial literacy and career guidance We donate to foster homes and support centers for through workplace experience and classes given by our people with disabilities in Japan and overseas. We employees in schools and colleges. also build relationships with society through event planning, and participate in charity activities, etc. Environmental Preservation and Beautification Executives and employees participate in voluntary Supporting Reconstruction programs such as tree planting and cultivation, and We support mediumto long-term recovery from the clean-up activities. We also support various environmenGreat East Japan Earthquake through financial support, tal organizations. establishment of a scholarship fund, and participation in the TOMODACHI Initiative. Results and Cases Corporate Value Foundation Workplace Experience Program Internship Program (Dynamics of the Stock Market) In Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ workplace experience Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities is offering an program, students learn about the economy, finance, and Internship program (Dynamics of the Stock Market or the role of banks in society. In addition, students have the Kabu no Chikara), an educational program on the econopportunity to interview employees, asking such quesomy and finance for middle and high school students. tions as “What things do you value when it comes to your The program was developed in cooperation with Educa & job?” and “What is it like to work as a team?” Through Quest Co., Ltd. The program consists of five classes these interviews, and the firsthand experience of workwhere students learn about stocks. At the conclusion of ing, the program works to further career guidance. the program, students are asked in groups to express how they felt about Kabu no Chikara, or the dynamics of Activity of Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Kyobashi Branch the stock market, in the form of a mock newspaper The Workplace Experience Program at Kyobashi Branch advertisement, and then present these advertisements to introduced our operations and made use of MUFG’s the class. The students deepen their understanding of the Corporate Vision and Principles of Ethics and Conduct to role and function of equity markets and also learn how to introduce students to the values and actions on which collect and use information while honing their communiMUFG places importance. cation skills. In fiscal 2014, 310 students from seven private junior high and high schools in Tokyo took part. MUFG Report 2015 73 Sustainability Supporting Reconstruction of Disaster-Affected Areas exchange program to California. The students particiFinancial Support for Housing Construction in pated in homestays and deepened the ties of friendship Onagawa Town, Miyagi Prefecture between the United States and Japan through exchange We established a financial support scheme through with the local community. electronically recorded monetary claims for the Public Housing for Reconstruction Promotion Committee in MUFG Gives Back Onagawa Town, Miyagi Prefecture. Under the previous This program is designed to express thanks to the many scheme, payments to contractors were made in a lump people around the world who helped in the aftermath of sum once all the housing was transferred to the new the Great East Japan Earthquake. Starting in 2013, MUFG residents. This has led to financial issues for contractors employees all over the world have been working together until payments are made. The new scheme allows payon initiatives to support social contribution activities. ments to be made as units come onstream, easing the funding situation for contractors. Fiscal 2014 Results The MUFG NFUAJ East Japan Earthquake Recovery and Over 5,000 employees have participated in more Scholarship Fund than 100 local contribution activities in 30 countries Established in collaboration with the National Federation and regions. of UNESCO Associations in Japan (NFUAJ), the fund now amounts to around ¥3 billion. Around 1,500 orphaned students (children who lost one or both of their parents Activity of Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ as a result of the earthquake and tsunami) from elemenBuenos Aires Branch tary through high school have received scholarships. The Buenos Aires Branch worked with TECHO to help build a transitional house for a family living in poverty. Participation in the TOMODACHI Initiative TECHO is a youth-led organization working in Latin In fiscal 2014, 26 middle and high school students from America and the Caribbean whose mission is to disaster-affected areas were sent under the TOMODACHI eradicate poverty. Contributing to the Resolution of Environmental and 3 Responsible Finance Social Problems through Our Core Business MUFG is implementing initiatives to address constantly changing environmental and social issues. We offer financial support to companies that are conscious of environmental risks, and we provide consulting services to respond to global warming issues. In this way, we are contributing to the realization of a sustainable environment and society itself through our core financial business. Initiatives Promotion and Dissemination of Renewable Energy Promotion of Consulting Services Related to Climate Change Mitigation Promotion of Public-Private Financial Partnerships Promotion and Dissemination of ESG Investment Implementation of the Equator Principles as a Framework to Assess and Manage Environmental and Social Risks* * Please see progress at http://www.mufg.jp/english/csr/juten/sustainability/sekidou 74 MUFG Report 2015 Results and Cases Ranked No. 2 in the Global Project Finance Lead Arranger for Renewable Energy In fiscal 2014, MUFG was ranked No. 2* in the global project finance lead arranger table for renewable energy. This was largely attributable to the initiatives we have undertaken in the solar, hydropower, and wind energy sector around the world. * Bloomberg New Energy Finance Financing for Offshore Wind Farm Project in the U.K. Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ has signed a loan commercial banks, of which two were domestic and agreement totaling up to £68.8 million to finance an two were overseas banks. The project will have a total offshore wind power generation project in the United generation capacity of 210 MW, capable of covering Kingdom, where Marubeni Corporation has made a the power consumption of approximately 200,000 full-scale investment. The total financing amount households, and is expected to offset roughly 400,000 reached £369.5 million and was co-financed by the tons of CO2 emissions per year. Japan Bank for International Cooperation and four Corporate Value Foundation Commencing Investment with the Aim of Establishing a Renewable Energy Investment Fund Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking invested in two photovoltaic power plants in order to set up a self-managed renewable energy investment fund which will meet the needs of pension funds and other institutional investors in the near future. With this in mind, it has made a silent partnership investment of its own capital (about ¥3 billion) for solar power projects under an R&D investment scheme. The move is intended to promote the full-scale introduction of renewable energy, which is also a goal shared of the Japanese government in its growth strategy and to promote the provision of funds for mediumto long-term growth in the renewable energy market by leveraging financing from the private sector. Investment in Solar Power Generation Projects in Miyazaki and Osaka Prefectures Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking created a trust benefideveloped by Sumitomo Corporation and Sumitomo ciary account to acquire the 2 MW Kunitomi Megasolar Mitsui Finance and Leasing Co., Ltd., and is operated Power Plant, which was developed by Solar Frontier K.K. under leasing contracts. These two projects are For the project in Osaka Prefecture, it used a trust expected to supply power to 1,800 Japanese housebeneficiary account to acquire a specific amount of holds a year. In addition, the projects are expected to interest in the Osaka-Hikarinomori project. The Osakaoffset approximately 4,800 tons of CO2 emissions Hikarinomori project is a 10 MW solar power project per year. Promotion of Public-Private Financial Partnerships In fiscal 2014, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ participated in the financing of around 50 projects in the environmental and energy industries which received help from the government support program to reduce the interest rate burden for the customer. Providing Loans to Kyushu Hatsuden Co., Ltd for Small-Scale Hydropower Generation Project Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ concluded an agreement hydropower generation project it has provided loans to with Kyushu Hatsuden Co., Ltd on a ¥1.8 billion loan for in this program. the construction of the Ichinotani Power Plant in January The Ichinotani Power Plant is expected to generate 2015. The 995 kW plant will be built on the upper stream roughly 6 million kWh a year, supplying around 1,100 of the Ichinotani River, which runs through the Kimotsuki Japanese households with electricity annually. It is also district of Kagoshima Prefecture. This loan is making use anticipated that the plant will offset 3,835 tons of CO2 of the Ministry of the Environment’s environmental risk emissions per year. assessment financing program and represents the first MUFG Report 2015 75 Supporting SME Growth, Regional Economies In order to support Japan’s economic recovery from a financial perspective, MUFG provides various services to SMEs to help them resolve their business issues. We also have a number of initiatives to revitalize local communities. Supporting the Growth of SME Customers Nationwide Using its nationwide network, MUFG provides various services to SMEs in accordance with their stage of growth and development. Corporate Business Phases Growth Phase Supporting Customer Growth through Smooth Financing and New Opportunities Business Link “Shobai Hanjo” This is a large-scale business matching conference we have organized annually since 2005. The 12th Business Link “Shobai Hanjo Conference, held in January 2015 in Yokohama, Japan focused on the themes Foundation of “global” and “new market creation”. Group companies Business Support for such as Bank of Ayudhya (Krungsri) (Thailand), Vietnam Potential Growth Areas Joint Stock Commercial Bank for Industry and Trade (Vietnam), Business Support Program “Rise Up Festa” and MUFG Union Bank (United States) attended along with This program aims to maximize MUFG’s overseas investment promotion agencies. Around 4,200 knowhow at it becomes a long-term companies attended the conference (the highest number ever) business partner of SMEs and growing and there were over 10,000 business matching negotiations. companies engaged in novel and creative segments as well as those trying to extend Electronic Bills Business “Dente” the boundaries of existing business. In April This is a unique service offered by Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ 2015, MUFG recognized three outstanding that exploits the features of electronic bills. A supplier company companies and seven excellent companies transfers electronic bills received from a customer to a financial in three main business areas: Internet institution, and then using the credit reputation of the customer, services/information/robotics technology; the electronic bills can be converted into financing. Use of this health care/biotechnology; and social service is expanding, with the balance of outstanding electronic business. MUFG offers various forms of bills reaching ¥2 trillion as of end-March 2015, and over 60,000 support to these companies. companies participating. Corporate Reconstruction Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ and Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking offer consultation in a timely and appropriate manner for their customers facing challenges in borrowing conditions and other management issues. When necessary, we introduce experts from inside and outside the company to the customers. 76 MUFG Report 2015 Mature Phase Revitalizing Regional Economies Ensuring Smooth and Communities MUFG works with administrative organizations and local financial Business Succession institutions to revitalize local economies and to nurture local industries. Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Initiatives Tohoku Senary Industry Support, Limited Partnership Invested We have around 30 business in Apple Processing Company (Aomori Prefecture) succession specialists deployed in In conjunction with four Tohoku (northeast) prefectural the HQ business groups. They can local financial institutions, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi give advice to clients on matters UFJ and Mitsubishi UFJ Capital formed the Tohoku ranging from urgent stock acquisiSenary Industry Support, Limited Partnership in 2013. tions to longer-term succession The objective is to support the development of the strategies, in accordance with Tohoku region and the agriculture, forestry and clients’ circumstances and their fishing industries. With a view to increasing agriculmanagement plan. Business suctural workers’ income, ensuring business succession cession is not simply a matter of and creating employment, the association made a transferring the rights of an indi¥30 million investment in Hirosaki Co., Ltd., an apple vidual owner but constitutes a production, processing and sales company. long-term management issue for customers. Our expertise and Finance Using the Government’s Subsidized Interest Payment Program experience offer our clients the In fiscal 2014, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ invested in 22 projects appropriate advice. (over ¥21.8 billion) using the government’s subsidized interest payment Corporate Value Foundation program for regional revitalization. Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Initiatives As a trust bank, we offer core [Financing Cases] services such as inheritance, wills, living bequests, real estate brokerToyama Prefecture: Construction of factory age, securities administration trusts, making plastic containers Miyagi Prefecture: and equity disposal trusts. We also Construction of a offer a wide range of succession Kyoto City: Construction of hotel distribution center consulting services, from corporate Kyoto Prefecture: Construction (two other projects) of pharmaceutical maker factory business succession to the transfer Fukushima Prefecture: of individual assets. Our manageFukuoka Prefecture: Increased capacity in ment financial diagnosis Construction of a auto parts factory distribution center (“ownership”) analyzes the client’s (two other projects) current asset and business situation Ibaraki Prefecture: Construction of a factory and identifies the key issues to making earthquake-resistant products ensure a smooth succession. It allows clients to clarify the crucial Sakai City: Construction Aichi Prefecture: Shizuoka Prefecture: of new hospital wing Introduction of 3D Construction of a issues at their own company. (six other projects) measuring equipment distribution center (one other project) (one other project) PICK UP Financing for Pharmaceutical Maker Factory (Kyoto Prefecture) Recognized by an administrative agency as promoting regional employment, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ could make low-interest loans on projects through the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare’s subsidized interest payment program for projects which create employment in strategic industries. In February 2015, in conjunction with four regional banks, we extended funding of ¥2 billion to pharmaceutical maker NITTO PHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRIES, LTD. for a new factory. The factory will have state-of-the-art production control systems and will newly employ several tens of local workers. MUFG Report 2015 77 Five-Year Major Financial Data (FY 2010-FY 2014) (Billions of Yen) FY 2010 FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 Currency exchange rate (USD/JPY) (yen) 83.15 82.19 94.05 102.92 120.17 Statement of income data: Gross profits before credit costs for trust accounts 3,522.5 3,502.0 3,634.2 3,753.4 4,229.0 Net interest income 2,020.0 1,840.5 1,816.8 1,878.6 2,181.6 Trust fees excluding credit costs 100.4 96.9 95.1 108.4 111.4 Net fees and commissions 979.4 964.2 1,042.2 1,160.3 1,308.6 Net trading profits 103.7 225.5 288.2 362.0 352.9 Net other business profits 318.9 374.7 391.7 244.0 274.3 Net gains (losses) on debt securities 221.3 270.3 336.7 142.8 115.1 General and administrative expenses 2,020.8 1,994.5 2,095.0 2,289.3 2,584.1 Expenses ratio 57.3% 56.9% 57.6% 60.9% 61.1% Net business profits before credit costs for trust accounts 1,501.6 1,507.4 1,539.2 1,464.1 1,644.9 and provision for general allowance for credit losses Total credit costs 354.1 193.4 115.6 (11.8) 161.6 Sum of non-consolidated figures of Bank of Tokyo174.2 134.5 65.3 (35.1) 71.1 Mitsubishi UFJ and Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Net gains (losses) on equity securities (57.1) (88.6) (53.6) 144.5 93.1 Gains (losses) on sales of equity securities 13.7 (9.4) 33.6 157.5 97.9 Losses on write-down of equity securities (70.9) (79.2) (87.3) (12.9) (4.8) Profits (losses) from investments in affiliates 11.3 377.5 52.0 112.4 159.6 Other non-recurring gains (losses) (385.1) (130.8) (77.7) (38.2) (23.0) Ordinary profits 646.4 1,471.9 1,344.1 1,694.8 1,713.0 Net extraordinary gains (losses) (6.8) (23.8) 9.6 (151.7) (98.2) Total taxes 175.4 376.4 395.7 439.9 467.7 Tax burden ratio 27.4% 25.9% 29.2% 28.5% 28.9% Minority interests (119.0) 90.2 105.3 118.1 113.2 Net income 583.0 981.3 852.6 984.8 1,033.7 Balance sheet data: Total assets 206,227.0 218,861.6 234,498.7 258,131.9 286,149.7 Loans and bills discounted 79,995.0 84,492.6 91,299.5 101,938.9 109,368.3 Securities 71,023.6 78,264.7 79,526.8 74,515.5 73,538.1 Total liabilities 195,412.6 207,185.8 220,979.0 243,019.0 268,862.2 Deposits 124,144.3 124,789.2 131,697.0 144,760.2 153,357.4 Negotiable certificates of deposit 10,961.0 12,980.6 14,855.0 15,548.1 16,073.8 Total net assets 10,814.4 11,675.7 13,519.6 15,112.8 17,287.5 Total shareholders’ equity 9,104.9 9,909.5 10,578.3 11,346.2 11,328.6 Retained earnings 4,799.6 5,602.3 6,267.9 7,033.1 7,860.4 Total accumulated other comprehensive income (156.0) 83.4 1,158.2 1,709.7 3,989.2 Minority interests 1,858.2 1,674.8 1,774.1 2,048.1 1,961.3 Financial Ratios Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Ratio*1 — — 11.70% 11.25% 11.14% Tier 1 Capital Ratio*1, 2 11.33% 12.31% 12.74% 12.45% 12.62% Total Capital Ratio*1, 2 (Fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2011 are capital ratios) 14.89% 14.91% 16.68% 15.53% 15.68% Dividends per share (DPS) (yen) 12.0 12.0 13.0 16.0 18.0 Dividend payout ratio 30.0% 17.6% 22.0% 23.4% 24.6% Book-value per share (BPS) (yen) 604.58 678.25 800.95 893.77 1,092.75 Earnings per share (EPS) (yen) 39.95 68.09 58.99 68.29 73.22 ROE MUFG definition 6.89% 11.10% 8.77% 9.05% 8.74% ROE TSE definition 6.55% 10.60% 7.96% 8.05% 7.38% Total number of issued ordinary shares excluding own 14.141 14.144 14.155 14.161 14.017 shares (billion shares) Share price (fiscal year-end) (yen) 384 412 558 567 743.7 Market capitalization (trillions of yen) *3 5.4 5.8 7.9 8.0 10.4 PBR*3 (times) 0.64 0.61 0.70 0.63 0.68 PER*3 (times) 9.6 6.1 9.5 8.3 10.2 *1 Figures based on application of regulations at various periods *2 FY 2010 and 2011 are Basel II figures *3 Figures based on fiscal year-end share price 78 MUFG Report 2015 Financial Review for the Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2015 Financial and Economic Environment The global economy showed a gradual recovery during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, despite some Actual GDP Growth Rate (Year on Year) % events which increased financial and economic uncer15 tainties, such as a sudden decrease in the oil price. The U.S. economy, led by domestic demand, maintained 10 recovery momentum, reflecting an improvement in the 5 employment environment, which caused the U.S. equity market to trend upward throughout the period. European 0 countries kept struggling with fiscal and financial struc(5) tural issues and the regional economy remained sluggish, (10) CY 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 although some signs of improvement can be observed recently. Asian countries showed stable economic Source: Compiled by Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Economic Research Office from Cabinet Office statistics growth reflecting strong consumer expenditures in the ASEAN (Association of South-East Asian Nations) countries, despite a slowdown in the Chinese economy. Amidst such conditions, the Japanese economy Employment Income Trend* (Year on Year) maintained a gradual recovery, overcoming the adverse % impact of an increase in the consumption tax rate in April 2.0 2014. Private consumption in Japan, especially in the first 1.5 half of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, was strongly 1.0 affected by the higher tax rate, but its negative effect 0.5 lessened towards the end of the fiscal year. Capital 0 expenditure in Japan increased reflecting higher corpo(0.5) rate earnings taking advantage of the depreciation of the (1.0) Japanese yen against major currencies such as the U.S. (1.5) CY 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 dollar during the period. Per capita wage No. of people in employment Employment income * Employment income is calculated by multiplying the number of people in The Federal Reserve terminated its asset purchase employment by the per capita wage. operations while keeping its policy rate at a historically Source: Compiled by Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Economic Research Office low level. The European Central Bank further loosened from Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications and Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare statistics. its monetary policy by cutting policy rates, introducing negative interest rates on excess reserve balances deposited to the central banks, and beginning to Financial Data / Company Data purchase assets such as sovereign bonds issued by European countries, in order to tackle deflation risk Capex (Actual GDP Base)* in the region. Trillions of Yen 90 Forecast The Bank of Japan expanded its quantitative and 80 qualitative easing measures in October 2014 in order to achieve its targeted inflation rate of 2%. In the circum70 stances, interest rates in Japan remained low during the period and hit a historically low level of below 0.2% in 60 January 2015. The Japanese yen depreciated further against the U.S. dollar especially in the second half of the 0 FY 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 fiscal year ended March 31, 2015. The Japanese equity * 2005 price base. Figures for FY 2015 and 2016 are forecasts. market remained firm and hit the ¥19,000 level, reflecting Source: Compiled by Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Economic Research Office from Cabinet Office statistics improvements in corporate earnings and the strong U.S. equity market. MUFG Report 2015 79 Review and Analysis of Fiscal 2014 Consolidated Earnings Summary Net Gains (Losses) on Equity Securities Consolidated Net Business Profits Net gains on equity securities fell ¥51.4 billion to ¥93.1 Consolidated gross profits increased ¥475.5 billion from billion mainly due to a decrease in major gains on sales. the previous fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, to ¥4,229.0 billion. The domestic deposit-loan margin decreased and Ordinary Profits there was also a reactive decline in equity commissions. Ordinary profits rose ¥18.1 billion to ¥1,713.0 billion on a However, this was covered by an increase in net interest rise of ¥47.1 billion in equity-method income to ¥159.6 income from overseas loan businesses and investment billion (earnings increased at Morgan Stanley and Bank of management; net fees and commissions from sales of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ/Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking investment products (mainly insurance, etc.); domestic Corporation equity-method affiliates) and an improveexchange business and investment banking business; as ment in other non-recurring losses of ¥15.1 billion. well as a positive revenue impact of the consolidation of Bank of Ayudhya (¥244.7 billion). Net Income General and administrative expenses increased ¥294.7 Extraordinary income improved by ¥53.5 billion. billion from the previous fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, Extraordinary losses of ¥98.2 billion were posted on to ¥2,584.1 billion. The main factors were an increase in Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ settlement payments in overseas business expenses; the consumption tax hike; the United States (¥37.0 billion) and losses on change in and the consolidation of Bank of Ayudhya (Krungsri) equity (for Morgan Stanley, ¥33.2 billion, zero last fiscal (¥136.9 billion). As a result, consolidated net business year). However, this was covered by the stripping out profits were ¥1,644.9 billion, an increase of ¥180.8 billion of impairment of goodwill related to investments in from the previous fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, Mitsubishi-UFJ Nicos (¥110.1 billion) in the fiscal year (Bank of Ayudhya contributed ¥107.8 billion). ended March 31, 2014. As a result, net income rose ¥48.9 billion to ¥1,033.7 Credit Costs billion. The difference between consolidated and nonTotal credit costs increased ¥173.5 billion yen from the consolidated net income was ¥321.2 billion through previous fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, to ¥161.6 contributions from all the major subsidiaries. billion. This was mainly due to an increase in credit costs at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (non-consolidated) and Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation (nonconsolidated) on a rating downgrade for major clients, and increased costs (¥54.7 billion) on the consolidation of Bank of Ayudhya. Net Income History Breakdown of Net Income*1 MUFG Billions of Yen Billions of Yen Consolidated 1,200 Negative Others 1,033.7 Morgan 50.3 Change*3 +48.9 goodwill* 1,033.7 Stanley 981.3 984.8 74.8 290.6 MU 852.6 Nicos ACOM 285.2 MUSHD 5.1 455.0 12.4 800 50.9 454.6 Krungsri Consolidated/ non-consolidated 38.2 583.0 MUAH*2 difference 562.1 89.2 321.2 Change*3 +122.9 226.3 MUTB 388.7 Non-consolidated 400 140.7 530.2 578.7 247.7 405.4 356.7 (256.9) 290.4 BTMU Non-consolidated 92.0 140.9 571.7 Non-consolidated 0 712.5 Change*3 (74.0) (348.9) (400) FY 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 FY 2014 *1 Figures for above subsidiaries and equity-method affiliates are results after First half Second half application of equity ratios and after tax. * One-time effect of negative goodwill associated with the application of equity*2 Abbreviation for MUFG Americas Holdings Corporation method accounting on our investment in Morgan Stanley. *3 Change from FY 2013 80 MUFG Report 2015 Net Operating Profits by Business Segment Shareholder Returns Consolidated net operating profits rose ¥212.4 billion to MUFG considers the return of earnings to shareholders ¥1,675.4 billion due to increases in net business profits in to be one of the most important management priorities all segments through the initiatives of the previous and makes it a basic policy to aim for a stable and conmedium-term business plan as well as the consolidation tinuous increase in dividends per share through growth of Bank of Ayudhya. in profits. With regard to the net operating profits of customer With respect to the year-end dividend for common segments, 39% of profits were earned from overseas stock for fiscal year 2014, MUFG plans to pay ¥9 per share. business*, an increase of 9 percentage points compared As a result, the annual dividend for fiscal 2014, including to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014. the interim dividend of ¥9 per share, is expected to be * Global Banking and Krungsri ¥18 per share, which is an increase of ¥2 from the annual dividend of ¥16 paid for the previous fiscal year. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, we repurchased some of our own shares (¥99.9 billion) as part of our Breakdown of Net Operating Profits* strategy to enhance returns to shareholders, improve by Business Segment ROE, and conduct capital management flexibly. Billions of Yen 1,675.4 Results of Dividend 418.1 1,463.1 70.1 — 41% 30% 25%* 22% 23% 25% 386.7 116.6 (256.9) 388.7 583.0 690.6* 852.6 984.8 1,033.7 64.9 Customer segments 471.9 377.0 ¥18 ¥16 Total dividends 517.1 Billions of Yen 485.5 ¥13 200 ¥12 ¥12 ¥12 ¥12 9 9 334.4 347.1 6 6 7 (185.4) 5 6 (265.5) 100 FY 2013 FY 2014 9 7 6 6 6 6 7 Retail Banking Domestic Corporate Banking Global Bank of Ayudhya Trust Assets Global Markets Others 0 FY 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 * Consolidated net business profits on a managerial accounting basis Dividend payout ratio (%) Net income (billions of yen) Financial Data / Company Data Interim dividend per share Year-end dividend per share Dividend per common stock Breakdown of Changes in Net Operating Profits* (bar graph shows DPS (yen)) Billions of Yen Global * The FY 2011 dividend payout ratio excludes the one-time effect of negative Markets Others goodwill associated with the application of equity-method accounting on our Trust +31.4 (80.1) investment in Morgan Stanley. Krungsri Assets +116.6 +5.1 Outline of Repurchase of Own Shares 1,675.4 Type of shares Ordinary shares of MUFG repurchased Global +94.9 Aggregate amount of ¥99,999,965,771 repurchase price Domestic Corporate Aggregate number of Banking 148,595,500 shares +31.6 shares repurchased Retail Banking +12.7 From November 17, 2014 to 1,463.1 Repurchase period December 18, 2014 (contract base) Customer segments +261.0 (Reference) Stock data as of March 31, 2015 Total number of issued ordinary shares (including own shares): 14,168,853,820 FY 2013 FY 2014 Number of own shares: 148,872,202 * Consolidated net business profits on a managerial accounting basis MUFG Report 2015 81 Review and Analysis of Fiscal 2014 Consolidated Balance Sheet Summary Loans (Billions of Yen) Loans increased ¥7,429.4 billion from the previous fiscal Change year ended March 31, 2014, to ¥109,368.3 billion on Mar 31, Mar 31, from Mar 31, increases in domestic corporate and overseas loans. 2015 2014 2014 [% change] 28,017.8 Loans (end-period balance)*1 Total assets 286,149.7 258,131.9 [+10.9%] Trillions of Yen Cash and due from banks 40,488.3 23,969.8 16,518.4 120 109.4 102.0 102.6 2.1 Others 91.4 95.3 1.8 1.8 Loans (Banking accounts) 109,368.3 101,938.9 7,429.4 1.7 1.9 90 33.9 35.5 41.0 Overseas*2 Domestic corporate 25.4 28.3 loans (excluding loans 42,456.7 41,312.8 1,143.9 7.2 8.2 8.6 7.6 7.9 Government to government) 60 Domestic Housing loans 15,879.1 16,347.7 (468.5) 40.3 40.4 41.3 41.5 42.4 corporate*3 30 Overseas loans 41,043.5 33,907.0 7,136.4 16.5 16.3 16.3 15.9 15.8 Housing loan Investment securities 73,538.1 74,515.5 (977.3) 0 Mar 31, 2013 Sep 30, 2013 Mar 31, 2014 Sep 30, 2014 Mar 31, 2015 Domestic equity *1 Banking accounts + trust accounts 6,323.6 4,998.2 1,325.4 securities *2 Loans booked in overseas branches + MUAH + Bank of Ayudhya + Bank of Japanese Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (China) + Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (The Netherlands) 35,210.6 40,649.9 (5,439.2) *3 Excludes loans to government government bonds Foreign bonds 23,571.5 21,431.8 2,139.6 Although the non-performing loans (NPL) balance Goodwill 309.1 552.6 (243.5) disclosed under the Financial Reconstruction Act rose 25,843.1 Total liabilities 268,862.2 243,019.0 [+10.6%] slightly, the rise in credit costs meant that the NPL ratio Deposits 153,357.4 144,760.2 8,597.1 fell 0.25 percentage points year on year to 1.16%. BTMU and MUTB 137,332.3 132,121.6 5,210.6 Combined  on-Performing Loans (NPL) Balance Disclosed Under N Individual deposits 70,415.1 68,867.2 1,547.8 the Financial Reconstruction Act (non-consolidated)  Corporations and 1.80 NPL ratio*1 (%) Reference: 47,449.1 45,724.5 1,724.5 1.57 NPL ratio (except others 1.41 Trillions 1.61 for housing 1.18 1.16 loans, etc.*2) Overseas branches 18,958.3 17,005.2 1,953.1 of Yen 1.44 1.31 2,174.6 2.0 1.69 1.10 1.09 De facto Total net assets 17,287.5 15,112.8 0.13 1.52 1.41 bankrupt loans [+14.4%] 1.5 0.12 0.09 1.20 1.22 0.08 0.08 Total shareholders’ equity 11,328.6 11,346.2 (17.6) 1.00 0.88 Doubtful 1.0 0.84 0.66 0.57 loans Capital surplus 1,428.4 2,174.3 (745.9) Special 0.5 0.55 0.56 attention loans 0.51 0.47 0.45 Retained earnings 7,860.4 7,033.1 827.2 0 Mar 31, 2013 Sep 30, 2013 Mar 31, 2014 Sep 30, 2014 Mar 31, 2015 Total accumulated other 3,989.2 1,709.7 2,279.5 *1 NPL ÷ Total loans, NPL = De facto bankrupt loans + doubtful loans + special comprehensive income attention loans. Net unrealized gains *2 Excluding restructured loans, etc., of housing loans guaranteed by MUFG (losses) on other 2,835.0 1,218.3 1,616.6 credit guarantee companies. securities Foreign currency Deposits 951.5 407.2 544.3 translation adjustments Deposits increased ¥8,597.1 billion from the previous Minority interests 1,961.3 2,048.1 (86.7) fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, to ¥153,357.4 billion as domestic individual deposits, domestic corporate deposNet Assets its and overseas deposits all rose. Shareholders’ equity fell ¥17.6 billion year on year to ¥11,328.6 billion on a rise in retained earnings balanced by Deposits (end-period balance) dividend payments (¥263.9 billion); own share repurchase Trillions of Yen (¥100.0 billion); and repurchase and disposal of preferred 200 shares (¥390.0 billion). Total accumulated other compre144.7 153.3 136.1 144.1 150 131.6 Overseas hensive income rose ¥2,279.5 billion to ¥3,989.2 billion on 20.7 24.9 30.1 29.6 35.4 and others rises in net unrealized gains (losses) on other securities 47.4 Domestic 100 43.6 43.1 45.7 45.1 corporate, etc. and foreign currency translation adjustments. 50 Domestic 67.3 68.0 68.8 69.2 70.4 individual 0 Mar 31, 2013 Sep 30, 2013 Mar 31, 2014 Sep 30, 2014 Mar 31, 2015 82 MUFG Report 2015 Investment Securities Capital Adequacy Investment securities fell ¥977.3 billion year on year to (Billions of Yen) ¥73,538.1 billion, mainly due to a decrease in Japanese Change Mar 31, Sep 30, from Sep Government Bonds, while domestic equity securities 2015 2014 30, 2014 and foreign bonds rose. Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Ratio 11.14% 10.97% 0.16% Net unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities Tier 1 Capital Ratio 12.62% 12.21% 0.40% rose ¥2,263.2 billion over the previous fiscal year to ¥4,133.2 billion on increases in domestic equity securities Total Capital Ratio 15.68% 15.39% 0.28% and foreign bonds. With regard to the balance of Japanese Government Tier 1 Capital 14,130.3 12,726.1 1,404.2 Bonds by maturity, those with five years or less decreased, Common Equity Tier 1 Capital 12,466.6 11,435.8 1,030.8 while those with five years or more increased. Duration increased slightly to 3.2 years. Capital and stock surplus 3,569.9 3,580.9 (11.0) Retained earnings 7,860.4 7,531.0 329.3 Breakdown of Securities Available for Sale with Fair Value  Other comprehensive 1,595.7 448.6 1,147.0 (Billions of Yen) income Unrealized gains Additional Tier 1 Capital 1,663.7 1,290.3 373.4 Balance (losses)  Preferred stock, Change Change Mar 31, Mar 31, preferred securities 1,260.2 1,326.0 (65.7) from Mar from Mar and subordinated debt 2015 2015 31, 2014 31, 2014 Total 69,336.2 (2,385.7) 4,133.2 2,263.2 Foreign currency  570.9 203.3 367.5 translation adjustments Domestic equity 5,721.3 1,337.2 2,930.0 1,370.3 Tier 2 Capital 3,421.9 3,313.0 108.9 securities Domestic bonds 36,520.2 (6,603.4) 326.3 103.5 Subordinated debt 1,944.9 2,039.9 (95.0) Japanese Amounts equivalent to government 34,084.4 (6,350.5) 273.4 105.7 45% of unrealized gains 1,108.5 997.3 111.2 bonds on other securities Others 27,094.6 2,880.4 876.8 789.4 Total Capital (Tier 1+Tier 2) 17,552.3 16,039.1 1,513.1 Foreign equity 191.4 (26.1) 58.4 (23.2) securities Risk weighted assets 111,901.5 104,160.1 7,741.3 Foreign bonds 22,564.9 1,965.0 597.3 650.3 Credit risk 98,292.2 88,530.0 9,762.2 Others 4,338.2 941.5 220.9 162.2 Market risk 2,511.7 2,835.9 (324.2) Operational risk 6,644.6 6,072.6 572.0 Financial Data / Company Data B  alance of Japanese Government Bonds (JGB) Transitional floor 4,452.8 6,721.5 (2,268.6) by Maturity (non-consolidated)* Trillions of Yen 48.5 Year Capital Adequacy 50 1.6 5 Common Equity Tier 1 Capital increased by ¥1,030.8 6.8 41.1 40.4 39.6 0.5 0.7 billion and total capital increased by ¥1,513.1 billion from 40 5.5 5.3 2.1 35.1 4 5.0 2.5 the end of September 2014, mainly due to increases in 30 3.2 26.2 3.2 5.7 3 2.7 21.4 2.8 16.1 retained earnings; foreign currency translation adjust2.5 19.3 20 14.1 2 ments gains on the weaker yen; and net unrealized gains on other securities caused by the rise of the stock market. 10 13.8 13.5 14.9 16.2 12.7 1 0 Mar 31, 2013 Sep 30, 2013 Mar 31, 2014 Sep 30, 2014 Mar 31, 2015 Risk Weighted Assets (RWA) (Left axis) Balance  Within 1 year 1 year to 5 years RWA increased by ¥7,741.3 billion from the end of 5 years to 10 years Over 10 years September 2014 mainly due to an increase in credit risk (Right axis) Duration (JGB, non-consolidated) caused by the weaker yen and an increase in loans. * Available-for-sale securities and held-to-maturity securities (duration is for securities available for sale only) Risk-adjusted Capital Ratio The Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Ratio was 11.14%, the Tier 1 Capital Ratio was 12.62% and the Total capital ratio was 15.68%. The provisional figure for the Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Ratio based on standards to be applied at end-March 2019 is 12.3%. MUFG Report 2015 83 Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Balance Sheets (Millions of Yen) (Millions of Yen) Mar 31, 2015 Mar 31, 2014 Mar 31, 2015 Mar 31, 2014 Assets: Liabilities: Cash and due from banks 40,488,318 23,969,883 Deposits 153,357,410 144,760,294 Negotiable certificates of deposit 16,073,850 15,548,170 Call loans and bills bought 604,625 826,851 Call money and bills sold 3,600,104 3,465,414 Receivables under resale 7,342,335 7,237,125 Payables under repurchase agreements 21,899,506 21,626,590 agreements Receivables under securities 4,633,544 4,181,660 Payables under securities borrowing transactions 8,205,350 5,534,643 lending transactions Monetary claims bought 4,570,712 3,972,145 Commercial papers 2,179,634 1,473,631 Trading assets 20,810,617 19,055,354 Trading liabilities 15,521,917 13,964,961 Money held in trust 700,218 583,692 Borrowed money 13,866,196 10,828,601 Securities 73,538,191 74,515,573 Foreign exchanges 1,496,476 1,109,198 Loans and bills discounted 109,368,340 101,938,907 Short-term bonds payable 789,512 435,808 Foreign exchanges 2,187,311 2,040,406 Bonds payable 8,141,713 7,165,577 Other assets 10,119,936 8,809,286 Due to trust accounts 3,183,295 1,945,151 Other liabilities 9,530,371 5,965,086 Tangible fixed assets 1,352,727 1,540,031 Reserve for bonuses 90,360 78,987 Buildings 333,430 328,200 Reserve for bonuses to directors 454 627 Land 744,416 744,755 Net defined benefit liabilities 62,121 51,651 Lease assets 11,181 14,096 Reserve for retirement 1,086 1,201 Construction in progress 35,774 27,605 benefits to directors Other tangible fixed assets 227,924 425,372 Reserve for loyalty award credits 15,375 13,541 Intangible fixed assets 1,297,277 1,483,352 Reserve for contingent losses 204,790 247,351 Reserves under special laws 3,771 2,853 Software 552,345 472,777 Deferred tax liabilities 988,550 320,014 Goodwill 309,119 552,655 Deferred tax liabilities for land Lease assets 730 924 138,669 155,026 revaluation Other intangible fixed assets 435,082 456,995 Acceptances and guarantees 9,511,714 8,324,668 Net defined benefit assets 504,761 460,836 Total liabilities 268,862,234 243,019,051 Deferred tax assets 114,919 130,654 Net assets: Customers’ liabilities for Capital stock 2,141,513 2,140,488 9,511,714 8,324,668 acceptances and guarantees Capital surplus 1,428,403 2,174,384 Allowance for credit losses (995,784) (938,483) Retained earnings 7,860,410 7,033,125 Treasury stock (101,661) (1,699) Total shareholders’ equity 11,328,666 11,346,299 Net unrealized gains (losses) 2,835,091 1,218,397 on other securities Net deferred gains (losses) 83,194 8,295 on hedging instruments Land revaluation excess 172,350 157,776 Foreign currency translation 951,547 407,229 adjustments Remeasurements of defined (52,909) (81,937) benefit plans Total accumulated other 3,989,274 1,709,760 comprehensive income Subscription rights to shares 8,271 8,732 Minority interests 1,961,322 2,048,101 Total net assets 17,287,533 15,112,895 Total assets 286,149,768 258,131,946 Total liabilities and net assets 286,149,768 258,131,946 84 MUFG Report 2015 Consolidated Financial Results Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Millions of Yen) (Millions of Yen) FY2014 FY2013 FY2014 FY2013 Gross profits 4,229,501 3,753,023 Income before minority interests 1,146,970 1,103,042 Gross profits before credit costs for 4,229,030 3,753,494 Other comprehensive income trust accounts Net interest income 2,181,637 1,878,632 Net unrealized gains (losses) 1,595,505 20,135 Trust fees 111,916 107,935 on other securities Credit costs for trust accounts 471 (471) Net deferred gains (losses) 77,367 (37,316) Net fees and commissions 1,308,604 1,160,336 on hedging instruments Net trading profits 352,950 362,056 Land revaluation excess 14,149 (166) Net other business profits 274,393 244,062 Foreign currency translation Net gains (losses) on debt 442,466 387,126 115,162 142,889 adjustments securities Pension liability adjustments of General and administrative expenses 2,584,104 2,289,375 subsidiaries preparing financial — 27,734 Amortization of goodwill 17,787 36,830 statements under US GAAP Net business profits before credit costs for trust accounts, provision for general Remeasurements of defined 1,662,713 1,500,949 27,880 — allowance for credit losses and benefit plans amortization of goodwill Share of other comprehensive Net business profits before credit costs income of associates accounted 150,891 208,366 for trust accounts and provision for 1,644,925 1,464,119 for using equity method general allowance for credit losses Total other comprehensive income 2,308,260 605,881 Provision for general allowance (86,849) — for credit losses Comprehensive income 3,455,231 1,708,923 Net business profits* 1,558,547 1,463,648 (Comprehensive income attributable to) Net non-recurring gains (losses) 154,454 231,171 Comprehensive income attributable Credit costs (141,486) (133,399) to owners of the parent 3,313,220 1,588,609 Losses on loan write-offs (144,845) (125,989) Provision for specific allowance for Comprehensive income attributable 17,700 — 142,011 120,314 credit losses to minority interests Other credit costs (14,342) (7,409) Reversal of allowance for credit — 86,543 losses Reversal of reserve for contingent 1,504 — losses included in credit costs Gains on loans written-off 64,735 59,208 Net gains (losses) on equity securities 93,109 144,573 Financial Data / Company Data Gains on sales of equity securities 114,477 171,653 Losses on sales of equity securities (16,532) (14,100) Losses on write-down of equity (4,836) (12,979) securities Profits (losses) from investments in 159,637 112,470 affiliates Other non-recurring gains (losses) (23,045) (38,224) Ordinary profits 1,713,001 1,694,820 Net extraordinary gains (losses) (98,244) (151,789) Losses on impairment of fixed assets (11,487) (126,924) Losses on change in equity (23,648) (790) Settlement package (37,097) (24,537) Income before income taxes and others 1,614,757 1,543,030 Income taxes–current 421,941 349,531 Income taxes–deferred 45,845 90,456 Total taxes 467,786 439,988 Income before minority interests 1,146,970 1,103,042 Minority interests 113,211 118,196 Net income 1,033,759 984,845 * Net business profits = Banking subsidiaries’ net business profits + Other consolidated entities’ gross profits – Other consolidated entities’ general and administrative expenses – Other consolidated entities’ provision for general allowance for credit losses – Amortization of goodwill – Inter-company transactions (Reference) FY2014 FY2013 Total credit costs (161,624) 11,881 MUFG Report 2015 85 Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statements of Changes in Net Assets (Millions of Yen) Accumulated other Shareholders’ equity comprehensive income FY2014 Total shareholders’ Net unrealized Net deferred gains Capital stock Capital surplus Retained earnings Treasury stock gains (losses) on (losses) on hedging equity other securities instruments Balance at the beginning of the period 2,140,488 2,174,384 7,033,125 (1,699) 11,346,299 1,218,397 8,295 Cumulative effects of changes in (346,454) 57,909 (288,545) accounting policies Restated balance 2,140,488 1,827,929 7,091,035 (1,699) 11,057,754 1,218,397 8,295 Changes during the period Issuance of new shares–exercise of 1,024 1,023 2,048 subscription rights to shares Dividends from retained earnings (263,959) (263,959) Net income 1,033,759 1,033,759 Repurchase of treasury stock (490,045) (490,045) Disposal of treasury stock 68 82 150 Retirement of treasury stock (390,000) 390,000 — Reversal of land revaluation excess (424) (424) Changes in subsidiaries’ equity (10,617) (10,617) Net changes of items other than 1,616,693 74,898 shareholders’ equity Total changes during the period 1,024 (399,526) 769,374 (99,962) 270,911 1,616,693 74,898 Balance at the end of the period 2,141,513 1,428,403 7,860,410 (101,661) 11,328,666 2,835,091 83,194  (Millions of Yen) Accumulated other comprehensive income Pension liability Foreign currency adjustments of Remeasurements Total accumulated Subscription rights Land revaluation Minority interests Total net assets translation subsidiaries preparing of defined benefit other comprehento shares excess adjustments financial statements plans sive income under US GAAP Balance at the beginning of the period 157,776 407,229 — (81,937) 1,709,760 8,732 2,048,101 15,112,895 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting (219) (152) (371) (14,360) (303,277) policies Restated balance 157,776 407,010 — (82,090) 1,709,388 8,732 2,033,741 14,809,617 Changes during the period Issuance of new shares–exercise of 2,048 subscription rights to shares Dividends from retained earnings (263,959) Net income 1,033,759 Repurchase of treasury stock (490,045) Disposal of treasury stock 150 Retirement of treasury stock — Reversal of land revaluation excess (424) Changes in subsidiaries’ equity (10,617) Net changes of items other than 14,574 544,537 — 29,180 2,279,885 (461) (72,419) 2,207,004 shareholders’ equity Total changes during the period 14,574 544,537 — 29,180 2,279,885 (461) (72,419) 2,477,916 Balance at the end of the period 172,350 951,547 — (52,909) 3,989,274 8,271 1,961,322 17,287,533 (Millions of Yen) Accumulated other Shareholders’ equity comprehensive income FY2013 Total shareholders’ Net unrealized Net deferred gains Capital stock Capital surplus Retained earnings Treasury stock gains (losses) on (losses) on hedging equity other securities instruments Balance at the beginning of the period 2,139,378 2,172,930 6,267,976 (1,929) 10,578,356 1,207,963 45,146 Changes during the period Issuance of new shares–exercise of 1,109 1,108 2,217 subscription rights to shares Dividends from retained earnings (216,183) (216,183) Net income 984,845 984,845 Repurchase of treasury stock (51) (51) Disposal of treasury stock 346 281 627 Reversal of land revaluation excess 2,010 2,010 Changes in foreign affiliates’ interests (3,534) (3,534) in their subsidiaries Changes associated with redemption of capitalized financial instruments issued (1,988) (1,988) by foreign affiliates Net changes of items other than 10,433 (36,850) shareholders’ equity Total changes during the period 1,109 1,454 765,149 230 767,943 10,433 (36,850) Balance at the end of the period 2,140,488 2,174,384 7,033,125 (1,699) 11,346,299 1,218,397 8,295  (Millions of Yen) Accumulated other comprehensive income Pension liability adjustments of Total accumulated Subscription rights Foreign currency Remeasurements of Minority interests Total net assets Land revaluation subsidiaries other to shares translation defined benefit excess preparing financial comprehensive adjustments plans statements under income US GAAP Balance at the beginning of the period 159,952 (195,421) (59,379) — 1,158,261 8,884 1,774,153 13,519,655 Changes during the period Issuance of new shares–exercise of 2,217 subscription rights to shares Dividends from retained earnings (216,183) Net income 984,845 Repurchase of treasury stock (51) Disposal of treasury stock 627 Reversal of land revaluation excess 2,010 Changes in foreign affiliates’ interests in their (3,534) subsidiaries Changes associated with redemption of capitalized financial instruments issued (1,988) by foreign affiliates Net changes of items other than (2,176) 602,650 59,379 (81,937) 551,499 (151) 273,948 825,296 shareholders’ equity Total changes during the period (2,176) 602,650 59,379 (81,937) 551,499 (151) 273,948 1,593,239 Balance at the end of the period 157,776 407,229 — (81,937) 1,709,760 8,732 2,048,101 15,112,895 86 MUFG Report 2015 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Millions of Yen) (Millions of Yen) FY2014 FY2013 FY2014 FY2013 Cash flows from operating activities: Cash flows from investing activities: Income before income taxes and others 1,614,757 1,543,030 Purchases of securities (138,305,190) (136,943,494) Depreciation 300,163 255,637 Proceeds from sales of securities 110,348,143 108,333,935 Impairment losses 11,487 126,924 Proceeds from redemption of securities 34,682,841 35,904,614 Amortization of goodwill 17,787 36,830 Increase in money held in trust (479,026) (1,657,637) Amortization of negative goodwill — (1,591) Decrease in money held in trust 576,140 1,483,685 Purchases of tangible fixed assets (176,368) (151,365) Equity in losses (gains) of affiliates (159,637) (112,470) Purchases of intangible fixed assets (223,581) (223,357) Increase (decrease) in allowance for credit losses 46,037 (173,705) Proceeds from sales of tangible Increase (decrease) in reserve for bonuses 10,321 8,868 12,393 31,251 fixed assets Increase (decrease) in reserve for bonuses Proceeds from sales of intangible (172) (333) 19 1,404 to directors fixed assets Decrease (increase) in net defined benefit assets (62,696) 35,323 Payments for transfer of business — (388,447) Increase (decrease) in net defined benefit Proceeds from transfer of business — 53,033 liabilities (1,601) (46,685) P  urchases of equity of consolidated Increase (decrease) in reserve for retirement subsidiaries — (43) benefits to directors (115) (222)  ecrease related to purchases of D Increase (decrease) in reserve for subsidiaries’ equity affecting the scope (1,015) (443,017) 969 (141) loyalty award credits of consolidation Increase (decrease) in reserve for Increase related to sales of subsidiaries’ (43,807) (50,771) contingent losses equity affecting the scope of 67,952 2,399 consolidation Interest income recognized on statement (2,806,238) (2,370,649) Others (619) (1,558) of income Interest expenses recognized on statement Net cash provided by (used in) investing 624,743 492,122 6,501,689 6,001,400 of income activities Losses (gains) on securities (208,271) (287,463) Cash flows from financing activities: Losses (gains) on money held in trust 639 2,264 Increase in subordinated borrowings 55,000 44,000 Decrease in subordinated borrowings (74,800) (116,500) Foreign exchange losses (gains) (1,213,235) (2,177,403) Increase in subordinated bonds payable Losses (gains) on sales of fixed assets 4,926 (2,496) 190,000 48,751 and bonds with warrants Net decrease (increase) in trading assets (1,337,542) 3,086,278 D  ecrease in subordinated bonds payable (284,324) (663,502) Net increase (decrease) in trading liabilities 1,181,142 (2,803,988) and bonds with warrants Adjustment of unsettled trading accounts 889,029 (294,819) Proceeds from issuance of common 2,949 1,920 stock to minority shareholders Net decrease (increase) in loans and (5,909,031) (6,608,052) Decrease in redemption of preferred bills discounted (137,400) — stocks Net increase (decrease) in deposits 6,793,900 8,543,515 Dividend paid by MUFG (263,978) (216,106) Net increase (decrease) in negotiable 488,549 633,905 Dividend paid by subsidiaries to minority certificates of deposit (106,964) (95,763) shareholders Net increase (decrease) in borrowed money 3,247,294 (137,246) Repayments to minority shareholders (17,602) (10,454) (excluding subordinated borrowings) Purchases of treasury stock (490,044) (45) Net decrease (increase) in due from banks (13,003,581) (11,210,496) Financial Data / Company Data (excluding cash equivalents) Proceeds from sales of treasury stock 2 610 Net decrease (increase) in call loans and bills Decrease related to purchases of 261,206 (1,141,168) subsidiaries’ equity not affecting the (29,463) — bought and others scope of consolidation Net decrease (increase) in receivables under (370,559) (1,546,761) Others 4 5 securities borrowing transactions Net increase (decrease) in call money and bills Net cash provided by (used in) (350,881) 3,983,716 (1,156,621) (1,007,086) sold and others financing activities Net increase (decrease) in commercial papers 667,730 401,456 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 252,797 298,454 on cash and cash equivalents Net increase (decrease) in payables under 2,657,417 1,490,264 Net increase (decrease) in cash and securities lending transactions 3,502,117 1,203,733 cash equivalents Net decrease (increase) in foreign exchanges Cash and cash equivalents at the (137,770) (485,839) 6,487,918 5,281,038 (assets) beginning of the period Net increase (decrease) in foreign exchanges Increase in cash and cash equivalents 375,867 234,959 — 3,146 (liabilities) due to absorption-type splits Net increase (decrease) in short-term bonds Cash and cash equivalents at the 353,597 83,593 9,990,035 6,487,918 payable end of the period Net increase (decrease) in issuance and 906,637 1,117,138 redemption of unsubordinated bonds payable Net increase (decrease) in due to trust accounts 1,238,144 441,935 Interest income (cash basis) 2,917,319 2,542,087 Interest expenses (cash basis) (636,368) (499,345) Others (26,303) 981,842 Sub-total (1,658,147) (3,909,958) Income taxes (463,446) (230,581) Refund of income taxes 25,845 51,504 Net cash provided by (used in) operating (2,095,748) (4,089,035) activities MUFG Report 2015 87 Company Overview Major MUFG Group Companies (As of July 1, 2015) Consolidated subsidiary Equity method investee Holding Company Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group (MUFG) Commercial Bank Asset Management Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (BTMU) Mitsubishi UFJ Kokusai Asset Management MU Investments Trust Bank Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking (MUTB) Venture Capital The Master Trust Bank of Japan Mitsubishi UFJ Capital Marunouchi Capital Securities Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Holdings (MUSHD) Factoring / Debt Collection Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Mitsubishi UFJ Factors Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities MU Frontier Servicer Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley PB Securities Research / Consulting kabu.com Securities Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting Credit Cards / Consumer Finance / Installment Credit Real-Estate Brokerage Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS Mitsubishi UFJ Real Estate Services ACOM JACCS Software Development / Information Technology JALCARD Mitsubishi Research Institute DCS Leasing Internet Bank / Regional Banks Mitsubishi UFJ Lease & Finance Jibun Bank BOT Lease The Chukyo Bank Overseas Bank of Ayudhya Public Company (Commercial Bank) Mitsubishi UFJ Baillie Gifford Asset Management MUFG Americas Holdings Corporation (Investment Advisor) (Commercial Bank Holding Company) Mitsubishi UFJ Securities International (Securities) PT U Finance Indonesia (Consumer Finance, Leasing) Mitsubishi UFJ Securities (USA) (Securities) PT. BTMU-BRI Finance (Consumer Finance, Leasing) Mitsubishi UFJ Securities (HK) Holdings BTMU Capital Corporation (Leasing) (Securities Holding Company) BTMU Leasing & Finance (Leasing) Mitsubishi UFJ Wealth Management Bank (Switzerland) (Commercial Bank, Securities) Mitsubishi UFJ Trust International (Securities) Vietnam Joint Stock Commercial Bank for Industry Mitsubishi UFJ Fund Services Holdings and Trade (Commercial Bank) (Fund Administration Holding Company) Dah Sing Financial Holdings Mitsubishi UFJ Global Custody (Trust Bank) (Commercial Bank Holding Company) Mitsubishi UFJ Trust & Banking Corporation (U.S.A.) Aberdeen Asset Management (Trust Bank) (Asset Management Holding Company) Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management (UK) AMP Capital Holdings (Asset Management) (Asset Management Holding Company) 88 MUFG Report 2015 Corporate Information (As of March 31, 2015) Company Name Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. Head Office 7-1, Marunouchi 2-Chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8330, Japan Date of Establishment April 2, 2001 Amount of Capital ¥2,141.5 billion Common Stock (Issued) 14,168,853,820 Stock Listings Tokyo Stock Exchange, Nagoya Stock Exchange, New York Stock Exchange Ticker Symbol Number 8306 (Tokyo Stock Exchange, Nagoya Stock Exchange) MTU (New York Stock Exchange) Number of shareholders 676,170 Stock Price* Tokyo Stock Exchange Ownership and Distribution of Shares* 180 MUFG Nikkei 225 Securities Government and 2.45% local governments 160 0.02% Individuals and others Foreign institutions, etc. 12.62% 140 40.34% 120 Corporations Financial 14.23% institutions 100 30.31% * Excludes treasury shares and fractional shares 0 Financial Data / Company Data 2014/3 2014/6 2014/9 2014/12 2015/3 * Note: Share index (2014/3E = 100) Website For more detailed information, please refer to our website. About MUFG Investor Relations Sustainability http://www.mufg.jp/english/ (English) http://www.mufg.jp/english/ir/ (English) http://www.mufg.jp/english/csr/ (English) MUFG Report 2015 89 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. 7-1, Marunouchi 2-Chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8330, Japan Telephone: 81-3-3240-8111 Website: www.mufg.jp/english/ August 2015 This integrated report was printed in Japan on FSC paper with vegetable oil ink. Printed in Japan
