Communication on Progress 2016 Sulzer specializes in pumping solutions, rotating equipment maintenance and services, and separation, reaction, and mixing technology. We create reliable and sustainable solutions for our key markets: oil and gas, power, and water. Combining engineering and application expertise, our innovative products and services add value and strengthen the competitive position of our customers. Sulzer serves clients around the world through a network of over 170 locations in more than 40 countries. Contents 02 06 08 12 Introduction Letter From the CEO Labor Environment Anticorruption 04 Principle 3 Principle 7 Principle 10 Businesses should uphold the Businesses should support a Businesses should work against freedom of association and the precautionary approach to corruption in all its forms, including effective recognition of the right to environmental challenges. extortion and bribery. collective bargaining. Principle 8 Principle 4 Businesses should undertake Human Rights Businesses should uphold the initiatives to promote greater elimination of all forms of forced environmental responsibility. and compulsory labor. Principle 1 Principle 9 Businesses should Principle 5 Businesses should encourage the support and respect the Businesses should uphold the development and diffusion of protection of internatioeffective abolition of child labor. environmentally friendly technologies. nally proclaimed human rights. Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the Principle 2 elimination of discrimination in Businesses should make respect of employment and sure they are not complicit occupation. in human rights abuses. 2 Sulzer — Communication on Progress 2016 Winterthur, July 29, 2016 Sulzer has been a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) initiative since 2010. We actively support its Ten Universal Principles of Responsible Business Conduct covering human rights, labor, the environment, and anticorruption. Global megatrends have many implications for our way of living. Urbanization and its side effects, such as the increasing energy demand, the greater need for clean water, and growing air pollution, pose major challenges to humankind. Sulzer offers technology and services that help meet these challenges. We develop innovative, efficient, and eco-friendly solutions for our customers. Through measures in the areas of energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, waste production, and water consumption, we aim to reduce our environmental footprint. We promote and sustain a work environment that fosters mutual respect, openness, and individual integrity. We support and insist upon the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Forced and compulsory labor and child labor are strictly prohibited. At Sulzer, we all commit ourselves to these principles 100%. Every employee signs Sulzer’s Code of Business Conduct, confirming adherence to these principles. When it comes to corruption, we have zero tolerance for incompliant behavior. We expect our employees to be transparent and to ask questions if they are unsure whether a deal bears compliance risks. We have a comprehensive compliance organization that serves as contact point and trains our employees. We believe that being upfront about potential compliance issues always helps the organization in the end. We are convinced that compliant and ethical behavior in all aspects and on all levels is a precondition for a successful and sustainable future. Sulzer and its employees actively strive to respect and support the UNGC Ten Principles in its worldwide activities — today, and in the future. Yours sincerely, Greg Poux-Guillaume CEO Letter From the CEO 3 About this document Sulzer takes part in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) initiative. The UNGC is a strategic policy initiative. With their membership, corporations express their commitment to align their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles of responsible business conduct. The multistakeholder platform aims to team up actors from the business environment, civil and labor society, and United Nations agencies. The UNGC seeks to build cooperation and promote partnership between business and actors. In this way, it supports corporations in respecting and supporting a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labor standards, the environment, and anticorruption. One way an organization can communicate its commitment to the UNGC organization and society is to submit a Communication on Progress (COP) report once a year. In 2016, Sulzer is submitting its updated COP report to demonstrate the company’s ongoing accountability to the UNGC’s Ten Principles of Responsible Business Conduct. 4 Sulzer — Communication on Progress 2016 Human Rights Sulzer has implemented a comprehensive compliance program that focuses on prevention. As part of it, the company supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights throughout its value chain. Principle 1 At Sulzer, social compliance relies on a strong vision, values, the company‘s Code of Business Conduct, and an efficient social compliance system. The Sulzer values act as an inner compass and guide all Businesses should support and activities. One of Sulzer’s values is committed people. Employees are committed to high standards and respect the protection of internationally show respect for people. proclaimed human rights. Sulzer has high expectations about its employees’ standards of behavior. The comprehensive Code of Principle 2 Business Conduct must be signed by each employee. It features topics such as: — Basic principles (including human rights) Businesses should make sure they are — Accuracy and completeness of records not complicit in human rights abuses. — Antitrust and unfair competition — Conflicts of interest — Employment issues — Anticorruption, antibribery, business accommodations — Cooperation with third parties — International trade restrictions and boycotts — Fraud and theft — Insider trading — Environment, safety, and health The Code of Business Conduct is compliant with the Ten Principles of the UNGC. It calls on employees to protect internationally proclaimed human rights. Sulzer refrains from cooperating with business partners who violate fundamental human rights, such as using forced and compulsory labor or child labor. Internal directives and guidelines as well as regular audits support the implementation of the code. Compliance officers around the world deal with potential code violations, give advice on compliance matters, and provide compliance training. Comprehensive compliance management above and beyond legal requirements Sulzer strongly fosters a speak-up culture and conducts its business in compliance with applicable laws (“a clean deal or no deal”). Its internal regulative framework goes above and beyond legal minimum requirements. The company has implemented a comprehensive compliance program that focuses on prevention. Its main elements include the regular assessment of risks and the adherence to the Code of Business Conduct. Further, Sulzer has defined internal rules that discuss boundaries, define processes, and provide guidance and decision support. The company also uses tools such as the compliance hotline to detect potential violations. The company’s compliance network includes the group function Legal, Compliance, and Risk Management and consists of approximately 100 compliance officers. They ensure effective communication, provide support, and assist in compliance investigations. In meetings, training sessions, and through phone conferences, they exchange knowledge and best practices. The compliance program is continually reviewed and updated. Human Rights 5 Training employees in compliance matters The Code of Business Conduct and trainings guide Sulzer employees in ethically correct business conduct. Sulzer has been training its employees for many years, mostly with e-learning tools and faceto-face training sessions. In 2015, Sulzer employees completed over 22 000 e-learning courses, and the company conducted webinars on specific compliance matters. Generally, 14 active courses are available to all employees. For compliance officers, there is a specific “train-the-trainers” course, which aims to transfer the training content to the local entities. Transparent processes and supply chain organization The Code of Business Conduct serves as point of reference for upholding fundamental human rights, working conditions, occupational health and safety, business ethics, and environmental law throughout Sulzer’s supply chains. In addition, Pumps Equipment rolled out its new software-backed Global Supplier Qualification Process (GSQP). It allows the systematic identification, selection, auditing, verification, and development of global suppliers based on quality and sustainable supply chain practices and performance. Procurement carefully selects and evaluates suppliers’ processes and products, in part through on-site visits. In case of non-compliance, either the supplier will not be qualified or a corrective action plan will be implemented before the partnership is continued. In 2015, a total of 224 audits were conducted and 75 suppliers were registered in the software. F  ind further information in the Sulzer Annual Report 2015 (p. 44 and 61 – 64) and in the Sulzer Code of Business Conduct 6 Sulzer — Communication on Progress 2016 Labor Sulzer intends to be a socially responsible employer. Its Code of Business Conduct clearly guides employees in terms of humane and ethic working conditions. The company’s aim is to ensure a nondiscriminatory, healthy, and safe work environment. Principle 3 Sulzer wants to create stable and open relations with social partners based on trust. The company respects the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining for all its employees. RepresentaBusinesses should uphold the tives of employees are neither favored nor discriminated. As far as national legislation allows, Sulzer freedom of association and the promotes this fundamental right through its own Code of Business Conduct. effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Eliminating all forms of forced and compulsory labor International regulatory frameworks are significant to Sulzer’s compliance efforts. The company applies Principle 4 the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights and its protocols, the UN Global Businesses should uphold the Compact (UNGC), and the International Labour Organisation‘s (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Prinelimination of all forms of forced and ciples and Rights at Work of 1998. compulsory labor. By signing Sulzer’s Code of Business Conduct, Sulzer and all its employees commit that they will comply Principle 5 “with all employment and labor laws including those related to the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor (including child labor) and the prohibition against all forms of discrimination in employBusinesses should uphold the ment under applicable laws.” effective abolition of child labor. Besides emphasizing its clear commitment to the Code of Business Conduct, Sulzer sends out a selfPrinciple 6 validation check to all members of the Sulzer Management Group (top 100 managers), the heads of all Sulzer companies, and the compliance officers. An “annual acknowledgment letter” needs to be signed Businesses should uphold the every year. The signatories declare that they have neither violated the code nor do they have reason to elimination of discrimination in respect believe the code was violated within their area of responsibility. If the code was violated, they confirm of employment and occupation. they were aware that the case was reported to the appropriate function within Sulzer. In addition, the company sends out the letter to all controllers. The company’s integrated and comprehensive risk and compliance mechanisms can confirm that there were no identified risks for forced and/or compulsory labor incidents or child labor incidents. Embracing different backgrounds At Sulzer, employees collaborate across borders — geographic, cultural, and demographic ones. The company’s workforce is spread geographically all over the world. Both Sulzer and its customers benefit from this proximity. Sulzer also appreciates age differences and welcomes fresh impetus. Experienced employees work closely with apprentices and younger professionals to embrace different viewpoints. In 2015, 14.5% of the company’s workforce was female. Close collaboration with academic institutions enables Sulzer to attract talented young women and men. Ensuring a healthy and safe work environment As an industrial company with over 170 locations around the world, Sulzer considers the health and safety of its employees as an essential asset. Because people work in different surroundings such as offices, factories, and at customers’ sites, the safety risks are manifold and — in part — difficult to conGeographical spread trol. Employees need to feel responsible for their own safety as well as the safety of their colleagues. of employees The company lives out the “safety first” principle. It promotes several initiatives to further improve its occupational health and safety culture and performance: 20% 51% AsiaEurope, — Safe Behavior Program (SBP) Pacific 2015 Middle — Hazardous Materials Emissions and Exposure (HMEE) risk mitigation program East, and — Blacklist program on the substitution of (potentially) hazardous substances and chemicals Africa 29% — Continued commitment to globally aligning and harmonizing sustainability KPIs and metrics (SURE Americas database) Labor 7 Empowering employees to act safely Accidents All Sulzer sites are required to report on four health and safety key indicators every month: Number of cases AFR — The accident frequency rate (AFR) 140 5.0 — The accident severity rate (ASR) 4.5 — The number of major / minor accidents (including all cases of medical treatment and first aid) 120 4.0 — The number of occupational illnesses 100 3.5 3.0 Sulzer’s global Safe Behavior Program (SBP) is designed to foster a team-oriented approach to safety. 80 2.5 It focuses on developing safety leadership as well as employee empowerment. Thanks to the efforts 60 2.0 within the SBP, Sulzer has reached an accident frequency rate (AFR) below two cases per million working hours — the lowest AFR ever in its history. In general, Sulzer continued to decrease the severity of 40 1.5 its accidents (measured by accident severity rate; ASR). To improve the effectiveness of the SBP, Sulzer 1.0 20 instigated the Safety Culture Assessment program. In 2015, almost all Sulzer sites were visited by inde0.5 pendent safety experts. They analyzed the maturity of the local safety culture and provided direct 0 0.0 guidance on how to further improve safety management systems and leadership competence. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Cases that last > 1 lost day due to Despite the company’s efforts, 57 major accidents happened at Sulzer in 2015, resulting in 1 444 lost ­occupational accidents working days. One employee died in an occupational accident while working at a client’s site. Sulzer is Accident frequency rate (AFR) in cases profoundly dismayed by this fatality. Investigations to understand the root causes are ongoing. Sulzer per million working hours remains committed to pursuing its ultimate goal of zero accidents. To address safety excellence — a subject that is central to safety excellence — Sulzer launched a pilot program aimed at raising safety leadership and risk competence skills at the managerial level in 2015. Beginning in Asia and progressing to Europe, over 100 senior and midlevel managers participated in a series of workshops. These are designed to improve the managers’ ability to engage the workforce in safety more proactively and with greater consistency. Because safety excellence depends on the abilities of all members of a team, Sulzer plans to develop further trainings and workshops to enhance safety competence at all levels. Key figures F  ind further sustainability data at www.sulzer.com/sustainability Change 2015 2014 in +/– % Find further information on social Accident frequency rate (AFR) Cases per million working sustainability in the Sulzer Annual hours 1.9 2.6 – 24.0 Report 2015 (p. 48 – 49) and in the Sulzer Code of Business Conduct Accident severity rate (ASR) Lost days per million working hours 48.1 53.9 – 10.8 Health and safety training hours 106 610 81 768 30.4 Voluntary attrition rate % 7.5 7.2 0.3 Share of women (of total workforce) % 14.5 14.0 0.5 Leaders from internal talent pipeline % 60 89 – 29.0 Number of employees FTE 14 253 15 494 – 8.0 8 Sulzer — Communication on Progress 2016 Environment Developing innovative products and solutions is one of Sulzer’s core competencies. The company has substantial expertise in providing energy-efficient technology. Sulzer also systematically aims to reduce its own environmental footprint. Principle 7 The global QESH (Quality, Environment, Safety, and Health) network and functional councils such as HR, Legal and Compliance, and the global procurement organization drive the sustainability agenda at Businesses should support a Sulzer. The ESH group function is in charge of company-wide environment, safety, and health manageprecautionary approach to ment, which includes defining and implementing ESH standards and initiatives. To ensure quality (Q) environmental challenges. management is close to the business, it is carried out on a divisional and a local level. Global functional coordination teams are responsible for the information transfer and collaboration between the group Principle 8 and divisional functions. The QESH officers consult with line management on QESH topics, establish local organizations, and conduct regular training workshops. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater Protecting the environment in three ways environmental responsibility. Sulzer’s strategy to help protect the environment is threefold: 1. Developing innovative, efficient, and eco-friendly solutions for its customers: Global megatrends and Principle 9 their effects force society to think about new technological solutions. Sulzer helps manage the everincreasing demands of a globalized world with its innovative products and services. In 2015, Sulzer Businesses should encourage the invested CHF 73.4 million in research and development (2014: CHF 76.2 million). This equals 2.5% development and diffusion of relative to sales (2014: 2.4% of sales). In total, the company filed 30 patents in 2015. Find more inforenvironmentally friendly technologies. mation about innovation and technology at Sulzer online or in the Sulzer Annual Report 2015. Clean air in a globalized world Reducing air pollution is an increasingly important topic in a globalized world. Many governments — in developed and emerging countries — have set new limits for emissions such as carbon dioxide (CO2). The WA Parish power plant, located in Thompsons, TX, USA, is the largest fossil fuel plant in the USA and one of the largest CO2 emitters. Sulzer is helping to reduce its emissions. Carbon capture and storage (CCS) is one of the technologies that can help mitigate GHG emissions and aid in the responsible use of fossil fuels. Before the CO2 is released into the atmosphere, it is captured in an absorption column. Sulzer produces the internals for such columns, such as the structured packings MellapakTM and MellapakPlusTM. With this technology, the operators are aiming to reduce the carbon dioxide emissions of the fossil fuel power plant by 90%. Sulzer produces pumps and mass transfer equipment that can be used in all stages of the CCS chain. The company’s technology thus helps limit the adverse impact of CO2 on the environment. Read more in the Sulzer Annual Report 2015 (p. 16 – 21). Water scarcity in urban areas Water is one of the earth’s most precious resources. Fighting water shortage and supplying freshwater is crucial in a world where roughly 1.1 billion people have no access to clean freshwater. Seawater desalination is a promising and fast-growing solution to counter water scarcity. Reverse osmosis — a desalination technology — requires less energy and is less expensive than other methods. Sulzer supplies a full range of pumps for sea or brackish water desalination using either reverse osmosis or multiple-effect processes. To follow the market trend, the company has specialized increasingly in equipment for reverse osmosis plants. With the proper plant design and equipment selection, reverse osmosis technology is unbeatable in energy efficiency. Sulzer supports its customers from a very early project stage in improving the overall efficiency and ensuring the highest possible profitability of the plants. In this way, Sulzer helps provide an affordable and energy-efficient supply of freshwater. Read more in the Sulzer Annual Report 2015 (p. 10 – 15). Environment 9 2. Helping its customers to manage and improve the entire product life cycle: The company’s life cycle Addressing the precautionary approach typically starts with the material extraction (mostly steel and polymer products) and ends approach with a product’s end-of-life stage (for example, recycling). To improve its products at different stages of the life cycle, Sulzer focuses on product design (eco-design). In this area, saving material resourSulzer is headquartered in Winterthur, ces, using green materials, and reducing energy consumption are particularly relevant. With regard Switzerland. Switzerland adopted the to materials, steel (ranging from low-carbon to high-quality alloys) and polymer materials are used in precautionary approach in its national many of the production processes. These are considered green engineering materials. Approximateenvironmental regulations. These are ly two-thirds of all Sulzer products are energy intensive in their usage phase and have a long lifetime. compliant with the Rio Declaration of The design teams include cost of electric energy and CO2 emissions of Sulzer products in their deci1992. Sulzer is committed to the presions. The main reduction in the carbon footprint of Sulzer technology occurs through lower energy cautionary principle and the polluter consumption rates. Because lifetime extension solutions, such as a revamp or maintenance services, pays principle in all its worldwide require fewer resources than the construction of completely new solutions, Sulzer offers retrofit, reactivities. Tools such as Sulzer’s vamp, and similar services. In this way, capital-intensive systems are upgraded with energy-efficient integrated enterprise risk managetechnologies and parts, and their disposal can be postponed. ment system (see Sulzer Annual Report 2015, p. 68 – 69) support the 3. Reducing the company’s own environmental footprint: Most of the material environmental impact company in monitoring potential risks from Sulzer’s operations stems from: and issues that may arise. Thus, it is — Energy consumption possible to identify potentially serious — Greenhouse gas (GHG) / CO2 emissions or irreversible harm to the environment — Hazardous and non-hazardous waste production early and to initiate countermeasures. — Water consumption S  ulzer makes the most effort in areas where it has the scale and resources to have an impact. The company has set a limited number of corporate year-on-year rolling targets for energy consumption, CO2 emissions, and hazardous waste production. The minimum target is to maintain but ideally to improve relative performance measured against working hours. To reduce its environmental footprint, Sulzer’s production and service sites carry out local initiatives based on mandatory ISO 14001 certifications. In 2015, the company further extended its environmental reporting scope. While energy consumption remained stable, greenhouse gas emissions, waste production, and water consumption decreased. Changes in the energy mix Energy consumption The company adjusted the reporting requirements for fuel consumption in 2015 and expanded it from on-site transportation to all vehicles operated by Sulzer. This measure will further increase the quality of GJ in 1 000 GJ /1 000 whr the company’s environmental data. The changed reporting requirements resulted in a modified energy 1 400 40 mix. Total energy consumption remained stable in 2015. The use of electricity, fuel oils, and district heating decreased by 8%. Both gas and fuel consumption increased by 1% and 93%, respectively. 1 200 35 Sulzer has a rolling year-on-year target to maintain or lower energy consumption per 1 000 working 30 1 000 hours. The company has met this target. The energy consumption per 1 000 working hours remained 25 stable in 2015. 800 20 600 In 2016, the company plans to conduct a pilot project in one of the divisions to reduce the energy con15 sumption of its car fleet. In addition, Sulzer’s QESH (Quality, Environment, Safety, and Health) network 400 10 will continue to focus on sharing best practices regarding energy-saving measures. In this way, the 200 5 company strives to keep its energy use stable or to lower it from last year’s level. 0 0 Decrease of greenhouse gas emissions 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Sulzer reports greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scopes 1, 2, and 31) according to the Greenhouse Gas Total energy consumption in GJ Protocol and the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) initiative. To meet current reporting practices, the GJ /1 000 working hours (whr) company updated scope 1 reporting fundamentally by introducing new CO2 emission factors in 2015. These factors will be reviewed and updated each year. 1 Scope 1: direct emissions from Sulzer stemming from primary energy sources such as natural gas and fuels used on-site; scope 2: indirect emissions from secondary (converted) energy sources such as electricity and district heating; scope 3: indirect emissions from the production and transport of fuels and gases not included in scopes 1 or 2. 10 Sulzer — Communication on Progress 2016 In 2015, scope 1 emissions, which predominantly stem from the use of fossil energy sources, increased by 5%. The increase of emissions from fuel consumption because of the changed reporting requirements was partially offset by the strong decrease of direct emissions from chemicals (refrigerants). Scope 2 and 3 emissions decreased by 7% and 5%, respectively. Both improvements stem from changes in the country-specific energy mixes. With a decrease of 5% in 2015, Sulzer met its year-on-year rolling target to maintain or reduce GHG emissions in CO2 eq. per 1 000 working hours. In the short term, the planned pilot projects mentioned above to reduce fuel consumption will affect the amount of CO2 emissions. To further improve the accuracy of its reporting, the company intends to expand its GHG reporting to business flights in 2016. Hazardous waste Avoiding, reusing, and recycling waste At Sulzer, waste is usually managed locally as part of ISO-14001-certified environmental management Tons t /1 000 whr systems. To decrease industrial waste, Sulzer follows the principle “avoid, reuse, and recycle”. Waste quantities vary typically from year to year and depend strongly on the type of projects conducted as well 14 000 0.45 as on construction work done at Sulzer. The company evaluates waste production in two ways: by 0.40 12 000 looking into the waste’s hazardousness and by considering its treatment. Generally, recycling rates are 0.35 10 000 comparatively high at Sulzer because of the materials used: metals, sandblasting residues, and foundry 0.30 residues are fairly easy to recycle. 8 000 0.25 6 000 0.20 In 2015, total waste decreased by 5%. With a decrease of waste produced by 6% per 1 000 working 0.15 hours, Sulzer met its year-on-year rolling target to maintain or reduce waste quantities (per 1 000 4 000 working hours) compared with last year’s values. In 2016, the company plans to conduct pilot projects 0.10 2 000 with a zero-waste policy at selected sites. It aims to improve the amount of recycling by sharing best 0.05 practices about waste management. 0 0.00 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Decrease of water consumption Total hazardous waste in t (metric) Sulzer collects data on the water consumption and discharge of its operations. To shrink its organizational t /1 000 working hours (whr) water footprint, the company focuses primarily on reducing water consumption. For Sulzer as a manufacturer of pumps for the water market, water risks are market related and — to a much lesser extent — related to operations. Overall, water consumption decreased by 17% in 2015. While 37% of the water used was for cooling purposes, 35% was process water. The consumption by m3/1 000 working hours decreased by 17%. So, the year-on-year rolling target to maintain or reduce the water consumption per 1 000 working hours was met. Complying with international laws and standards As an international company, Sulzer complies with international and national hard law as well as with soft law. Amongst other initiatives, the company participates in the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol and the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). Sulzer’s integrated management system is based on global standards and norms. All manufacturing and service activities are performed in accordance with its ISO 9001, ISO 14001, and OHSAS 18001 and / or SCC certificates. Because Sulzer discontinued certain locations, the rate of certified sites decreased in 2015. However, it remained high. In total, 85% of all sites have earned the ISO 9001 certification; 65% the ISO 14001 certification; and 74% the OHSAS 18001/SCC certification. The company conducts internal and external QESH audits regularly to ensure legal compliance and compliance with Sulzer’s internal standards and programs. In 2015, Sulzer underwent 28 QESH and external health and safety audits (2014: 18). Environment 11 Fair and transparent reporting Sulzer collects data systematically and continues to report on its financial as well as extrafinancial performance. The centralized reporting platform provides an integrated approach for group-wide reporting across functions. The data is generated and collected on the site level. As a reference, the number of total working hours is used. Overall, 85% of total working hours report on environmental data. The coverage of occupational health and safety data is 86% (of total working hours); 100% (of total working hours) report on HR data. Extrafinancial data is collected according to two different reporting cycles: Environmental data cover the reporting period October 1, 2014 to September 30, 2015. The reporting cycle for the health and safety indicators AFR and ASR as well as HR data is the financial calendar year, i.e., January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015. During the internal Sulzer audits, the ESH team reviews environmental data critically in coordination with the audited site to ensure accurate reporting of the figures. Key figures F  ind further data and information on ecological sustainability at Change www.sulzer.com/sustainability and 2015 2014 in +/– % in the Sulzer Annual Report 2015 Energy GJ 970 832 965 814 0.5 (p. 44; 46 – 47). ——Energy consumption per working hours (whr) GJ per 1 000 whr 37 37 ——Share of electricity % 55 60 –9 ——Share of gases % 24 24 1 ——Share of fuels % 12 6 93 ——Share of fuel oils % 2 2 – 11 ——Share of district heating % 7 7 – 10 ——Share of other sources % <1 1 4 Greenhouse gas emissions tons CO2 eq. 105 960 110 820 –4 ——GHG emissions per working hours tons CO2 eq. per 1 000 whr 4.06 4.28 –5 ——GHG scope 11) tons CO2 eq. 20 560 19 550 5 ——GHG scope 2 1) tons CO2 eq. 66 290 71 210 –7 ——GHG scope 3 1) tons CO2 eq. 19 110 20 060 –5 Waste tons 29 071 30 666 –5 ——Waste per working hours tons per 1 000 whr 1.1 1.2 –6 By treatment ——Recycling % 66 66 ——Waste to landfill/incineration/other treatment % 34 34 By hazardousness ——Non-hazardous waste % 84 85 ——Hazardous waste % 16 15 Water m3 1 311 922 1 581 631 – 17 ——Water consumption per working hours m3 per 1 000 whr 50 61 – 17 1) S  cope 1: direct emissions from Sulzer stemming from primary energy sources such as natural gas and fuels used on-site; scope 2: indirect emissions from secondary (converted) energy sources such as electricity and district heating; scope 3: indirect emissions from the production and transport of fuels and gases not included in scopes 1 or 2. 12 Sulzer — Communication on Progress 2016 Anticorruption Sulzer is committed to conducting its business in accordance with high ethical standards and in compliance with all applicable laws. The company’s integrated risk management system allows Sulzer to make risk-conscious decisions. Principle 10 The Sulzer Board of Directors and the Executive Committee are convinced that compliant and ethical behavior in all aspects and on all levels is a precondition for a successful and sustainable future. The Businesses should work against ethical tone must be set at the top, carry through to the middle, and be transmitted to the entire organicorruption in all its forms, including zation. extortion and bribery. Sulzer’s Code of Business Conduct strictly forbids any form of bribery or corruption (irrespective of whether the recipient is a public official or an employee of a private customer). Sulzer released a Compliance Reporting and Investigation Directive to cover any violations of its code. This directive requires the global compliance officers to document the consequences of reported compliance violations. The following list summarizes a selection of relevant cases or allegations that must be reported immediately through the matter management system: — Bribes, kickbacks, or other incidents of corruption, irrespective of the magnitude of the case — Conflict of interest issues (personal or financial) causing damage to an affiliate — Insider trading issues Group-wide directives and guidelines, such as the anticorruption and antibribery guideline, set the frameworks for compliant behavior. In e-learning courses and/or classroom trainings, employees are sensitized to compliance matters, and they learn how to act correctly in different business situations. There are mandatory e-training sessions dedicated to the corruption topic. Managing bribery and corruption risks As part of Sulzer’s integrated risk management process, compliance risks are assessed regularly. The results are discussed both with the management within the Sulzer Risk Council and with the Audit Committee (composed of three Board members). The Audit Committee dedicates at least one full meeting per year to risk management and compliance. Sulzer’s risk management focuses on bribery and corruption risks. The company has had antibribery and anticorruption guidelines in place since 2010. Further measures include a web-based process that addresses the due diligence of intermediaries (see box on p. 13), a corporate-wide directive that sets maximum levels for gifts and hospitalities given or received, and an e-training course to familiarize Sulzer employees with the content of the directive. In 2015, local compliance officers conducted faceto-face training sessions at 36 locations. Detecting noncompliant behavior To detect noncompliant behavior, the company has various instruments in place: — Independent global compliance hotline: Sulzer offers a non-European, a European, and a special Spanish and Portuguese hotline setup in order to meet mainly European national data protection requirements. The independent partner distributes anonymized summary reports to Sulzer’s Group Compliance Officer every month. This summary helps Sulzer to define appropriate remedial actions. As of December 31, 2015, the hotline had registered 92 reports in total. — Independent ombudspersons: The Head of Corporate Auditing and the Deputy General Counsel have been assigned this role. They report directly to a member of the Executive Committee and the Chief Compliance Officer or General Counsel, respectively. Employees who report grievances in good faith do not face punishment or retaliation and their concerns will be handled in confidence. Typically, the ombudspersons investigate and remediate reported non-compliance through recommendations or mediation. — Monitoring tools, investigations, background checks, and audits. Anticorruption 13 Reports from the compliance hotlines, e-mails, telephone calls, or other communication tools trigger internal investigations. In 2015, 64 investigations were conducted based on these reports. Twenty-three investigations required follow-up because of evidence of compliance violations. However, as in previous years, most of the reports concerned non-material issues. Preventing, detecting, and responding to compliance risks In 2014, Sulzer started a compliance risk assessment process on a risk-based approach. Within this process, different legal entities were assessed for specific compliance risks. Sulzer developed a compliance risk catalog to prevent, detect, and respond to the different compliance risks the business is facing. The methodology applied includes external risk indicators like the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), but also internal businessand compliance-specific risk indicators. Assessing intermediary risks thoroughly Working with third parties is always a high-compliance-risk area. To ensure that Sulzer’s cooperation with intermediaries (e.g., agents, distributors, consultants) in the public and private sectors is compliant with both legal and corporate regulations, Sulzer uses an intermediary risk assessment tool. Potential intermediaries have to pass through a due diligence workflow to avoid corruption and bribery schemes through third parties. A potential intermediary needs to pass four steps of Sulzer’s so-called Intermediary Due Diligence Application (IDDA) before the final contract can be signed. A Sulzer directive supports this process. For example, if Sulzer works with a distributor in an emerging market, the intermediary risk-screening software is used. Sulzer only signs an agreement if detailed information about the distributor is known, the specific risks have been assessed, and the contract has been approved by various management levels — dependent on the underlying risk exposures. Thus, the process helps to avoid corruption risks. F  ind further information in the Sulzer Annual Report 2015 (p. 53 – 70) and in the Sulzer Code of Business Conduct Sulzer Ltd 8401 Winterthur Switzerland Phone +41 52 262 11 22 Fax +41 52 262 01 01 www.sulzer.com
