Sustainability performance 2015 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress GRI G4 Report lmwindpower.com Content Introduction & formalities Message from CEO 3 About LM Wind Power 4 Organizing Sustainability 8 Reporting 10 About this report 11 Material issues and boundaries 12 Stakeholder engagement 14 Environment 17 Safety 21 People 25 Technology 29 Sustainability performance at a glance 33 GRI G4 content index 40 Appendix 45 Message from CEO Wind power offers the solution to some of the world’s most LM Wind Power entered an exciting period of growth in 2015. It pressing challenges. Access to clean, affordable energy is an marked a turning point for the company in terms of improved important component to breaking the cycle of poverty. Thus, financial performance which has improved even further going wind power is not just about power supply, it’s about providing into 2016. The achievements on the sustainability side in 2015 opportunities to less privileged people who strive for a better built to a large extent on efforts that were initiated the year life. At LM Wind Power, we feel privileged to contribute to that before or even prior to that. It was about ensuring cost and development through delivering the most efficient and competenergy efficient operations, reducing waste both in terms of itive rotor blades, and in the process we create economic materials and processes and strengthening the focus on health development and jobs in the areas where we operate. Being a and safety even further to remain at the highest industry stanglobal company facing increased demand and exploring oppordard and still improve. We forged stronger ties with our supplitunities in places where we haven’t been operating before ers, innovated with our materials and processes to reduce the ­further emphasizes the need for working according to clear environmental impact and cost, and implemented stricter prostandards and principles. We are committed to running the grams to train employees in anti-corruption and anti-bribery. business ethically and fairly at all times, following the princiAll of these measures are linked to the commitment to the UN ples set out in our Code of Conduct and the UN Global Compact Global Compact and have laid a good foundation for implewhich we signed up to six years ago. It won’t always be easy menting larger programs in 2016. We will be looking specifically but it is not up for discussion if we want to ensure the long on ways to reduce the emissions from our operations and the term value creation and sustainability of the business. life cycle impact of LM Wind Power blades. I look forward to being able to share more from these programs which will provide the basis for specific sustainability targets and improvements, helping to make LM Wind Power an even greener and sustainable business. Marc de Jong Chief Executive Officer (G4-1) (G4-15) 3 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 2015 About LM Wind Power With over three decades of experience, we have established Shortly before the publication of this report in October 2016, ourselves among the preferred global suppliers of wind turbine GE announced intentions to acquire LM Wind Power for an blades. We develop, manufacture, transport and service the enterprise value of EUR 1.5 billion. The deal is subject to reguwind turbine blades worldwide. In fact, almost every fifth turlatory approvals and is expected to be closed in first half of bine in the world is fitted with LM Wind Power blades. 2017. As this report covers 2015, any reference to 'our owners' refer to Doughty Hanson & Co. Managers Ltd. With headquarters in Kolding, Denmark and a global business office in Amsterdam, The Netherlands, our global manufacturLM Wind Power produced 9,474 blades in 2015, which contri­ ing organization spans four continents and nine countries. All butes to a total of more than 185,000 blades since we began our 13 factories are strategically located at the heart of key blade operations in 1978. This corresponds to approximately markets for wind power to better serve our customers. 77 GW of installed wind power capacity which each year effectively replaces approximately 147 million tons of CO2. The principal shareholders of LM Wind Power are the partnerships managed by Doughty Hanson & Co. Managers Ltd, a comLM Group Holding A/S (LM Wind Power) is a limited company pany incorporated in England and Wales and headquartered in based in Denmark. The Consolidated Financial Statements for London. Doughty Hanson´s principals have many years of 1 January – 31 ­December 2015 includes the consolidated finanexperience in the successful management of international cial statements for LM Group Holding A/S and its subsidiaries ­private equity funds and have led and arranged a number of (the Group). large acquisitions, sales and IPOs. The full Group structure is available on page 67 in the 2015 annual report. (G4-3), (G4-4), (G4-5), (G4-6), (G4-7), (G4-8), (G4-9), (G4-17) 4 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 15 Organization profile Headquarters Headquarters Kolding, Denmark Kolding, Kolding, Denmark Denmark Factories and Factories and service locations service locations Brazil, Canada, China, Denmark, Brazil, Brazil, Canada, Canada, China, China, Denmark, Denmark, India, Poland, Spain, USA India, India, Poland, Poland, Spain, Spain, USA USA 13 6,332 Blade factories People worldwide 6,332 13 Blade factories People worldwide 6, 147 77 GW Million metricInstalled of CO2 mitigated 2 tons capacity 147GW 77 Million metric tons Installed of CO2 mitigated capacity 77 blades 1/5 9,474 Turbines inBlades have LM Wind the world produced Power blades in 2015 1/5 9, 474 Turbines in the world Blades have LMproduced Wind Power blades in 2015 9, 5 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 15 Values & ethics Case study Ethics hotline In 2015 LM Wind Power started to roll out its ­SpeakUP hotline– an externally hosted integrity line, allowing employees to anonymously report serious concerns or violations to the company’s Code of Conduct or core values. In place since May 2015, the SpeakUP line was first implemented in Brazil with training given to all employees on the background and functionality. Since implementation, a number of reports have been received, relating to minor violations to the core values and the health, safety and environment rules. These reports have been investigated, in some cases with disciplinary actions enforced by local HR and plant management, based on the company’s Zero Tolerance policy. The SpeakUP line will be implemented in the rest of LM Wind Power’s locations during 2016. Values the UN Global Compact (UNGC) Principles. LM Wind Power With a global presence and multinational work force, we have signed up to the UNGC in 2010. our fair share of differences. But our values are the same everywhere: Focus on customer and market, Work as one team, Ethics training Trust and respect, Take ownership and Innovate for excellence. New hires receive training on our Code of Conduct as part of Installed almost a decade ago, these values create a common their onboarding process and the course is repeated for all language for our colleagues worldwide, transcending differencoffice staff at regular intervals. In 2015, all office employees es and shaping our culture. were requested to go through recertification. More than 90 % had completed it by the end of the year with the remaining colCode of Conduct leagues completing the training in the first half of 2016. Our values are the foundation for the company’s culture but it is our Code of Conduct, revised in 2015, that ensures our integCompliance with the Code of Conduct extends beyond our rity and commitment to doing business legally and ethically. employees to also cover business partners and suppliers as a The Code of Conduct articulates fundamental ethical principles, prerequisite for cooperation. We expect them to follow all outlining the responsibilities of both managers and employees applicable laws and regulations, conduct business with integriin a wide range of topics from human resources, human rights, ty, promote fair employment practices, safe workplaces and anti-bribery, anti-corruption and environmental protection. protection of the environment, as well as avoid conflicts of This core document also reflects our continued commitment to interest between personal and work affairs. (G4-15), (G4-56) 6 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 2015 Our values Focus on customer Work as one team and market This value helps us become ‘One Company’ This value helps us become our customers’ by driving integration and collaboration preferred global working partner. across the LM Wind Power organization. Trust and respect Take ownership This value helps us create a workplace we This value ensures that we do what enjoy and are proud of. we say we will do. Innovate for excellence This value helps us to develop and produce class leading, reliable products and services. 7 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 15 Organizing Sustainability LM Wind Power committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts in 2015: Coalition of the willing Sustainability anchored at the top Our first structured sustainability initiatives date back to 2010, Towards the end of 2015, the company formalized its organizawhen a group of passionate employees across different departtion around Sustainability with the establishment of the Global ments and functions – a so-called ‘coalition of the willing’, HSE & Sustainability Council, chaired by the CEO and including decided to stretch beyond their job titles to collaborate in the VP Communications, HR & Sustainability, VP Quality & HSE, achieving an even greener and more sustainable business. Director of HSE & Sustainability as well as two senior managers Today, they evolved into a cross-functional Core Team, responfrom the Core Team. The ambition is to further strengthen the sible for pushing the sustainability agenda and taking steps to sustainability focus, endorse and oversee strategic sustainability ensure top management “buy-in” and support strategic susinitiatives, and set new commitments and clear targets, directly tainability activities and initiatives. related to the business performance. (G4-34) 8 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 15 Supplier dialogue as a ­foundation for success With manufacturing facilities across four continents, we draw 100% of LM Wind Power’s core commodity suppliers (Class A on a global network of over 200 suppliers, primarily producers suppliers – around 70 out of 180 in total) are covered by a Supof raw materials and core components. Many commodity supplier Quality Agreement which includes requirements for suspliers are well established, global brands with certified quality tainability practices. These suppliers account for 90% of the management systems. We perceive them as our business partcompany’s global spend. Furthermore, 90% of the Class A supners and value their contribution in helping us provide quality pliers are covered by framework agreements which require and more sustainable products at competitive prices. One of them to sign the LM Wind Power Code of Conduct and commit the areas in which we have very close supplier collaboration is to living up to the standards described therein. This practice is our drive to improve safety and reduce the use of hazardous being expanded to cover Class B and C suppliers as well. chemicals in our manufacturing environment. This has led to the development of innovative materials and a close relationAlthough we screen and audit our suppliers, we are aware of ship, based on mutual learning and communicating to improve the limitations of such programs. These programs alone will together – an approach which we aim to expand to even more not drive supplier compliance or develop a shared mindset suppliers. about sustainability issues. Dialogue will. More frequent contact and engagement have improved our understanding of our Supplier relationship management process suppliers’ maturity level and we will build on this with further 1) Supplier selection supplier visits and exchange of knowledge and feedback. Assessing a potential supplier’s performance and capability of controlling safety, quality, delivery, cost and features With renewed growth in the whole wind sector, demand for key commodities is increasingly tight with significant pressure on 2) Quality and Sustainability Requirements supplies. Our goal is to maintain our high standards of ethical Setting requirements for all suppliers to meet quality standards sourcing and apply our leverage as a customer in instances by complying with ISO 9001:2008 (and preferably ISO where full compliance with our standards is not yet achieved. 14001:2004 and OHSAS 18001:2008) as well as sustainability criteria by signing the LM Wind Power Code of Conduct and adhering to our Supplier Quality Agreement 3) Appraisalssupplier qualification process Conducting scrutiny checks via the Supplier Quality Assessment, audits, training and quality awareness programs, regular supplier reviews and HSE assessments 4) Dialogue Hosting yearly supplier conferences to foster engagement, ­dialogue and collaboration. (G4-12), (G4-25), (G4-EN 32), (G4-EN 33), (G4-LA 14), (G4-LA 15), (G4-HR 4), (G4-HR5), (G4-HR 6), (G4-HR 10), (G4-HR11) 9 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 2015 Reporting Content About this report 11 Material issues and boundaries 12 Stakeholder engagement 14 About this report This is our third annual Communication on Progress (COP) This report has been approved by LM Wind Power’s VP Commudeveloped in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative nications, HR & Sustainability, the VP of Quality & HSE and the (GRI) G4 guidelines, at the Core level. Due to the steep learning CEO as the executive management members of the Global HSE curve, with each reporting cycle, we have gained a better & Sustainability Council. understanding of what is material to our business and what is important to our stakeholders. We will continue to develop our For questions about this report, please contact: reporting to reflect the intensified focus on the activities that Lene Mi Ran Kristiansen link sustainability, innovation and profitable business, keeping a Senior Manager Communications & Sustainability sharp lookout for what is truly material for the company. lmrc@lmwindpower.com +45 7984 0236 The data and information provided cover our global business operations for the 2015 calendar year, supplementing the nonMette Pedersen financial highlights in the LM Wind Power Annual Report, pubSenior Manager, Global Performance and Sustainability, HSE lished in March 2016. Since the previous report, published on mpe@lmwindpower.com October 9, 2015, LM Wind Power acquired the remaining inter+45 7984 0552 est in LM Wind Power do Brasil S.A from its joint venture partner taking full ownership of the Brazilian entity. The previous Marta Wisniewska report only included very limited data for Brazil. In this report, Reporting Assistant Brazil is included in all data sets on the total group. wisniewskam@hotmail.com (G4-13), (G4-22), (G4-28), (G4-29), (G4-30), (G4-31), (G4-32), (G433) 11 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 15 Material issues and boundaries We’ve always worked hard to carefully balance profitable indicators based on the GRI G3 framework which were transigrowth, integrity and caring for people as well as for the envitioned into the G4 framework with our 2012/2013 report. Our ronment. This is our commitment and we are constantly raising current sustainability headlines – Environment, Safety, People our game and ambitions. The formalized sustainability program and Technology – are a direct outcome of this initial mapping started when we joined the UN Global Compact in 2010. We exercise. Subsequent workshops with the sustainability Core entered into a process of identifying key stakeholders, mapping Team and top management representatives have confirmed their interests and expectations and assessing bottom line that the basic structure is right. impacts. The process helped us define specific performance Environment Material aspects GRI aspects Aspect boundary Reduce carbon Energy, water, The company is mapping its carbon footprint in its global manufacturing operations from footprint through emissions, effluents material consumption, energy consumption and transportation of people. We are in the reduction of material and waste. Supplier process of including waste in the metrics in more detail and ultimately moving towards a use, energy Environmental full Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) approach. consumption and Assessment waste generation Environmental protection is one of the targets of our HSE policy, which requires commitment to and accountability for preventing pollution and promoting sound environmental practices from all employees and suppliers. Various projects, primarily local, focus on reducing energy consumption in the plants e.g. by upgrading or replacing ventilation systems and machinery, sourcing electricity from renewable energy where possible and installing energy management systems. We also work internally and with our suppliers on optimizing our material consumption to reduce waste and cost. This includes implementing initiatives to reduce, re-use and replace hazardous materials in our manufacturing. (G4-18), (G4-19), (G4-20), (G4-21), (G4-23) 12 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 15 Health & Safety Material aspects GRI aspects Aspect boundary Towards zero injuries Occupational Health With the overarching idea that ‘Safety is everyone's responsibility and managements and Safety accountability’, we make sure that all personnel in our plants worldwide are aware of risks and motivated to make safety a priority. It is instrumental if we want to get to our target of zero accidents and achieve world class standards. Aiming for improvements on safety also requires reliable and certified suppliers as an assurance of high level quality. We review health and safety implications in the early stages of product development and when introducing new materials or processes in our manufacturing. Building safety Occupational Health Building a successful safety culture takes commitment at the top with global and plantculture and Safety level managerial accountability. But the most important stakeholders are the employees. With our targeted HSE campaigns and training we make sure that all personnel are made aware of dangers inherent in their jobs, and are equipped with essential protective equipment, skills and competences to perform their work safely. It takes everybody to live our safety slogan: Think, Act, Keep safe and Arrive home safely and it takes leaders to live safety and build trust in the fact that decisions are taken with health and safety in mind. Building safety Customer Health and One of our core values is Focus on Customer and Market, applying a mindset that strives culture Safety towards continuous improvement. Both LM Wind Power and our suppliers develop processes and systems required by our customers to meet their demand for high quality and safe products. Thus, we review health and safety implications in the early stages of product development and when introducing new materials or processes in our manufacturing. If the health and safety implications of a certain substance or material are not sufficiently documented, we prefer working with materials that have well-documented and known risks so that we can take precautions. We do recognize, however, that in order to continuously improve the production environment, we will also need to introduce new innovative materials and substances. These have always gone through our comprehensive qualification process and do not represent any known health effects. People Material aspects GRI aspects Aspect boundary Compliance & Investment. NonWe recognize the challenges inherent in managing a diverse and multicultural workforce integrity discrimination. as well as having a global network of suppliers. We need to remain vigilant for human Freedom of rights abuses, unfair employment and discriminatory practices, and corruption. We try association and to manage these challenges through safeguarding compliance with our Code of Conduct. collective bargaining. We expect all our employees and suppliers to adhere to our Code of Conduct. We have a Child labor. Forced or 'zero-tolerance' policy with regards to Health & Safety violations as well as to the rules compulsory labor, regarding anti-bribery and anti-corruption. Supplier human rights assessments. The integrity with which we conduct our business is also important to our customers, Supplier assessment who not only emphasize quality and safety aspects of the products we deliver but also for labor practices. our sustainability and ethical performance. Anti-corruption Developing Training and Our success comes from the knowledge, competence and integrity of our workforce, so competences education our focus is on improving their skills and developing their careers through targeted training and appraisals. We have built a comprehensive employee development scheme, based on individual assessments for both salaried and hourly paid employees. These include HR programs, talent and career initiatives, appraisals and reward systems as well as various schemes for on the job training in a combination of local and global initiatives. Contribute positively Local Communities As an international company with plants in remote parts of the world, we strive to have to the communities a lasting positive impact on the communities in which we operate, ranging from job in which we operate creation and economic development to employee driven charity work. Involving employees in charity initiatives also has a positive effect on our organization and our people’s commitment. The community outreach activities are particularly strong in India, the US and Canada. (G4-14), (G4-19), (G4-20), (G4-21), (G4-23), (G4-PR 1), (G4-HR 4), (G4-HR 5), (G4-HR 6) 13 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 15 Stakeholder engagement Our collaborative approach to stakeholder engagement is and research institutions, policy makers, and communities in deeply rooted in our vision: “Together, we capture the wind to which we operate. Proactive stakeholder engagement and power a cleaner world”. LM Wind Power stakeholders include responsiveness facilitates empowered teams, innovation, employees, customers, suppliers, governments, industry peers ­strategic cooperation and better informed business decisions. Stakeholder How we engage How we responded to key topics and concerns in 2015 group Employees Every second year we conduct a global The 2015 EES showed improvement on all parameters for Employee Engagement Survey (EES) for all motivation and satisfaction among employees. The 2013 EES employees to measure the workforce’s indicated a need for more training. perception of LM Wind Power and to ensure the management receives constructive feedback In response, the company launched the global ‘Grow Plant and follows up. ­Leaders’ initiative to boost the plant leaders’ leadership capabilities and continued focus on safety, quality, work environment We offer ongoing training and development and performance. More than 700 leaders were trained in three programs to boost competence, motivation and of the planned five modules in 2015 and in the two last modules retention of talented employees. in 2016. This initiative was followed by an equivalent ‘Grow Functions Leaders’ program for the staff functions during 2016. In parallel, we introduced the ‘Center of Excellence’ training ­concept for new plant workers ensuring that everyone gets a thorough introduction to LM Wind Power and that they are all properly trained to produce blades in a safe and efficient manner. It is a training program over 30 days and ends with a ­certification of each employee. Initiated in India, the concept is now being rolled out in all LM Wind Power plants. Customers With our customers we have a shared interest to In one of the supplier assessments from a major customer at the deliver the most efficient products at the lowest end of 2015, we achieved a silver rating in the company category cost. In addition to daily contact, we engage ‘Manufacturer of general purpose machinery’. This puts LM Wind through response to surveys and documentation Power in the top 9% of companies assessed in this category for the customers’ supplier assessments, and in the top 12% of all companies assessed. On environmental continuous dialogue on lobbying efforts in key measures alone, LM Wind Power ranked in the top 1%. markets and the prospects of developing a potential blade disposal solution, which is a key challenge for the industry to solve. We also send out an annual Customer Satisfaction Survey to secure wider feedback on the collaboration. Suppliers Our suppliers are key to our success and we There could be potential sustainability issues in our supply chain have intensified engagement with them to that cannot necessarily be discovered through random audits and identify and reduce risk, and to build stronger screenings. That is why, we have intensified the dialogue with our partnerships. key suppliers to assess their maturity level on sustainability and to build collaborative partnerships and accomplish common goals. Every year, LM Wind Power hosts a global supplier conference to foster engagement and The first round of supplier dialogues focused on the suppliers of create an even stronger platform for dialogue balsa and those representing the majority of our spend. They are and collaboration. based in various locations across the US, Turkey, Papua New Guinea and Ecuador and differ in size and sustainability performance. LM Wind Power’s positive trend on quality performance continued, facilitated by increased levels of supplier reliability and engagement. Over the past few years, LM Wind Power has worked systematically and focused on implementing quality improvement programs and the efforts have materialized in significantly reduced quality issues as well as improved supplier performance on incoming material. (G4-12), (G4-14), (G4-24), (G4-25), (G4-26), (G4-27) 14 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 2015 Stakeholder How we engage How we responded to key topics and concerns in 2015 group Communities We rely on local communities for employees, In 2015, LM Wind Power’s employees once again engaged in a wide and provide economic activity with our range of community activities across the world and supported operations. We actively engage through several causes and organizations. partnerships with NGOs and community groups as well as with various philanthropic activities. One example is from January 2015 where our team in Beijing, Our global plants contribute to charities and China donated more than 200 books and some second-hand causes important to local communities. computers to Chongli “Hope” Primary school, in an effort to improve the school’s educational facilities and resources. In 2016, there will be an even greater focus on activities that support the UN Sustainable Development Goals – particularly Quality Education, Diversity & Gender Equality, and Affordable and Clean Energy. This is in line with the newly introduced Global HSE & Sustainability Council objectives. Governments We actively engage with local governments in Our plant in Gaspé, Canada has been particularly active to and policy legal matters related to e.g. employment, work collaborate and influence the local policy environment through makers environment, waste management, and seek continuous dialogue and an ‘open plant’ approach, aiming to cooperation and support. At a regional and ensure long term visibility for the factory. The efforts have national level, we interact with decision makers established the plant as a leading industry voice, vocal on key on issues related to energy and environmental topics that directly affect the future of the wind industry in policy, affecting the long term future of wind Quebec. The strong position, built up by the plant, has helped energy. ensure real influence, high visibility and a reputation as an attractive employer in an area with few industrial workplaces. Owners For the past 15 years, we have enjoyed the We have always communicated continuously with our owners on benefits of having supportive and forward Sustainability which they refer to as ESG (Environment, Social, thinking owners who continuously push the Governance). In 2015, one of the main events was a workshop in Core Team and top management to further Amsterdam with the Head of Sustainability at Doughty Hanson and the Core Team on investor requirements to sustainability embed Sustainability into our business reporting and documentation of performance. processes to drive value creation. We expect this to continue also under new ownership. Industry peers To keep the rapid pace of technological Testing of critical components, like wind turbine blades, often lasts and research innovations, we join forces with external several months to simulate 20-25 years of lifetime. In 2015 LM institutions collaborators/research institutions and Wind Power together with ORE Catapult, a world-class research exchange knowledge and expertise in a shared and test institution, embarked on an innovative partnership ambition to reduce cost of energy. aiming to develop shorter and more cost effective blade tests, reducing fatigue test time by up to 50%. This new test method will also have significant benefits in terms of time reductions and cost advantages, not least for the larger blades for offshore. (G4-26), (G4-27) 15 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 15 Non financial highlights €5.9 €4.3 4.0 €3.5 2.9 €2.0 2.0 1.9 2012 2013 2014 2015 2012 2013 2014 2015 Low Lost Time Accident Waste reduction (LTA) rate saves money The LTA rate has decreased steadily and Highest waste reduction savings ever today tracks at the best industry level achieved in 2015 23% 32 14% 2014 2015 More waste for recycling A highly diverse workforce 23% of total waste went to recycling in We were 32 nationalities in 2015 2015, up from 14% the previous year 3.8 3.6 10% CO2 2014 2015 Carbon footprint reduced Inventive employees Significant reduction in carbon footprint More savings ideas per employee per kg blade produced, compared to implemented, compared to the the previous year previous year 16 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 15 L M W I N D P OW E R G R I G 4 R E P O RT 20 1 5 Environment Content Why it matters 18 Our Commitment 18 Energy 18 Waste, Carbon footprint, Water 19 Why it matters • Each workplace is covered by a common HSE policy, comprisAs concerns about climate change and air pollution continue to ing environmental protection and setting requirements to grow, wind power offers obvious advantages over traditional both employees and contractors to prevent pollution and energy sources. Wind power has little environmental impact, a promote sound environmental practices. The policy is strong potential to expand all over the world and displace fossil accompanied by an HSE Management System Manual, fuels, contributing greatly to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, describing HSE program implementation (from impacts identhus leading to a more sustainable planet. LM Wind Power tification, legal compliance, strategy and goal setting, trainalone, with more than 185,000 blades produced since the late ing, communication, document control, emergency pre1970s, which corresponds to 77 gigawatts (GW) of installed paredness and response to performance and control wind power capacity, has helped avoid approximately 147 milmeasures). lions of tons of CO2 every year. • It is the responsibility of each local manager to govern compliance, ensure communication and successful implementaWe are green, but are we green enough? All stages in the life tion as well as routine HSE inspections whereas yearly mancycle of a blade – from raw materials extraction and processagement review meetings take place to follow up on ing, through blade manufacturing and transporting to product pertinent aspects and take action to drive improvement. disposal at end of life – leave an imprint on the ecosystem. • Every time we introduce new material, equipment or proManaging these environmental externalities and innovating to cesses, both managers and employees perform an HSE risk use resources more efficiently and reduce costs can only help assessment taking into consideration potential hazards for us reinforce a reputation of wind energy as an environmentally the people involved in doing the job or for the environment. beneficial and an economically viable alternative. The job/change cannot start before clear plans for controlling assessed risks and appropriate work methods are develOur commitment oped. We are committed to reducing our SoFi system – monitoring and improving our environmental impacts in all aspects environmental performance worldwide SoFi is our dedicated sustainability reporting software, in which of the product’s lifecycle, through people from various functions within each plant, primarily HSE reducing the consumption of and Facility Managers, insert data on a monthly basis. The data, which reflects our global operations, is heavily affected material, energy, waste and water, by the blade manufacturing business accounting for the largest as well as to continuously introducing material, energy and water consumption as well as waste generation. The data is presented and reviewed along with other efficiencies and innovative solutions core performance indicators at the monthly Business Operain our manufacturing processes and tions Review chaired by the VP Operations. The carbon footprint reported in the annual report is a reflection of this data. supply chains. Currently, the company is mapping its carbon footprint from materials and energy use in the operations, which represent Our HSE management system for driving good the vast majority of our activities, and is in the process of environmental performance including waste. It is the ambition to map the full life cycle Our integrated HSE management system provides an essential impact of the blade and we kicked off a pilot project in framework for common policies, objectives and requirements ­September 2016. to promote and measure environmental performance across all LM Wind Power sites. Energy In 2015, LM Wind Power completed a large project to map ener• All company sites (except Suape in Brazil and Vadodara, gy consumption across all sites and identify areas for optimizaIndia) were certified according to ISO 14001:2004 and tion and improvement. The challenge differed across the locaOHSAS 18001:2008 standards by end 2015. At the time tions with some being highly advanced and already utilizing of this reporting, Suape and Vadodara have completed advanced energy management systems and others in need of ­certification too. support to start a structured approach. Globally, heating, cooling, ventilation and air conditioning are the most important applications which represent 76% of the total consumption. The project aimed to deliver a detailed understanding of the potential savings and necessary investment to ensure all plants 18 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 2015 operate in the most energy efficient way possible. The recomBuilding on the successful efforts to replace various materials mendations are included in the efficiency programs that the and chemicals with more sustainable alternatives in 2014, the plants work on and continuously expand. Materials & Process department continued global implementation of innovative solutions to remove HSE-related risks, elimiThe energy consumption is proportional to tons of blades pronate waste and drive down cost. Some of the most notable duced, outside temperature and volume of the production hall examples were the replacement of PVC with PET (Polyethylene but it became clear from the project that the plants could also terephthalate) an alternative to PVC based on recycled plastic learn from each other and that they could improve performance bottles. According to one supplier, this change reduces CO2 by being more aware of how energy is consumed and how emissions from the resin production by 25%. The various initiaequipment is operated. The total energy consumption in 2015 tives that were kicked off in 2014 and implemented to a wider increased in line with increased output in blade production. part of the business in 2015 are expected to generate annual cost savings of almost EUR 8 million. Looking at the energy use per kg blade produced, however, there's a clear trend of improvement, reflecting partly that the Carbon footprint blades become bigger but also that we have taken steps to The total carbon footprint has increased in line with the optimize our energy consumption. increased activity in the business. The Brazil plant became fully operational and plant expansions across the board ensured the Energy use per kg blade (MJ) highest number of blades produced in four years. Despite this 2012 2013 2014 2015 increase in output, the carbon footprint per kg blade produced 0.93 0.94 0.62 0.46 is showing a decrease. This is due to the intense focus on utilizing materials in the optimum way and targeted efforts to optiThe company is currently looking into a much more ambitious mize energy consumption throughout the business in 2015. approach to managing its carbon footprint, including energy sourcing and consumption. This will be further described in the Water consumption (m3) 2016 report. Wind energy is one of the power generation industries that consumes least water because we use very little water in our Waste production facilities. However, we recognize that water is and A renewed focus in 2015 on waste management to boost recywill be an increasingly scarce resource in certain parts of the cling paid off as we continued to keep more waste out of landworld and we all need to take responsibility for preserving it. fill, which in many locations is close to zero. Targeted awareThe general trend in LM Wind Power’s water consumption is ness campaigns led by the Global HSE function and strong positive, with a 12% reduction from 2013 to 2014, despite havengagement from the plants, resulted in increased recycling, ing ramped up production and increased the number of from 14% of total waste recycled in 2014 to 23% in 2015. employees. Water usage is primarily for sanitary purposes and Waste to landfill reduced from 50% of total waste in 2014 to cleaning at the sites. 35% in 2015. In some countries, like India, water consumption is a highly Huge environmental and economic opportunities in waste material aspect due to the severe water scarcity issues in that reduction region. Our Indian plant established a rainwater harvesting The company’s waste reduction program running in its sixth system in 2010, which collects enough water to cover the consecutive year shows substantial cost savings and a positive majority of the consumption of the plant. Excess water is distrend of exceeding yearly targets. The 2015 target of EUR 3.7 charged to the ground again. Setting the standard for all other million savings were exceeded considerably with an actual local companies, this initiative has resulted in a 5-8% increase waste saving of EUR 5.9 million, and since the program incepin the underground water table. tion, over EUR 25 million saving has been generated. Only our India site has a large-scale water recycling system. As in previous years, the saving initiatives came to life mainly India accounts for the vast majority of the data under Onsite through the creative ideas of shop floor employees dedicated Water Withdrawal, together with a site in Spain. The total water to working smarter and reducing the amount of waste in the consumption of the group in 2015 reflects the growth of the manufacturing process. On average, each LM Wind Power business and particularly the inclusion of Brazil in the data. employee generated 3.8 ideas that were implemented, up from 3.6 in 2014 and exceeding the target of 3. (G4-EN 8), (G4-EN 10), (G4-EN 23) 19 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 15 “Local government officials come by LM Wind Power’s Tianjin, China plant quite a few times during a year. They are keen on understanding how sustainability is embedded in our operations. And they are particularly interested these days when promoting their latest initiative, ‘Cleaner Production.’ ” Case study Award for cleaner production To promote increased sustainability in the local business comer less harmful alternatives and our external emission of gas munity, the Tianjin government recently established the ‘Cleanpollutants is lower than the National Discharge Standard. Gener Production’ certification and award scheme. The concept is a erally, we try to avoid waste and pollution before it is generatpreventive environmental protection initiative and intends to ed, and eliminate toxic and harmful raw materials before it minimize waste and emissions from the beginning of the proenters production.” duction process, promoting use of cleaner material and maximizing product output. It is very different from the most prevaCleaner production is the path to sustainability lent production method in China which, instead of eliminating Rick is determined the cash bonus from the government should waste from the outset, focuses on getting rid of the waste genbe used to continue improvement on cleaner production, includerated to minimize the harmful effects on the environment. ing strengthening environmental monitoring, looking for new waste disposal methods to reduce cost, maintain good environThis year was the first time the Tianjin government handed out the mental performance and so on. “We will focus on the environaward, and the honored recipients were a small group of seven ment and people, health and safety. Driving towards the objeccompanies out of a population of 1000 operating in the Tianjin tive of ‘cleaner production’ will lead us to sustainability,” he said. area. LM Wind Power Tianjin was one of the winners to enjoy the 100,000 (EUR 14,000) RMB bonus that comes with the award. Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Manager, Rick Li, said: “Our company’s vision is to power a cleaner world and Tianjin plant is of course no exception. We have done a lot to improve over the years, among other things replacing acetone with oth2 0 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 15 Safety Content Why it matters 22 Our commitment 22 A strong safety culture 23 (G4-PR1) (G4-LA 5) (G4-LA6) (G4-15) Why it matters Global Safety organization There are potential health and safety risks associated with Certification: All LM Power sites (except Suape in Brazil and working on wind projects. However, due to the relentless push Vadodara, India) had obtained the certification of its systems in the industry to perform any kind of work from manufacturfor managing Health and Safety according to OHSAS 18001 by ing, installation to maintenance, under the safest possible conend of 2015. ditions, the occupational hazards (e.g. trips and falls, ergonomic injuries) have reduced significantly and are not necessarily Safety Leadership: In place since 2010, our Global HSE Council, higher than in other sectors. Keeping workers safe and led by the CEO, promotes and coordinates the implementation responding to regulatory demands is a key activity along with of safety policies and procedures across the group. At the end continuously building a strong safety culture. Safety in our of 2015, this body took on the stewardship of wider Sustainabilunderstanding extends beyond the company’s boundaries to ity topics as well. also ensure safe materials as well as reliable and quality oriented suppliers. Safety Culture: Sound HSE performance depends as much on strong safety leadership as on company-wide commitment and Our commitment discipline. Installing a mindset for safety starts with our Global HSE Policy which requires active commitment from all employWe want to maintain our focus ees and contractors to prevent harm, including injury and ill on ensuring world class health & health. With our global HSE Management system, we ensure that we have processes in place to identify hazards prior to the safety standards and nurturing a commencement of any project, comply with applicable health company-wide safety culture. and safety legal requirements as well as establish yearly goals and strategies to deliver continuous improvement. The system includes control measures, focusing on Personal ­Protective Our strategic goals to improve workplace safety until 2017 Equipment (PPE), equipment and operational instructions necessary to reduce or eliminate risks and emergency plans for 1. Injury and Incident Free (IIF) workplace – Total Recordable employees. The effectiveness of the implementation is meaInjury and Illness Rate (TRIIR) top tier performer sured through ongoing internal audits, and in the event of inci2. Strong risk assessment culture, fully permeated in everydents or incompliance, corrective and preventive actions are thing we do, i.e. in all Management of Change taken. Our health and safety performance is reviewed annually 3. Change processes and in day-to-day activities on the shop at management review meetings with local representation to floor monitor the compliance with standards and certifications. 4. Full visibility and clarity on the company’s expectations visà-vis sustainability – towards employees and towards conSafe processes and products: The LM Production System tractors. Full regulatory compliance based on LEAN principles helps to provide safety in the work5. Strong ownership of HSE matters by Operational Line Manshops, organizing workflows to ensure quality production with agement the most efficient utilization of people and resources. Our man6. Strong sense of urgency with Senior Management – zero tolagers and employees make regular safety assessments in the erance attitude towards accidents and incidents, critical manufacturing environment, quickly identifying safety hazards safety rules and repeat offenders and checking the status of equipment for safety standards dur7. True Learning Organization – robust performance with regards ing ‘safety observation’ walks through the production areas. to “closing the loop and not having repeated accidents Good ideas are systematically shared between our manufacturing facilities and each plant has a target for idea generation and implementation. The company has continued to drive down the Lost Time Accident rate per million work hours to perform at the top of the industry. The aim is to continue the downward trend to SoFi: Key performance indicators related to Health, Safety, come as close to zero as possible. Environment and Climate are tracked on a monthly basis and reported through the company’s sustainability reporting soft4.0 ware, SoFi. 2.9 2.0 1.9 2012 2013 2014 2015 (G4-14) 22 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 2015 The core metrics for Health and Safety and work environment Driving a successful safety organization has a lot to do with are the Lost Time Accident (LTA) and Absentee rates which promoting and achieving a safety mindset in the workplace, have generally decreased year on year for the past five years. through ongoing communication and training. LM Wind Power In 2015, however, the Absentee rate for hourly paid employees has embarked on this journey towards excellence by increased increased, primarily driven by performance in Brazil. The Lost awareness, more rigid enforcement of rules and procedures, as Time Accident (LTA) rate per million work hours ended at 1.9 in well as intensive training for key personnel, fostering behavior 2015. This is the lowest rate in the company’s history. The tarchange and safety dialogue. A large proportion of our employget for 2016 is an LTA rate of 1.8. ees – 25-50% at various levels – are also represented in Health & Safety committees, either at plant level or regional level Building a strong safety culture (under the Global HSE Council) ensuring another level and forum Our continuous cooperation with safety experts DuPont over for ongoing dialogue between management and employees. the past six years has helped us in the process of building a strong safety culture. The progress ranges from specific initiaAs part of the company’s wider efforts to take care of its peotives to improve procedures and standards for key activities ple, all locations have initiatives or programs in place to like chemical handling, fire safety and working in confined encourage a healthy life style among the employees and their space to comprehensive training in Root Cause Analysis (RCA) families, from attractive fitness memberships, fruit arrangeincident investigation and change management e.g. when ments in the offices, to flexible work hours etc. Health is not developing and introducing new products, setting up new faconly about keeping fit, watching your diet and getting enough tories and introducing new materials. sleep, it’s also having a good working environment and a positive social atmosphere with colleagues. Therefore, all plants went through health workshops in 2015 focusing on stress prevention, how to keep fit even on a busy schedule, and highlighting the importance of nurturing good relations at work. (G4-LA5) 23 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 2015 “Our service technicians operate from heights most of us would not dare to climb. And yet, the demands of this job should never compromise their safety.” Case study From sites, to factories When the LM Wind Power Service team in South Europe (SE) All these actions appear to be a success: achieving a new saw Lost Time Accidents (LTAs) increase from 2012 to 2013, record for the SE Service team of more than 400 days without they faced the challenge head on. Health, Safety and Environan LTA! ment (HSE) managers realized a trend: LTAs occurred most ­frequently when service technicians worked in the factories “Safety is crucial to a sustainable business,” said Juan Carlos during the “low season” for wind turbine onsite work. Rivas Rego, HSE Manager, Service SE. “For employees and their families, our HSE commitment promotes a culture where harm In response to the new hazards presented by this change to our people or the environment is unacceptable. Also the of scenario, the HSE team defined action plans to focus on impact of an LTA reflects directly in the customer satisfaction ­processes, tools and people. All SE Service technicians and and our visibility within the wind energy business.” supervisors participated in training at As Pontes and Castellon plants, focused on specific hazards at the workshop in addition to blade repair onsite risks (i.e., 5S, ergonomics, preventive maintenance of tools or use of forklifts and overhead cranes). 24 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 15 People Content Why it matters 26 Our commitment 26 People development 27 Involvement in the community 27 Why it matters For instance, at the management level, the company still has a The importance of having an engaged and diverse talent pool target to further promote gender diversity in its highest govercannot be underestimated. Our wide project portfolio requires nance body, the Supervisory Board. In 2015, this body consisted highly skilled, empowered and creative people at all levels, of two representatives from our owners Doughty Hanson, one starting from business leaders and engineers to supervisors of whom is the Chairman, and three members who are also in and operators on the shop floor. Our robust HR management the executive management team of LM Wind Power. They are practices focus on employee engagement, diversity manageall male. The company has set a target to also have one female ment, incentives and compensation programs, with the aim of member of the Supervisory Board by 2017. making our company a preferred employer and lay a solid foundation for sustainable growth. Our commitment We strive to provide a fair and Diverse teams respectful, interesting and inspiring improve performance work environment with ample opportunity for career development. As in many manufacturing and engineering companies, our gender split shows a predominance of male employees. There are various examples of iniOrganizational Integrity tiatives to achieve a more balanced representation, Our Code of Conduct states the overarching principles for doing for example in China where our plant in Qin Huang business ethically and legally, covering among other things the Dao designed a specific initiative to recruit women requirement to respect human rights and observe ethical labor for the plant. Manufacturing work is not widely perpractices. These principles are firmly anchored in our HR proceived as being attractive to women in China but cesses for recruitment, development and fair remuneration, as with a focused campaign from plant management well as in our cooperation with suppliers based upon a commitand Human Resources, a group of women joined the ment to avoid any illegal practice, e.g. related to child labor, team. Apart from delivering consistent high quality forced labor or discrimination. work, the increased diversity in the team has improved collaboration and the general atmosphere The shared ethical standards in combination with our corporate among the employees. It is the aim of LM Wind Powvalues are important for our ability to meet the ambitious tarer to further increase genderand other forms of gets of the business, helping us navigate effectively in the diversity in the business, building on the existing many markets where we operate under the same high stanpractices of promoting talent through individual dards and principles. performance and career reviews as part of the company’s Performance Management Process, and Commitment to diversity through structured talent reviews of all salaried At LM Wind Power we are a culturally diverse team encompassemployees looking at capabilities and mobility ing as many as 32 different nationalities. Our underlying belief that diversity is our strength and a great source of innovation, encourages us to strive for diversity at all levels. Our Code of Conduct clearly states our non-discriminatory hiring practices Promoting good working conditions and responding to with regard to gender, race, religion, age, disability, sexual orichallenges of discrimination & corruption entation, nationality, political opinion, union affiliation, social Operating across many different countries and cultures can or ethnic origin. Still, to strengthen our proactive diversity posipose certain challenges of having to deal with unfair working tion, and in particular improve the proportion of women conditions, discrimination and corruption. employed across all levels, we have established a Diversity Policy. With this policy we would like to ensure that female talent is We help ensure the necessary protection of our employees by not overlooked when conducting structured career reviews and acknowledging their freedom of association and employing designing and re-designing the organizational set up. The policy people worldwide according to local law and collective bargaingoes hand in hand with our Diversity Committee, reporting to ing agreements. The unions are particularly well represented in the Global HSE & Sustainability Council. The Diversity Commitcountries such as Brazil, Spain, Denmark, Canada and India tee will set clear targets for diversity and oversee progress for where 25-90% of our employees are covered by collective barthe short and long term, as for instance, our current efforts at gaining agreements. This applies primarily to the hourly paid addressing imbalance at the top of the organization and matchemployees. The number of weeks’ notice typically provided to ing the aspirations of our current and future female employees. employees in relation to significant operational changes are governed by local regulations in all the areas where we operate. In the absence of local legislation or agreements, the gen(G4-HR 5), (G4-HR6), (G4-HR4), (G4-11), (G4-LA 4), (G4-HR3) 26 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 2015 eral guidance provided in our employee handbook is a miniWe systematically analyze and upgrade the scope of our develmum of two weeks. opment activities with our Performance Management System (PMP), which follows a cycle of annual objective setting, perforIn regard to preventing discrimination, we have clear internal mance review and development planning. Around 20% of the guidance and processes for handling of incidents and harasstotal population of employees are covered by the PMP system ment claims and always conduct a thorough investigation, and follow the process for tracking performance and developwhere applicable with involvement from the union representament. This corresponds to all salaried employees (i.e. not hourtives to ensure workers’ rights. ly paid workers). In some of our plants, we have structured performance and development reviews for all employees and We have implemented a number of anti-corruption and bribery we have initiated a project to develop a common global Perforprevention measures. Since 2012, all salaried employees have mance and Development Review Process for hourly paid received training in the Code of Conduct and the anti-bribery employees to be implemented during 2017. and corruption provisions from the UK Bribery Act 2010, aligned with our commitment to the UN Global Compact princiWe place high importance on providing quality training to both ples. The online training program is not limited to a fixed timhourly paid and salaried staff, especially to the employees ing and the employee can take the time they need. In general working in our manufacturing facilities to get them familiar our employees spend between 30 45 minutes for one session. with our global processes, detailed work instructions, Lean In Q4 of 2015 it was decided to request all staff to retake the practices, quality management as well as health and safety e-learning training and pass the test. 96% had completed the issues. We also offer training to improve language skills, project training by end January 2016 with the rest following suit in the management and leadership. One of the most wide ranging following weeks. programs was the global ‘Grow Plant Leaders’ initiative that was kicked off in 2015 to strengthen plant leaders at various There were no complaints regarding corruption and active levels, and boost their capabilities in ensuring safety, quality, bribery in 2015. work environment and delivering high performance. So far more than 1,400 managers, supervisors and team leaders have SpeakUP line roll-out and training been through the ‘Grow Plant Leaders’ training which consists As part of the roll out of LM Wind Power’s SpeakUP line, an exterof five modules. nally hosted integrity line, all staff are trained on the scope and functioning of this service as one of the elements in the compaInvolvement in the community ny’s anti-bribery and anti-corruption program. Wider compliance LM Wind Power’s plants and offices around the world operate topics are covered in this training as well. In May 2015, the primarily in dedicated industrial areas and under all applicable ­SpeakUP line was implemented in Brazil and is now in the local laws and regulations. None of them are assessed to have ­process of being implemented to all LM Wind Power locations. any significant negative impact on the local communities. Waste, emissions and other impacts from the plants’ activities People development are managed actively, in accordance with our global HSE ManAt the heart of our people development strategy is the HR iniagement System and local regulations. And the employment tiative called “Get, Keep, Grow”. This framework aims to create and economic development following the establishment of a an environment for attracting, retaining and developing the plant is highly valued. Our community engagement is meaningbest talent. Knowledge is after all our most important raw ful, albeit it is mostly local and ad hoc. Some locations, howevmaterial and we make every effort to cultivate it, through er, as Dobaspet and Little Rock have dedicated teams to identitrainings, career development, challenging work as well as fy, prioritize and manage community activities, in line with our ­regular feedback and performance appraisals. In an effort to corporate values, the most acute local needs and, if possible, in achieve high performance and keep pace with accelerating connection with a strategic framework of our business. In India, change in the business environment, we also give space to perthe stricter requirements for companies to manage and report sonal initiative and innovative thinking. spending on CSR have been instrumental for a more advanced approach with policies, priorities and dedicated teams to manFor the salaried employees in staff functions, the framework age the activities. for our development activities is based on the 70-20-10 model. 70 refers to the proportion of development that comes from focused efforts to provide opportunities for people to grow through exposure to challenging tasks in the day-to-day job; 20 refers to the proportion of development that comes from feedback and support given to and provided by others; and 10 refers to the proportion of learning and development that comes from formal training and courses. (G4-HR2), (G4-LA10), (G4-SO1), (G4-SO2), (G4-SO3), (G4-SO5) 2 7 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 15 Our people solve challenging tasks every day. When they have reached their potential in one area and need new challenges, we do what we can to give them new opportunities, exposing them to new tasks, colleagues or cultures. Case study A job at the top It was the highest they had ever climbed. Janusz Walęsik, Pawel “Training operators to also perform service tasks in the field is Bylewski and Tomasz Dadas usually work in low altitudes as a good example of a synergy,” Marcin explained. ”Our service operators in the Goleniów, Poland plant, but that was soon business is growing and the tasks require a high level of skills about to change. in blade maintenance and repair. The operators in the plants already have those skills, so it is easier to equip them to work In October 2015, three LM Wind Power operators accepted an in the field – provided that they are not afraid of heights of invitation from the Service team to join a working in heights course!” test – exchanging their comfortable routine in the workshop with a 45 meter climb up the plant chimney. The result? Sore Marcin has seen his share of aspiring service technicians who arms and exhaustion but permission to continue service trainpanicked during the climb up a turbine. This can be a very costing which will eventually allow them to perform work on a real ly affair not to mention highly unpleasant and unsafe for those wind turbine in the field. working in the crew. ”Working as a service technician requires quite a lot of training, like rescue at height, firefighting, workAllowing people to expand their perspective and step out of ing with electrical tools, etc. There are also a number of certifitheir comfort zone is not only an investment in their personal cations. All that training will be wasted if people are afraid of motivation and job satisfaction, it keeps our talent in the orgaheights. So we’ve learned from bitter experience that we need nization longer, increases understanding across the business to test that first,” Marcin smiled. and creates better results. Luckily Janusz, Pawel and Tomasz passed the test and look forFlexibility and variation ward to the adrenalin kick of going up and down a real turbine! Manager, Service Operations, Marcin Majdzik, is the man They are now ready to go through the rest of the training and behind the untraditional recruitment of service technicians in start working in the field which Marcin assesses is realistic to the plant. Over the past couple of years, he and his colleagues achieve before the season ends. have worked hard on the integration of Service back into Operations – contributing to a more sustainable service organization, by increasing flexibility and utilizing the talented employees that already work for LM Wind Power. 28 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 15 Technology Content Why it matters 30 Our commitment 30 Better blades 30 Improved production environment 30 Why it matters Better blades Our main sustainability challenge and opportunity lies in promotOver the years, we have launched several enhanced designs of ing the progress and growth of renewable energy as an attractive lighter and longer blades that are even more effective and we and affordable alternative to traditional energy sources. This can continue to boost and develop our designs and manufacturing be accomplished with more efficient and cost effective products, processes to increase output and reduce cost. Simply put, we processes and services, which are achieved through technological strive to make the most efficient and reliable rotor blades at innovations. With a focus on innovation, we strengthen our comthe lowest possible price. petitive positioning and growth opportunities while contributing to the expansion of sustainable and clean energy. Innovation is LM Wind Power has a strong engineering, manufacturing and indeed at the heart of our sustainability efforts. We can only quality ‘DNA’ and it is clear that we need to continue our investenhance our social, safety and environmental assets with our ment in research and development in order to maintain our posiability to innovate. tion as a technology leader. 2015 was another strong year of innovation, with our talented engineers delivering significant This belief is underpinned by consistent, firm investments in R&D progress on longer, lighter wind turbine blades and new even in financially challenging years. Between 2011 and 2015, the approaches to manufacturing, including eight prototypes a percentage of revenue spent on R&D has been stable between 3.5 record for one year. These blades are the result of close collaboand 5.4 percent, reflecting our commitment to innovation. ration with a wide range of customers and will be applied all over the world. In addition to the new blade types, we also introR&D investment as % of revenue duced a number of new technologies to enhance Annual Energy 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Production, reduce noise or improve the reliability of our blades. 5.4 4.2 5.4 4.1 3.5 Improved production environment While developing and launching new technologies, we also had a firm eye on quality improvements and implementing more Our commitment sustainable material solutions or more cost effective processes in manufacturing. The quality improvement initiatives led to We want to continue the strong progress on key metrics. LM Wind Power has worked systematiprogress on innovation to improve cally and focused on implementing quality improvement programs over the past years and the efforts have materialized reliability and performance, while significantly as measured on the supplier performance on reducing environmental impact incoming material. The improvement from 2013 to 2014 was tremendous with 12,700 PPM (Parts Per Million) in 2013 to of our processes and activities to 2,220 in 2014. Nonetheless the company achieved a further maintain industry leadership reduction to 1,050 PPM in 2015 – a 48% improvement – effectively addressing and even eliminating repeated quality issues on incoming material. 3 0 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 15 Building on the successful efforts to replace various materials and chemicals with more sustainable alternatives in 2014, the Materials & Process department continued global implementation of innovative solutions to remove HSE-related Examples of initiatives in risks, eliminate waste and drive down cost. Some of the most materials and technology notable examples were the replacement of PVC with PET foam in a number of blade types as well as changing the formula in that improved sustainability the polyester resin to include a higher percentage of recycled performance in 2015: materials. PET is used on some of the blade components and has a lower environmental footprint and lower cost than PVC. • Implementation of PET instead of PVC for all The supplier is in the process of switching to 100% recycled smaller components and non-structural parts. PET, an initiative that we welcome. According to the supplier, Implementation for structural parts ongoing. this change reduces CO2 emissions from the resin production • Development of a hybrid carbon technology, which by 25%. The various initiatives are expected to generate enables longer and lighter blades at a competitive annual cost savings of almost EUR 8 million. cost compared to full carbon blades. The hybrid carbon material was implemented in the world's We are determined to do anything possible to better underlongest blade, launched in 2016. stand and manage the risks in our business and at the same • Leading edge de-icing technology developed and time we have pioneered alternative solutions. We already tested full-scale and in the field. By heating the ­introduced low styrene gel coat in our global operations blade’s leading edge to melt ice, the system for some years ago, which we developed with a key supplier. de-icing boosts the output from the wind Such innovations are now widely available to all manufacturturbines, further increasing the competitiveness ers using similar materials. The company is currently in the of wind power in cold climates. The technology testing phase on newly developed resins and gelcoats will allow a wind farm to increase its power without styrene, supporting our ambition to further minimize generation by 5-7% on average, with an increase any risk from styrene exposure, to ideally create a styrene as high as 20% for some specific turbines. free production environment. This will benefit the employees • Implementation of glass optimization measures who will experience improved working conditions, and can that reduce glass waste by 80% potentially bring savings through elimination of the need • Noise serrations developed and tested. These for some personal protective equipment and ventilation in features help address one of the challenges for work spaces. the expansion of wind power, namely the resistance to have them installed close to residential areas due to noise. 3 1 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 15 Case study Launching Canada’s longest blade Every day, our engineers work hard to create longer and lighter experience with high level visits and effectively delivering a blades that extract more energy from the wind and reduce the message on the importance of continuing to develop wind cost of energy. It never stops. We develop add-ons, new materi­power in Quebec. “We are building a strong relationship with als, and innovative solutions that increase blade reliability and the native community, Senvion and Innergex,” said Plant performance, while reducing the environmental impact of our ­Director Alexandre Boulay, who gave several interviews for processes and activities. In every aspect of the blade life cycle, both TV and print. we carefully consider how we can protect them better and find new ways to enhance their performance. The seemingly simple, Speaking up for wind white structures embody more than 35 years of knowledge and Alex and the Gaspé team regularly open the plant for visitors to continuous research and development, and we are determined increase awareness of the wind industry’s contribution in Queto be the leader in this field for many years to come through bec. The political framework is a decisive factor influencing the further scrutiny of our technology platform and innovation. future of the plant; our colleagues in Gaspé work hard every day to prove that wind energy needs to play a prominent role Sustainability for our business depends on stability in the in the energy policy for 2016 and beyond. ­markets in which we operate. Showing that we are here to stay in Canada requires a combination of innovation and communi“We need to do everything we can to make decision makers cation: inviting politicians, customers and the local community aware of the value we bring in terms of clean and affordable to celebrate our latest technology, such as our de-icing system. energy, economic development and highly qualified local jobs,” Alex said. “Our technical innovations, including a state-of-theIn October our Gaspé plant celebrated the launch of Canada’s art de-icing system and the launch of new blade types, are longest blade in serial production — LM 55.8 meter blades for examples of how the industry works to constantly lower the Senvion that will power the 150 MW Mesgi’g Ugju’s’n (MU) wind cost of wind energy.” farm. This wind project involves a 50-50 partnership between the three Mi’gmaq Nations of Quebec (Gesgapegiag, Gespeg et Senvion issued a press release at the event, featuring thorough Listuguj) and the developer Innergex. statements from each of the parties involved. It ended with the words: “With the serial production of the 55.8 meter blade with On the day of the launch celebration, co-hosted with Senvion, anti-icing, LM Wind Power and Senvion are contributing to Quethe LM Wind Power Gaspé plant was filled with politicians, bec’s growing expertise in cold and complex terrain wind techguests and journalists with microphones and rolling cameras. nology and in turn positioning Quebec as a leader in wind enerThe team was very well prepared — benefiting from previous gy across Canada and internationally.” 3 2 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 15 Sustainability performance at a glance Content Environment 34 Working environment 36 Human rights & anti-curruption 39 Environment The data on environment is reported as a total for the group majority of material consumption, energy, water consumption with the blade manufacturing business representing the vast and waste generation. 2015 2014 2013 2012 Blades produced 9,474 8,262 7,173 8,856 Raw material used (tons) 89,270 65,758 59,097 93,135 Energy consumption (GJ) Non-renewable fuel LPG 15,361 16,297 16,065 16,753 Diesel 42,197 38,624 62,542 168,030 Gasoline 139 212 160 194 Natural Gas 179,342 209,011 256,573 218,269 Heating Oil 0 0 190 367 Total fuel not used for transport (GJ) 237,039 264,144 335.631 403,612 Electricity (GWh) 103 97 80 97 Total electricity consumption (MJ) 370,577,538 347,974,598 288,631,814 348,598,869 Total energy consumption 607,616,712 595,021,985 635,722,624 752,211,102 Energy use per kg blade produced (MJ) 0,46 0,62 0,94 0,93 Waste Total waste for landfill (tons) 9,210 10,616 6,364 9,259 Total waste for incineration (tons) 10,982 7,710 7,399 9,758 Total waste for recycling (tons) 5,874 2,934 2,348 3,031 Total waste (tons) 26,066 21,260 16,111 22,048 Waste / per kg blade produced (kg) 0.305 0.378 0.347 0.362 Carbon footprint Scope 1 direct emissions (activities owned or controlled by the organization that release emissions direct to the atmosphere e.g. emissions from owned or controlled boilers, furnaces, process equipment, vehicles etc.) 106,074 118,290 70,185 274,649 (G4-EN3), (G4-EN23), (G4-EN15) 3 4 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 15 2015 2014 2013 2012 Scope 2 Energy indirect emissions (emissions released into atmosphere that are a consequence of our activities but which occur at sources we do not own or control e.g. emissions associated with our consumption of electricity, heat, steam, cooling) 72,560 70,185 65,633 76,992 Scope 3 other indirect emissions (all other activities that release emissions as a consequence of our activities, but not indirect energy sources and which occur at sources beyond our control e.g. business travel, use of sold products or services, waste disposal) 360,246 247,805 247,034 370,103 Carbon footprint (kg) / kg blade produced 5.9 6.5 6.9 8 Water consumption Ground water/municipal water (m3) 168.286 143,069 173,340 188,721 Water use, on site (m3) 43,750 41,794 37,450 50,061 Total 212,036 184,863 210,790 238,782 Water recycled and reused in India% of water withdrawal (m3) 26 23 18 18 Efficiencies & savings Savings from waste reduction program 5.9 (exceeding 4.3 (exceeding (EUR million) the target of 3.7) the target of 2.7) (more than 20 since the program inception) (G4-EN17), (G4-EN8), (G4-EN 10), (G4-EN16), (G4-EN19) 3 5 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 15 Working environment 2015 2014 2013 2012 Total number of employees and breakdown by employment type, contract, gender and region* Number of employees (end of year) 6,332 4,505 4,844 5,803 * The employee number now includes Brazil which was fully integrated into the LM Wind Power Group as of December 2015. Contractors and trainees were included in the employee numbers up until 2014 but will be reported separately as of 2015 to ensure consistency with the annual report. Total workforce by employment contact and gender Male:4,513 Male:  3,331 Male:  3,231 Male:  3,461 Female:  586 Female:  422 Female:  377 Female:  358 Gender not Gender not Blue collar registered:220 registered:  242 Male:  911 Male:  747 Male:  745 Male:  773 Female:  322 Female:  259 Female:  248 Female:  264 Gender not Gender not White collar registered:  14 registered:  1 Total 6,332 4,993 4,844 4,856 Total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender Male:  2,298 Male:  1,819 Male:  1,671 Male:  2,001 Female:  291 Female:  174 Female:  136 Female:  191 Gender not Gender not Fixed term contract registered:  178 registered:  239 Male:  3,126 Male:  2,220 Male:  2,305 Male:  2,233 Female:  617 Female:  491 Female:  489 Female:  431 Gender not Gender not Gender not Permanent contract registered: registered:  32 registered:  4 Total 6,332 4,914 4,844 4,856 Workforce by employees, supervised workers and gender Male:  5,062 Male:  3,773 Male:  3,680 Male:  3,939 Female:853 Female:630 Female:579 Female:575 Gender not Unknown Employees registered: employees:  243 Male:  362 Male:  305 Male:  296 Male:  295 Female:55 Female:51 Female:46 Female:47 Gender not Gender not Managers registered: registered: Total 6,332 4,993 4844 4856 * indication of 1) job stability 2) the organization’s contribution to the economic development 3) sustainability of the workforce 4) gender representation across the organization, and 4) the optimal use of available labor and talent. (G4-9), (G4-10) 3 6 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 2015 2015 2014 2013 2012 Total workforce by region and gender Male:1,550 Male:1376 Male:1,214 Male:  1,401 Female:134 Female:129 Female:103 Female:128 Unknown:  33 China Total:1,684 Total:1,538 Total:1,317 Total:1,529 Male:1,614 Male:1,044 Male:1,137 Male:  1,452 Female:393 Female:270 Female:278 Female:328 Unknown Unknown:  19 Unknown:14 Europe Total:2,007 Total:1,333 Total:1,429 Total:1,780 Male:745 Male:773 Male:  808 Male:844 Female:  23 Female:28 Female:19 Female:19 Unknown: Unknown:6 India Total:768 Total:807 Total:827 Total:863 Male:835 USA+CAN Male:817 Male:537 Female:243 Male:886 Female:225 Female:147 Unknown: Female:254 Unknown:  229 Unknown:176 North America (USA+CAN) Total:1,078 Total:1,316 Total:1,271 Total:684 Male:680 Female:115 Unknown: South America (Brazil) Total:795 Total 6,332 4,993 4,844 4,856 Percentage of the contractors compared to the entire workforce Contractors 433 461 192 Permanent Employees 6,332 4,383 4,664 % of the total workforce 6.2% of 6,965 10.5 % of 4,953 10% of 4,844 4 % of 4,856 (G4-LA9) 37 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 15 2015 2014 2013 2012 Employee training The average hours of training provided to employees by gender and region LM Wind Power has reported detailed data on this in the past, but has decided to only report at an overall level on this going forward. The records of time spent on training are not consistently maintained across all locations and the process of collecting the data and validating it does not correspond favorably to the value of reporting it. There is, however, no doubt that training is an absolutely crucial activity in the company to ensure product and process quality, develop our people all over the world and grow the business sustainably. The level of training activity has only increased in 2015 in line with the rapid growth and continuous maturing of the company. Basic blade manufacturing skills training to new operators in the plants, leadership training both in the plants and support functions, HSE and Quality management training, Lean Six Sigma training, crisis management training, Code of Conduct and SpeakUP line training were just some of the examples of training conducted in 2015 both at the local and global level, summing up to thousands of hours of training worldwide. Performance reviews Percentage of employees receiving at least annual performance reviews Total % 20.0 25.2 21.4 20.2 These numbers reflect the fact that all salaried employees are covered by LM Wind Power’s Performance Management Process (PMP) which follows a cycle of annual objective setting, performance review and development planning. The PMP system is designed to ensure that our people know and agree to what they need to contribute and how, and we help them obtain the right competencies to pursue the career that adds value for them and LM Wind Power as a whole. Employees represented in formal Health & Safety committees Total : approximated (% reported in intervals of 0-25, 25-50) Between 25-50 Accident rates (involving lost time) Total, per million work hours 1.9 2.0 2.9 4.0 The company continued to improve on key performance indicators on health and safety with a Lost Time Accident (LTA) rate per million work hours ending at 1.9 in 2015. The target for 2016 is 1.8. Absentee rates Salaried employees (% of absent days out of planned workdays per year) 0.4 0.6 0.5 0.7 Hourly paid employees (% of absent work hours out of planned work hours per year) 1.6 1.3 1.2 1.5 The absentee rates for hourly paid employees increased in 2015 primarily driven by the performance in Brazil where we see significantly higher absentee rates than in the rest of the world. Several measures are continuously introduced to retain employees, including training and development programs, attractive benefits, social events and teambuilding activities. Certifications: percentage (%) of sites certified by end 2015 ISO 9001:2008 95 94 100 100 ISO 14001:2004 and OHSAS 18001 89 82 LM Wind Power had 14 blade manufacturing sites in 2015, two addresses in Little Rock, which both need individual certification and five main office locations in Denmark, the Netherlands, India and China. The company has combined the ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 requirements in one integrated Health, Safety & Environment (HSE) Management System with all external audits being conducted under a combined audit set up for improved efficiency. (G4-LA11), (G4-LA5), (G4-LA6), (G4-15) 3 8 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 15 Human rights & anti-corruption 2015 2014 2013 2012 Incidents of child labor identified at LM Wind Power sites (G4-HR5) 0 0 0 0 Incidents of child labor identified at suppliers´ sites (G4-HR5) 0 0 0 0 The company’s Code of Conduct clearly states that we support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and that we ensure we do not endorse or allow human rights abuses. We train our employees in the requirements and expectations to them and the Code of Conduct is an integrated part of the framework agreements with suppliers. The majority of the LM Wind Power workforce is employed in China and India and we have many young applications. We have a clear policy that we do not hire people under the age of 18 and applicants are required to show their ID card or birth certificate as part of the recruitment process. Community involvement Charitable donations (EUR) 104,955 75,812 63,335 20,000 Community work (hours provided) 6,476 12,155 3,127 n/a LM Wind Power is an active corporate citizen in the local communities in which we operate. Our employees and local subsidiaries contribute both time and money to support charity, improve local welfare and health and to promote the power of wind in creating a more sustainable world. Training in anti-corruption policies and procedures Percentage (%) of employees eligible for training 96 75 75 n/a Since 2012, LM Wind Power has trained all salaried employees in the Code of Conduct, anti-corruption and UK Anti-Bribery Act aligned with our commitment to the UN Global Compact principles. All new office staff employees go through this e-learning program as part of their onboarding, and recertification was repeated in 2015. (G4-SO1), (G4-SO4) 3 9 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 2015 GRI G4 content index General Standard Disclosures GRI Indicator Report Section Page / UNGC Principle External Comments Assurance STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Message from CEO 3 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 About LM Wind Power 4 G4-4 About LM Wind Power 4 G4-5 About LM Wind Power 4 G4-6 About LM Wind Power 4, 5 G4-7 About LM Wind Power 4 G4-8 About LM Wind Power 4, 36 G4-9 About LM Wind Power 4 Sustainability Performance at a glance 36 G4-10 Sustainability Performance at a glance 6 G4-11 People 26 3 G4-12 Suppler dialogue as a foundation for 9, 14 success Stakeholder engagement G4-13 About this report 11 G4-14 Material Issues & Boundaries 13, 22 (Customer health and safety) People G4-15 Message from CEO 3, 6, 38 Values & Ethics Sustainability Performance at a glance G4-16 Appendix 46 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 About LM Wind Power 4 G4-18 Material Issues & Boundaries 12 G4-19 Material Issues & Boundaries 12, 13 G4-20 Material Issues & Boundaries 12, 13 G4-21 Material Issues & Boundaries 12, 13 G4-22 About this report 11 G4-23 Material Issues & Boundaries 12, 13 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 Stakeholder engagement 14 G4-25 Suppler dialogue as a foundation for 9, 14 success Stakeholder engagement G4-26 Stakeholder engagement 14, 15 G4-27 Stakeholder engagement 14, 15 41 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 2015 GRI Indicator Report Section Page / UNGC Principle External Comments Assurance REPORT PROFILE G4-28 About this report 11 G4-29 About this report 11 G4-30 About this report 11 G4-31 About this report 11 G4-32 About this report 11 G4-33 About this report 11 GOVERNANCE G4-34 Organizing sustainability 8 ETHICS & INTEGRITY G4-56 Values & Ethics 6, 7 10 Category: Environmental GRI Indicator Report Section Page / UNGC Principle Comments Comments ASPECT: ENERGY G4-EN 3 Sustainability Performance at a glance 34 7, 8 Environment (Energy) ASPECT: WATER G4-EN 8 Environment (Water Consumption) 19, 35 7, 8 Sustainability Performance at a glance Environment (Water consumption) G4-EN 10 Environment (Water Consumption) 19, 35 8 Sustainability Performance at a glance Environment (Water consumption) ASPECT: EMISSIONS G4-EN 15 Sustainability Performance at a glance 34 Environment G4-EN 16 Sustainability Performance at a glance 35 Environment G4-EN 17 Sustainability Performance at a glance 35 Environment G4EN 19 Sustainability Performance at a glance 35 Environment ASPECT: WASTE G4-EN 23 Environment (Waste) 19, 34 8 Sustainability Performance at a glance ASPECT:TRANSPORT G4-EN 30 Data not available 8 ASPECT: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT G4-EN 32 Suppler dialogue as a foundation for 9 8 success G4-EN 33 Suppler dialogue as a foundation for 9 8 success 42 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 15 Category: Social GRI Indicator Report Section Page / UNGC Principle External Comments Assurance LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK ASPECT: LABOR/MANAGEMNT RELATIONS G4-LA 4 People (Promoting good working 26 conditions and responding to challenges of discrimination & corruption) ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-LA 5 Safety 23, 38 Sustainability Performance at a glance G4-LA 6 Sustainability Performance at a glance 38 ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-LA 9 Sustainability Performance at a glance 37 6 G4-LA 10 People (People development) 27 G4-LA 11 Sustainability Performance at a glance 38 6 ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR LABOR PRACTICES G4-LA 14 Suppler dialogue as a foundation for 9 success G4-LA 15 Suppler dialogue as a foundation for 9 success ASPECT: INVESTMENT G4-HR 2 People (Promoting good working 27 1 conditions and responding to challenges of discrimination & corruption) ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION G4-HR 3 People (Promoting good working 26 6 conditions and responding to challenges of discrimination & corruption) ASPECT: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING G4HR 4 Suppler dialogue as a foundation for 9, 13, 26 success Material Issues & Boundaries People (Promoting good working conditions and responding to challenges of discrimination & corruption) ASPECT: CHILD LABOR G4-HR 5 Material issues and boundaries 9, 13, 26 3 Suppler dialogue as a foundation for success People (Organizational Integrity) Sustainability Performance at a glance ASPECT: FORCED COMPULSORY LABOR G4-HR 6 Suppler dialogue as a foundation for 9, 13, 26 4 success Material Issues & Boundaries People (Organizational Integrity) 43 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 2015 GRI Indicator Report Section Page / UNGC Principle External Comments Assurance LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK ASPECT: SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT G4-HR 10 Suppler dialogue as a foundation for 9 success G4-HR 11 Suppler dialogue as a foundation for 9 success SOCIETY ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITIES G4-SO 1 People (Involvement in the community) 27, 39 Sustainability Performance at a glance G4-SO 2 People (Involvement in the community) 27 ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION G4SO3 People (Promoting good working 27 conditions and responding to challenges of discrimination & corruption) G4SO 4 People (Promoting good working 27, 39 conditions and responding to challenges of discrimination & corruption) Sustainability Performance at a glance G4SO 5 People(Promoting good working 27 conditions and responding to challenges of discrimination & corruption) PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY ASPECT: PUBLIC POLICY G4PR 1 Material Issues and Boundaries 13 (Occupational Health and Safety) Safety 44 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 15 Appendix Appendix 1 Memberships CWPM – China Wind Power Manufacturers DWIA – Danish Wind Industry Association Brazil membership (ABB Eolica) AWEA – American Wind Energy Association CANWEA – Canadian Wind Energy Association UK Renewable International partnering forum VDMA (Verband Deutscher Maschinenund Anlagenbau, German Engineering Federation) EWEA EWEA Offshore working group SER (Syndicat des Energies Renouvelables) FEE (French Wind Energy Associationv ) (G4-16) 46 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 15
