UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT In the following we present our annual Communication on Progress, where we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. Since our last state of affairs, Baxx Promotion has worked intensely with implementing and further advancing our overall politics, goal and processes within environmental and corporate social responsibility. Our primary focus have been to ground our environmental and quality policies into our ISO management system, and to find ways to continue to improve our overall goal to practice responsible sourcing. The continued implementation of both systems will remain our focal point in the coming year. We are pleased to reaffirm Baxx Promotion’s continued support to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption. Yours sincerely, Michael Eriksen CEO, Baxx Promotion 2 VISION AND FOCUS AREAS The CSR and environmental strategy of Baxx Promotion is founded on the 10 principles of the UN’s Global Compact, FUTURE ROAD MAP relating to human rights, labour rights, respect for the environment and anti corruption. We remain committed to continuously develop and improve our performance in all areas of our CSR strategy – we Our primary goal is to ensure that our business and how will continue to set policies, goals and define relevant we conduct it, has the least possible adverse impact on measurement tools within our ISO management system, in our environment. Where we as a company can exercise order to ensure focus and progress. We maintain our goal most influence, is by designing “sustainable products” for that at least 70% of our turnover comes from suppliers that our customers, and encouraging our suppliers to produce are audited on a regular basis. responsibly in all respects. We will continue and maintain our overall focus areas in our CSR strategy, which is: responsible sourcing/production at our sub-suppliers and bringing as many environmentally sustainable products as possible to the market. These areas will continue to serve as a guideline for focusing and prioritizing our resources. In 2015 Baxx Promotion implemented a Qualityand Environmental management system that are based largely on CSRand Product Compliance. The reason was that we had a strong wish to strengthen our efforts within CSR and Supply Chain Management as well as Product Quality/ Compliance. Our CSR policy is now an integral part of our management system, which means that we are now working more hands-on with our CSR policies in our daily operations. Our efforts the past year has resulted in a re-certification of our quality and management system, and we have entered into a close cooperation with 2 new large scale customers, largely based on our efforts within socialand environmental issues. We will work closely with our customers the coming year, in order to advance our own and our suppliers’ performance even further. 3 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES 1. Business should support and respect the Baxx Promotions goal is to actively influence and facilitate The past year all suppliers have received the revised Baxx protection of internationally proclaimed that both our employees and business partners adhere Promotion Code of Conduct. All active suppliers have human rights to the Universal Declaration of Human rights. Our overall accordingly reaffirmed their commitment by signing our vision is only to do business with partners that respect the revised Code of Conduct/Supplier Manual. 2. Business should make sure that they are international conventions on human rights, and share the not complicit in human rights abuses values of Baxx Promotion. Based on a previously carried out In accordance with last years goal we have collected and risk assessment, we maintain that our focus within human assessed existing Social Audits of our suppliers carried out rights should lie primarily on our supplier network in Asia. by independent inspection agencies. More than 35 reports from our main suppliers have been analyzed. No nonIMPLEMENTATION conformance in relations to human rights has been recorded. Before entering into a business relationshop with Baxx Promotion, all suppliers asked to commit to the Baxx Promotion Code of Conduct, and are obliged to sign this. We have an internal system for recording and evaluating Code of Conduct compliance. In order to enhance transparency and inform our stakeholders our updated Code of Conduct is also published at our website. 4 LABOUR PRINCIPLES ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES 3. Business should uphold the freedom of Baxx Promotion believe that everyone has a basic right All suppliers have signed our Code of Conduct and Supplier association and the effective recognition to be free from discrimination and harassment, the right manual. We have met only little resistance, but willingness to of the right to collective bargaining to collective bargaining, the right to choose to work freely cooperate amongst the majority of our suppliers. The general and not at least that every child should have the right to experience is that the majority of our suppliers are working 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and education. We have formulated this in our CSR strategy and on a professional level. The general results from the social compulsory labor our suppliers are held to these standards through our Code audits are categorized as satisfactory. Based on the findings of Conduct, which complies with the ILO conventions. Our we have terminated the relationship with one supplier, 5. The effective abolition of child labor internal risk assessment has identified that the highest risk the remainder are either in compliance, or demonstrating of non-conformity, lies within our supplier network in Asia. willingness to improve in the areas where problems have 6. The elimination of discrimination in been identified. respect of employment and occupation IMPLEMENTATION Internally at Baxx Promotion, we are continuing our efforts Internally we have focused on work safety and employee to create a healthy and attractive work environment for our welfare the past year. We have prioritized our safety employees. No work related injuries has been recorded. All organization by deploying employee resources for safety employees have annual/quarterly reviews with their manager, courses, and we have carried out a project on how we can focusing on their well-being. We arrange and support social improve employee welfare even further. This has resulted in events in the work place, and we accommodate special 3 separate workshops over a period of 3 months, where all requests for working hours/conditions by our employees. employees have contributed. Baxx Promotion is aware of any discrimination, and aim at creating a work place with room for all individuals, Externally, we hold our suppliers to our high standards representing our surrounding society. The following is a table through our Code of Conduct. The Baxx Promotion Code of Baxx Promotions employees by age and gender: of Conduct is an integral part of our Supplier contracts, and we encourage our suppliers to ensure that their subHeadcount Male Female Total suppliers are in compliance. As described in the section Age <18 0 0 0,0% on our implementation of the human rights principles, our Age 18-25 1 0 4% main focus area lies within our supplier network in Asia. Age 26-35 0 2 7% As a natural next step we have now included our European Age 36-45 5 9 52% suppliers in the scope. Age 46+ 4 6 37% In accordance with our initiatives within human rights, our Total 10 17 100% implementation evolves around committing all our suppliers % 39% 61% 100% to our Code of Conduct, and consecutively to implement our procedure for Social Audits. We will continue to increase The following is a table of Baxx Promotions presence at supplier factories, both through internal and Management team by gender: external audits. Male: 5 62,5% Female: 3 37,5% 5 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES 7. Businesses should support a precautionBaxx Promotion operates in the business of promotional and We have carried out a risk analysis of our suppliers, and ary approach to environmental challenges give-away articles. The nature of this market is characterized selected 10 critical suppliers based on their environmental by relatively cheap products with a short Product Life Cycle. risk profile. 5 of these suppliers have been audited the 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater We pride ourselves in doing everything we can to design past year. No critical areas have been identified, only small environmental responsibility products that are worth keeping, maximizing our customers improvement areas have been suggested. These will be marketing budgets and visibility, and minimizing the negative evaluated the coming year. We will maintain this goal, and 9. Encourage the development and diffusion impact on the environment. We call it sustainable product carry out 5 annual environmental audits. of environmentally friendly technologies design. Another goal was to minimize our C02 emissions relating Baxx Promotions overall aim is to only bring safe products to transportation. In order to asses this goal, we have that live up to all applicable laws and standards to the registered all unplanned air transportations. Only 2 market. As our product range and application is so deviations has been recorded the past year. Due to the widespread this is inherent challenging. We want to be at limited extend, this KPI will be phased out. the forefront, why we have chosen to commit ourselves to a high standard by obtaining an ISO certification of our In order to ensure product compliance and product safety, environmental management system. we continue – planned as well as unplanned – product specific test of REACH compliance. No deviations have been IMPLEMENTATION recorded. Baxx Promotion has since spring 2015 been certified according In relation to our goal of minimizing our use of packaging to the ISO 14001 standard. All environmental policies, goals and materials, we have introduced a new KPI; registration of procedures is implemented in the environmental management positive deviations of product packaging. system. The focus of our environmental efforts is product compliance; to ensure that all our products live up to all relevant CASE: DOUBLE ISO CERTIFICATION legislation. In 2015 Baxx Promotion A/S – including our HK based sourcing office – was certified according to ISO 9001:2008 and ISO 14001:2004. The core of both our Quality and Environmental Management systems is product We have further developed our collection of “sustainable” products compliance. With product compliance we mean that our products should launched last year, together with an initiative where we present always: our customers with a “sustainable” or “green” alternative when live up to all applicable national laws and standards in EU, both developing customized products. concerning product safety and environment be manufactured responsibly that our suppliers as a minimum Finally we have implemented a new goal, where we will aim at adhere to applicable national laws and the ILO conventions reducing packaging materials. We do this by registering all positive In 2016 we were re-audited – with no remarks – which tells us our deviations, relating to packaging consumption. ISO management system has been implemented in all levels of the organization, and that our policies and processes are embedded in our daily work thereby ensuring continuous improvement within CSR! 6 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS 10. Business should work against Baxx Promotion follows a strict policy of zero tolerance of corruption in all its forms, including all forms of corruption, including bribery, facility payments, extortion and bribery. kickbacks, theft, blackmail, fraud and favoritism. We expect all our suppliers and employees to adhere to this principle. IMPLEMENTATION All employees and suppliers of Baxx Promotion have been made aware of our policy on anti-corruption through our Code of Conduct. Also the area is covered in individual employment contracts, stating our company policy regarding gifts, hospitality and entertainment. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Baxx Promotion has never been involved in any legal cases or any other accusations regarding corruption or bribery. We keep a strict record of all stock and samples, to ensure that they are not misused in any quid-pro-quo exchange. No cases have been recorded the past year. 7 It is easy and safe to be a Baxx customer! See all facts about our CSR strategy, Code of Conduct, UN Global Compact and our ISO certification on baxxpromotion.com NAL NAL IO IO INTERNAT RTIFICA INTERNAT RTIFICA CE T CE T NS NS IO IO BAXX PROMOTION A/S // MARSVEJ 26 // 6000 DK-KOLDING TLF. 75 52 50 00 // BAXX@BAXXPROMOTION.COM
