Saita (Pakistan) Pte Ltd United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress for the Year 2015 1 Contents S.No Description Page 1 Message from CEO 2 2 Principle 1 (Human Rights) 4 3 Principle 2 (Human Rights) 8 4 Principle 3 (Labour) 11 5 Principle 4 (Labour) 13 6 Principle 5 (Labour) 16 7 Principle 6 (Environment) 19 8 Principle 7 (Environment) 23 9 Principle 8 (Environment) 26 10 Principle 9 (Environment) 29 11 Principle 10 (Environment) 32 2 United Nation Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015 Statement of continued support by CEO Saita Pakistan Pte Ltd February 26, 2016 Dear Secretary General, Saita Pakistan is committed to the principals of UN Global Compact which are based on human rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption. We continue to pledge support to the programme through our operations, policies and services. We have been continuing our social responsibility projects and sustainability efforts since our establishment in 1986. Our leadership position has been achieved mainly due to the implementation of these principals and also because of our highly dedicated team of experienced professionals all striving with Saita Pakistan is recommended by leading consultants and engineers for all kinds of civil engineering projects of any magnitude including agricultural projects, irrigation projects, highway projects, power generation projects, tunnel projects, access road projects, oil field development and airfield development projects. These projects speak volumes about the commitment of the company to achieve excellence. Saita Pakistan is also embarking in the business of exploration, drilling and production of crude oil and gas. Further I would like to extend my heartfelt gratitude to everyone who have helped Saita succeed by working day and night with tireless dedication and keeping these UN Global Compact principals embedded throughout our projects. Sincerely Yours, _____________________ Pirzada.M. Ajaml Farooqi Chief Executive Officer Saita Pakistan Pte Ltd. 3 Principle-1 (Human Rights) 4  Human right is one of the most important agenda when we do business with other organizations and each company has their own human right policy.  All equipment being used in the company are safe and third party certified.  Saita Pakistan has a procedure or process for receiving and responding to health and safety complaints, such as designating a health and safety representative or committee.  Saita Pakistan provides its staff with competitive remuneration packages according to the national policies and procedures.  Saita Pakistan ensures, by proper investigation, that it does not use labour from agencies or firms involved in trafficking, debt bondage, or kidnapping.  We ensure our employees a safe and healthy working environment.  Trainings such as defensive driving, fire fighting, first aider, medivac and job specific trainings are conducted on regular basis.  Saita Pakistan ensures that employment contracts are fair, transparent, and understood by the workers.  Risk assessments, fire drills and mock drills are conducted on regular basis.  Workers and managers are trained to respond to workplace emergencies and first aid kits are readily available.  All workers are allowed to leave Saita Pakistan premises at the end of their shifts.  Saita Pakistan pays a living wage and does not compel workers to engage in a cycle of salary advancements in order to meet living expenses.  Implemented SA-8000 and other related international third party certifications.  The code of ethics document is signed by all employees.  Saita Pakistan adheres to International rules and declarations for employee’s betterment.  5 Outcome  Maintaining a diverse workforce has made Saita Pakistan better equipped to compete in the global economy.  Saita Pakistan has become more attractive as a client for contractors, suppliers and other business partners.  Employees have become more motivated, leading to increased productivity and higher retention rates  Saita Pakistan has led to be an attractive employer in the job market. 6 External Measures  Hiring labor from the local communities.  Compliances with the international guidelines and standards while using security services for site operations.  Purchasing commodities from the local communities.  Preventing force able displacement of Individuals, group and communities.  Protecting economic livelihoods of local communities.  Providing fresh drinking water to the local communities. 7 Principle-2 (Human Rights) 8  Saita Pakistan distributes a prevention policy on workplace violence and harassment, which notifies employees of their obligations to refrain from violent, threatening or abusive conduct toward others.  Saita Pakistan acknowledges the right of every permanent employee to form free association or not to do so for collective bargaining.  When there is sufficient evidence that an employee has engaged in an act of violence, Saita Pakistan reports the individual to the appropriate government authority.  The code of ethics is reviewed and signed by all employees on yearly basis.  Saita Pakistan promptly addresses stress and tensions (such as racial tensions) in the workplace which can later lead to abusive, violent or harassing conduct.  Human rights assessments are carried out.  Explicit policy is available for security arrangements to make sure human rights are not violated.  Managers are trained to use appropriate management techniques, including proper disciplinary measures, and instructed to refrain from harassing, violent, threatening and abusive conduct.  Monitoring system is available to make sure human rights policies are implemented.  Saita Pakistan has a mechanism to receive reports of workplace violence, harassment and threats, which is specifically designed to competently address all types of workplace misconduct, including sexual harassment.  Records show that Saita Pakistan systematically and objectively reviews any complaints filed and implements corrective action if necessary.  Human right policies are available for the protection of workers.  Saita pursues the highest standards in ethics, morals and values. . 9 External Measures: Actions:  Internal audits are conducted on regular basis according to the standard operating procedures of human rights abuse.  We encourage our associates and business partners to comply with the ISO-9001, ISO14001, OHSAS-18001 and the SA-8000 certifications. 10 Principle-3 (Labour) 11 Freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Actions  Saita Pakistan recognizes and respects the rights of employees to exercise their lawful rights of free association and collective bargaining.  Saita Pakistan does not discriminate against employees who form or participate in lawful associations and/or collective bargaining. Forms of discrimination include, but are not limited to:  Wage penalties  Suspension  Termination  Saita Pakistan does not illegally discriminate against employees who choose not to join any association or bargain collectively.  Saita Pakistan does not discriminate against applicants who have previously exercised their lawful rights of free association and/or collective bargaining.  Saita Pakistan does not discriminate or take adverse actions against employees in retaliation for exercising employee rights, participating in union activities, or reporting suspected legal violations.  Saita Pakistan provides reasonable notice of impending changes in operations that will affect employment at Saita Pakistan, such as anticipated mergers and layoffs.  Saita Pakistan recognizes workers organizations for collective bargaining purposes.  Saita Pakistan allows worker representatives reasonable access to the Saita Pakistan documentation needed to fulfill their duties; negotiate with the Saita Pakistan, and ascertain the performance of the Saita Pakistan regarding relevant matters.  Saita Pakistan believes in the freedom of opinion and expression of all stakeholders within the organization.  Saita Pakistan takes efforts to protect employees from union-related harassment by other workers.  Saita Pakistan does not use military actors to discourage strikes, intimidate workers, or interfere with the exercise of employee rights.  Saita Pakistan engages in collective bargaining and holds regular consultations with authorized workers’ representatives concerning working conditions, remuneration, dispute resolution, internal relations and matters of mutual concern.  Management meets regularly with employee representatives to discuss work-related problems and any grievances employees may wish to raise. 12 Principle-4 (Labour) 13 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Workplace Actions  Saita Pakistan does not use involuntary or forced labor – indentured, bonded or otherwise nor does it support the use of forced or compulsory labor in any form including bonded, forced, and/or compulsory prison labor.  Saita Pakistan does not do business with vendors/suppliers found to be using forced labor in any form.  Saita Pakistan prohibits all relevant individuals from coercing employees in any way or unnecessarily limiting employees’ freedom of movement.  Saita Pakistan does not require employees to submit original documents at the time of employment or during the period a person is employed.  Saita Pakistan has a policy prohibiting forced labour in its various forms, such as debt bondage, compelled involuntary overtime, forced prison labour and trafficked labour.  Forced labor and child labor is prohibited within the sphere of our influence.  All workers are allowed to leave the employ of the Saita Pakistan after reasonable notice.  Saita Pakistan records demonstrate that Saita Pakistan immediately grants letters of release whenever the letter is needed for an employee to retain a job elsewhere.  Exit interviews are taken for feedback and necessary action are taken accordingly.  All workers are allowed to leave the employ of the Saita Pakistan after reasonable notice.  Saita Pakistan does not withhold wages or threaten to withhold wages to compel overtime, but makes payments on a regular basis, and in a timely manner.  Providing employment contracts to all employees in various languages stating the terms and conditions of service, the voluntary nature of employment and the freedom to leave.  Saita Pakistan provides a clear policy of national standards against forced labor.  Ensures all Saita Pakistan officials have a full understanding of forced labor.  Prohibiting policies and procedures where workers launch financial deposits while being hired.  Either party can terminate employment contracts within the notice period.  Saita Pakistan strongly prohibits forced labour, compelled overtime, human trafficking or debt bondage.  Closely monitoring supply chain and sub contracting arrangements.  Saita Pakistan does not require workers to lodge money deposits with Saita Pakistan. 14 Community of operations Actions:  All associates and business partners are internally audited according to the International policies of forced labour.  Awareness program are conducted regarding all forms of Forced labour. 15 Principle-5 (Labour) 16 Businesses should uphold the affective abolition of child labour. Workplace Actions  Saita Pakistan discourages child labor at all levels in the society and uses following steps to show its resentment. o Discontinuation of business, with suppliers, who fail to address child labor.  Immediate termination of contractor, if found employing child labor.  Hiring managers are aware of the forms of identification forgery commonly used in the country of operation and they are able to spot such forgeries.  Saita Pakistan does not hire any person under the age of 18 to perform work that interferes with their education.  Saita Pakistan does not hire or contract workers under the age of 18 to perform work that exposes them to psychological, emotional or sexual abuse. (II 3(a), International Labour Organization Recommendation 190)  Internal audits are done regularly in order to comply with the International child labour policies.  Workers are subject to medical examinations to ensure their fitness for the form of employment they are to undertake.  Saita Pakistan does not hire or contract workers under the age of 18 to work underground, under water, at dangerous heights or in confined spaces.” (II 3 (b), International Labour Organization Recommendation 190)  Influencing measures are taken with sub-contractors, suppliers and another business affiliates to combat child labor.  Saita Pakistan does not hire or contract workers under the age of 18 to work with dangerous machinery, equipment and tools, or to manhandle or transport heavy loads. (II 3(c), International Labour Organization Recommendation 190).  Saita Pakistan requires candidates to provide copies of birth certificates or other official forms of identification to verify their age before being hired.  Using adequate and verifiable mechanism for age verification in recruitment procedures.  Saita Pakistan is in compliance with SA-8000.  Policies and procedures are followed according to International standards abiding to child labor.  To tackle with fake documents (birth certificates) the Saita Pakistan has a procedure for estimating the age of employment for young candidates, such as average height or knowledge of historic events. 17 Community of operation Actions:  Awareness programs of international child labour are conducted regularly within the sphere of our influence.  Constructing schools to help educated the village children. 18 Principle-6 (Labour) 19 Equal Employment Opportunity: Actions:  Saita Pakistan is an equal opportunity employer and believes in equal opportunity for all based on merit and ability to carry out the given responsibilities. It believes in equal pay for similar jobs and provision of equal opportunity to all employees to enable them to grow with Saita.  Equal employment opportunity applies to all aspects of employment practices including, recruiting, hiring, placement, promotion, demotion, transfer, training, compensation, benefits and termination. Company ensures that all the employees whether employed directly or indirectly are employed merely on the basis of merit and no discrimination is made on the basis of race, religion and gender.  Saita Pakistan does not discriminate against anyone when hiring, promoting, paying, job rotation, selecting people for training, at the time of termination of employment or retirement on the basis of religion, race, national origin, disability, gender, any association or political affiliation.  Saita Pakistan has a method for ensuring that Saita Pakistan benefits and services, such as sick leave, holiday, housing, health care, transportation etc. are provided in a nondiscriminatory manner.  In cases where the potential candidate is physically disabled but his/ her disability does not affect the nature of job for which he/she is seeking employment, Saita Pakistan does not discourages these employees and provide them equal opportunity to seek employment on merit.  Saita Pakistan ensures that to the extent possible any vacant position is advertised either through newspaper or any other appropriate means.  Saita Pakistan has policies in place to ensure that hiring, placement, remuneration, advancement, training, discipline, retirement and termination decisions within the Saita Pakistan are based only on objective factors, and are not connected to the gender, age, nationality, ethnicity, race, colour, creed, caste, language, mental or physical disability, organizational membership, opinion, health status (including HIV/AIDS), marital status, sexual orientation, birth, or civic, social, or political characteristics of the worker.  Saita Pakistan provides equal opportunities for employment and discourages all forms of employee discrimination.  Saita Pakistan does not ask applicants questions regarding their marital status, intent to have children, or number of dependents, which is sometimes used as a method to avoid hiring women because of fear that their duties at home will interfere with their dedication to work.  Non discriminatory policies and procedures are available with workers.  Women are given equal opportunities within the organization at all levels.  Employment advertisements do not reference irrelevant characteristics, such as race, unless listed as part of an equal opportunities promotion.  All employees are given special holidays in accordance with their religious customs.  Hiring and promotions are done on merit and performance basis. 20  Employee evaluations are done on quarterly basis and are provided professional trainings accordingly.  Saita Pakistan policies and procedures provide equal employment practices.  Job descriptions are clearly defined, utilized by all hiring managers, and frequently updated to ensure that employees are hired and granted promotions by Saita Pakistan only on the basis of the skills, qualifications and experience required for the position.  Keeping up-to-date records on recruitment, training and promotion that provide a transparent view of opportunities for employees and their progression within the organization.  Saita Pakistan has a training program in place, where instruction is made available,  without discrimination, to help workers achieve the qualifications necessary to acquire positions at all levels within Saita Pakistan.  In cases where an employee feels that he/she is treated with discriminatory behavior, he/she is encouraged to report such events.  Providing staff training on ‘non-discrimination policies and practices’ including disability awareness.  Establishing programs to promote access to skills development training and to particular occupations.  Saita Pakistan does not require applicants or employees to take pregnancy tests, get abortions, or sign agreements not to become pregnant.  Hiring managers receive training regarding Saita Pakistan’s non-discrimination policies.  Saita Pakistan has a method for ensuring that pay is based on objective factors and is implemented in a non-discriminatory way.  Saita Pakistan makes reasonable accommodations to allow disabled workers job opportunities with Saita Pakistan.  Developing Grievance procedures to identify discrimination and in order to address complaints handle appeals and provide recourse for employees. . 21 External Measures: Actions:   Developing occupational development programs such as adult education programs, health programs and child care services.  Accommodating cultural traditions by working with representatives of workers and governmental authorities to ensure equal access to employment by women and minorities. 22 Principle-7 ( Environment ) 23 Health, Safety and Environment: Actions:  Saita Pakistan utilizes all available resources to provide a Healthy and Safe working environment for all its workers and to eliminate all potential hazards that are capable of causing work related accidents.  Saita Pakistan provides all necessary personal protective equipment’s and implements controls to ensure the safety of the workers and their health.  Saita Pakistan conducts regular trainings on HSE according to the international standards.  Regular HSE inspections are conducted within Saita Pakistan premises and site operations.  Saita Pakistan has achieved ISO 14001 certification and is in compliance with OHSAS 18001.  Ensuring adequate number of fire fighters and first aiders on Saita Pakistan premises and at site operations.  The management commitment to HSE policy is prominent in Saita Pakistan premises showing its commitment to health and safety of all its employees, contractors and visitors and ensuring conservation within Saita Pakistan’s operations and sphere of influence.  Prohibiting uncertain activities effecting the environment and taking proactive measures for its safeguard.  Management site visits are made quarterly to show management commitment to HSE policies and procedures and in order to encourage the dedicated workforce.  Saita Pakistan policy has detailed emergency procedures, prevention plans, and training  programs to protect against dangers and handle emergencies.  Developing a code of conduct for its operations and products that confirms commitment to care for health and the environment.  Internal HSE audits are conducted regularly to strengthen the HSE culture within the organization.  Creating a managerial committee that oversees the Saita Pakistan application of precautions, in particular risk management in sensitive issue areas.  Establishing a two way communication with stake holders in a proactive and transparent manner to ensure effective communication of information about uncertainties and potential risk and action measures to deal with related enquires and complains.  Join industry-wide collaborated efforts to share knowledge and deal with issues in particular production processes and products around with high-level of uncertainty, potential harm and sensitivity exist.  Saita Pakistan has a clearly audible/visible alarm system that warns nearby communities 24 of potential emergencies, if necessary.  Sound pollutions and gas emissions are monitored regularly through internal auditors and third-party certification regulatory bodies. External Measures: Actions:  We provide HSE trainings to all external contacts before and during the execution of projects.  Monthly environmental monitoring is carried out through external certifying bodies.  Saita Pakistan has developed emergency community evacuation plans with the appropriate local, regional, and national authorities, if necessary. Community residents are clearly informed about these plans and familiar with the evacuation procedures contained therein.  Incidental spills are handled by trained staff with the help of spill control kits to safeguard the environment.  If the site is located far away from a hospital, Saita Pakistan has adequate medical resources and competent staff to provide preliminary relief and treatment to people who might suffer the consequences of an industrial accident.  Records show that Saita Pakistan systematically and objectively reviews any complaints filed and implements corrective action if necessary.  We encourage local communities, suppliers, contractors, government agencies, and other organizations to comply with ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 policies and regulations. 25 Principle-8 ( Environment ) 26 Environmental Responsibilities: Actions:  Policies are implemented to preserve and protect the environment according to international standards.  Performing monthly environmental checks, audits and trainings throughout the entire business in order to comply with the policies and procedures.  Creating vision, policies and strategies in-line with economic prosperity, environmental quality and social equity in order to achieve sustainable development.  Establishing a sustainable production and consumption program with clear performance objectives to take the organization beyond compliance in the long run.  Working with suppliers to improve environmental performance, extending responsibility up the product chain and down the supply chain.  Our policies promote conservation of resources, waste management and minimization of the release of chemicals and gases in the environment.  Saita Pakistan’s emergency response procedures comply with the highest level of industry standard, or exceed the standard when necessary.  Ensure transparency and unbiased dialog with stakeholders.  Environmental friendly training programs are conducted on regular basis.  Saita Pakistan has achieved ISO 14001 certification (Environmental Management System) in order to develop an environmental friendly culture within the organization.  Emission aspects are identified and environment management plan is developed accordingly. 27 External Measures: Actions:  Encouraging business partners to comply with EST (environmentally sound technologies) in their business processes.  Conducting the third-party audit on ISO 14001 certification within the organization.  Promoting a paperless filing system and electronic communication for official use.  Tree-plantation campaigns are undertaken at all sites operated by the Saita Pakistan in order to off-set emissions and improve environmental ambiance. 28 Principle-9 ( Environment ) 29 Environment-Friendly Technologies: Actions:  We work closely and corporately with local communities, suppliers and contractors, Government agencies and other organizations engaged in improving the environment.  Improved environmental technology can be achieved by changing the process or manufacturing techniques, further changing input materials and by reusing materials on site.  All products used are environmental friendly and certified under the environmental Law of the country.  Making information available for stakeholders that illustrates the environmental performance and benefits of using such technologies.  Refocusing research and development towards ‘designed for sustainability ’.  Use of life cycle assessment in the development of new technologies and products.  Use of natural sun-light at day time to reduce electricity consumption for lighting.  Employing environmental technologies assessments.  Establishing a corporate or individual Saita Pakistan policy on the use of environmentally sound technologies.  Saita Pakistan has achieved ISO 14001 certification (Environmental Management System) and implements all its policies and procedures.  Examining investment criteria and the sourcing policy for suppliers and contractors to ensure that tenders estipulate the minimum environmental criteria.  Implementation of Energy Efficient Projects  Co-operating with the industry partners to ensure that best available technology is available to other organization. 30 External Measures: Actions:  We encourage the use of EST (environmentally sound technologies) by including them in our tendering process.  We encourage local communities, suppliers, contractors, government agencies and other organizations to implement environment friendly technologies and waste management and emission control systems.  We also encourage the use of ESTs in our sphere of influence. 31 Principle-10 ( Environment ) 32 Actions: Code of Ethics  Saita Pakistan has a written policy against unjustly influencing and bribing public officials, or engaging in any other methods that subvert the representative process of government and/or the judiciary.  Saita has zero-tolerance for all forms of corruption, bribery or extortion.  All employees are forbidden to give or receive gifts or bribes in order to compromise on fare business decisions and developing relationship with the Saita Pakistan.  Confidentiality, honesty and accuracy of information in the course of business are required by the all employees of the Saita Pakistan.  All employees are required to declare their assets while joining and on yearly basis.  Saita Pakistan is transparent about facilitation payments and actively works to eliminate them.  Saita Pakistan has guidelines instructing employees in how to deal with bribery and  corruption issues and these are made available to all employees, particularly those who are involved in legal matters relating to Saita Pakistan business.  Saita Pakistan sends two or more people to meetings with government officials in order to discourage practices of bribery and corruption.  All employees are required to sign the ‘statement of ethics of business practices’ at the time of joining and it is to be renewed every year. Corporate Governance:  Regular checks by internal audit department are carried out to ensure implementation of procedures in compliance with Saita Pakistan policies.  Comply with regulations of security and Exchange Commission of Pakistan.  Saita Pakistan uses internationally acceptable accounting standards to maintain transparency.  All funds, assets, receipts and disbursement properly recorded in the books of the Saita Pakistan.  Promotes fare business practices and ensures compliance with regulatory legal requirements. 33 External Measures: Actions:  Board of directors meetings held quarterly.  Media / press briefings and interviews are given on demand.  All financial reports are properly audited by external auditors.  Quarterly briefings on financial statements are given to management.  Quarterly briefing for security analysis is conducted.  Saita Pakistan ensures timely payment of taxes. 34
