Sustainability Report 2015 A locally engaged community builder Contents Peab is one of the leading Nordic construction and civil engineering companies with over 13,000 employees and net sales exceeding 44 billion. Through local familiarity and four specialized and coordinated business areas Peab handles small local as Interesting events in 2015........................... 3 well as large more complex projects. The Group’s subsidiaries have strategically Comments from the CEO......................... 4-5 located offices in Sweden, Norway and Finland. The head office is located in Förslöv, on the Bjäre Peninsula in Skåne, Sweden. Peab’s business....................................... 6-9 PEAB TAKES RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE FUTURE Corporate governance......................... 10-11 Peab affects the community and environment for people who now or in the future will live External analysis and with what we develop, build and construct. Peab is also a large employer with local roots and sustainability governance.................... 12-15 this comes with a big responsibility. Peab is a catalyst in developing a more sustainable society. This means that Peab The Employees.................................... 16-19 complies with external demands and expectations and at the same time acts to create new business opportunities. The Business....................................... 20-23 Peab’s operations contribute to society by developing and building new homes and offices, public schools, libraries and hospitals as well as infrastructure such as roads and Climate and Environment.................... 24-28 bridges. We make a difference in everyday life in both small and large communities this way. Social Engagement ............................. 29-31 Long-term relationships with customers and suppliers lead to better financial, social and environmental projects that benefit all of society. Stable profitability provides the means to Active memberships................................. 32 develop Peab’s business and generate returns for shareholders. Peab is a lasting and secure employer that prioritizes health and a safe work environment Glossary and UN Global Compact and which offers personal development opportunities in a company culture based on respect Index......................................................... 33 for equal rights and characterized by our core values Down-to-earth, Developing, Personal and Reliable. GRI Index............................................ 34-35 ORGANIZATION Peab is characterized by a simple, flat and cost-efficient organization with four cooperating business areas: business area Construction, business area Civil Engineering, business area Industry and business area Project Development, whose operations are based on local entrepreneurship close to the customer. The business areas have a regional structure that works together with central resources and they profit from support functions on business area and Group levels in sharpening their competitive edge. ABOUT THE S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Every year Peab publishes a sustainability report as a way 44 of externally communicating how Peab’s work on sustainability is run and developed. This is Peab’s fifth sustainability report according to the framework GRI (Global Reporting Initiative). The report describes Peab’s work on sustainability matters and SEK billion in sales covers the calendar year 2015. As in the last two reports, published in April 2014 and 2015, this year’s report follows the current GRI guidelines G4. The report has not been reviewed by external accountants but we feel certain it 13,000 meets the criteria for base level core. Since 2012, when Peab signed the UN Global Compact, the sustainability report has also been Peab’s Communication on Progress, an improvement report describing our work on the ten principles of the UN Global Nordic employees Compact. This report encompasses Peab’s business in Sweden, Norway and Finland if not otherwise noted. Work we 36,000 outsource, partly owned subsidiaries and leased facilities, such as our offices run by other companies, are not included in this report. Large In accordance with GRI-G4 this report is focused on the topics which have been identified as significant in the materiality analysis. This year’s key topics are based on shareholders Cap the extensive stakeholder dialogues carried out in 2013 and 2014. The sustainability and annual reports are intertwined 10% and information can be found in one or the other report and in some cases both. More information about Peab is available on our website: www.peab.se. Any questions regarding the report or Peab’s sustainability work will be Listed at Nasdaq answered by Kristina Gabrielii, Head of Sustainability at employees Stockholm Peab, via mail: kristina.gabrielii@peab.se or by phone +46 (0) 733 37 56 90. are women Stock Exchange Contents Interesting events in 2015 Interesting events in 2015 During the year Peab signed a letter of intent with the Swedish Employment Service stating our ambition to during a three-year period give at least 100 PEAB WORKS ACTIVELY FOR newly arrived refugees employment, a trainee spot or make an assessment of GREATER INTEGRATION AND their skills. In addition, in the autumn of 2015 the decision was made to start a POSITIVE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT new course at Peab’s independent upper secondary school, the Peab School, Language introduction for 100 newly arrived youths at the Peab School in Gothenburg. Read more about Peab’s social engagement on pages 29-31. The 28th of April is World Day for Safety and Health at Work which Peab REFLECTION DAY FOR FOCUS 2015 observed under the name Reflection Day. Employees and subcontracON SAFETY AND HEALTH tors at Peab’s worksites paused production to share reflections. Read more about Peab’s efforts for safer worksites on pages 16-17. In December 2015 Peab and several leading players in Swedish construcINDUSTRY AGREEMENT tion signed an agreement to fight bribes and corruption within the publicly AGAINST BRIBES financed construction and real estate sector. Read more about how Peab works with ethics for good relations on pages 22-23. The new whistle-blower system which was introduced into all Peab’s PEAB IMPLEMENTS A NEW operations in Sweden, Norway and Finland allows someone reporting a SYSTEM FOR WHISTLEtransgression to be anonymous. Reporting goes through an external BLOWING web-based system. Read more about Peab’s new whistle-blowing system on page 23. INDUSTRY OPERATIONS Peab’s Industry operations are the first in Sweden with a concrete mixer truck UPGRADE EQUIPMENT that is run solely on renewable fuel. Both the environment and the work AND VEHICLES WITH THE environment gain from the drop in noise levels and hazardous emissions. ENVIRONMENT AND WORK Read more about Peab’s work to reduce negative climate and environmental ENVIRONMENT IN MIND impact on pages 24-28. During the largest Nordic conference on sustainable construction – Sweden MAX IV IS SHOWERED WITH Green Building Conference – the research facility Max IV in Lund received AWARDS IN 2015 two awards when it was named the best project in both GreenBuilding and BREEAM. The research center, built by Peab, was completed in 2015. Peab reports annually on carbon dioxide emissions and the company’s climate impact to the organization CDP which analyzes and grades the CLIMATE REPORT RECEIVES quality of the report. With 99 points out of a possible 100 Peab was TOP GRADES registered on the Nordic Climate Disclosure Leadership Index for the second year in a row. Read more about Peab’s work with climate and the environment on pages 24-28. In the spring of 2015 Peab moved into the newly constructed office building Lyckholms in Gothenburg. Focus has truly been on sustainability and the PEAB MOVES INTO building is now certified according to BREEAM. During the year construction SUSTAINABLE OFFICES was also begun on the new Finnish headquarters Ultimes Business Garden with the intention to certify the building at the highest level of the environmental certification LEED. Peab expects to move in during the spring of 2016. PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 3 Contents Comments from the CEO Well-equipped for future challenges A strong Swedish housing market has provided Peab with good marketing conditions during 2015. There is a huge need for new housing and we can see some great opportunities ahead. We have built a stable platform for our business the past few years. Our financial position continues to improve despite the effects of the project Mall of Scandinavia. Our goal is to become the best business in the industry but we have a number of hurdles along the way. THE MARKET which was an increase by 3 percent. from partly owned companies in Property Even though the conditions for construction Operative operating profit, excluding the Development improved during the year. vary between Sweden, Norway and Finland write-down of the Mall of Scandinavia, was Orders received in all the business the market prospects for Peab the coming SEK 1.9 billion compared to SEK 1.8 billion areas increased largely as a consequence years look good. Most of our business is in the previous year, which means an unof a strong housing market. There is a wider Sweden where we are primarily exposed changed operative operating margin of geographic spread of orders received for to a market experiencing strong economic 4.1 percent. housing during 2015 compared to last year growth. The burgeoning population and A strong cash flow resulted in lower net when most of them were concentrated years of insufficient housing construction debt amounting to SEK 3.1 billion. The to the Stockholm region. Orders received is steadily making the housing shortage in reduced net debt together with low interest in 2015 amounted to SEK 37.8 billion Sweden worse. According to the Swedish rates has led to radically improved net compared to SEK 31.7 billion in 2014. National Board of Housing, Building and interest. The deciding factors when choosing Planning more than 700,000 homes need The underlying net sales and the a project are having the right skills and to be built in Sweden by 2025. This would margin in business area Construction were resources for it as well as having handled entail annual volumes that far exceed unchanged. We still have a ways to go in the risks connected to the project. Today we current ones as well as the Swedish achieving a satisfactory margin level but the have a well-defined process and structure construction industry’s capacity. The way important thing is that business in all our for decisions concerning tenders. Our this situation is solved will have a heavy regions has stabilized. After a couple of current order backlog consists to a higher influence on growth in Sweden. We believe years of declining volumes net sales in degree of smaller and mid-sized projects this requires long-term political measures business area Civil Engineering rose by with shorter production times and lower that stretch far beyond political parties’ 5 percent and the margin improved. The net risk profiles. terms of office and that, in the end, sales in business area Industry were on par resources are what it’s all about. with 2014 but the result was lower, in part MALL OF SCANDINAVIA IN SOLNA due to a drop in transportation operations The project has been reviewed after the RESULTS AND ORDERS for the mining industry in northern Sweden. mall was opened on 12 November 2015 The transition work of the past few years at Net sales in business area Project Develand thereafter written-down by SEK -800 Peab has primarily been directed at opment were lower due to fewer production million. The write-down charged business reducing costs, improving profitability and starts in Housing Development but the area Construction in the fourth quarter freeing tied-up capital. Now we can see margin in Housing Development improved. of 2015. The project has been extremely the positive effects of our efforts. There were no significant result effects from challenging from the moment the contract Operative net sales, excluding the writeproperty sales in Property Development in was signed at the end of 2011. The strucdown of the project Mall of Scandinavia, 2015 while the previous year was affected ture of the construction contract, the major grew in 2015 to SEK 45.1 billion (43.8), positively by property divestments. Profit alterations in the project and an inadequate dialogue with our customer has made the project much more expensive. The write“Our current order backlog consists down is based on accounting rules and has nothing to do with the discussions to a higher degree of smaller and midwe are holding with our customer. sized projects with shorter production BEST COMPANY IN THE INDUSTRY ” Peab is currently the largest Swedish times and lower risk profiles. construction company in terms of net sales 4 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Contents Comments from the CEO “Our ambition is to become the best company in the industry. ” During the year Peab established a new is aimed at building confidence, preventing Sustainability Council that I chair and brand damage and creating safe and profittogether with the other members we coordiable business for everyone involved. nate the overriding work on sustainability When it comes to environmental work and create the right conditions for intewe are streamlining our resource use. One grating it into every aspect of our business. challenge we face is continuing to develop our work methods and making systematic WE CONCENTRATE AND DEVELOP improvements. By conserving resources Our ambition is to offer the best workplace and taking measures to increase the use in an industry where the challenges of renewable energy sources we contribute surrounding health and the work environto reducing climate impact. We participate ment are still significant. Our goal is to in an industry-wide initiative to phase out halve the number of workplace accidents health and environmentally hazardous during the period 2015-2017 Achieving this substances and collaborate with suppliers requires working systematically and to advance the phasing out process. and number of employees in Sweden. Our strengthening our safety culture through In 2015 we formulated new goals for ambition is to become the best company dialogue and reflection around health and Peab in three areas: educating young in the industry and to achieve this we have safety on our worksites. The Group Reflecpeople, local community building projects three Group target areas: tion Day and Focus Week get people at and mentoring. Investing in our youth is an Most satisfied customers in the industry workplaces involved in work environment investment in our future skills supply and Best workplace in the industry and safety issues. growth. The refugee situation characterized The entire industry suffers from a lack 2015 and Peab is taking responsibility by Most profitable company in the industry of resources which makes long-term and contributing to greater integration. In These target areas are continuously perseverant recruitment essential. Being Sweden we work together with the Swedish followed-up through SCI surveys (Satisfied the best company in the industry is also Employment Service and others to give Customer Index), employee surveys and our point of departure when we develop our newly arrived refugees employment, our financial outcome and are focused on employees or recruit new ones. If we want a trainee spot or make an assessment our three most important stakeholders: to be best we have to build the best team. of their skills. customers, employees and shareholders. Peab’s employees should have the best Sustainable matters are given a central and skills for their job and be committed to our WELL-EQUIPPED FOR THE FUTURE strategic role through these target areas. core values. Based on these simple princiAs we enter 2016 we have a good underlySustainable operations create long-term ples we welcome everybody and exclude ing business, a well-dimensioned developvalue and through them Peab takes no one. This is also the basis of our work ment rights portfolio and a higher level of responsibility towards our stakeholders. on equality and diversity. Peab then invests orders received. Our capital structure is in each employee based on their individual better and we have a strong financial base CORE VALUES DRIVE PEAB factors and Peab’s needs. for the future. The changes in Peab in the Everything we do at Peab is based on our Peab strives to have the most satisfied past few years have resulted in a tremencore values and vision to be the Nordic customers while being the most profitable dous shared effort throughout the Group. Community Builder. We run our business in company in the industry. Lasting customer We have our adept employees to thank for a down-to-earth, developing, personal and relations and close cooperation provide us that who, with their skills and enthusiasm, reliable manner. Sustainability is a vital with the opportunity to develop both the are Peab’s greatest asset. issue for Peab’s continued competitive customer’s and our own business. We have As we continue to develop our employability in a changing world affected by noted that the percentage of partnering ees and company culture we have every urbanization, digitalization, climate change, projects, which are based on tight collaboreason to believe that we can keep building migration and integration. Since we signed ration, has increased in 2015. Regular SCI on our success and become the best the UN Global Compact in 2012 our focus surveys inform us how customers expericompany in the industry. on sustainability has grown. Integrating ence contact with Peab and how well our sustainability into every part of Peab’s deliveries meet their expectations. Accordoperations is one of six Group strategies ing to the latest survey we are moving in the intended to develop our business. In our right direction but we have more to do. One Förslöv in April 2016 big and project oriented company this work focus area that holds great potential is the is a challenge. It is also never-ending since entire supply chain. Through supplier there will always be more things we can do assessments, measuring and follow-up better. Collaboration and stakeholder in purchasing Peab strives to keep costs dialogues inform us which challenges and under control and business sustainable. Jesper Göransson areas are most vital and we prioritize them. Our work with ethics and against corruption President and CEO PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 5 Contents P e a b ’s b u s i n e s s Going from biggest to best A few years ago a major restructuring Customers rate dividends for the owners. Shareholder program was initiated meant to take Long-term customer relations create the value is created long-term through share Peab from being the biggest construct­ basis for financial, social and environmental developments and annual dividends. ion company in Sweden to the best. The solutions that benefit society as a whole. Group now has a more efficient organiPeab’s broad range of customers encomFUNDAMENTAL VALUES AND BRAND zation with four specialized business passes single homebuyers, private compaDown-to-earth, Developing, Personal and areas positioned closer to the customer. nies, municipalities, authorities and Reliable are Peab’s solid core values the government agencies. brand is built on. BUSINESS THAT CREATES VALUE Peab, originally Paulssons Entreprenad Suppliers Peab’s operations are influenced by and AB, is one of the strongest brands in Sweden Peab strives towards openness, high busiinfluences many different parties. It is thereand the name represents the strength in ness morals and long-term relations with its fore important to understand the challenges our offer – total quality in every step of the suppliers and contractors. A sustainable and opportunities that can be found in our construction process. supply chain is built on quality at every own operations and in the world at large There are a number of strong brands in stage and a common responsibility in folloand how these effect society, employees the Peab Group such as Lambertsson, wing international conventions and laws and customers. In order to understand Swerock, Cliffton, Skandinaviska Bygg­ along with other demands from customers. expectations of Peab stakeholder dialogues element, Glacell, ATS Kraftservice, Lätt­ A prerequisite for creating value together is are conducted regularly. The dialogues are klinkerbetong, MBR, Virtanen, Kranor and greater cooperation. focused on how Peab, together with the Ferdigbetong. stakeholders, can contribute to the deveSociety lopment of a sustainable society. Peab OPERATIONS The result of Peab’s operations generates contributes by developing and constructing Peab has a flat and cost efficient organizavalue for the society for instance through housing and public schools, hospitals, tion with four cooperating business areas. new housing, offices, workplaces, research malls as well as roads and railroads. Since The business areas are structured accord­ facilities and new construction or mainten­ Peab is a community builder and a large ­ing to the conditions of each market and ance of infrastructure. Due to Peab’s local employer its business affects many people are divided according to geography and roots it is often an important employer that every day. product segment. Peab’s local units contributes to the local development and Employees labor market. The common denominator in strengthen their competitive power by At Peab employees are encouraged to Peab’s social commitment is the education taking advantage of central support participate in creating their own positive of young people, local community building functions. Peab can therefore take on both development and that of the company, projects and mentoring. smaller local projects as well as more customers and society. Peab’s leadership complex construction and civil engineering and company culture are built on Peab’s Owners projects. core values and respect for everyone’s Through stable profitability Peab has the Business area Construction provides equal rights. means to develop its business and geneconstruction related services for both exterOur vision – the Nordic Community Builder Business concept Core values Peab builds sustainable communities for the future Peab is a construction and Down-to-earth, Developing, We are the obvious partner for community building in the Nordic region. civil engineering company Personal and Reliable Peab’s We come up with ideas, take initiative and break new ground. We fundamental core values that our conserve resources and our climate smart solutions have spearheaded that puts total quality in developments. Our work is sustainable throughout its entire every step of the construcbrand is built on. Our core values life cycle. describe what kind of people we tion process first. Through are, what we stand for, how we innovation combined with Peab is the Nordic company work, what we can achieve and We work across borders with the goal to exceed our customers’ expectasolid professional skills we how we want to be seen. We work tions. Peab is always close to our customers no matter whether they make the customer’s inteactively with our core values in operate locally, nationally or globally. Satisfied customers contribute to rest our own and thereby our success in the entire Nordic region. every part of our business because build for the future. how we are and how we work is Peab attracts talented people fundamental to our success. It is We are the number one employer in the Nordic region. Our values are also the basis of our development simple and clear. Our personnel are deeply engaged and our leaders of customer and supplier relations, committed to helping people develop. When our employees grow, our employees and our business Peab grows. from a long-term, sustainable perspective. 6 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Contents P e a b ’s b u s i n e s s Stakeholders Peab’s definition of sustainable community building Students Industry Media Everything we plan and carry associations out will be completely in line Employees with our ethical guidelines Employees' Authorities and as well as responsibly and organisations Shareholders Customers administrations lastingly constructed. In this way we will accommodate Peab environmental, financial and Research and institutes of Suppliers The local Politicians social aspects. higher education community NGOs and Fund managers lobbyists and analysts Employers' organisations PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 7 Contents P e a b ’s b u s i n e s s nal and internal customers. The business area consists of 15 regions; 11 regions in Sweden, two in Norway and two in Finland. There are specialized housing production regions in Stockholm, Gothenburg and the Öresund region. In Sweden there is also a national Construction service region. Other regions perform all kinds of construction projects in their geographical area. Business area Civil Engineering is a leader in civil engineering in Sweden and also has operations in Norway and Finland. Peab’s civil engineering operations build and maintain roads, railroads, bridges and other infrastructure. Operations are primarily directed towards the local market and are organized in geographical regions and specialized product areas. Customers are mainly authorities and state companies, Organization municipalities and local businesses. CEO and Business area Industry is run in seven Executive management product segments: Asphalt, Concrete, Gravel and Rock, Transportation and Machines, Foundations, Rentals, and Group functions Construction System (Industrial construction) as well as in a large number of brands geared towards the Nordic construction and civil engineering market. Customers are Business area Business area Business area Business area mainly public clients such as authorities and Construction Civil Engineering Industry Project Development municipalities as well as private businesses like industrial companies and other construction companies. Business area Project Development is COST EFFICIENT ORGANIZATION Long-term profitable operation run in two segments, Housing DevelopProfitability has been the focal point since Sustainability integrated in Peab’s ment, which develops housing concepts for the action plan was initiated in 2013. The operations private homebuyers, and Property Developtransition to greater focus on customers, To be seen and heard ment that acquires, develops and divests employees and production has worked out commercial property where business is Cost efficient business well and is now a platform for a more effimainly run through wholly owned and partly cient and profitable business. The effects Cost efficiency and good earning power owned companies. could be seen already in 2014 with lower are essential to developing a long-term On 31 December 2015 there were 294 costs and higher earnings. The Group now competitive business. Cost efficiency companies in the Group. See note 40, page has a stable financial base and is working means productivity and the right overhead 86 in Peab’s Annual Report for a complete continuously on strengthening profitability level. As a result of the earlier reorganizalist of Group companies. in each project and unit, although adjusttion Peab firmly established a satisfactory ments in work methods are still being overhead level in 2015 and is now focusing BUSINESS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM on increasing productivity in all operations. made. As a part of the company strategy In 2013 Peab began developing a groupPeab now has a broader and more diversiStrengthen and develop wide, level-adjusted business management Peab’s customer relations fied project portfolio with more smaller and system. A level-adjusted business manageStrong customer relations are the key to medium sized projects and as a result a ment system is one in which the responsibility positive cooperation and more efficient prolower risk profile. for Peab’s work methods is allocated to each duction with lower costs and higher quality. strategic level: group-wide, business area GROUP STRATEGIES By explicitly focusing operations on custospecific and product specific. The purpose is Peab’s six Group strategies inform how the mer relations, and coupled with continuous to ensure that business is profitable with the company should develop operations and surveys, Peab shifted in the right direction aid of an efficient organization focused on the reach the goals in the business plan. in 2015 and strengthened relationships with needs of customers, other stakeholders and Cost efficient business its most important stakeholders. operations. One success factor in this work is well-functioning leadership. A large part of Strengthen and develop Peab’s Best workplace Peab’s operations are certified according to customer relations Peab is its employees and it is their comISO 9001 and ISO 14001. Best workplace mitment and professional skills that are 8 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Contents P e a b ’s b u s i n e s s the basis of the company’s success. In the grow and develop. The company’s strategic To be seen and heard coming years Peab will need to attract many direction take both margin and return goals Peab’s ambition is to be the Nordic new qualified employees with different into account. Read more about Peab’s Community Builder. Participating in, and areas of expertise. Peab works to ensure financial goals in Peab’s 2015 Annual contributing to, developing society greater equality and diversity according to Report on pages 10-11. increases the ability to attract customers, established Group goals. In 2015 Peab employees and investors. Peab should be Sustainability integrated concentrated on implementing plans to seen and heard in the community and work in Peab’s operations achieve the ambitious work environment close to the customers. The work to ensure that all aspects of goal, i.e. to reduce to number of work In 2015 Peab continued to prioritize its sustainability – financial, environmental and accidents by half from 2015 to 2017. regional presence but has also chosen to social – are integrated into operations is Long-term profitable operation ongoing. Responsibilities and rights are engage in larger societal issues such as Long-term profitability is necessary for delegated to business areas where they are the construction industry agreement against Peab’s value creation. Profitability is fundasupported by experts on different levels of bribes and corruption as well as solutions for mental since it allows Peab to continue to the organization. better integration. Financial summary Jan-Dec Jan-Dec Jan-Dec Financial 2015 2014 2013 Goals Going from Operative net sales, MSEK 1) 44,252 43,820 42,765 Net sales, MSEK 44,376 43,630 43,127 biggest to best Operative operating profit, MSEK 1) 1,052 1,783 593 To become the best company in the Operative operating margin, % 1) 2.4 4.1 1.4 industry we have three target areas Operating profit, MSEK 1,009 1,752 614 which will be continuously followed-up Operating margin, % 2.3 4.0 1.4 through SCI surveys (Satisfied Customer Pre-tax profit, MSEK 906 1,230 383 Index), employee surveys and our finanEarnings per share, SEK 2.71 3.48 1.01 cial outcome. These target areas are: Dividend per share, SEK 2) 2.60 2.25 1.80 >50% Most satisfied customers Return on equity, % 9.9 13.1 3.8 >20% in the industry Equity/assets ratio, % 28.8 28.2 24.0 >25% Cashflow before financing, MSEK 1,787 2 803 624 Best workplace in the industry Net debt, MSEK 3,118 3,886 5,948 Most profitable company Orders received, MSEK 37,812 31,690 34,292 in the industry Order backlog, MSEK 26,991 24,922 28,164 1) Operative net sales and operative operating profit are reported according to percentage of completion method. Net sales and operating profit are reported according to legal accounting. 2) Board of Directors’ proposal to the AGM for 2016. For more information, we refer to Peab’s 2015 Annual Report. Operative net sales by business area by customer type by geographical market Project Development, Finland 7% (7%) 14% (15%) Construction, 46% (46%) Public Norway 30% (30%) 9% (9%) Sweden 84% (84%) Industry, 20% (20%) Private 70% (70%) Civil Engineering, 20% (19%) PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 9 Contents Corporate governance Corporate governance report 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE adopted by the Board of Directors. The company auditor with the authorized public Corporate governance is the deciBoard evaluates its work on an annual basis. accountant Thomas Thiel as principle sion-making systems that owners use to company accountant until the AGM 2016. govern the company directly or indirectly. THE AUDIT COMMITTEE In addition to auditing, the accountant On the one hand these systems consist of The audit committee prepares the work of has only provided services for Peab in the external laws and regulations such as the the Board of Directors by ensuring the form of accounting and tax advisement Company Act and other relevant laws, the quality of company financial reports, estaband certain analyses in connection with regulations for Nasdaq Stockholm issuers lishing guidelines for which other services acquisitions and divestments over the last and the Swedish Code of Corporate besides auditing the company may procure three years. Governance and on the other hand they from the company accountants, mainconsist of Peab’s Articles of Association as taining regular contact with the company EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT well as Peab’s own internal regulations and accountant regarding the scope and focus The President and CEO leads the company policies that the Board of Directors and as well as their view of company risks, according to the framework established by executive management decide on. evaluating the auditing work and informing the Board of Directors and is responsible the nomination committee of the evaluation for the administration and control of the SHAREHOLDERS, THE ANNUAL and assisting the nomination committee in Group. Executive management consists of GENERAL MEETING AND THE producing proposals for auditors and remuthe CEO, the CFO, the HR Director, the NOMINATION PROCEDURE neration for auditing work. The auditing Business Area Manager of Construction The Annual General Meeting (AGM) is the committee met twice in 2015. All members and COO, the Business Area Manager highest decision-making organ in Peab. All of the committee attended the meeting as of Civil Engineering and Industry, and shareholders can use their right to vote at well as the principle company accountant. the Business Area Manager of Project the AGM. The shareholders also have the The audit committee regularly reports to the Development. right to ask questions and have opinions Board of Directors. Executive management meetings are about Peab’s business at the AGM. held once a month and address issues of The procedure of preparing the nomiTHE FINANCE COMMITTEE strategy and tactics to improve operations. nation of members of the Board of Directors The finance committee handles and makes Heads of Group staff teams and other and the auditor for the AGM follows the decisions on financial matters in accordofficers are called to attend meetings nomination procedure established at the ance with the Finance Policy established by when needed. previous AGM. the Board of Directors. Executive manageOwner structure ment representatives give reports to the BUSINESS GOVERNANCE Peab AB is a public company. Its B share is finance committee meetings. The finance Executive management sets overriding listed on Nasdaq Stockholm, Large Cap. committee met six times during 2015. All goals and strategies for the business in the The principle owners of the company are members attended all meetings, except for Group’s business plan. This then is broken Mats and Fredrik Paulsson with families one when the Chairman could not be down and worked with in the different busiand companies that own or control a total of present. The finance committee regularly ness areas, regions and companies that 25.6 percent of the capital and 57.6 percent reports to the Board of Directors. make their own business plans. of the votes. Peab’s organization is characterized by THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE its clearly decentralized production focus THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The remuneration committee prepares and delegation of authority and responsibility AND ITS WORK guidelines and the framework for Group in order to achieve efficient management Peab’s Board of Directors is ultimately executives regarding salaries and other and control in each business area. responsible for the business and this also terms of employment and it provides the Control is ensured through a clear line includes sustainability work. According to Board of Directors with a proposal of decision authority for every type of major Peab’s Articles of Association the Board of regarding the CEO’s salary and other decision-making including Directors must be made up of no fewer than terms, in accordance with the remuneration the requirement of special approval by five and no more than nine members in policy established each year by the AGM. executive management, or an organ addition to the statutory employee repreThe remuneration committee also decides delegated by it when acquiring/divestsentatives. The members of the Board of the salaries and other terms for other ing development property, businesses Directors are elected annually by the AGM. members of executive management based and other major investments, It was decided at the 2015 AGM that the on proposals from the CEO. The remuneraBoard of Directors should consist of seven predetermined levels for bidding for tion committee met twice in 2015. All members chosen by the AGM. The individual positions, members of the committee participated. members of the Board of Directors receive The remuneration committee regularly and principles for board appointments the remuneration decided at the AGM. reports to the Board of Directors. and signing for the company, which are The Board of Directors held eight meetcentrally determined. ings in 2015. Members of executive manAUDITORS agement have given reports at the Board Under Peab’s Articles of Association one BUSINESS AREAS meetings. The principle company accountor two auditors with an equal number of Group operations are run in four business ant was present at two Board meetings. deputies are elected by the AGM. At the areas: Construction, Civil Engineering, The Board’s work follows the work program AGM in 2015 KPMG was elected the Industry and Project Development. Each 10 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Contents Corporate governance business area has a management team led by the BA Manager and consisting otherCorporate governance in Peab wise of operational managers in the business Election Shareholders Election Nomination area and staff members. The BA Managers Auditors Constitute the Annual Committee Information General Meeting Proposals are responsible for running the business and for relaying sustainability work down Election the line organization by delegating responsibility and authorizations. BA Managers Finance committee Information Board of Directors Remuneration committee are responsible for integrating sustainability Audit committee issues into everyday operations. Goals Strategies Reports Governance mechanisms Internal audit GROUP FUNCTIONS Ethical council CEO and The Group functions, which support both Executive management Group functions executive management and operations in Sustainability Council the business areas, strategically and in day-to-day operations, are divided into the Civil Project Construction Industry following teams; Engineering Development Finance and treasury Communication HR Production THE SUSTAINABILITY COUNCIL Board, independency and committees Peab Sustainability Council coordinates the AGM elected members Independent Independent Audit Remuneration Finance overall sustainability work and creates the in relation to in relation to committee committee committee prerequisites for integrating sustainability the company the major 2015/2014 2015/2014 2015/2014 work into the business. The Group CEO is and executive shareholders management 2015/2014 the Chairman of the Sustainability Council 2015/2014 and the other members are: COO, CFO, Göran Grosskopf Yes/Yes Yes/Yes C/C C/C C/C HR Director, Head of Communication, Head of Sustainability, General Counsel, Mats Paulsson No/No No/No M/M M/M M/M and Head of Competence Development. Karl-Axel Granlund Yes/Yes Yes/Yes M/M M/M M/M The Sustainability Council met five times Fredrik Paulsson No/No No/No M/M in 2015. Lars Sköld Yes/Yes Yes/Yes M/M Kerstin Lindell Yes/Yes Yes/Yes M/M THE ETHICAL COUNCIL Nina Udnes Tronstad Yes/Yes Yes/Yes M/M Peab has an Ethical Council that consists of one representative of executive manageC Chairman M Member ment, three from administrative functions and, where applicable, the senior manager (business area manager, Group function manager or HR manager) under whose business area the area in question belongs. The Ethical Council’s undertaking is to Age and gender distribution 2015 (2014) answer questions of an ethical nature from Number of Percentage of Percentage of Percentage of Percentage of Percentage of the business and employees, to communimembers women (%) men (%) people aged people aged people aged cate Peab’s approach to ethical issues, < 30 (%) 30-50 (%) > 50 (%) both internally and externally, and to Board of Directors 12 (12) 25 (25) 75 (75) 0 (0) 33 (42) 67 (58) prepare and make decisions on issues (incl. deputies) when laws or ethical guidelines are Executive Management 6 (6) 17 (17) 83 (83) 0 (0) 67 (67) 33 (33) breached. The function and work of the Finance and remuneration Ethical Council was evaluated in 2015 3 (3) 0 (0) 100 (100) 0 (0) 0 (0) 100 (100) committees and the development of the function will Audit committee 7 (7) 29 (29) 71 (71) 0 (0) 29 (29) 71 (71) continue in 2016. Auditors (incl. deputies) 1 (1) 0 (0) 100 (100) 0 (0) 0 (0) 100 (100) ETHICAL GUIDELINES Nomination committee 4 (4) 0 (0) 100 (100) 0 (0) 0 (0) 100 (100) Peab founded its ethical work on Peab’s core values; Down-to-earth, Developing, Personal and Reliable many years ago. These core values form the basis of Peab’s ethical guidelines established by executive management. We work continuously to spread and root Peab’s ethical guidelines throughout the organization. PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 11 Contents External analysis and sustainability governance Sensitivity and responsibility in a world of change As one of the leading Nordic constructo solve issues like refurbishing older direct impact. By contributing to building tion and civil engineering companies housing projects and how supply systems more sustainable cities Peab can also with a vision to be the Nordic commulike stormwater management and sewer make it easier for people to both live nity builder Peab is focused on the systems can be made to handle the rising and move around with small ecological future. Peab follows the trends that capacity demands. footprints. affect society and the environment and Demographic changes Migration and integration thereby the prerequisites for building It is a well-known fact that world demo­ We live in times of vast human migration a future sustainable society. Our ambigraphy is changing and populations are where large groups of people are forced to tion is to both meet external expectagetting older, which makes demands on flee from their homes in search of refuge, tions of the company and contribute many welfare functions. As the proportion and many of them head for the Nordic to developing the industry. Decisive of senior citizens expands we will most region. The challenge of taking care of both steering and integrating sustainability likely need to work longer. This means the those applying for, and those who have into every aspect of our business is a importance of a good physical and mental already received, asylum demands a great necessity to achieve this goal. work environment will become increasingly deal of employers and the housing sector. important. As the average age of populaA prerequisite for successful integration is GLOBAL TRENDS THAT AFFECT THE tions grows older so do the demands on homes and jobs as well as new Swedes COMMUNITY BUILDING SECTOR accessibility in our communities. Active being given the chance to learn the In many ways construction is a very local seniors’ desires regarding housing, service, language. The challenge here is to create business and at the same time the commutransportation and the layout of their neigha socially sustainable city where high nity building sector has a huge impact on borhood will have to be met. An aging tolerance levels, meeting places and the both society and the environment in the population also creates the need for other forces for good work together. long term. This is why taking global trends kinds of homes, local service, elderly care Digitalization and stakeholder viewpoints into consideraand healthcare. tion is necessary to drive sustainable Developments in digitalization have Climate change changed the way we work and communidevelopment. One of the most obvious effects of not cate. It requires a high level of transparUrbanization conserving natural resources is climate ency. At the same time competition on a Today more than half of the earth’s inhabitchange. Innovative solutions are fundaglobal plane, for resources and producing ants live in cities and urbanization is only mental in reducing the community building and consuming goods and services, is expected to increase. This trend raises sector’s considerable climate impact and intensifying. On the other hand digitalizaquestions about how to solve the problems thereby slowing climate change. To handle tion enables streamlining resource of supplying housing and infrastructure, the climate changes we already face management. For example, construction how segregation and social exclusion can community builders have to adapt existing and running the constructed environment be overcome and how to build attractive buildings and grounds as well as new buildcan be revolutionized, especially through communities. The growing urbanization will ings and facilities to these changes. More the use of Building Information Modeling require densifying and developing cities. As efficient use of resources and developing (BIM). a result the community building sector has renewable energy can reduce the sector’s 12 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Contents External analysis and sustainability governance STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUES AND THE MATERIALITY ANALYSIS Focus areas for sustainability Peab’s business affects and is affected by a number of different stakeholders. Peab’s THE EMPLOYEES THE BUSINESS employees meet stakeholders in a variety Health and work environment Customer and supplier cooperation of forums every day to strengthen relationSkills supply Responsibility in the supply chain ships and listen to their wishes and expecEthics and anti-corruption Equality, diversity and equal tations. We have well-established channels treatment for many of our stakeholder relations. Meetings with customers and subcontractors are part of the flow of daily operations and CLIMATE AND ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT customer surveys take place continually. Climate impact Educating young people Employee surveys, the Annual General Streamlining resource use Local community building projects Meeting, neighborhood information meetPhasing out environmentally and Mentoring ings, student fairs, supplier meetings and health hazardous substances partnering projects are other examples of forums where Peab meets, listens to and works together with stakeholders. In order to develop work with sustainability issues and the company’s communication Peab has established stakeholder dialogues focused on sustainability. Interviews and questionnaire surveys were conducted in 2012, 2013 and 2014 with stakeholder groups that affect and are affected by Peab’s business. The purpose of the dialogues is to get stakeholders’ perspect­ ives on sustainability issues and Peab as a company. The stakeholders also point out which sustainability issues they prioritize, what they consider to be Peab’s strengths and areas of improvement as well as how they compare Peab to other players in the industry. The content in Peab’s sustaina­ bility report is based on the results of stakeholder dialogues and they also form our work on development. Stakeholders Students Industry associations Media Employees Employees' Authorities and organisations Shareholders Customers administrations Peab Research and institutes of Suppliers The local Politicians higher education community NGOs and Fund managers lobbyists and analysts Employers' organisations PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 13 Contents External analysis and sustainability governance There were no stakeholder dialogues SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE the environmental management system focused on sustainability conducted in 2015 Peab intends to become the best company ISO 14001:2004, as well as the requiresince the results from the previous three in the industry and sustainability is intrinsic ments in the Swedish Work Environment years have all concurred regarding what in our business strategies. We continually Authority’s provision AFS 2001:1. Peab should focus on in the future. Since work to embed sustainability as a whole, Structured sustainability requires Peab’s business is long-term in its nature which includes financial, environmental and clearly defined steering and follow-up. we have chosen to conduct stakeholder social issues, into our operations. ResponPeab uses well-established frameworks dialogues with slightly longer intervals in sibility and mandates are delegated to the and guidelines for sustainability issues the future and focus on turning viewpoints business areas and supported by expertise such as the UN Global Compact, GRI and into measures for improvement in our from various levels of our organization. This ISO 26000 for guidance. In 2012 Peab everyday work in between them. The next is supplemented by steering and supporting signed the UN Global Compact. Peab will stakeholder dialogue is planned for 2016. documents. forwardly analyze how the company can Through the conclusions from previous A new Sustainability Council was contribute to accomplishing the universal years’ stakeholder dialogues, together with formed in the beginning of 2015 with Peab’s sustainable development goals adopted by internal priorities, Peab has defined the CEO as its chair. The purpose of the council the UN at the end of 2015. The timeline areas of sustainability described in this is to coordinate the overall sustainability below describes some of the important year’s sustainability report. All of the areas work and create prerequisites for integrating decisions and initiatives that are milestones are relevant for Peab’s entire business. To sustainability work into the business. The in Peab’s work with sustainability. simplify the structure of the report, as in operative work is then carried out in the Sustainability work is a never-ending 2014, Peab has divided the key areas into business areas and in teams with cross-­ process of development. Using sustainability four general sections: The Employees, The functional expertise. How this work aspects as an instrument for continuous Business, Climate and Environment and is performed in each area is described in improvement Peab intends to continue to Social Engagement. See the illustration on the report sections The Employees, The lead the company step-by-step in the right page 13 for the areas identified as most Business, Climate and Environment and direction, challenging itself and its stakeimportant in each section. Social Engagement. holders into contributing to sustainable It was apparent in previous stakeholder A number of policies constitute the community building. dialogues that the foundation of relationsteering documents for sustainability. ships to, and the experience of working Peab’s Code of Conduct is based on the RISKS with, Peab are on an individual-to-individual principles of the UN Global Compact, and Being a large construction and civil engibasis. This underlines how important it is is a general policy covering human rights, neering company Peab’s business is that every aspect of Peab is permeated by labor rights as well as environmental and exposed to a number of risks. For a a sustainable perspective, from the strategic anti-corruption issues. The Code of Conduct complete description of Peab’s risks and level to every employee acting sustainably is translated into several languages risk management see Peab’s Annual and responsibly. Integrating sustainability so that it is easily accessible to anyone Report, pages 38-39. into every part of a project-based business interested. It is supplemented by a number Peab’s risks from a sustainability with over 13,000 employees is clearly a of underlying policies and guidelines, such perspective are undesired consequences challenge Peab continuously works on. as Peab’s ethical guidelines. Peab’s regarding skills supply, the work environFor more details concerning the previous overriding company policy is an integrated ment, ethics and the environment. stakeholder dialogues please see Peab’s environment, quality and work environment Peab has to be able to attract and keep sustainability reports from 2014, 2013 policy that meets the criteria of the quality competent employees in order meet and 2012. management system ISO 9001:2008, customers’ expectations on products and Milestones in Peab’s work with sustainability 2009 2010 2011 2012 Peab adopts a Code of Conduct based Work on vision Executive decision to environmentally Publication of the first Sustainability on the UN Global Compact “Peab – Nordic Community Builder” certify Peab’s in-house projects Report according to GRI-G3 First CDP report conducted Definition on what sustainable commuComprehensive approach to First year with stakeholder dialogues nity building means to Peab sustainability and materiality analysis Agreement with the Swedish Tax Agency to counteract economic crime UN Global Compact signed Launch of the Ethics Round, an First year with focus week on the work educational program about environment business ethics 14 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Contents External analysis and sustainability governance services. The competition for the skills Peab needs is fierce which makes it a top priority. Peab’s goal-oriented work with equality, diversity and equal treatment is a part of how the company handles risks connected to skills supply while contributing to increasing diversity in the industry. Work related accidents at Peab’s construction sites can lead to employees or subcontractors getting hurt or at worst killed. To prevent accidents at worksites Peab develops quality-ensured work methods and trains personnel in this area. Ethical risks can entail Peab employees not following the Code of Conduct or Peab’s ethical guidelines and becoming involved in irregularities, bribes or corruption. This can lead to fines, legal sanctions and a damaged brand. Peab requires that subcontractors live up to Peab’s Code of Conduct regarding human rights, work conditions, the environment and anti-­ corruption. Systematic ethic work focused on preventative education and strict consequences for transgressions are the foundation of a strong brand and healthy competition. Peab is also exposed to environmentally related risks. Serious environmental accidents at Peab’s construction sites can have a considerable effect on the local environment, lead to fines and damage its brand. Extreme weather can cause problems and delays on worksites and in the supply chain. Higher costs for energy and the emission of greenhouse gases can have a negative effect on Peab’s profitability. Peab works with prevention focused on climate impact, streamlining resource use and phasing out environmentally and health hazardous substances. 2013 2014 2015 Position of Head of Sustainability created Peab publishes its first Sustainability External whistle-­blower system launched Report according to the new version of Employee and leader profile established the GRI framework, G4 New Sustainability Council Comprehensive approach to SCI surveys Peab is listed in Nordic Climate Sponsoring policy updated in all business areas: B2B Disclosure Leadership Index NCDLI and B2C Major focus on integration/ migration, Goals for equality and diversity set “Declaration of Intent” First year with Day of Reflection on the work environment PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 15 Contents The Employees Skilled and engaged employees Peab is successful thanks to skilled Systematic work three groups of employees that work with and engaged employees. Peab’s goal environment management environment issues all told make up 7.4 (8) as an employer is to offer the best Peab’s work environment policy is intepercent of the employees at Peab. workplace, where leadership and grated into the company policy and is the Peab and trade union representatives company culture is founded on Peab’s basis for our strategic work environment collaborates on the work environment and core values and equality. Peab works measures which are included in the busihealth on every level of the company. Union systematically and lastingly to make ness management system and Peab organizations carry out their own investigafollows the laws and regulations of each tions and come with suggestions for the work environment safe and foster country. The requirements set out in AFS improvement. All (100 percent) of Peab’s good health. At the best workplace 2001:1 are observed in Sweden and in employees are covered by collective employees are co-creators of their own, Norway Peab works according to the Work bargaining agreements. the company’s, customers’ and the Environment Act and follows valid regulaPeab’s crisis organization is activated community’s positive development. tions for the construction and civil engiin the event of a serious accident. It conneering industries. Finnish operations are sists of 111 employees in Sweden and HEALTH AND THE WORKING ENVIRONMENT certified according to OHSAS 18001. Norway specially trained by the Swedish Health and the work environment are highly Work environment organization Civil Contingencies Agency. prioritized at Peab. There are a number of Work environment issues are part of daily Prevention for health risk factors in the construction industry but operations. Strategic work is done on the in the work environment through risk management, systematic work Group and business area levels and releIn order to prevent accidents at worksites and exchanging knowledge and experience vant competence in work environment Peab continually develops quality assured it is possible to diminish or avoid accidents. matters can be found on every level of the work methods and trains personnel in this Each quarter Peab checks on the Group company. Assignments and mandates have area. When employees and subcontractors goal of during the period 2015-2017 halving been delegated to the line organization. come to a new workplace they are given an the number of workplace accidents (ones In addition to the 78 (115) employees who introduction with a review of the regulations that cause at least 8 h absence per million work with work environment matters in and risks on the site. Peab continued to work hours) and what is being done to different parts of the company, employees spread safety achieve the goal. This is measured in each are represented by health and safety business area and in the entire Group. The goal is challenging and requires intensifying our efforts in the coming years. During 2016 officers (elected by the employees) in every individual project. There are 713 (698) health and safety officers in Sweden, 97 “order Good planning, and organization are crucial to safety.” Peab will establish a common work method (83) in Norway and 35 (46) in Finland as focused on labor-related issues that affect well as a number of employees 61 (59) who psychosocial health. are appointed by the trade unions and work Christian Helmström, with work environment matters. These site manager Working together for safe worksites The 28th of April is World Day for Safety and Health at Work which Peab 2015 observed under the name Reflection Day. Employees and subcontractors at Peab’s worksites paused production to consider: How do we make our workplaces safe and achieve our goal of halving the number of accidents at Peab? During the meeting everyone thought about how they could contribute to greater safety: “I can contribute by not backing down and always speak up when I see something that isn’t safe,” said Alexander Augustin, carpenter. “I can improve my own behavior by keeping things in better order and throwing the trash away every day,” said Mikael Warting, ventilation installer. ”We can try even harder to create a common vision and consensus. Good planning, order and organization are crucial to safety. Good planning reduces stress,” said Christian Helmström, site manager. Executive management communicated its message through the managers: The work environment is one of the most important focus areas in Peab. We can never accept accidents at our worksites. We all need to reflect on – what can we do better? Reflection Day will be held in 2016 again. Peab also has an annual work environment week. 16 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Contents The Employees Workplace accidents Sick leave warnings throughout our organization in per 1 million hours worked 2015. Safety warnings contain information Number % about actual incidents or accidents and 8 40 2015 2015 provide advice on how similar situations 7 2014 2014 can be avoided. 30 2013 6 2013 5 Peab has noted that more knowledge 20 4 about the fundamental factors behind acci3 dents and sickness is needed. The need to 10 2 take measures was charted by examining 1 0 0 Peab’s operations. We have also pinpointed Sweden Norway Finland Sweden Norway Finland the measures that improve safety behavior 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 in managers and employees, improving thereby Peab’s safety culture in the long Statistics are based on internal systems that Sick leave statistics refer to all absence run as well. A project that will develop work register all workplace accidents which result in due to illness (short and long term absence). at least 8 hours absence. Previously statistics methods, tools and an investigation methcame from the Swedish Work Environment odology was started in 2015 in all three Authority which according to regulations only include severe accidents. countries along with a short and long term action plan. Follow-up and improvement work All incidents and accidents are reported as Number Number of employees by country and gender they happen and form the basis for meas14,000 ures aimed at preventing these occurrences. There were no fatal accidents at 12,000 Peab’s worksites in 2015. Incidents and 10,000 accidents are registered through an online 8,000 system in Sweden and Norway and in 6,000 Finland reports are made directly to the 4,000 Work Environment Manager. When the 2,000 measures in the above mentioned develop0 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 ment project have been implemented the Sweden Norway Finland Peab in total work methods, tools and an investigation methodology will be the same in all three Women Men The diagram shows the number of employees annually per 31 countries, which supports knowledge December. There were 13,300 employees in total at Peab per 31 December 2015, of which 11.9 percent were women. Temporary exchanges. employees are not included but shown separately in the table below. A number of workplace audits are also conducted annually in Sweden, Norway and Finland. The results are analyzed in Number of temporary employees* 2015 connection with the audit which, combined with results from employee statistics, surMen Women Entire Peab veys and development discussions as well Temporary employees 375 45 420 as Peab’s occupational healthcare provider, *The estimated number of temporary employees. These figures do not include subcontractors. makes it possible to identify causes and Included are people who work for Peab on a consultancy basis, i.e. people who work regularly for connections. This then forms the basis of Peab but are not considered employees. decisions on priorities, goals and measures. Promoting health Peab focuses on further developing work Employment forms for all employees methods to promote health. Employees that Men Women are happy and have a good balance Permanent employees 10,881 1,387 between work and leisure more often feel Project/temporary employees 839 193 motivated and job satisfaction. Peab offers employees a broad range of activities in exercise and culture as well as keep-fit Type of employment for subsidies and other benefits. permanent employees The number of occupational illnesses Men Women registered in the company rose from 43 to 66 in 2015. Occupational illnesses among Full-time employees 10,816 1,302 skilled workers are primarily caused by Part-time employees 65 85 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 17 Contents The Employees Employees divided into personnel categories, gender and age White-collar workers in Other white-collar workers Skilled workers by gender managerial positions by gender by gender 8% 4% 31% Women 69% Men 92% 96% Total 2,000 employees Total 3,735 employees Total 7,565 employees White-collar workers in Other white-collar workers Skilled workers by age managerial positions by age by age 5% 19% 26% 31% 27% 37% < 30 years old 30–50 years old 58% > 50 years old 55% 42% Total 2,000 employees Total 3,735 employees Total 7,565 employees strain and among white-collar workers they with developing Peab’s employer brand forced on both individual and Group levels. are often due to organizational and social based on the new strategy. The positive effects are visible after a year’s factors. In 2016 Peab will work on raising Introduction for new employees work and the program will be implemented awareness among more managers and In 2015 Peab launched an updated introon yet another management level in 2016. employees about ergonomics as well as the duction program for new employees aimed Slightly more than 500 managers from organizational and social work environment at providing them with a better underSweden, Norway and Finland participated than previously. standing of the Group’s core business. For in the internal development program this reason the group-wide section of the during 2015. SKILLS SUPPLY introduction was supplemented by a visit to Goal and developmental discussions Having employees with the right know-how a construction site. Training a week on a A new tool was implemented for goal and is crucial to Peab’s success. Competition worksite plays part for positions, primary developmental discussions in 2015. All told for the skills Peab is looking for is fierce and manager or specialist, that affect producthe pilot project encompassed around that means efforts to acquire these skilled tion. In 2015, 601 (458) people participated 1,000 employees in Sweden. Implementaworkers has top priority. In 2015 Peab in the group-wide introduction program. tion of a fully developed web-based tool is reviewed the current competence in the expected to take place on a large scale in Skills development company. This was aimed at registering 2017. With the new tool employees take It is vital that Peab can offer skills and which skills Peab has today and which will greater responsibility and form their goals career development on every level. Implebe needed tomorrow, and creating the for their development themselves. Thanks mentation of Peab’s new model for skills basis for an action plan to bridge any gaps to the electronic tool superiors and development heavily focused on learning in between. The most apparent need is employees can go back to their shared while working continues. Managers and engineers closely involved in production notes and easily follow up developmental co-workers alike have become more aware and various trade-related specialist discussions which insures the quality of of Peab’s concepts and methods and functions. the employee’s development. during 2015 formal education and courses Employer offer have been combined with structured The last employee survey in 2014 Well-defined values and a strong brand are learning at employees’ worksites. One showed that 70 percent of Peab employees factors for success in competition. An example is the new development program had participated in goal and developmental extensive project aimed at examining, for young engineers just starting in construcdiscussions (89 percent of white-collar analyzing and further developing Peab’s tion. Similar development concepts close workers with managerial positions, 81 peremployer offer led to a new strategy. By to operations are in the making. Position cent of other white-collar workers, and carefully listening to internal and external descriptions, individual development plans 56 percent of the skilled workers), and it sources an image of how Peab is currently and skills charting will decide what skills appears the same level was true for 2015. seen as an employer emerged as well as development will be offered. The next survey will be held in 2016. Holdthe image the company would like to have in Peab’s new uniform leadership proing regular discussions about goals and the future. An Employer Branding specialist gram is being carried out throughout the development with their employees is a key was recruited at the end of 2015 charged entire Group and leadership is being reinelement of a leader’s job at Peab. There18 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Contents The Employees “Rooted in reality” Peab wants new employees to receive the best possible introduction and suited to their situation. Training a week on a worksite plays a part for positions, primary manager or specialist, that affect production. The purpose is to provide a deeper understanding of Peab’s core business. Ida Edström, work environment specialist, talks about a rewarding training week. “I got the chance to follow different roles on the worksite; supervisor, purchaser, site manager and skilled craftsmen. This experience will be very useful to me in my usual role. It’s important to have a realistic perspective when I draw up work methods and strategies for Peab, that I’m firmly rooted in reality. I had the most fun being together with our skilled craftsmen and trying a few things myself. I felt super welcome right from the start.” As of 2015 Peab has an updated groupwide introduction concept for new employees. Study visits, an expanded common program and production training are the most important new features. fore a threshold value based on holding method that emphasizes the individual’s to women and men. The purpose of this goal and developmental discussions has own responsibility. The method is based on analysis is to identify, rectify and prevent become a bonus criteria for managers. workshops containing discussion and parnon-subjective differences in pay and other ticipation as well as policy documents that terms of employment for the same or equivEQUALITY, DIVERSITY AND give managers an important role. Peab has alent positions. Non-subjective differences EQUAL OPPORTUNITY to ensure that leadership has the proper must be rectified. In the review of 4,330 Modernizing the construction industry’s competence and support to take responsiindividuals that Peab conducted in 2015 a perspective regarding equal opportunity bility for equality, diversity and equal total of 28 non-subjective pay differences and diversity is a slow process and many opportunity issues. were identified. The wages of these individchallenges have yet to be overcome. Vital uals have been adjusted afterwards. Legisto changing the generally held view of Equal pay lation in Norway and Finland have similar equality and diversity is getting people to At Peab the nature, performance and skills requirements for an analysis of wages and better understand the issue and the key to level of an employee’s job decide their pay ensuing measures. Inclusion in Peab’s that is, as always, responsible leadership. level, independent of gender, age or ethnic various incentive programs is based on an For this reason Peab continued to work on background. According to Swedish law a individual’s position and no difference is employee inclusion during the year. wage review must be conducted every third made between men and women in the year containing an analysis of wages paid occupational group. For equal opportunity and against discrimination A new group-wide plan for equal rights and opportunities and an action plan against Number of training hours discrimination were completed in 2015. per employee and gender per employee and personnel category When drawing up the plans Peab consulted Hours Hours external experts to ensure high quality and 20 30 correct formalities while an internal survey provided information on the current situa15 20 tion and the desired situation. 10 Equality, diversity and equal opportunity, 10 and the managerial responsibility connected 5 to that, are included as part of the education comprised in Peab’s leadership program. 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Other measures aimed at enhancing skills Women White-collar workers in Skilled workers in this area were initiated in the autumn of Men managerial positions 2015 and will continue throughout 2016 as Other white-collar workers a step in changing the culture around these The increase in the number of training hours is due to greater usage of the educational tool PEKA, where issues. Peab has chosen a down-to-earth training hours are registered, and an increase in the level of training initiatives. PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 19 Contents The Business A sustainable business During 2015 Peab began the shift from in any kind of contracting. Being in better delivered product or service lives up to being biggest to being best. Peab’s goal sync with each other saves time and money customers’ expectations. Peab’s SCI is to have the most satisfied customers, and contributes to higher quality while surveys (Satisfied Customer Index surveys) be the best workplace and the most putting new demands on an organization are sent to external and internal business profitable company in the industry. and leadership regarding social and clients (B2B) and housing customers (B2C). Sustainability has been given a key role communicative skills. During 2015 Peab In 2015 the weighted average of the through these goals and Peab is workhas better structured the work with partSCI result for the Group was 73 (72) on a ing to integrate sustainability aspects nering by, among other things, developing scale of 1-100. There were over 2,000 in both our business and value chain. better tender documents for partnering (1,400) respondents, which is equal to an projects. average response frequency of 42 percent. LONG LASTING CUSTOMER Results from the surveys are used in internal RELATIONS “ work on improvement and are included in Long lasting customer relations create In addition to shared the operative business plans that support opportunities to develop the company and better understand customers’ needs and good planning between us as the Group strategy to strengthen and develop Peab’s customer relations. wishes. This improves Peab’s ability to customers, Peab and other satisfy customers which strengthens contractors, an important Social procurement Peab’s brand and leads to new business Many forces in society are acting to make opportunities. Peab has a flexible way of advantage is that onsite manaproduction of products and services more working in order to fulfill the desires and gement is responsive not only sustainable through aware purchasing choices. Municipalities and other governdemands of the company’s wide range of to our views but to the needs customers that include everything from ment agencies are taking a growing interest single home buyers to privately owned of our tenants as well in procurements that promote a more Anders Eriksson companies, municipalities, authorities sustainable society. Social considerations Project Manager, Helsingborgshem nd government agencies. in public purchasing can lead to procureParadigm shift in the ment criteria that contribute to jobs, greater construction industry Follow-up for better performance equality, integration etc. The criteria can Both customers and suppliers are taking a Shifting from the biggest to the best also include demands like systematic growing interest in the more profound cooprequires continual improvement, especially follow-up of the supply chain and that the eration that comes with partnering. Peab when it comes to customer relations. In supplier, in this case Peab, adds to local sees partnering as a way to modernize and addition to the stakeholder dialogues employment during the project. streamline the, in many respects, conservadescribed on pages 12-14 Peab conducts This provides Peab with yet another tive construction industry. Peab advocates surveys to see how customers experience chance to affect societal development in a this type of collaboration which can be used contact with the company and how the positive direction. Partnering Partnering is a structured form of collaboration built on close cooperation and trust between all the stakeholders in a project. This method creates the platform for a more profound collaboration than in traditional contracts since the general contractor and the customer, together with subcontractors, architects, consultants and other key players organize the construction process based on a common goal. Shared processes, plans and activities form the foundation for better dialogue and greater trust. 20 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Contents The Business SUSTAINABLE CONSTRUCTION PROCESS Peab works with the entire construction People from the community get job opportunities process through its four business areas. Peab is erecting four buildings containing Peab feels that landowner Malmö City is 121 apartments, a daycare center, offices doing a good thing by discounting the However, construction processes are and gym in the housing project Lindängen land rental fee in return for land renters complex and involve both internal and in Malmö for Trianon Fastighet AB. When taking social responsibility. This gives Malmö City distributed the land it required contractors an opportunity to contribute to external parties and the company has to recipients to take a social responsibility. improving a neighborhood, in both its use subcontractors for certain areas. This Ten fulltime positions had to be recruited physical and social environments. underlines the importance of a work from the city’s longtime unemployed. “We get a chance to learn more about “Naturally this was a challenge,” says the area and can change prejudices method that promotes quality and sustainaLinus Svensson, assistant construction regarding the older housing projects,” bility throughout the process. manager at Peab. For some of the Linus continues. The fact that people recruits the transition of working at a living there get job opportunities creates Controlling construction sites construction site was more than they added value in the form of a feeling of In 2015 a new regulation called general could handle and some of them quit. responsibility for the area and a higher Nonetheless so far the project has tolerance for new construction from those contractor responsibility came into force for generated three jobs with subcontractors living close to it. the entire construction industry. The general which is a good result. contractor is responsible for ensuring that everyone, including subcontractors, follow the rules at construction sites. The purpose is to weed out rogue players from the labor market, promote healthy competition and avoid workers being taking advantage of. It is also intended to, as far as possible, eliminate work environment problems and safety breaches. During the year UE2015 took effect and compared with the previous version UE2004, it focuses more on the entire subcontractor chain on a construction site. This means that every subcontractor is now obliged to provide information upstream in the chain and, among other things, guarantee that they have collective bargaining agreements, hold an Ftax certificate and that there are no wage or other compensation disputes with employees. Peab uses attendance records that are usually linked to the so-called ID06 system. Attendance records significantly increase the chances of discovering rogue subcontractors. In addition to following the legislation concerning electronic attendance records requirements, Peab participates actively together with the Swedish Construction Federation and its suppliers in the work to develop ID06’s technical solutions in order to make it more user friendly, effective and create more added value for ID06. Preventing robberies and break-ins at construction sites Through the initiative of Peab’s security department and supported by the Swedish Construction Federation South and the Development Fund of the Swedish Construction Industry, in the autumn of 2014 Malmö University and the Department of Criminology began a study to chart robberies and break-ins at construction PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 21 Contents The Business 5 out of 10 The majority of Peab’s purchases are made in the Nordic region. Five out of Peab’s ten largest suppliers are internal Peab companies. 7,500 suppliers = 95% In 2015 Peab barred 15 companies due to impropriety risks and 3 because of commercial risks. of the supplier base 40,000 The supplier base is divided into 415 categories where each 30 category represents a suppliers market. Peab has suppliers in suppliers everything from conference facilities to industrial concrete and the nature of these categoPeab had around 40,000 suppliers in 2015. ries is wildly different with unique challenges and opportunities. A supplier is defined as a business partner Peab has received at least one invoice from with a The three major categories are billion Swedish krona unique company ID number during the year. Relielectricity contractors, contractor The Group’s total purchase volume (i.e. all external able data is lacking for the number of new suppliers machine services and construccosts where internal transactions are eliminated) for 2015. This data will be available as of 2016. tion vehicles. amounted to some SEK 30 billion. This means 68 percent of theturnover is external purchase volume. sites. The report Systematic risk analysis of suspicion of dishonest activities, insolvency/ sions occur are the foundation of a strong robberies and break-ins at Swedish bankruptcy or the like. brand and healthy competition. construction sites which was presented An evaluation is performed at the end Peab’s ethical guidelines during the year has, among other things, of a project of the suppliers deemed to have Peab stands for good business ethics and contributed to more in-depth knowledge had an essential influence on it and their transparency. All employees are expected about the structure of acquisitive crime and commitment to the customer with an to take personal responsibility for their thereby improved the construction trade’s emphasis on quality and the environment. behavior. The company’s ethical guidelines ability to spread prevention knowledge The purpose of the evaluations is to ensure are attached to every employment contract throughout the industry. This knowledge that knowledge and experience are and describe how employees in their helps to make construction sites safer and exchanged and to contribute to the professional roles represent Peab by reduces costs for Peab and customers alike. supplier’s development. following and communicating our fundaSupplier evaluations as well as measmental values, within the company and SUSTAINABLE PURCHASING uring and following up purchasing is essenout in the community. In addition to these Peab expects their suppliers to live up to tial for a big company in the construction guidelines there are supplementary the same demands the company makes on and civil engineering industries, in order to instructions and guidelines on how Peab itself. In addition to existing legislation and run a sustainable business and have conpersonnel should behave in specific situavalid regulations as well as traditional trol over finances. It is a challenge for all big tions. If employees are unsure how to act requirements concerning quality and total companies to get those involved to follow in a situation they can turn to their closest costs Peab demands suppliers live up to procedures and use existing tools. Peab supervisor, Peab’s Group functions or the our Code of Conduct. has the instruments in place and works Ethical Council. Peab has established a process and actively to further develop the right condiThe Ethical Council tool through the in-house developed purtions through work teams charged with Peab’s Ethical Council answers among chasing and supplier portal for structured developing user friendliness and functionalother things questions pertaining to ethics supplier assessments, evaluations and ity in procedures and tools. In 2016 the key concerning our business or from employees, purchasing and support measures for better ratios concerning sustainability aspects in communicates Peab’s stance in ethical statistics and follow-up. The portal makes it purchasing will be developed. issues internally and externally, as well as easier to identify suppliers that do not live up to the company’s demands and at the prepares different matters and decides in ETHICS FOR GOOD RELATIONS cases of transgressions. Together with same time facilitates internal steering. In 2015 Peab changed the supplier of Peab’s work with ethics and against corrupPeab’s security department the Council customer and supplier data which made it tion is aimed at building confidence, prepares the documents needed to make a easier to discover potential improprieties. averting brand risks and creating secure decision and proposes what steps should Peab works closely with The Swedish and profitable deals for everyone involved. be taken in the case of a transgression. Tax Agency in order to improve controls of By preventing, monitoring and managing This might be anything from a reprimand to subcontractors and fight economic crime. risks they can be turned into opportunities a written warning, termination, dismissal or This cooperation facilitates the identificathat generate long-term values for reporting to the police. The Ethical Council tion of rogue companies and increases the customers, the company and society in ensures that incidents in the Group are possibility of eliminating criminal elements. general. Systematic work on ethics which is handled equally, regardless of which operaSuppliers are barred through Peab’s focused on preventative education, and tions or position they concern. In 2015 the system because of criminal behavior, clear-cut consequences when transgresEthical Council’s function and work has 22 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Contents The Business been evaluated and the function will be developed in 2016. Number and percentage of employees trained in ethics and anti-corruption Preventative education in ethics An extensive educational program for Percentage white-collar workers, the Ethics Round, was 6 685 launched in 2009 to bolster our efforts to 5 thwart corruption and breaches of Peab’s 487 4 ethical guidelines. The education includes discussions about ethical dilemmas that 3 can occur in day-to-day work. The point is 276 2 to give employees the opportunity to test 78 63 106 66 0 0 1 their own ethical compass against the norms and rules Peab has set up and 0 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 provide them with a method of identifying White-collar workers in Other white-collar Skilled workers managerial positions workers solutions of various ethical dilemmas. Ethics are also included in other Peab The statistics on ethical training include the number of people who completed the Ethics Round Introduction internal courses such as the group-wide course, Leading Peab along with the course Local measures 1 and 2. Compared to the statistics from previous years this year’s figures encompass employees from Norway and Finland and several other introduction day, position preparation courses that include ethics. programs and leadership training. The number of incidents reported to Peab’s security department concerning someone does not wish to give their name of suspected corruption/financial irregularieconomic crime has dropped considerably a system is needed that will guarantee ties in 2015. All the reports were handled by in the past few years. This is almost anonymity. The new whistle-blower system, the responsible manager with the support certainly due to preventative ethics work, which was introduced into all Peab’s operaof members of the Ethical Council. In three improved internal controls and a higher tions in 2015, permits someone reporting a of the cases employment law measures level of knowledge and awareness. transgression to be anonymous. Reporting have been taken. The fourth case had not goes through an external web-based been concluded by the end of 2015. New system for whistle-blowing system that allows the investigators of the In one case from 2014 the District Court Peab strives for an open business and report to ask supplementary questions to acquitted a supplier but it was excluded working climate. Employees have an importhe reporter and then communicate the as a Peab supplier anyway. In 2015 the tant role to play in noting possibly illegal results of the investigation via the system supplier was found guilty of bribery by the dealings and serious breaches of Peab’s with guaranteed anonymity for the reporter. Court of Appeals. core values, ethical guidelines and Code of Conduct. They therefore need a way to Events during the year bring up situations that might damage indiDuring the year, no incidents of anticompetviduals, the company or the environment. itive activities, breaches of the competition There are several ways to report suspicions law or monopolistic behavior leading to of wrongdoing at Peab, openly and anonylegal action have occurred. mously. Peab prefers open reporting but if Peab has received four internal reports Industry agreement against bribes – easier to do the right thing Peab takes an active role against corruption since it leads to unhealthy competition, inefficiency and in a longer perspective it is a threat to democracy. In December 2015 several leading players in Swedish construction signed an agreement to fight bribes and corruption within the publicly financed construction and real estate sector. In addition to Peab and other nationwide construction companies the Swedish Construction Federation, the Swedish Construction Clients and The Swedish Association of Local Authorities and Regions are parties to this agreement. It has been designed to meet external demands of greater transparency and moderation and it gives practical help through examples and ethical guidance regarding, for example, representation and sponsoring. New parties are welcome to join and the hope is that it can contribute to establishing a common perspective between procurers and suppliers. “Almost everyone wants to do the right thing and so it should be simple to do the right thing. An industry agreement with clear-cut examples provides common grounds, makes it easier to do the right thing and can also contribute to a positive dialogue about how parties can avoid getting into difficult situations,” says Jesper Göransson, CEO and President of Peab. PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 23 Contents Climate and Environment Reducing climate impact The responsibility for slowing down the focus areas Peab has established concerninvolved in developing certification systems negative development that is expected ing the climate and environment are climate together with other members of the in the wake of climate change will only impact, streamlining resource use and industry. Environmental certification is weigh heavier on major players like Peab phasing out environmental and health mostly established on the market for buildas time passes. Global agreements hazardous substances. Well-functioning ings but there is a growing interest in such as the one from the UN Climate processes for follow-up are needed to sustainable certification of infrastructure. Change Conference in Paris, COP21, streamline work on improvements. MeasPeab has employees who are competent in and the UN Sustainable Development urement methods and the extent of the CEEQUAL, BREEAM, LEED, the Swan Goals are examples that point out the follow-up have to be continually developed and Miljöbyggnad. Certification is a tool that road ahead. Peab focuses on climate as well. One way of achieving this is mapfacilitates systematic work with environand environmental issues and works ping energy flows and producing different mental and sustainable issues from the systematically to reduce the environtypes of climate and environmental reports. planning stage to construction and operation. mental impact of its entire business. Peab’s environmental management system is an integral part of the business CLIMATE IMPACT SYSTEMATIC management system. The environment ENVIRONMENTAL WORK The community building sector has been policy is integrated into Peab’s company identified as a key sector to succeeding in Peab’s climate and environmental work is policy and is in harmony with the Code of performed on every level of the organization reaching national and international climate Conduct, which is based on the principles and is an integral part of the business. goals. The sector is very energy intensive of the UN Global Compact including the Coordinating climate and environmental and this means it has a high potential to precautionary principle. The environment issues takes place on Group level since affect greenhouse gas emissions. Peab policy satisfies all of the requirements for many of the matters are shared by, and strives to continually develop and impleISO 14001:2004, and large parts of Peab’s touch, all the business areas. The business ment energy efficient solutions that reduce business are now certified in accordance areas are responsible for developing and energy consumption in production and in with ISO 14001 or other certification running climate and environmental work in the projects turned over to clients. At the systems. their own operations. The business areas same time Peab promotes renewable In Norway Peab works according to have resources at business area, company energy sources for the energy used. In Eco-Lighthouse, a Norwegian environmenand regional level to support the work in 2015 Peab began working on reviewing the tal business certification system. day-to-day operations. energy used in the entire Group according Environmental studies at relevant levels Certifying products to the Law on energy reviews in big busiin the Group identify significant environPeab works with environmental certificanesses. This work will be intensified in the mental aspects that are the basis of the tion, both at customers’ requests and in our coming years by developing follow-up goals formulated and priorities made. The own development projects. Peab is also processes and measuring methods. Consumption and emissions Fuel consumption, 466 GWh + 80 GJ Carbon dioxide emissions, 261,736 tons GWh GJ Scope 1 Fuel oil, 23,248 tons / 8.9% 400 400 Diesel, 45,283 tons / 17.3% 350 350 Gasoline, 758 tons / 0.3% Diesel 5-7 % FAME, 7,077 tons / 2.7% 300 300 Diesel 10-29 % FAME, 15,877 tons / 6.1% 250 250 Diesel 30-40 % FAME 14,132 tons / 5.4% HVO100, 814 tons / 0.3% 200 Diesel 30-40% 200 FAME* Scope 2 150 150 Electricity, 945 tons / 0.4% 100 Diesel 10-29% 100 Scope 3 FAME* 2013 Waste management incl. waste 50 Diesel 5-7% 50 2014 transportation, 152,483 tons / 58.3% FAME* 2015 0 Business trips: Train, 0.00228 tons / >0.0% Fuel Non-fossil Diesel Gasoline Diesel HVO100** Business trips: Airplane, 1,118 tons / 0.4% oil oil non-fossil blend The above chart shows Peab’s carbon dioxide emissions (CO2) for the Swedish * As of 2015 the different types of diesel with non-fossil blends purchased by Peab are business. The emissions from fuel consumption were calculated with the aid of the reported separately. The renewable level in these types of diesel is as much as 40 percent. GHG Protocol. The CO2 calculations for electricity usage are based on Vattenfall’s ** During the year Peab purchased the fuel HVO100, a 100 percent renewable and fossil-free environmental declaration for hydro power electricity. The CO2 emissions for waste diesel that reduces CO2 emissions by up to 88 percent. management are calculated with a tool developed for the industry. The CO2 emissions for business trips include the journeys booked through Peab’s travel The chart shows the fuel consumption in Sweden. The statistics are based on the agent and constitute around 60 percent of the total number of train and plane trips number of litres purchased. The energy content (GWh/GJ) for 2015 has been calculated booked in 2015. CO2 emission information for train trips has been provided by SJ with the aid of conversion factors from the Swedish Petroleum and Biofuels Institute (state-owned railway company), based on information via NTM (Network for trans(SPBI) along with specifications from fuel suppliers. Conversion factors from GRI were portation and the environment). CO2 emission information concerning airplane trips used for 2013 and 2014. is produced according to the STS Standard. 24 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Contents Climate and Environment Peab contributes to the development of nearly zero-energy municipal service buildings through creative solutions as a step in achieving the EU 2020 energy efficiency targets. Reducing the laying temperature of the Energy efficiency asphalt by around 30 degrees cuts energy consumption by an estimated 20 percent Peab continually works to cut energy and carbon dioxide emissions by 30 percent. consumption in areas such as transportation and running construction equipment, warming up and lighting workplaces and The percentage of bio-oil used in asphalt production increased in 2015 to construction sites along with energy use in slightly more than 25 (14) percent, permanent facilities. Financial and environwhich reduced carbon dioxide emisIn 2015 Peab invested in two new mental savings go hand-in-hand. Peab can sions by around 6,700 (3,100) tons hybrid wheel loaders. The machines compared to using traditional fuel-oil. reduce fuel consumption since they make its production more sustainable by generate energy which is then reused. changing behavior and focusing more on The savings is thought to be at least energy matters. 15 percent. Peab works to make worksites for civil engineering and construction projects more energy efficient through a number of different measures. Some examples are well-insulated trailers, control systems for asphalt aimed at conserving energy and step in achieving the EU 2020 energy effiregulating heating on evenings and weeklowering emissions. Reducing the laying ciency targets. This is just one of many ends, presence-controlled lighting and LED temperature of the asphalt by around 30 examples of how Peab cooperates with lamps. Peab’s Finnish operations estimate degrees cuts energy consumption by an different partners in developing methods to that LED-based lighting solutions in conestimated 20 percent and carbon dioxide reduce climate impact. struction offices save energy by as much emissions by 30 percent. In 2015 lower Renewable energy sources as 70 percent of previous lighting solutions. temperature asphalt represented 1.9 (3.9) Peab is increasing the use of renewable Lowering the indoor temperature in trailers percent of Peab’s total asphalt laid in fuels in several areas of production. Our by a single degree saves about five percent Sweden and Norway. The reduction is due goal is to continually reduce the percentage of the energy used. In addition to this, to diminished demand from customers. of fossil fuel used in operations. During the courses in economical driving for machinIn Finland Peab is participating in the year Peab has begun to use 100 percent ists and truck drivers has paid out by reducresearch project COMBI (Comprehensive fossil free diesel. Now the company is ing diesel consumption. According to the development of nearly zero-energy municireviewing the possibilities to replace fossil measurements taken in projects the total pal service buildings) together with several diesel with this alternative. energy savings amounted to 8-10 percent. universities and municipalities. The purpose Substantial amounts of fuel go to transOver the last ten-year period, Peab has of the project is to contribute to the developportation and running construction equipbeen working intensively to develop an ment of nearly zero-energy municipal service ment. One solution is hybrid construction energy efficient manufacturing process for buildings through creative solutions as a equipment, which Peab supports. In 2015 Environmental certification of buildings Electricity usage, 104 GWh Number of certifications GWh 80 150 70 120 Certified 90 60 Ongoing 60 50 30 40 0 30 2013 2014 2015 20 The statistics for electricity include the 10 business in Sweden and Finland. Electricity usage in Sweden is limited to 0 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 the electricity purchased via a central Miljöbyggnad BREEAM LEED Green Buildning The Swan contract supplier.This electricity is environmentally declared, and corresponds to around 50 percent of the purchasing The chart shows the number of ongoing certifications and the number of certified projects under the given years. volume for electricity. The electricity An ongoing certification is a project that has been registered during the current year or earlier with the certification usage in Finland is estimated on the organization and is expected to be certified. A project that is certified is one that has received certification, basis of the finance system. although not necessarily the final certification that is provided after a certain verification period. The chart includes both Peab’s own projects where Peab is responsible for the certification and projects Peab is constructing for customers. The number of projects were reported in 2013 and 2014, but for each one there may have been several certifications if there were several buildings in the project. The columns for 2015 show the number of certifications instead. The purpose is to make the statistics more consistent and facilitate a better correlation with statistics from each certification organization. PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 25 Contents Climate and Environment Peab invested in two new hybrid wheel through rooftop solar panels. The building STREAMLINING RESOURCE USE loaders. The machines reduce fuel conalso has a geothermal energy facility which Peab prioritizes using resources more sumption since they generate energy which generates heat and air conditioning and efficiently. Reduced material consumption is then reused. The savings is thought to the rest of the energy used to run the lowers costs as well as climate and envibe at least 15 percent. The machines are building comes from its two windpower ronment impact. One challenge is to primarily used in gravel and rock operations. stations. This example illustrates how develop key ratios as a tool in the systemPeab uses a bio-oil instead of tradiPeab can also contribute to reducing climate atic work for improvements in every area tional fuel-oil at four of its 21 asphalt plants impact through the products it turns over of Peab’s operations and projects. in Sweden. This bio-oil is classified as to customers. New research and more stringent laws carbon dioxide neutral by the Swedish contribute to developments but better use Planning logistics to reduce Energy Agency. The percentage of bio-oil greenhouse gas emissions of resources can also be attained through used in 2015 increased to slightly more Good planning is required to reduce the new, smarter work methods and sharing than 25 (14) percent, which reduced carbon amount of transportation to and from knowledge. dioxide emissions by around 6,700 (3,100) construction sites. This planning is done Efficient waste management tons compared to using traditional together with suppliers and Peab works Waste from construction and civil engifuel-oil. Even in the energy demanding continually to minimize road wear and neering represents a significant amount of manufacture of special sand Peab only emissions by choosing the right vehicles. the waste generated by society. Construcuses biofuel. In our Nordic climate road wear creates tion contractors are being spotlighted as Peab can also drive sustainable significant health hazards. This road wear communities focus on minimizing waste development through attractive offers to comes primarily from studded tires and and conserving resources. customers, especially in the area of generates high levels of coarse particles Peab has set its sights high when it energy, where the company now has a (PM10) that can cause heart and lung comes to the amount of waste that gets comprehensive concept for constructing disease when inhaled. Commissioned by sorted. The goal is that at least 87 percent and running windpower projects as well the Traffic Department of Stockholm City is sorted before it leaves the worksite and as designing, installing and managing solar Peab has, among other things, applied dust only maximum eight percent goes to landfill. power plants. During the year Peab comcontrol agents to reduce particle levels and Drywall is a prioritized fraction in construcpleted Ikea’s new office building in Malmö, thereby contribute to better air quality in tion since recycling more of it minimizes which produces its own energy, in part central Stockholm. the environmental impact, both because Peab’s industrial operations manufacture concrete blocks from recycled concrete. These can be Sweden’s first concrete mixer truck fueled used, for instance, under temporary work and office trailers. The by renewable energy concrete block raise the modules from the ground level making it possible to lay down pipelines. In 2015 business area Industry a synthetic fuel produced from rapecompany with the new concrete During 2015 Peab transformed became the first in Sweden with a seed oil and slaughterhouse waste. mixer truck model on the Swedish some 300 m3 surplus concrete concrete mixer truck that is run solely The actual rotor is electric and can market. We see this is as just the into a usable product. on renewable fuel. Both the fact that be charged via the mains or while start. If everything works out satisfacthe rotor makes half the noise and no driving when a generator charges the torily we will invest in more trucks,” hazardous emissions improves the battery. The mixer can run for four says Karl-Gunnar Karlsson, BA work environment significantly. The hours solely on electricity when the Manager Civil Engineering and BA 100% new concrete mixer trucks are a big truck is standing on a construction Manager Industry. advantage in tunnels or industrial site. This technology contributes to sheds as well as in big cities where the concrete mixer truck’s ability to environmental demands are strict. run on renewable fuel 100 percent. The truck’s motor runs on HVO fuel, “We are proud to be the first Peab has reduced the use of finite natural resources by manufacturing concrete from ballast based on 100 percent crushed rock at 15 of its 42 concrete factories. 12% Peab has increased the use of recycled material in asphalt pro­ duction in Sweden and Norway to 12 percent (10.2) in 2015. In a project focused on recycling concrete and brick, in Mälardalen alone Peab has recycled 47,300 tons of concrete and brick from tearing down Bahco, Enköping and Mässen 2, Strängnäs. Concrete and brick is crushed into material that can be reused after metal scrap is removed. This material is then used as landfill material in real estate and housing developments. 26 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Contents Climate and Environment Operations subject to permits and reports Percentage of net sales 10 8 Peab runs operations subject to permits and 6 reports in Sweden and Finland. These mainly comprise rock and gravel quarries, waste and 4 hazardous waste transportation, asphalt plants, concrete production and ballast operations. This 2 type of operations primarily impact the environ0 ment through excavation of a finite substance and 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 future land use. For more information please see Permits obligatory Reports obligatory Peab’s 2015 Annual Report, page 41. Biodiversity During 2015 Peab has been engaged in several projects to safeguard biodiversity: Business area Industry participated in the co-financed development project Greater biodiversity in pits during production and after shutdown. A manual has been created within the project framework aimed at illustrating possibilities for biodiversity in different kinds of pits. The project has been nominated as “The Innovation of the Year” by the Development Fund of the Swedish Construction Industry. Business area Project Development collaborates with the County Administrative Board of Stockholm to preserve the very rare and endangered species the rattle grasshopper (Psophus stridulus) which is classed as critically endangered on the national red list. An action plan was drawn up in 2015 to aid the species. Restauration and improvement measures will be required for many years to come. Interchange Spillepengen, Malmö During the year the new bridge solucategorizing the excavation material went to landfill. This management led tion Peab built to improve capacity then testing, managing and intermeto greater safety and better control and safety at interchange Spillediately storing it the level of carbon since all excavation material passed pengen was completed. The project dioxide per ton of handled excavathrough Peab’s own facility. is a good example of how Peab can tion material was radically reduced. minimize waste and conserve Usable material was returned to the resources in production. By first project minimizing the amount that PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 27 Contents Climate and Environment Waste Business Area Construction, 56,490 tons Processing method per fraction Tons Fraction Landfill Incineration Recycling 14,000 % % % 12,000 Mixed waste 14 76 10 10,000 8,000 Burnable 100 6,000 Landfill 100 4,000 Hazardous waste 50 50 2,000 Landfill material 27 73 0 Mixed BurnLandfill HazarLandfill Drywall Paper Scrap Sledge Wood Drywall 50 50 waste able dous material and metal waste Material not in KR* 50 50 Business Area Civil Engineering, 187,050 tons Paper 100 Tons 200,000 Excavation material 50 50 150,000 Scrap and metal 100 100,000 Sledge 50 50 50,000 Wood 100 2,000 * KR: Material not included in Kretsloppsrådets nomenclature such as mineral 1,500 material, asphalt and park and garden refuse. 1,000 The statistics cover Swedish operations and are limited to the waste handled 500 by Peab’s main waste management partners. The bar diagram shows the amount of waste, sorted into fractions, created by operations in business area 0 Construction respectively from business area Civil Engineering. The table Mixed BurnLandfill HazarLandfill Material ExcavaScrap Sledge Wood waste able dous material not in tion and shows how the sorted fractions are then handled by Peab’s main waste waste KR* material metal management partners. landfilling is minimized and the recycled undesired substances and increase the ucts that are healthier and better for the material can be used in the production of chances of recycling and reusing mass environment Peab has deepened its new drywall. But first and foremost our material. This work method is also aimed cooperation with several suppliers. This ambition is to stop producing any waste at at achieving good profitability through collaboration is aimed at making it easier all. Reducing waste is a challenge for the streamlining resource use, withdrawing for its own organization to choose the industry. Peab uses a series of models less untouched material, diminishing waste right products and its effects are already and tools to more precisely calculate the fees for mass material going to landfill and apparent, as several products containing amount of material needed thus avoiding lower transportation costs. In 2015 Peab hazardous substances have disappeared waste. established eight new sites under the tradefrom the Swedish market. The biggest challenges are identifying mark Swerecycling that are focused on Peab primarily uses two systems in where waste occurs in the construction recycling mass material from civil engineerSwedish construction operations to make process and implementing changes in our ing projects and this expansion will continue. material selections aimed at phasing out systems in order to move towards circular hazardous substances: BASTA and Byggeconomy. This can entail designing buildPHASING OUT ENVIRONMENTAL varubedömningen (Building Material ings that provide better opportunities to AND HEALTH HAZARDOUS Assessment System). The Norwegian SUBSTANCES recycle and reuse material. This, in turn, equivalents are the electronic systems The work to remove environmental and coBuilder and ProductXchange. In Finland requires choosing material that can be health hazardous substances in construcTUKES (Finnish Safety and Chemicals reused and meets Peab’s function and tion and civil engineering has been ongoing Agency) safety sheets are used to ensure quality demands as well as choosing techfor many years. Despite broad cooperation that products used in production comply nical solutions that facilitate dismantling. in the industry there are still dangerous with current legislation. Mass material is a prioritized area in substances on the market and new ones During the year Peab’s Swedish indusPeab’s civil engineering operations. keep coming. Peab intends to intensify the try and civil engineering businesses have A couple of the major challenges are mass work since we want to be able to offer inventoried chemical products and regismaterial and logistics optimization of the healthy and sound indoor and outdoor envitered them in the chemical management vast amounts of material in varying quality ronments. This is why Peab is also active in system iChemistry, which, among other and characteristics being moved around industry initiatives to phase out hazardous things, provides access to all information and in between projects. Excess material substances. Focus lies on choosing the about the products electronically. Future occurs in many projects which, depending right material and on traceability. If there work will be focused on risk assessment on how it can be handled, can be classed are no good alternatives and the company and phasing out hazardous chemical either as waste or a resource. During the needs to use less suitable substances they products. year Peab has established instructions for have to be traceable. a way to handle mass material that occurs, is received or leaves a construction site. Proactive phasing-out This way Peab can reduce the spread of In order to drive the development of prod28 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Contents Social Engagement Social engagement for future growth As a community builder Peab has both cases Peab partners’) construction and civil accepted some 500 trainees. Every year a the responsibility and the opportunity engineering sites under the tutelage of number of students from colleges and to contribute to society. Peab adopted craftsmen who are trained instructors. universities do their thesis at Peab. The goals in the following three areas for Peab’s instructor training has been students are given the opportunity to social engagement in 2015: educating acknowledged by the Swedish Schools immerse themselves in an area of interest young people, local community buildInspectorate for its high level of quality and to themselves and Peab, and at the same ing projects and mentoring. With a ambition. The instructors act as mentors time the two get to know each other. The clearer focus and based on core operawhile the students are in school and conresult is that about half the students tions our efforts can contribute to the tinue to be very important as the youths become employees at Peab after completing company and the community – investturn into adults and start their careers. their theses. In 2015 14 theses were carried ing in our youth is investing in our Work on developing the schools with out in Sweden. Another 14 theses were future growth. The refugee situation the goal “Best school – Best journey”, carried out in Finland where Peab’s guidcharacterized 2015 and Peab decided where every student has the chance to ance of students from Tampere Technical to work for greater integration. make their best journey in development, University and Metropolia University of continues. One of the challenges is to Applied Sciences continues. EDUCATING YOUNG PEOPLE engage more female students in the conLOCAL COMMUNITY Commitment to educating young people struction and civil engineering industry. The BUILDING PROJECTS and the need for future skilled workers has Peab School in Ängelholm was nominated Peab is a big employer with strong local been the foundation of Peab’s independent to SIQ’s quality award Better School 2015 roots. Whatever Peab constructs affects upper secondary school, the Peab School, for its genuine, systematic quality work. The the labor market and people’s everyday since the first one opened in 2006. The former student and Peab School fellow lives in both big and small towns and this Peab School offers an upper secondary Linda Löfvendahl was named Annual Road opens the door to broadening our engageschool construction and civil engineering and Civil Engineering Apprentice 2015 by ment. Norwegian Utøya is a good illustraprogram in five schools in five towns the Construction Industry Training Board tion of how Peab wants to take our responinvolving around 450 students and nearly (BYN). Peab schools are industry recomsibility for the community, in this case by 50 employees in total. Every year a number mended by BYN. building up long-term partnerships that both of spots are earmarked for students with the Peab School and the Norwegian Labor incomplete compulsory school grades. Training and thesis work Party Youth League (AUF) learn from and In addition to the national program Peab Training is the first step to getting a job for where both parties are winners. schools also offer introduction programs many young people. Peab accepts trainees Since the autumn of 2011 Peab and the such as the Vocational introduction. from industry-related educational programs Peab School has been active in rebuilding The students’ worksite placed learning as well as taking on skilled workers in Utøya. Together with AUF, students from (APL) takes place at Peab’s (in certain training. In the summer of 2015 Peab the Peab School have built and renovated Sustainability on several levels in the Peab office building Lyckholms Peab’s newly constructed office building on the historic Lyckholms plot in southern Gothenburg was completed in the spring of 2015. Here sustainability has truly been in focus. The building is not only now certified according to BREEAM but environmental impact under construction and on the surroundings in the longer perspective has been minimized. Energy conservation, a good indoor climate and sustainable material choices are some of the ways this is evident. Before moving from the old offices there was a discussion about what to do with the old furniture. Could it be reused in some way? Via the company reCreate Design Co a number of aid organizations were identified. The furniture, which would have otherwise been thrown away, was donated to around 15 different aid organizations and is being used in places like Queen Silvia Children’s Hospital, Ågrenska and families in Romania. PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 29 Contents Social Engagement buildings and improved other facilities at the summer camp. New training weeks Everyone different with students in their first year at the Peab School. Several Peab ”theI have been lucky and best luck I’ve had were held in the spring and summer of employees have become mentors to young 2015 and together with co-workers from people between the ages of 13-17. Some of was getting into the Peab ” Peab’s Norwegian operations the students them have even chosen to get involved as worked to make it possible for the island a Job Mentor. Through engagement in Job School. Abbe Abduallahi Wahelye, Previous student at the Peab School camp to open its doors again. Mentoring Peab has contributed to inspiring When Utøya was rededicated in August 1,250 youths in their choice of education In order to more rapidly and better make the Peab School’s representative presented and future career. use of immigrants’ skills and experience a cabin built by students to illustrate the Peab has signed a letter of intent with the long-term partnership formed at Utøya that NEW SPONSORING POLICY Swedish Employment Service stating our will be continually developed. The support Peab’s sponsoring policy was reviewed ambition to during a three-year period give to Utøya gives a lot back: the students during the year which resulted in the adopat least 100 newly arrived refugees employdevelop their craftsmen skills at the same tion of a new policy in December 2015. The ment, a trainee spot or make an assesstime they receive an education in fundapurpose was to even more tightly tie sponment of their skills. The letter of intent is mental values on a present day historical soring to taking responsibility for the aimed at creating a far-reaching and strasite. Taking young people to such a dramatic community and young people. The policy tegic link between the immigrants coming environment is a serious responsi­bility and establishes that the focus of sponsoring to live in Sweden and Peab’s skills supply. the training is safeguarded by counselor should be on meaningful free time for There is a shortage of skilled workers in support, many teachers and time to talk youths which comprises both sports and many areas of construction and since the about the experience. Students who have cultural pursuits. Activities that promote need to recruit is growing there is a risk that participated tell how they grew and learned integration, equality and diversity are priorthis will dampen growth. By utilizing the lessons for life. itized. Peab’s sponsoring should support skills of immigrants this investment can aid Peab’s vision and business goals and have integration in society as well as diversity MENTORING a local connection. New in the policy is the and growth in the construction industry. Peab has been collaborating with the requirement that the sponsored associaIn the autumn of 2015 the decision was Mentor Sweden Foundation for years. tions sign a partner profile that emphasizes made to start the new course Language Mentor Sweden is a nonprofit organization the value foundation of social and ethical introduction for 100 newly arrived youths at that strives to provide young people with responsibility Peab expects. The sponthe Peab School in Gothenburg. Language self-esteem and the strength to grow. The soring policy can be summarized into four introduction is a two year course consisting purpose is to support them in making posiareas presented in the facts box below. of classes in the Swedish language, Swedtive decisions and resisting violence and ish society orientation and several other drugs. This is achieved in part through MIGRATION AND INTEGRATION grade school subjects. Peab School’s mentoring. In addition the foundation From a global perspective the growing previous experience of unaccompanied arranges a number of other activities like international migration is a challenge, not refugee youths and expertise in areas like cooperation between schools and courses just because of the extent of it but the way in special pedagogics match this mission well. for both youths and their parents. which it is taking place. At the same time it The objective is for the students to be In 2015 Mentor Sweden held eight creates new opportunities for communities. approved to enter the education system. parental seminars and four popular workPeab has chosen to work for greater inteHopefully some of them will choose a future shops on the theme Everyone equal – gration and positive societal development. in construction or civil engineering. Tying sponsoring to taking responsibility for our youth We at Peab engage locally as community builders We at Peab engage long-term in young people’s education We at Peab engage in providing youths with active free time and good leadership We at Peab engage in young entrepreneurship 30 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Contents Social Engagement Peab School gave Abbe and Ali hope for the future Abbe Abduallahi Wahelye and Ali Yusefi were both unaccompanied refugee youths. Abbe came to Sweden in 2009 after fleeing for more than a year from civil war in Somalia through Ethiopia, Sudan and Libya to a hardly seaworthy rubber boat across the Mediterranean to Europe. At 15 years of age Abbe came to Malmö where he applied for asylum. It was tough in the beginning. He was alone, didn’t understand the language and unsure if he was going to be permitted to stay in Sweden. In time Abbe found his way to the Peab School. “I have been lucky and the best luck I’ve had was getting into the Peab School,” says Abbe. Now he has graduated, gotten a job as an apprentice in Peab’s civil engineering operations and feels more and more at home in Swedish society. Ali was 13 when he came from Afghanistan to Sweden in 2011 after having fled the Taliban. In 2014 he applied to the Peab School even though he didn’t have a diploma from grade school. “I liked construction so I explained that I thought I could manage both school and Swedish.” Ali is now 17 years old, goes to the Peab School and is really happy. His ambition is to become a construction engineer. “You can have a much better future if you study,” says Ali. Learning Swedish has been essential, Abbe and Ali agree. “The language is the key into Swedish society!” exclaims Abbe. About The Peab School A total of 619 students have graduated from The Peab School system since it started in 2006. In 2015 129 students graduated. In 2015 84 percent of the students received a complete degree. The figure also includes the students that had not graduated from grade school when they came to a Peab School. There are 401 applicants to The Peab School system for the 144 places available in the fall term of 2016. PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 31 Contents Active memberships Active memberships ASIS INTERNATIONAL uting to the development of nearly zero-­ SWEDISH CONSTRUCTION ASIS is a non-profit-making organisation for energy municipal service buildings. The FEDERATION (BI) safety managers and other managers in the project is led by Tampere University of The Swedish Construction Federation (BI) is field of safety. ASIS makes sure that safety Technology. Several universities and the industry and employers’ organisation for management is acknowledged as a profession municipalities participate in the work as a the construction industry, with around 3,200 by the industry, media authorities and the step in achieving EU 2020 energy efficiency member companies. BI’s purpose is to promote general public. Peab is a member. targets. the common interests of its member companies as employers and traders in the construction BASTA CONFEDERATION OF SWEDISH industry. Peab holds the position of Chair at BASTA is an industry-wide system that aims to ENTERPRISE’S SAFETY BI and has representatives on many of BI’s phase out hazardous substances. Peab particiDELEGATION councils/committees, including the Energy and pates in BASTA's science council. A network for profitable risk management. Environment Council and the working environThe office is at the Confederation of Swedish ment reference group. BEAST Enterprise. Peab is a member and has also BEAst is a Swedish acronym for the Construcmade presentations and member meetings. SWEDISH PRECAST CONCRETE tion and Property Industry's Electronic Business FEDERATION Standard, and at present there are just over 90 DEVELOPMENT FUND OF THE The Swedish Precast Concrete Federation is SWEDISH CONSTRUCTION a meeting place for those who manufacture members. It is a meeting place for anything to INDUSTRY (SBUF) concrete and those who build with it. The do with e-commerce B2B, web solutions and SBUF is the construction industry’s own organiSwedish Precast Concrete Federation is a e-communication in the industry. A representasation for research and development, with provider of knowledge that lobbies for the tive from Peab is Chair of the Board at BEAst. almost 5,000 affiliated companies in Sweden. benefits of concrete from a life cycle perspective. SBUF strives to develop the construction Peab is represented on the Board and in all BIM ALLIANCE process in order to create better commercial committees. BIM Alliance is a non-profit-making organisation conditions for contractors and fitters to make that works for improved community building SWEDEN GREEN BUILDING use of research and to drive development work. through BIM (Building Information Modeling) – COUNCIL (SGBC) Peab is represented on the Board and a digital structured information management – by SGBC is a non-profit-making association couple of the committees, and holds the creating networks and disseminating informaowned by its members, open to all companies position of Chair. tion, as well as developing tools and support. and organisations in the Swedish construction The members consist of a number of different GALAXEN BYGG and property sector. The association strives to players within the community building sector, Galaxen Bygg is the construction sector’s own achieve green construction and to develop and including Peab. company for preventive work on the working influence work on the environment and sustainenvironment and rehabilitation. Peab is repreability in the industry. Peab is involved in most of BRAINS & BRICKS sented on the Board of Galaxen, Galaxen the SGBC's committees. Peab is also a member Brains & Bricks – B2 – is a centre of excellence of the Norwegian (NGBC) and Finnish (FIGBC) Council East, as well as in Galaxen’s school that focuses on flows of materials and informaGreen Building Councils. group. tion, as well as support for decision-making and planning, to create the conditions for a cost-­ LIFT OPERATOR UN GLOBAL COMPACT efficient construction industry. It is a joint initiaTRAINING COUNCIL (LUR) Peab signed the UN Global Compact in 2012, tive set up by Peab, Linköping University and Peab is a member of LUR, which is an indeand is working strategically with the ten princiKatrineholm Municipality. pendent body responsible for the content and ples of sustainable business in the areas of development of LLP (Lift Operator Curriculum). human rights, labour, the environment and BYGGVARUBEDÖMNINGEN (BVB) LUR authorises lift operator training companies anti-corruption. BVB performs assessments of building products that commit to observe LLP and LUR’s terms from a life cycle perspective. Peab is responand conditions. sible for the system's criteria group. SVEBY CENTRE FOR MANAGEMENT OF Sveby is a Swedish acronym for Standardise BUILT ENVIRONMENT (CMB) and verify energy performance in buildings, and CMB was formed as a collaboration between is an industry-wide programme that develops Chalmers University of Technology and the tools for agreements on energy utilisation. Swedish community building sector, and it is Peab is involved as a financier and is in the now Sweden's biggest forum for management-­ steering group. related issues in the field of community building. Peab is a member of many of the CMB's SWEDISH ASSOCIATION FOR committees. One representative from Peab is a SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS (NMC) member of the BIM Management Group. NMC is a non-profit-making organisation for companies and organisations that wish to CLEAN SOIL NETWORK improve and stimulate work on sustainable The Clean Soil Network is a non-profit-making development. The association offers a organisation that aims to promote development cross-­industry platform and strives to share in the remediation of contamination in soil and knowledge, contacts and experiences water. The aim is to create greater contact between companies and organisations. between different groups in society that are Peab is a member. affected by the issue, to promote current issues and to collaborate with Nordic and European SWEDISH CENTRE FOR INNOVATION networks. Peab is a corporate member. AND QUALITY IN THE BUILT ENVIRONMENT COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT The Swedish Centre for Innovation and Quality OF NEARLY ZERO-ENERGY MUNICIin the Built Environment is a node and a cataPAL SERVICE BUILDINGS (COMBI) lyst for research, innovation and quality develIn Finland Peab is participating in research opment in the building of communities. Peab is project COMBI for the purpose of contribrepresented on the Board. 32 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Contents Glossary Glossary AFS 2001:1 COP ISO 26000 The Swedish Work Environment Authority’s Code of Communication on Progress, an annual follow-up An international standard with guidelines for social Statutes on systematic work on the working environment. that the UN Global Compact requires of its members responsibility. in which they report on the work they have carried BASTA LED LAMPS out in the areas of human rights, Labour, the environSee explanation under active memberships. ment and anti-corruption. LED stands for Light-Emitting Diode, an energy-­ efficient light source. BREEAM COP The Building Research Establishment Environmental LEED The UN Climate Change Conference in Paris in 2015 Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design Assessment Method is an environmental certification (COP21) took place between November 30 and system for buildings. is a system for the environmental certification of December 12 in Paris. It was the 21st yearly session buildings. BVB of the Conference of the Parties (COP) to the 1992 UN Framework Convention on Climate Change MILJÖBYGGNAD See explanation under active memberships. (UNFCCC). Certification system based on Swedish construction BYGGNADS and authority rules as well as Swedish construction The Swedish Construction Workers' Union is a trade GREEN BUILDING practice regarding energy, indoor environment and union for employees in the construction business. EU-controlled environmental programme for materials. buildings. CDP OHSAS 18001 CDP, previously known as the Carbon Disclosure GRI An international standard that defines requirements Project, is an international non-profit organization that The Global Reporting Initiative is an international relating to working environment management provides a global system for climate and environframework for sustainability reporting. systems. mental reporting. CDP works together with among SCI others market players to motivate companies to HAMARE Case officer in issues relating to the working Satisfied Customer Index. present their impact on the environment and natural resources, and then act to reduce it. environment, trade union position. SIQ Abbreviation for the Swedish Institute for Quality. CEEQUAL HVO100 A tool used to classify the sustainability of civil HVO100 is a fuel type made up by 100 percent THE SWAN engineering projects. renewable and fossil-fre diesel that reduces carbon A Nordic ecolabel for products and services, dioxide emissions by up to 88 percent. including buildings. C0 2 ISO TUKES Chemical name for greenhouse gas carbon dioxide. The Finnish Safety and Chemicals Agency. ISO stands for International Organization for COBUILDER/PRODUCTXCHANGE Standardization. UN GLOBAL COMPACT An electronic system for choosing chemicals in the See explanation under active memberships. construction industry based on authority requirements ISO 9001 in Norway. A quality management system. COMBI ISO 14001 See explanation under active memberships. An environmental management system. Global Compact principles and page references Area Principles Page Human rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 20-23 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 16-23 Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective 16-23 bargaining; 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 20-23 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and 20-23 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 16-23 Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 24-28 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 24-28 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 24-28 Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 22-23 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 33 Contents GRI Index GRI Index General standard disclosures Full or Indi­cator Description Page partial Omission STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Statement from the CEO about the relevance of sustainable development. 4-5 ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 The name of the organisation. 6 G4-4 The most important brands, products and services. 6-8 G4-5 Location of the organisation’s head office. 2 G4-6 The number of countries where the organisation operates, and names of countries where either the 2 organisation has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to sustainable development. G4-7 Ownership structure and legal form. 2, 10 G4-8 Markets in which the organisation operates. 2, 6-9 G4-9 The scale of the organisation. 2, 6-9, 17 G4-10 Total workforce, broken down by type of employment, gender and region. 17 Omission: As subcontractors are engaged for individual projects, i.e. not on a regular basis, we have chosen not to include subcontractors in the workforce statistics. G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 16 G4-12 Describe the organisation's supply chain. 20-22 G4-13 Significant changes regarding the organisation’s size, structure, ownership or supply chain. 2, 4-9, 20-22 G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary principle is applied in the organisation. 24 G4-15 External economic, environmental and social principles, and standards to which the organisation 4-5, 14, 32 subscribes or which it endorses. G4-16 List of active memberships of organisations. 32 MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 List all entities included in the financial statements. 8 G4-18 Processes for defining the content of the report. 12-14 G4-19 List all material aspects identified. 12-14 G4-20 Describe any internal boundaries in the area of sustainability. 12-14 G4-21 Report whether the sustainability aspects are material and their external boundaries. 12-14 G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for 2-31 such restatement. G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries. 2, 12-14 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 List the stakeholder groups with which the organisation has contact. 6-7, 12-14 G4-25 Principle for identification and selection of stakeholders. 12-14 G4-26 Method of stakeholder dialogue, broken down by type of dialogue, stakeholder group and frequency. 12-14 G4-27 Report key topics that have been raised through stakeholder engagement. 12-14 Information about the report G4-28 Reporting period for the information provided. 2 G4-29 Date of publication of the most recent report. 2 G4-30 Reporting cycle (annual/biannual, etc.). 2 G4-31 Contact persons for questions regarding the report and its content. 2 G4-32 GRI Index. 34-35 G4-33 Policy and current application in respect of having the report attested externally. 2 GOVERNANCE G4-34 Report the governance structure of the organisation, including committees of the highest governance 10-11 body that are responsible for economic, environmental and social issues. ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Describe the organisation's values and principles, e.g. a code of conduct or similar. 6-9, 22-23 Full = Partial = 34 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Contents G R I o c h F N G l o b aGl R C Io mI npdaecxt i n d e x Specific standard disclosures Material aspects – Full or GRI definition Indicator Description Page partial Omission SOCIAL INDICATORS Occupational health and G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach. 14, 16-19 safety G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker 16 health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absen16-17 teeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender. G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or risk of diseases related to their occupation. 17 Training and education G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach. 14, 18-19 G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee 19 category. G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career develop18 ment reviews, by gender and by employee category. Diversity and equal oppG4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach. 14, 19 ortunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee 10-11 category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Omission: Minority groups are not reported in accordance with Swedish law. Equal remuneration for G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach. 14, 19 women and men G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, 19 by significant locations of operation. Anti-corruption G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach. 14, 22-23 G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures. 22-23 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken. 23 Anti-competitive G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach. 14, 23 behavior G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and mono23 poly practices and their outcomes. Product and service G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach. 14, 20 labeling G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. 20 ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS Materials G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach. 14, 26-28 G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. 28 Omission: Data is provided for part of our operations. Energy G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach. 14, 24-26 G4-EN3 Energy consumption. 24-25 Omission: The statistics cover fuel consumption and electricity usage in Sweden and to some extent Finland. G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption. 24-26 Biodiversity G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach. 14, 26 G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored. 26 Emissions G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach. 14, 24-26 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions, scope 1. 24 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas emissions, scope 2. 24 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions, scope 3. 24 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. 24-26 Effluents and waste G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach. 14, 26-28 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 28 Omission: Data is provided for part of our operations. Products and services G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach. 14, 24-28 G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services. 24-28 SECTOR SPECIFIC INDICATORS Product and service G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach. 14, 24-25 labeling CRE8 Type and number of sustainability certification, rating and labeling schemes for 24-25 new construction, management, occupation and redevelopment. Full = Partial = PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 35 Contents Peab is the Nordic Community Builder with more than 13,000 employees and net sales in excess of SEK 44 billion. The Group’s subsidiaries have strategically located offices in Sweden, Norway and Finland. The head office is in Förslöv, on the Bjäre Peninsula in Skåne, Sweden. The share is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm, Large Cap. Peab AB (publ) • Margretetorpsvägen 84 • SE-269 73 Förslöv • Tel +46 431-890 00 www.rhr.se peab.com
