2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT BMW BRILLIANCE AUTOMOTIVE LTD. CONTENTS CONTENTS INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Preface 3 1.1 Our management approach 10 2.1 Our management approach 39 Our point of view 4 1.2 Stakeholder engagement 16 2.2 Efficient mobility 44 Highlights 2015 5 1.3 Compliance, anti-corruption and 18 2.3 Product safety 48 An overview of BMW Brilliance 6 human rights 2.4 Customer satisfaction 51 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT EMPLOYEES 3.1 Our management approach 57 4.1 Our management approach 72 5.1 Our management approach 87 3.2 Energy consumption and emissions 59 4.2 Minimising supplier risk 77 5.2 Attractive employer 90 3.3 Waste reduction 63 4.3 Utilising supplier opportunities 83 5.3 Occupational health and safety 96 3.4 Water 68 5.4 Training and development 99 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP APPENDIX 6.1 Our management approach 107 7.1 About this report 120 6.2 Corporate citizenship 112 7.2 UN Global Compact index 121 7.3 GRI G4 content index 125 2 PREFACE Next, a further step in developing China’s very own new energy vehicle brand. In the future, we will expand our offering of locally developed, produced and environmentally friendly premium vehicles for our Chinese customers. Digitalisation is an important driver for sustainability. We are developing new solutions for intelligent mobility AT BMW BRILLIANCE, WE SEE SUSTAINABILITY AS products and services. At the same time, we are increasing the quality of our products, as well as the speed A KEY TO OUR CONTINUOUS SUCCESS IN CHINA. and resource efficiency of our processes, thanks to intelligent data management. Furthermore, collaborative robot systems in our production facilities are improving workplace ergonomics by reducing the amount of physically strenuous tasks for our workforce. The collaborative efforts and passion of our employees create real benefits for BMW Brilliance. We offer exciting opportunities for local and international talent and we continuously invest in further employee developDr. Anton Heiss ment and human resources management. This makes us one of the most attractive employers in the Chinese President and CEO automotive industry. BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. Sustainable mobility with regard to electrification may only advance if the right infrastructure is developed. We have actively engaged in tackling this challenge, collaborating with different partners to provide the best Our vision is to deliver a premium customer experience through desirable products and services, passionate possible solutions. In addition to offering our electric vehicle and plug-in hybrid customers individual charging employees and committed partners. To achieve this, we embed sustainability in our business strategy and stations at their homes, we are involved in building a public charging infrastructure. across our value chain, from our production processes through to our products. Sustainability is also integral to the way we engage with people, both internally and externally. We are also proud of our long-lasting contribution to social initiatives through our Corporate Citizenship projects. Our prize-winning BMW China Culture Journey programme, for example, has taken us across 21 muOur STARS strategy, which we introduced in 2014, reflects this approach. It focuses not only on the susnicipalities and provinces over the past nine years, and channelled donations to 90 heritage sites and related tainability of our business model and our products, but also on our engagement with employees, customers research initiatives. Since 2005, our BMW Children’s Traffic Safety Education programme has reached 63 and investors. With this new strategy, we are able to respond to the more moderate growth of the Chinese cities and benefited 390,000 children. economy, the “New Normal”. We also remain committed to the principles of the UN Global Compact, which we joined in 2014. In 2016, the BMW Group celebrates one hundred years of history. As part of the BMW Group, BMW Brilliance looks toward the future with confidence. We will continue to act responsibly by integrating sustainability into 2015 was an exciting year for BMW Brilliance. In January, we celebrated the one-millionth car rolling off the everything we do – and by creating innovative products and services for our customers. production line at our Tiexi plant in Shenyang. This important milestone demonstrates just how far we have come since our founding in 2003. We continued to advance our North Extension project at the Dadong plant and we broke ground for the High Voltage Battery Centre and for our Research and Development Centre Phase 2. We also finalised the construction of our new engine plant, which was ready to begin production in January 2016. These steps reflect our ongoing commitment to the Chinese market and to local development Dr. Anton Heiss and production. President and CEO BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. We believe that innovation towards sustainability is an investment in the future of our business. Therefore, our research focuses on developing new energy vehicles. The success of our local development efforts was clearly visible in 2015: we introduced the BMW 530Le plug-in hybrid and presented the ZINORO Concept 3 Our point of view I INTRODUCTION Dr. Robert Engelhorn Lei Xiaoyang Jochen Goller David Shangguan Senior Vice President Senior Vice President Senior Vice President Senior Vice President Technology and Manufacturing Finance Sales and Marketing Human Resources Given the environmental challenges we are facing Investing in sustainability brings positive results to Offering the best possible products and services to BWM Brilliance’s business has expanded at a rapid on a global scale, a focus on clean production and our triple bottom line. Increasing the eco-efficiency our customers is the core of our business. We are pace due to our commitment to local production products with a reduced environmental impact is of our product line and introducing sustainable improving our aftersales services by introducing a and procurement. This expansion emphasises the essential for BMW Brilliance. As we expand our mobility services is crucial for our licence to new strategy that will allow our dealers to better importance of skilled employees to the company. production, we use state-of-the-art technologies operate and will determine our future business satisfy the needs of our customers. The growing We are proud to be one of the most attractive at our plants, we work on creating closed loops for success. Reducing the environmental impacts network of 5S dealerships in China is increasing employers in the Chinese automotive industry. This the resources we use, and we focus on increasing of our production and our resource consumption the sustainability focus of the services we provide helps us to engage the best talent and to maintain a production efficiency. In 2015, we implemented results in lower operating costs. For us it is clear to our customers. We also promote new energy high level of employee satisfaction. Our skilled and several state-of-the-art technologies, for example a that integrating sustainability into our strategy is vehicles, not only through our range of plugmotivated workforce is the basis for our financial “steam to gas” project at the Dadong plant. These indispensable for BMW Brilliance’s success in the in hybrid and electric vehicles, but also through success, but also a main driver for our sustainability. contributed to reducing our energy consumption “New Normal” and contributes positively to our new collaborations and business models: carAfter all, the only way for a sustainability strategy to from heating by over 10,000 megawatt-hours, a financial performance. sharing services in Beijing and Shanghai now be successful is if it is lived and implemented in our 6.6% reduction compared to the previous year. feature our electric vehicles, expanding the reach daily work. of the ZINORO brand and increasing consumer acceptance and trust in new energy vehicles. 4 Highlights 2015 I INTRODUCTION HIGHLIGHTS MAY 2015 Broke ground at Research and Development Centre Phase 2 JANUARY SEPTEMBER Celebrated one-millionth car Launched ChargeNowTM in China rolling off the production line MARCH OCTOBER Broke ground at High Voltage Production of 700,000th engine at Battery Centre the Powertrain plant APRIL DECEMBER Presented ZINORO Concept Introduced the ZINORO 1E Next at Auto Shanghai 2015 to a car-sharing service in collaboration with Shanghai International Auto City 5 An overview of BMW Brilliance I INTRODUCTION AN OVERVIEW OF BMW BRILLIANCE BMW Training Centre Finance Dealer Development Human Resources Government Affairs Production Public Relations The Academy of BMW Group China Regional Distribution Centre OUR HISTORY Regional Office Sales/Marketing/Aftersales 2003: Founding of the company, a joint venture of the final parent companies The Academy of BMW Group China Bayerische Motoren Werke Aktiengesellschaft and Brilliance China Automotive Holdings Limited. Shenyang Beijing OUR PRESENT BMW Training Centre We are the leading provider of premium vehicles and services in China. BMW Training Centre Regional Distribution Centre Xi’an Regional Office OUR VISION We sustainably deliver a premium customer experience through desirable Chengdu Shanghai products and services, passionate associates and committed partners. Hangzhou Regional Office Regional Distribution Centre Guangzhou Regional Office Foshan Regional Distribution Centre BMW Training Centre Regional Office 6 An overview of BMW Brilliance I INTRODUCTION AN OVERVIEW OF BMW BRILLIANCE CARS PRODUCED 2015: 288,055 2014: 287,780 Complete vehicle plants in New engine plant in Tiexi Authorised dealer Dadong and Tiexi (start of production 2016) outlets nationwide FLEET CO2 EMISSIONS 2015: 165.4 g/km 2014: 168.0 g/km FLEET FUEL CONSUMPTION BMW Training Centres Training bases Training spots 2015: 6.95 l/100 km 2014: 7.06 l/100 km EMPLOYEES 2015: 16,573 BMW Parts Distribution 2014: 15,257 Centres 7 An overview of BMW Brilliance I INTRODUCTION OUR PRODUCTS BMW 5 SERIES BMW 3 SERIES BMW X1 Long Wheelbase Long Wheelbase and standard version ZINORO 1E BMW 2 SERIES BMW 4-CYLINDER ENGINE BMW 3-CYLINDER ENGINE Tourer (start of production 2016) (start of production 2016) 8 An overview of BMW Brilliance I INTRODUCTION Our Dadong plant as seen from the north. A northern view of our new engine plant. Founded in May 2003, BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. is a joint venture of the final parent companies Bayerische Motoren Werke Aktiengesellschaft and Brilliance China Automotive Holdings Limited. Its operations include production, sales and aftersales services of BMW and ZINORO automobiles. Situated in Shenyang, Liaoning Province, BMW Brilliance has over 16,500 employees and a nationwide sales and service network. We are continuously adding new energy vehicles to our model range. This allows us to contribute directly to China’s national target of reducing industrial average fuel consumption to 5.0 litres of petrol per 100 kilometres by 2020. In 2015, BMW Brilliance’s corporate average fuel consumption was 6.95 litres of petrol per 100 kilometres (2014: 7.06 litres per 100 kilometres). This positions us again as number one in the national ranking of the fleet fuel consumption achievement rate among 90 local manufacturers, according to the 2015 corporate average fuel consumption report of the Chinese authorities. The joint venture contract between BMW AG and Brilliance China Automotive Holdings Limited was successfully extended until 2028, which underscores the harmonious collaboration between the A view of the Tiexi plant from a western angle. shareholders and BMW Brilliance’s commitment to the future. 9 An overview of BMW Brilliance I INTRODUCTION BMW BRILLIANCE KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Change to Change to previous previous 2013 2014 2015 year 2013 2014 2015 year BMW Brilliance activities Suppliers Automobiles produced (units) 214,978 287,780 288,055 0.1% Purchasing volume in China (in billion CNY) 17.9 23.9 23.5 −1.7% Automobiles delivered (units) 206,729 278,637 287,448 3.2% Number of authorised dealer outlets nationwide 420 460 515 12.0% Employees Number of dealers with 5S certification 28 35 39 11.4% Workforce at year-end 13,024 15,257 16,573 8.6% Attrition rate (% of workforce) 6.8% 6.8% 3.8% −44.1% Product responsibility Share of female employees (in %) 11.9% 12.3% 11.8% −4.1% CO2 emissions of BMW Brilliance automobiles (in g/km) 174 168 165.4 −1.5% Average days of further training per employee 3.2 3.4 2.2 −34.9% Fleet fuel consumption (in l/100 km) 7.30 7.06 6.95 −1.6% Accident frequency rate* 0.92 0.82 1.06 29.3% * Calculated by the number of accidents with one day lost time or more, multiplied by one million hours worked, divided by total working hours of the month. Environmental protection Energy consumption per unit produced (in MWh/unit) 2.06 1.67 1.66 −0.6% Corporate Citizenship CO2 emissions per unit produced (in t/unit) 1.10 0.97 0.88 −9.3% Number of employees and customers who participated in 50,000 65,000 80,000 23.1% Warm Heart activities* Water consumption per unit produced (in m3/unit) 2.72 2.18 2.18 −0.2% Number of people benefiting from Warm Heart activities* 70,000 91,000 100,400 10.3% Process wastewater per unit produced (in m3/unit) 0.50 0.47 0.46 −1.9% * Warm Heart activities include activities organised by BMW entities in China under the Warm Heart banner as well as activities carried out separately by the BMW Warm Heart Customer Clubs. These figures are cumulative. Waste for disposal per unit produced (in kg/unit) 4.41 5.67 9.17 61.8% Volatile organic compounds (VOC) per unit produced (in 3.52 0.48 0.45 −5.3% Tables contain rounded data. kg/unit) 10 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 1.1 Our management approach 1.2 Stakeholder engagement 1.3 Compliance, anti-corruption and human rights Introduction STAKEHOLDER STATEMENT: Ensuring long-term business success through sustainability 1 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 1.1 Our management approach 1.2 Stakeholder engagement 1.3 Compliance, anti-corruption and human rights 2 Dr. Annett Richter PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Head of Health & Work Environment, BMW Brilliance 3 Today, sustainability is a key issue in the automotive industry and future What were the major sustainability highlights for BMW Brilliance in 2015? ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION mobility sector. How do you rate the sustainability performance of BMW 2015 marked a significant new milestone for BMW Brilliance. We celebrated the 4 Brilliance in the Chinese context? one-millionth locally manufactured car rolling off the production line in Shenyang – SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT BMW Brilliance is one of the sustainability leaders in China and a performance in China and for China. With the new engine plant in Tiexi and the North Extension benchmark for other companies. BMW Brilliance was ranked number one again project in Dadong, we are demonstrating our strong confidence in China, now the 5 among 90 local manufacturers in the national fuel consumption achievement report, largest single market within the BMW Group. We are dedicated to introducing the EMPLOYEES with an average fleet fuel consumption value of 6.95 l/100 km in 2015. We are also latest new energy vehicles to the market and offering comprehensive charging pioneering in exploring new approaches. solutions to our customers. By doing so, we are contributing to the sustainable 6 mobility of the future and the ongoing growth and development of BMW Brilliance CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP Where do you see the added value of sustainability for BMW Brilliance? in China. 7 Public perceptions of sustainability in China are increasingly similar to those in other APPENDIX key markets of the BMW Group. For example, key issues include air pollution in cities and quality of the working environment. Being a leader in fleet-wide average fuel consumption and offering excellent working conditions is critical for the overall business success of BMW Brilliance. In order to meet the challenges of sustainable development in the ever-evolving Chinese business environment, along with the growing expectations of our stakeholders, we strive to incorporate sustainability throughout our entire value chain. 12 Introduction 1.1 1 Our management approach SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Sustainability management is an investment in our future success and We are convinced that sustainability challenges, such as urbanisation 1.1 Our management approach long-term viability. Financial indicators, the level of integration into or climate change, provide opportunities for innovation and further 1.2 Stakeholder engagement society and our environmental impacts are measures of our business development at BMW Brilliance. To fully embrace and seize these success. Managing our social and environmental responsibility opportunities, sustainability is one of the five pillars of our business 1.3 Compliance, anti-corruption is integral to the way we do business. We believe future leaders strategy – a key aspect that drives our vision. and human rights of our industry will be manufacturers who integrate sustainability throughout their value chain. We are therefore convinced that the 2 lasting economic success of any enterprise will be based increasingly PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY on acting responsibly. 3 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 4 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 5 EMPLOYEES 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 7 APPENDIX A workshop discussion on the current status of the Value-added Production System (VPS). 13 VISION AND GOALS OF BMW BRILLIANCE Introduction 1 VISION BMW Brilliance sustainably delivers a premium customer experience SUSTAINABILITY through desirable products and services, passionate associates and MANAGEMENT committed partners. 1.1 Our management approach 1.2 Stakeholder engagement 1.3 Compliance, anti-corruption GOALS: “5 STARS” and human rights ASSOCIATES Develop people, organisation and enablers. 2 TOP QUALITY PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Manage growth and complexity. 3 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION RETURN Generate returns on investments. 4 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 5 EMPLOYEES 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 7 APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY SATISFACTION Build an innovative and sustainable Deliver personalised services to Chinese business. customers and dealers. 14 Goals Further strategic development in 2015 Introduction The first letters of our goals form the acronym “STARS”, making it emotionally While the Chinese market remains challenging in light of the “New Normal” inspiring and easy to remember: economy, BMW Brilliance maintains its pioneering attitude and down-to-earth 1 style. In 2015, to realise our vision, we further defined our ambitions, internal responsibilities, measures and key performance indicators. SUSTAINABILITY Satisfaction MANAGEMENT We deliver personalised services to customers and dealers, achieving the Within our “Vision and Goals” framework, the Board of Management prioritised highest customer and dealer satisfaction. We aim to redefine premium ten topics to guide the implementation of the corporate strategy in 2015. The standards in China and maintain our position as the most recognised 1.1 Our management approach ten topics were identified as the most urgent tasks we need to focus on over premium brand. 1.2 Stakeholder engagement the next one to two years, including: dealer profitability, building competency and cost effectiveness, etc. A set of initiatives were implemented for each area. On 1.3 Compliance, anti-corruption Top quality and human rights a regular basis we report to the Board of Management on the progress of these We manage growth and complexity, delivering our products and services priorities, which helps to ensure we are focusing on the right operational tasks, with top quality. We will deliver the right car to the right customer at the right enhancing our competitive position, and moving toward our vision and goals. time and with the right quality by applying “zero defect” value chain process 2 management. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY In 2015, we incorporated sustainability targets into our Balanced Scorecard and integrated sustainability issues into all aspects of our business. The new targets Associates 3 relate foremost to environment, health and safety issues. We develop our people, organisation and enablers, ensuring that we have ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION the competencies for future growth. We believe that this is the foundation 4 to achieving our 5 STARS goals and realising our vision. SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT Return 5 We grow together with our shareholders and partners, generating returns EMPLOYEES on investments. Only through strong collaboration and cooperation with our dealers, suppliers and government partners can we be successful and 6 create a rewarding environment for all. CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 7 Sustainability APPENDIX We build an innovative and sustainable business in China with a long-term mindset. With constant investment in green production and logistics, local Sustainability is an integral part of our business strategy, vision, research and development, ZINORO brand implementation, as well as goals as well as business principles. We are convinced it is a various corporate social responsibility activities, we are committed to driving precondition for our long-term success. the sustainable development of our company and of the wider society in China. 15 Introduction Two flagship initiatives: Journey to Excellence (JtE) and Value-added Production System (VPS) 1 Our flagship initiatives, JtE and VPS, are good examples of how we are adapting to the changing business environment in China and implementing our STARS strategy. SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT What is JtE? JtE’s dual focus • JtE is BMW Brilliance’s continuous self-improvement • Process excellence: the JtE programme consists of a 1.1 Our management approach programme which aims to enhance internal number of cross-department process excellence processes across all departments and functions. projects in specific areas. 1.2 Stakeholder engagement • JtE enables BMW Brilliance to achieve higher • Mindset and behaviour change: JtE also focuses on 1.3 Compliance, anti-corruption efficiency and quality in operations, more establishing the right mindset and behaviour and human rights transparency in roles and responsibilities and better to achieve our JtE objectives. cross-functional collaborations. 2 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY What is VPS? VPS’ focus 3 • Value-added Production System (VPS) applies the • Zero defect plant and zero defect launch: applying ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION lean management principles of increasing valuea “right first time” approach to quality in all “Idea to added work and eliminating waste wherever Offer” and “Order to Delivery” processes. 4 possible in all areas of the business. • Mindset change: VPS focuses on generating the SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT • VPS increases our resource efficiency. At the right behaviours, so that people proactively identify 5 same time, it enables us to achieve the necessary and satisfy customer needs, both internally EMPLOYEES improvements in productivity and flexibility to meet and externally. and exceed customer expectations. 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 7 MANAGING SUSTAINABILITY APPENDIX Our sustainability efforts encompass our entire value chain. We aim to enhance Sustainability issues our image as the most sustainable and innovative premium automotive brand To develop a solid basis for managing sustainability, we reviewed our most relevant in China by delivering efficient products, developing new energy vehicles and sustainability issues with key stakeholders in the context of our materiality analysis. ensuring sustainable production, as well as the sustainability of our 5S dealerships. We invited 16 representatives of stakeholder groups to contribute their ideas and This ambition is based on a comprehensive materiality analysis conducted in 2015. concerns in individual, detailed interviews. Key topics raised during the stakeholder With respect to sustainability governance, BMW Brilliance’s Board of Management interviews related to product safety, occupational health and safety, and fuel reviewed and validated the key sustainability issues relevant to our business, as well consumption. as our sustainability reporting process. Within BMW Brilliance, sustainability issues are managed in a decentralised manner. 16 BMW Brilliance matrix of relevant sustainability issues F.01 Introduction 1 Low relevance Medium relevance High relevance SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Occupational Product safety health and 1.1 Our management approach High safety 1.2 Stakeholder engagement 1.3 Compliance, anti-corruption Energy Air pollution Corruption and and human rights consumption emissions and anti-competitive climate change behaviour Local economic 2 Relevance for stakeholders Waste and development Aftersales Product PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY water pollution services portfolio Human and R+D rights 3 Water Medium ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION consumption Talent attraction Employee/ Charity and management Life and retention Material 4 corporate relations balance consumption Employee SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT citizenship Forced labour Diversity and development equal 5 opportunities EMPLOYEES Relations to Marketing and Child labour Customer data Working Mobility Public policy 6 local product and young protection and conditions infrastructure CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP communities communication workers risk privacy 7 Land use and APPENDIX biodiversity Low Low Medium High Impact on BMW Brilliance 17 In an internal workshop with participants from the BMW Group and different BMW We tackle these issues where they occur in our value chain. All ten key sustainability Introduction Brilliance divisions, we prioritised 28 potentially relevant sustainability issues issues are related to risks or impacts at our own operations. However, some of according to each issue’s business impact on BMW Brilliance. We considered the them also relate to impacts that occur outside of BMW Brilliance’s direct control. 1 global context of the issues as well as where the most relevant impacts occur along the value chain. Product safety, energy and fuel consumption, as well as emissions, are strongly related to our customers’ driving habits. With specific offerings such as driver SUSTAINABILITY safety training or efficient vehicles, we reduce the sustainability impact of our MANAGEMENT As a result, we identified sustainability issues that are highly relevant for BMW products > Chapter 2.1. Energy consumption, emissions, occupational health Brilliance and its stakeholders. These issues are our priorities. This report’s contents and safety, and corruption are – on the other hand – strongly related to our 1.1 Our management approach reflect the key issues that govern sustainability at BMW Brilliance: supplier base. Our localisation and supplier risk management strategies help us to reduce the sustainability impacts in our supply chain > Chapter 4.1. Through 1.2 Stakeholder engagement our comprehensive and integrated understanding of sustainability, we implement 1.3 Compliance, anti-corruption management measures with regards to impacts along the value chain. and human rights 2 Product safety Corruption and Product portfolio PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY anti-competitive and research and behaviour development 3 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 4 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT Occupational Air pollution, Aftersales health and safety emissions and services 5 climate change EMPLOYEES 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 7 APPENDIX Talent attraction Employee Public policy and retention development Energy consumption 18 BMW Brilliance sustainability highlights 2015 Introduction At BMW Brilliance, we believe that leadership is defined by innovation and sustainability. A good corporate citizen must not only possess excellent business 1 capabilities, it must also be responsible to its stakeholders, demonstrate industry leadership, proactively assume its social responsibilities and drive the progress of SUSTAINABILITY social development. BMW Brilliance pursues sustainable development in China and MANAGEMENT contributes to the local economy, environment and society. We are proud of what we have achieved to date: 1.1 Our management approach 1.2 Stakeholder engagement BMW Brilliance is the first automotive joint venture in China to join the Our Tiexi plant has been a benchmark of environmentally friendly production 1.3 Compliance, anti-corruption United Nations Global Compact. in China, not only in terms of production facilities and technologies, but also and human rights in its design, regular maintenance and logistics infrastructure. In almost every regard, sustainability has been a guiding principle. In 2015, energy BMW Brilliance is a major contributor to the local economy. For ten years and water consumption targets were integrated in the corporate Balanced 2 in a row, we have been the top taxpayer in Shenyang. In 2015 alone, BMW Scorecard. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Brilliance paid taxes of more than RMB 13 billion. We also play a key role in 3 promoting the development of related enterprises. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION To emphasise the importance of sustainability and integrate it into all processes, sustainability targets were included in our Balanced Scorecard. 4 In 2015, the BMW Brilliance fleet ranked number one in terms of the target SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT achievement rate for fuel efficiency according to figures issued by the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology. Average fuel consumption BMW Brilliance provides more than 16,000 high-quality job opportunities 5 of the BMW Brilliance fleet sold was 6.95 litres per 100 kilometres. and contributes to nurturing local talent for the world’s leading auto EMPLOYEES production technologies. 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP We continue to advance and locally produce a range of efficient automotive products that support our strategy of sustainable mobility. In 2015, we We are committed to being an excellent corporate citizen. We believe it is 7 launched the new BMW 5 Series plug-in hybrid, BMW Brilliance’s first plugan indispensable part of our long-term commitment to China. Since 2008, APPENDIX in hybrid business sedan, which was developed with our local research for example, the BMW Warm Heart Fund distributed student-aid funds to and development capabilities. almost 7,800 outstanding college students from 16 provinces to assist them in completing their college studies. 19 Introduction The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact 1 Human rights • Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally SUSTAINABILITY proclaimed human rights; and MANAGEMENT • make sure there is no complicity in human rights abuses. 1.1 Our management approach Labour • Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and recognition of 1.2 Stakeholder engagement the right to collective bargaining; 1.3 Compliance, anti-corruption • eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour; and human rights As a member of the UN Global Compact Initiative, we are committed to its • effectively abolish child labour; and ten principles as well as to the principles of fundamental rights as set out • eliminate any discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 2 in the ILO’s “Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights of Work”. We strive to protect human rights related to our employees, suppliers, business Environment PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY partners and the communities in which we live and work. The BMW Brilliance • Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental 3 Automotive Ltd. Sustainability Report 2015 documents our progress towards challenges; ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION achieving the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, which are: • undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly 4 technologies. SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT Anti-corruption 5 • Businesses should work against corruption in all forms, including extortion EMPLOYEES www.unglobalcompact.org and bribery. 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 7 To further integrate sustainability into our daily business, we focus on two key areas: APPENDIX stakeholder engagement > Chapter 1.2 compliance, anti-corruption and human rights > Chapter 1.3 20 Introduction FORECAST 2016 1 With sustainability as one of our 5 STARS goals and reflected in our ten topics and initiatives, we are further consolidating and sharpening our sustainability strategy SUSTAINABILITY in 2016. By prioritising key sustainability areas, defining clear goals and developing a roadmap for implementation, we are determined to maintain our leading position MANAGEMENT as one of the most sustainable automotive manufacturers in China. 1.1 Our management approach 1.2 Stakeholder engagement 1.3 Compliance, anti-corruption and human rights 2 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 3 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 4 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 5 EMPLOYEES 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 7 APPENDIX An exterior view of the Tiexi plant. 21 BMW Brilliance value chain F.02 Introduction 1 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 1.1 Our management approach 1.2 Stakeholder engagement 1.3 Compliance, anti-corruption and human rights 2 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 3 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 4 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 5 EMPLOYEES 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 7 APPENDIX 22 Introduction 1.2 1 Stakeholder engagement SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT OUR STRATEGIC DIRECTION 1.1 Our management approach 1.2 Stakeholder engagement We build long-term trust with our stakeholders. We aim to achieve mutual benefits with a variety of different stakeholders. For the city of Shenyang, for example, our business 1.3 Compliance, anti-corruption and human rights The ongoing dialogue with our stakeholders is a continuous learning contributes significantly to its tax income, employment and economic process for our business. We use targeted dialogue to understand development. For our Chinese customers, we are a top automotive various perspectives and to receive stakeholder input on strategically manufacturer in the premium market. For our business partners, we 2 relevant topics. We identify trends and key topics at an early stage are committed to creating a profitable and responsible business. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY which helps us to gain the acceptance and trust of our stakeholders. Understanding the different perspectives of these and other This is important to demonstrate our commitment to society and for stakeholders allows us to gain knowledge, build trust and deepen 3 our future business success. partnerships that are critical to the performance of our company. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 4 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 5 EMPLOYEES 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 7 APPENDIX Entrepreneurs attending the 2015 China Green Companies Summit visit our Tiexi plant. 23 STRATEGICALLY ALIGNING STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Introduction Our main stakeholder groups are our shareholders, customers, employees, suppliers 1 and dealers, as well as policymakers and authorities, academic institutions, students and local communities. BMW Brilliance’s stakeholder engagement is reflected in our SUSTAINABILITY approach to key areas such as product responsibility, human resources, corporate MANAGEMENT citizenship, production and supplier management. 1.1 Our management approach Engagement with targeted stakeholder groups takes place in a wide range of formats 1.2 Stakeholder engagement that include dialogues, presentations, events, meetings, surveys and training. For example: 1.3 Compliance, anti-corruption and human rights we conduct customer surveys and talks to understand customer we have an ongoing dialogue with central and local policymakers expectations and needs; to share our expertise; and 2 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY we train dealers to enhance their capacity and improve customer we interact with students and society to jointly raise awareness about 3 satisfaction further; issues such as environmental protection and traffic safety. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 4 we arrange open discussions for employees with top management SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT as an opportunity to bring up concerns and suggestions; 5 EMPLOYEES 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 7 APPENDIX Dadong plant employees support Huachen Jinbei Haise paint shop in optimising production. 24 Introduction BMW Brilliance stakeholders F.03 Employees 1 Every year the Associate Representatives Congress and Union Member Representatives Congress are held as forums for employee participation Academic institutions SUSTAINABILITY In 2015, BMW Brilliance initiated a new cooperation with Northeast in democratic resolution, management and supervision. We also gather employee feedback through an employee survey conducted every two MANAGEMENT University (NEU) in Shenyang about “German Industry 4.0” and “Made years, which provides a status check and an opportunity to identify areas in China 2025”. In November 2015 the first BMW Brilliance and NEU for improvement > Chapter 5. Technology Forum was held at Northeast University with the aim of 1.1 Our management approach facilitating technology cooperation between the BMW Brilliance business departments and the university. Local communities 1.2 Stakeholder engagement BMW Brilliance has hosted a series of industry-leading corporate citizenship projects as part of our long-term commitment to China and Chinese students 1.3 Compliance, anti-corruption local communities. We will continue to fulfil our long-term commitment to In 2015, 184 young people took part in the ongoing, practice-oriented contribute to the harmony and sustainability of Chinese society, with the and human rights programmes we offer at the doctoral, master, bachelor and vocational support of all who have actively engaged in our initiatives in past years education levels. The BMW Joy Club further provided activities and > Chapter 6. training for students to learn more about our company > Chapter 5. 2 Political decision makers Communist Party of China PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY The first Members Congress for the Communist Party of China was BMW Brilliance has established relationships of mutual trust between our shareholders BMW and Brilliance and the Chinese government. held at the Tiexi plant in December 2014. During the event, the We engage in regular and open discussions to support the decision3 Party Committee and Inspection Committee were elected by the BMW BRILLIANCE making process. Relevant issues of concern include emissions standards, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION representatives, and the focus tasks of the first Party Committee in the STAKEHOLDERS how policy regulation could better support the promotion of new coming four years were defined as well. energy vehicles, the construction of necessary infrastructure and the 4 encouragement of technological competition. Customers SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT We gain customer insights and knowledge by conducting talks and Regulatory authorities surveys. Most feedback is related to enhancing the BMW service Relationships with local authorities, including the Shenyang tax authorities, 5 experience and is used to support dealers to better understand customer customs and the EntryExit Inspection and Quarantine Bureau (CIQ), EMPLOYEES needs and expectations. Our new direct communication channel provides were strengthened through production site visits. These visits were individualised monthly information to customers. opportunities to exchange ideas and to help our guests gain a deeper 6 understanding of our operations and corporate culture. Furthermore, a Dealers cooperation memo was signed with the CIQ. CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP We offer dealer training to help them obtain the latest technological knowledge and to enhance the customer service experience. We Shareholders 7 also actively promote our 5S dealer certification programme (sales, Our Board of Management reports to the Board of Directors which APPENDIX service, survey, spare parts and sustainability). In 2015, we introduced represents our shareholders – BMW Group and Brilliance Group. With the 360-degree customer view tool that supports our dealers in better our shareholders’ support, we integrate sustainability into our strategic delivering individualised services to customers > Chapter 2. decisions. In 2015, BMW Brilliance and BMW Group supported the Brilliance Group in different areas, including production site improvement, Suppliers corporate strategy, research and development, production process Every year we host the BMW Brilliance Supplier Day. The event focuses optimisation and quality management, as well as brand promotion and on our new projects, bringing together suppliers and management for marketing. Manufacturing support was identified as a priority, and as a an open discussion forum. We have received positive feedback from our result a clearly defined organisational structure and a zero defect plant suppliers and from the government on this initiative > Chapter 4. project were implemented by both Brilliance Group and BMW Brilliance. Through regular workshops, on-site training and process observation, we believe process transparency was enhanced and the mindset of employees on zero defect production was fostered. 25 Introduction Sino-German Cooperation: Preparing for Industry 4.0 1 The Sino-German Intelligent Equipment Manufacturing Park is currently being developed around our Tiexi Education and training cluster Public service axis SUSTAINABILITY plant. The aim of the project is to become a pilot zone Production Function Sub-area Life support cluster MANAGEMENT for “Made in China 2025” and “German Industry 4.0”, a demonstration zone for innovative industrialisation and a International Intelligent 1.1 Our management approach hub for the global equipment manufacturing industry. This manufacturing cluster business Strategic community project will help make Shenyang a smart manufacturing emerging Waterfront ecological 1.2 Stakeholder engagement Life support cluster industry community base by integrating both countries’ industrial strategies cluster 1.3 Compliance, anti-corruption and strengths. Under the “New Normal”, the economic Industrial and human rights Service Advanced situation in the north-eastern region of the country is The headquarters cluster equipment base Automobile quite challenging. The industrial park brings a unique manufacturing cluster development opportunity to BMW Brilliance by allowing cluster Service Function 2 Fo u Sub-area us to play a more active role in fostering regional economic Public r th PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY service axis Ri improvement and transformation. ng Rd 3 A plan of the Sino-German Intelligent Equipment Manufacturing Park, currently under construction. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 4 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 5 EMPLOYEES FORECAST 2016 6 We are continuously deepening the relationships with our key stakeholders by engaging with them on a regular basis and through different channels. Throughout CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 2016, we are hosting regular engagement forums such as the Associate Representatives Congress and Supplier Day. We are also fostering technological innovation 7 in such areas as customer and stakeholder engagement, and employee and leadership training. Finally, we are planning to engage with key internal and external APPENDIX stakeholders to review and potentially update our sustainability materiality analysis. 26 Introduction 1.3 1 Compliance, anti-corruption SUSTAINABILITY and human rights MANAGEMENT 1.1 Our management approach OUR STRATEGIC DIRECTION Acting responsibly and complying with the law are critical to the business success of BMW Brilliance. This approach is integral to our corporate 1.2 Stakeholder engagement culture and helps define our image in the eyes of the general public. It 1.3 Compliance, anti-corruption We protect our company’s integrity and are committed to respecting also creates trust in our products and brands. The further strengthening and human rights the human rights of all persons impacted by our operations. As a of an effective compliance management system supports the growth of responsible company, we take resolute action to combat bribery and our business. corruption. 2 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 3 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 4 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 5 EMPLOYEES 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 7 APPENDIX 27 MANAGING COMPLIANCE Introduction BMW Brilliance’s Compliance Management System is an important component The Compliance Management System of BMW Brilliance focuses on antitrust and 1 of our corporate governance framework. Our Legal Compliance Code explains the competition law, anti-corruption and anti-fraud measures, the prevention of bribery, central importance of lawful conduct and provides an overview of the legal areas defalcation and theft, data protection, and anti-money laundering provisions. The SUSTAINABILITY relevant to our business, including: anti-corruption and anti-fraud regimes, antitrust system includes the management of possible compliance risks associated with MANAGEMENT and competition law, protection of company assets, data protection, product liability, our business (including risk identification, assessment, monitoring, control and consumer protection, export control, foreign trade, tax and customs, safety and reporting), the implementation of compliance training programmes, the management 1.1 Our management approach health, environmental protection, and non-discrimination. Each manager receives of compliance enquiries and reporting of non-compliance (the BMW Brilliance 1.2 Stakeholder engagement a copy of our Legal Compliance Code and it is published on our intranet. We have SpeakUP Line) and targeted communication measures. It also includes the definition also published an Anti-Fraud Policy and Fraud Response Procedure, a Corruption and implementation of codes, guidelines and procedures. 1.3 Compliance, anti-corruption Prevention Guideline and Corporate Hospitality and Gift Instructions on our intranet and human rights for all employees, which contain specific anti-corruption and anti-fraud rules and All measures are designed to ensure that the company, Board members, directors, requirements. managers and employees act in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations, 2 and to protect BMW Brilliance’s business reputation. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY BMW Brilliance Compliance Management System The BMW Brilliance Compliance Committee manages and monitors the overall 3 effectiveness of the Compliance Management System. It consists of representatives ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION of the following departments: Legal Affairs and Compliance, Controlling and Risk Management, Corporate Audit and Human Resources. The Committee is chaired 4 by the CEO. It receives regular reports on all compliance management areas and SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT projects from the BMW Brilliance Compliance Committee Office. 5 The BMW Brilliance Compliance Committee Office is responsible for managing EMPLOYEES daily compliance matters across the company and in the areas outlined in the table 6 below. In 2015, the office was further strengthened by the introduction of local CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP compliance teams in Shenyang and Beijing. The office’s work is reinforced and supported throughout BMW Brilliance by the Compliance Operations Network. The 7 network consists of all department heads, plant directors and heads of the regional APPENDIX sales offices. Additional members include the business leads for areas designated as the most compliance-relevant functions. 28 BMW Brilliance Compliance Management System F.04 Introduction 1 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 1.1 Our management approach 1.2 Stakeholder engagement 1.3 Compliance, anti-corruption and human rights 2 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Audit and Compliance Committee /Board of Directors 3 Compliance Reporting Instruments and ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Measures of BMW Brilliance 4 Board of Management SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT Reporting 5 Compliance Committee EMPLOYEES Compliance Committee Office 6 Compliance Operations Network CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP of BMW Brilliance 7 APPENDIX 29 IMPLEMENTING AND MONITORING Introduction COMPLIANCE INITIATIVES 1 We address compliance risks through the various compliance tools and programmes Additionally in 2015, BMW Brilliance undertook the following steps: under the Compliance Management System set out in the table above. In 2015, we SUSTAINABILITY focused on the following compliance initiatives: the Legal Compliance Code was distributed to every new manager; MANAGEMENT Legal and compliance monitoring and reporting 1.1 Our management approach the Associate Handbook (which contains compliance-related topics) was In 2015, we focused on establishing a comprehensive legal and compliance distributed to every new employee and an updated version was redistributed 1.2 Stakeholder engagement monitoring network to help ensure continuous monitoring and impact analysis of to every employee; ongoing legal changes and developments. The network draws on specialist functions 1.3 Compliance, anti-corruption within BMW Brilliance to form a centralised and cross-departmental exchange and human rights of information. the CEO issued letters to all employees as a message-from-the-top to explicitly underscore the importance of compliance and related training; 2 Focus on anti-fraud policy PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY BMW Brilliance has introduced a comprehensive chop management policy as part a new poster campaign was prepared to raise awareness of the main compliance of our fraud risk-reduction strategy. It aims to avoid misuse of our company seal, the areas, namely anti-corruption, anti-fraud, anti-monopoly law, data privacy and 3 chop, which is legally binding in China without a signature. Central chop offices run IT security; ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION by chop managers have been established in Shenyang and Beijing respectively. A comprehensive guideline outlines workflows, prerequisites and archive regulations, 4 additional training was conducted for all new managers; and and establishes a clearly structured framework. SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT compliance coaching was implemented at the departmental level. 5 Comprehensive communication measures and training on essential EMPLOYEES compliance fields Managers throughout BMW Brilliance must demonstrate responsibility by setting a Ensuring compliance in business relations 6 good example for their staff. They are required to be fully aware of the significance of We are implementing continuous process compliance measures for our business CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP the Legal Compliance Code as well as the newly released compliance regulations, relations with external partners, such as including compliance clauses in purchase and to make a commitment to adhere to such internal regulations in order to avoid orders and event invitation letters. As an automotive manufacturer, we have developed 7 legal and compliance risks. standard vehicle provision forms with compliance clauses, which we use when we APPENDIX provide automobiles to external parties. We believe this goal can be achieved through continuous effort, yearly communication campaigns and up-to-date training programmes. A central element in 2015 has been the roll-out of mandatory online training modules on anti-corruption and anti-fraud policies, as well as IT security and data privacy. These constitute highly relevant risk areas of the modern daily business environment. All non-production BMW Brilliance employees were required to participate, and we achieved a completion rate of almost 100% by year-end. Internal presentation highlighting our anti-monopoly law compliance practices. 30 RESPECTING HUMAN RIGHTS Introduction At BMW Brilliance, we are committed to respecting the human rights of all persons 1 impacted by our operations, including our employees and the employees of our suppliers and business partners. We aim to avoid infringing upon the human rights SUSTAINABILITY of others, as well as to address adverse human rights impacts that might involve our MANAGEMENT company – a commitment which is referenced in the BMW Brilliance Joint Venture Equity Contract. We believe that human rights are an issue that cuts across all levels 1.1 Our management approach of society, and a responsibility we all share. 1.2 Stakeholder engagement Given the complexity of today’s corporate value chains, respecting human rights 1.3 Compliance, anti-corruption has become ever more relevant. There are potential risks for human rights violations and human rights at various steps along the value chain of automotive production, including in the extraction of raw material or during production. That is why we engage with our 2 suppliers and business partners on their compliance with internationally recognised PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY human rights, in particular with labour and social standards. While we have a direct responsibility for the respect of human rights in our own operations, we try to use 3 our influence beyond where our direct responsibility ends > Chapter 4. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION At BMW Brilliance we are responding to an evolving context, such as heightened 4 stakeholder concerns regarding human rights, by continuously reviewing our SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT corporate policies and initiatives. 5 Human rights governance EMPLOYEES The responsibility for human rights issues at BMW Brilliance is not allocated to 6 one single function, but is implemented across the relevant business functions CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP at our operations. While our Human Resources team ensures that human rights are respected within our operations, our efforts with our suppliers are led by BMW 7 Brilliance Purchasing and Supplier Quality Management. APPENDIX We base our respect for human rights on internationally agreed standards, including the principles set out in the International Bill of Human Rights and the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. The following important governance documents and policies are helping to embed human rights into our business practices: 31 Introduction BMW Brilliance Joint Venture Contract Legal Compliance Code 1 Objective: This is the founding document of BMW Brilliance as a joint venture Objective: The Legal Compliance Code explains the central importance of lawful between BMW and Brilliance Automotive, setting out the key principles of business conduct to BMW Brilliance and provides an overview of the legal areas relevant to SUSTAINABILITY conduct. our business. MANAGEMENT How we implement it: The principles set out in the Joint Venture Contract guide the How we implement it: Each manager receives a copy of the Code and it is published actions of our top management and therefore of our business operations. on our intranet. 1.1 Our management approach Issues addressed: Our commitment to the UN Global Compact and the respect of Issues addressed: Issues covered which are relevant to human rights include data 1.2 Stakeholder engagement ILO labour law is explicitly stated therein. protection, health and safety, and non-discrimination. 1.3 Compliance, anti-corruption and human rights 2 Business Principles BMW Group’s International Terms and Conditions for the Purchase of Production PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Objective: Our corporate strategy is informed by 12 business principles, which aim Materials and Automotive Components 3 to guide our employees and our activities and create a common value base. Objective: Our terms and conditions of procurement govern the rights and obligations ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION How we implement it: The principles inform our corporate culture and are of the parties involved. These specific ones are applied for Parts Purchasing. communicated to all employees through the Associate Handbook. How we implement it: All contracts contain a human rights clause, requiring suppliers 4 Issues addressed: Specifically, the principles “Respect, Trust and Fairness” as well to comply with international human rights and in turn oblige their own suppliers to SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT as “Society” refer to our social responsibilities, including the respect for human rights. respect human rights. Issues addressed: The International Terms and Conditions include environmental 5 criteria as well as the requirement to preserve recognised human rights and labour EMPLOYEES standards. 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP Associate Handbook 7 Objective: The objective of the Associate Handbook, which includes our Ethics and APPENDIX Code of Conduct, is to detail and communicate to all employees (production and non-production) their rights and responsibilities, as well as our corporate values. General Terms and Conditions for the Purchase of Goods and Services How we implement it: The stipulations in the handbook are binding for all employees, Objective: Our terms and conditions of procurement govern the rights and obligations irrespective of their seniority. Violation of the Code of Conduct it contains results in of the parties involved. disciplinary action. How we implement it: All purchasing contracts, except Parts Purchasing, are Issues addressed: All human rights issues relevant to human resources, such as governed by these General Terms and Conditions. non-discrimination, remuneration, working hours and other terms of employment, Issues addressed: The General Terms and Conditions include a separate clause on are regulated in the handbook. both human rights and preservation of the environment. 32 Managing human rights issues Introduction The UN defines salient human rights issues for a business as the “human rights at risk of the most severe negative impact through the company’s activities and 1 business relations”1. In the following paragraphs we detail the most salient human rights issues for BMW Brilliance and how we are managing them: SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 1.1 Our management approach Occupational health and safety Freedom of association Protecting employee health and safety, especially of production employees, We recognise the right of all workers to join a legally recognised trade 1.2 Stakeholder engagement union, or any other body representing their collective interest and that remains a challenging topic in China, despite legal and on-the-ground 1.3 Compliance, anti-corruption progress. We have, however, made it one of our priorities to protect the gives them an opportunity to engage in collective bargaining to agree and human rights health and safety of our employees and the employees in our supply upon working conditions. The BMW Brilliance Labour Union was therefore chain. We aim to maintain our performance by focusing on health and established in 2007. The union works to protect employees’ rights and safety training, the promotion of health checks, and the implementation interests and to mediate disputes between employees and the company. 2 The union today represents all local employees, and at this year’s Union of needs-based health initiatives. Occupational health and safety is also PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Member Representatives Congress, the Collective Contract on Labour addressed in our Associate Handbook, informing our employees of their rights, responsibilities and where to access our environment, health and Remuneration and the new Special Collective Contract on Protection of 3 safety policies. In 2015, we were able to reduce our absentee rate from Female Employee’s Rights and Interests were approved and signed ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 0.98% to 0.93% > Chapter 5.3. > Chapter 5.1. 4 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT Forced, compulsory or child labour Discrimination and harassment 5 In complex industrial supply chains we must be vigilant regarding the risk of According to the International Labour Organisation, hundreds of millions EMPLOYEES forced, compulsory or child labour. We have a zero tolerance policy on these of people are victims to workplace-based discrimination. Therefore, BMW issues, and our human resources guidelines address full compliance with Brilliance is strongly committed to providing a work environment free from 6 Chinese labour law and relevant regulations in these matters. We engage any behaviour which is discriminatory or could be considered as harassment. CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP our direct suppliers to uphold the same standards by including the ban on This is stated in our Associate Handbook and implemented through our 7 child labour and forced labour in our supplier contracts > Chapter 4. human resource guidelines, which stipulate that all employment decisions APPENDIX are to be taken without regard to ethnic origin, skin colour, gender, religion, nationality, marital status, age, sexual orientation or political beliefs. Migrant workers are treated equally to any other employee, with full coverage of social welfare and protection. 1 UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework, p. 12 33 Working hours and remuneration Human rights in the value chain Introduction At BMW Brilliance, we take our social responsibility to provide fair We engage our direct suppliers to meet the same environmental and compensation and working hours very seriously, so that our employees social standards that we set for ourselves. This includes compliance with 1 can live in dignity and conserve their long-term health and productivity. The Human Resources Department and line managers review employee leave internationally recognised human rights, as well as with labour and social standards. In order to achieve this aim, BMW Brilliance dealers must reach SUSTAINABILITY and working hours on a monthly basis, and managers ensure employees a relevant standard on sustainability. This includes their contributions to MANAGEMENT take their full entitlement of annual leave over the year. Three different the local economy and employment, acting as an attractive employer and work-time models ensure that the hours worked and monthly salaries paid ensuring their employees’ health and safety, as well as dealer participation 1.1 Our management approach are both stable, despite fluctuations in the changing market. We reward our and dedication to the welfare of their local community. We have also set employees with total remuneration that is above average and aligned with up a supplier risk management process to identify and analyse potential 1.2 Stakeholder engagement the upper-third of the respective labour market in China > Chapter 5.2. sustainability and human rights risks along the supply chain. Our regular 1.3 Compliance, anti-corruption supplier review considers issues such as operational health and safety, and human rights Welfare of local communities child labour risks and environmental impacts > Chapters 2 and 4. Our business is deeply rooted in China, and our pace of business development is strongly connected with that of Chinese society. In order to Addressing human rights violations 2 achieve our long-term sustainability commitment to China, BMW Brilliance Employees have the opportunity to submit information about possible PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY takes all necessary measures to fight corruption in order to prevent human rights violations within the company via the BMW Brilliance 3 personal gain or preferential treatment. Furthermore, we take social and SpeakUP Line – anonymously and confidentially (see below). In 2015, no ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION environmental impacts into consideration in the earliest stage of product human rights violations were reported through internal channels. As part development and infrastructure planning, in order to minimise the impact of our activities to prevent human rights violations we provide employee 4 on neighbours and local communities. All BMW Brilliance infrastructure information and training, particularly on the SpeakUP programme; we SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT construction activities are pre-examined and go through a national conduct risk analyses and human rights impact assessments; and we Environmental Impact Assessment. Finally, we commit to minimising our maintain internal monitoring and reporting structures. Our cooperation 5 environmental impact, for example by continuously reducing energy and with network partners and our dialogue with stakeholders also allow us to EMPLOYEES water consumption, process wastewater, waste for disposal and volatile identify and address risks quickly. organic compound (VOC) emissions per vehicle produced 6 > Chapters 2 and 3. CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 7 APPENDIX 34 RESPONDING TO COMPLIANCE-RELATED ENQUIRIES Introduction In order to avoid legal risks, employees are expected to discuss any complianceAs an important tool in the detection of possible compliance violations, including 1 related issues with their managers, and with the Legal Affairs and Compliance, human rights, we promoted the SpeakUp Line on the BMW Brilliance Intranet Corporate Audit and Human Resources departments. Employees who have any throughout 2015. We are planning additional employee communication measures SUSTAINABILITY concerns may submit information on perceived legal violations anonymously and during 2016 to make the Line more widely known, but also to encourage personal MANAGEMENT confidentially through the BMW Brilliance SpeakUP Line. discussions with Compliance Officers and line managers. 1.1 Our management approach All messages directed to the SpeakUP Line are evaluated by the BMW Brilliance We want to ensure that BMW Brilliance and our employees adhere to the highest 1.2 Stakeholder engagement Compliance Committee Office, the facts are researched and appropriate steps are standards of professional behaviour and responsibility to protect our corporate agreed on together with the specialist departments concerned. All investigations integrity. In 2015, BMW Brilliance responded to cases of employee misconduct based 1.3 Compliance, anti-corruption on our internal regulations. Case handling and disciplinary decision procedures were are conducted in accordance with the applicable laws. The Compliance Committee and human rights Office documents every message received, how it is processed, as well as outcomes further standardised to ensure efficient and thorough investigation and management and further steps and reports back to the BMW Brilliance Compliance Committee. of any raised complaints. In addition, to ensure compliance with internal rules and 2 For the protection of informants, BMW Brilliance allows information regarding external regulations, internal audits were conducted by the Audit and Shareholder PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY potential compliance violations to be submitted anonymously through the Audit departments. SpeakUP Line. 3 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 4 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT FORECAST 2016 5 We are maintaining our focus on anti-corruption, anti-fraud and information security during 2016. The Chinese government is preparing several new guidelines on EMPLOYEES anti-monopoly law and sales policies in the automotive industry, and as a result we are planning to focus our training on these legal areas. We are also integrating a comprehensive compliance risk management process into the company-wide risk reporting process. This is part of BMW Brilliance’s integrated Corporate Governance 6 approach to collect bottom-up risk reports. The process is based on a standard methodology for risk identification, assessment, monitoring, control and risk reporting. CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP Following the successful completion of a pilot compliance risk workshop with business departments in 2015, the central compliance function continues to facilitate 7 risk and process analysis in 2016. APPENDIX 35 Introduction 1 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 1.1 Our management approach 1.2 Stakeholder engagement 1.3 Compliance, anti-corruption and human rights 2 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 3 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 4 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 5 EMPLOYEES 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 7 APPENDIX 36 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 2.1 Our management approach 2.2 Efficient mobility 2.3 Product safety 2.4 Customer satisfaction Introduction STAKEHOLDER STATEMENT: Fostering sustainable mobility and promoting charging infrastructure 1 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 2.1 Our management approach 2.2 Efficient mobility 2.3 Product safety Cao Guangyu Vice General Manager, Shanghai International Automobile City Group Co., Ltd. 2.4 Customer satisfaction What challenges does e-mobility face at present? How do you evaluate BMW Brilliance’s approach to e-mobility? 3 BMW Brilliance has established a clear strategy to develop and promote new energy The Chinese new energy vehicle industry is currently facing a number of challenges. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION A commercially viable system that supports both the construction and servicing vehicles by leveraging BMW’s brand influence and domestic market presence. of a public charging infrastructure needs to be established, user acceptance and Opinions about the pilot product ZINORO 1E are gradually improving, and the 530Le 4 preferences for new energy vehicles cultivated, and finally, breakthroughs in key is enjoying increasing user acceptance. BMW Brilliance should take into account the SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT technologies – such as enhancing the safety and energy density of the battery – potential demand within the Chinese market for class A and class B battery electric 5 have to be achieved. Once the government subsidy is phased out, balancing the vehicles and introduce products with sufficient competitive edge. The demand to EMPLOYEES cost and sales price will also be a challenge, especially for completely new energy develop sustainable shared traffic solutions will be particularly important in urban vehicle manufacturers. areas. 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP What are the government’s priorities regarding the creation of infrastructure for e-mobility? 7 The top priority and one that is really a precondition for promoting and sustaining the APPENDIX use of new energy vehicles, is establishing an optimal charging infrastructure that is both reliable and safe. The government must play a leading role in constructing and operating this public infrastructure. Ideally, the central government would provide macro-level guidance and formulate unified technical product standards, lay out a public infrastructure plan, and develop a reasonable and effective policy for subsidies. At the local level, governments should develop a mechanism that allows builders and operators to gain fair access to development opportunities for this new infrastructure. Local governments should also establish a public information service platform and gradually achieve nationwide interconnection and intercommunication. 38 Introduction 2.1 1 Our management approach SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2 We take a comprehensive approach to product responsibility. For us, BMW Brilliance is committed to introducing the latest products and PRODUCT sustainability starts with the development of fuel-efficient and lowtechnologies into the Chinese market. We currently produce the BMW 5 RESPONSIBILITY exhaust-emission vehicles. In doing so, we comply both with stricter Series Long Wheelbase, including the 530Le plug-in hybrid vehicle, the environmental legislation in China and our customers’ increasing BMW 3 Series Long Wheelbase and standard version, the BMW X1, the 2.1 Our management approach awareness of environmental issues. We are shaping the mobility BMW 2 Series Tourer and the ZINORO – in total, over 30 model options. of the future with innovative electric and hybrid drivetrains, as well Our products are produced and inspected thoroughly in accordance with 2.2 Efficient mobility as smart services. Product responsibility also includes resourcethe BMW Group’s global standards, ensuring the same high quality. 2.3 Product safety efficient production processes and high-quality customer care. Recycling ensures that our vehicles provide valuable raw materials 2.4 Customer satisfaction Our focus regarding product responsibility lies on three aspects: after they reach the end of their life cycle. Our commitment to localise and expand our business activities in China – including our product providing efficient mobility solutions > Chapter 2.2 3 portfolio, our production levels and our research and development ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION activities – supports this approach. ensuring product safety > Chapter 2.3 4 improving customer satisfaction > Chapter 2.4 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 5 EMPLOYEES 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 7 APPENDIX Representatives from several departments share thoughts on recent achievements and current market trends. 39 EXPANDING OUR BUSINESS IN CHINA Introduction Since BMW Brilliance’s inception in 2003, we have focused on developing our and quality performance testing. At our Dadong plant, the North Extension project 1 business in China. Our pace of expansion has been rapid and comprises local – which is dedicated to bringing BMW’s new generation of BMW 5 Series to China SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT procurement, production and products, including the introduction of BMW engines. – is under construction. The new operation will include a press shop, body shop, An important step has been the establishment of our Research and Development paint shop and assembly shop, and is expected to begin production in 2017. 2 Centre, where the high-voltage battery for the ZINORO 1E was developed and vehicle testing and approval of the BMW 530Le plug-in hybrid was carried out. We are also expanding our local research and development activities, emphasising PRODUCT how important the Chinese market is to our business. Highlights for 2015 included RESPONSIBILITY In 2015, as a result of our localisation and expansion strategy, sales of our locally breaking ground for the development of our High Voltage Battery Centre – which produced vehicle models accounted for 65% of the total sales of the BMW brand will encompass the complete process chain from research and development to 2.1 Our management approach in mainland China. production and quality management – as well as for the Research and Development Centre Phase 2 construction at our Tiexi plant. The new research activities will 2.2 Efficient mobility To expand our production capacity, we established the new engine plant, where focus on the development of new energy vehicles, as does our existing Research 2.3 Product safety BMW’s latest turbocharged 3-and 4-cylinder petrol engines are being produced and Development Centre, which currently employs over 500 engineers and works 2.4 Customer satisfaction from January 2016. Ultimately, the plant will be one of the most advanced and closely with the Research and Development team from BMW Group. China is sustainable engine plants worldwide. It is also the first of the BMW Group to combine today the largest market for such vehicles worldwide. the complete engine production process from casting to machining, assembly 3 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 4 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 5 EMPLOYEES 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 7 APPENDIX At the start of the first B48 CN engine performance test. 40 ACHIEVING HIGH PRODUCT STANDARDS INCREASING THE EFFICIENCY OF OUR VEHICLES Introduction All vehicles produced in our plants are certified to the international standards of We are committed to reducing fuel consumption and emissions in China and focus 1 ISO 14020 (Environmental Labels and Declarations) and ISO 14024 (Environmental on both exhaust fumes as well as air quality inside the vehicle. As a result of the BMW SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Labels and Declarations – Type I Environmental Labelling). Our vehicles are also Group Efficient Dynamics strategy, the energy requirements of each of our models certified to the local Chinese standard HJ 2532. In general, BMW Brilliance’s are being continuously reduced. In addition, we are adding electrically powered and 2 product standard requirements are higher than China’s mandatory requirements for product emissions, fuel consumption, the use of environmentally sound materials, plug-in hybrid vehicles to our model range. This allows us to contribute directly to China’s national target of reducing industrial average fuel consumption to 6.9 litres PRODUCT and recyclability and reusability throughout a product’s life cycle. of petrol per 100 kilometres by 2015 and to 5.0 litres of petrol per 100 kilometres by RESPONSIBILITY 2020. In 2015, BMW Brilliance’s corporate average fuel consumption was 6.95 litres per 100 kilometres (2014: 7.06 litres per 100 kilometres). This positions us again 2.1 Our management approach as number one in the national ranking of the fleet fuel consumption achievement rate among 90 local manufacturers, according to the 2015 corporate average fuel 2.2 Efficient mobility consumption report of the Chinese authorities. 2.3 Product safety 2.4 Customer satisfaction 3 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 4 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 5 EMPLOYEES 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 7 APPENDIX 41 PROMOTING ELECTROMOBILITY THROUGH PRODUCTS PROVIDING PREMIUM CUSTOMER SERVICE Introduction AND SERVICES Enhancing our aftersales service and maximising customer satisfaction are key 1 We are meeting the challenges of urban mobility, not only by further developing our to expanding our share of the premium segment in China. In 2015, we continued SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT vehicles but also by offering innovative mobility services. In 2015, we launched the expanding and enhancing our sales and service network, while providing our BMW Innovative Mobility Service China strategy that includes mobility services for customers with a diversified selection of products. By year-end, we had 515 BMW sales and service outlets in operation across China. Thirty-nine dealers were certified 2 vehicle users, as well as innovative service solutions improving mobility for everyone. according to our 5S model, which adds high sustainability standards to our BMW 4S PRODUCT We made our electric ZINORO 1E available through car-sharing services in Beijing dealership model. RESPONSIBILITY and Shanghai and introduced ChargeNowTM, the charging service of the BMW Group, providing charging infrastructure for new energy vehicles in four cities in China. We 2.1 Our management approach also expanded the BMW ConnectedDrive services available for Chinese customers, making driving easier and smarter by providing real-time traffic information to drivers. 2.2 Efficient mobility 2.3 Product safety 2.4 Customer satisfaction TAKING A BROADER VIEW OF PRODUCT SAFETY 3 BMW Brilliance follows the approach of the BMW Group to ensure the safety of ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION our customers and other road users. Safety is fundamental to our vision of product responsibility as a provider of premium products and services. 4 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT We reduce the risk of accidents through active safety features and we mitigate their effects through the passive safety systems included in our vehicles. 5 EMPLOYEES 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 7 APPENDIX Introduction of the ZINORO 1E car-sharing service in collaboration with Shanghai International Auto City. 42 Introduction 1 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 2.1 Our management approach 2.2 Efficient mobility 2.3 Product safety 2.4 Customer satisfaction 3 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 4 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 5 EMPLOYEES 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 7 APPENDIX Interior view of a 5S dealership. 43 Introduction 2.2 1 Efficient mobility SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2 OUR STRATEGIC DIRECTION With these strategies and continuous research and development efforts, we aim to contribute to the target of corporate average fuel consumption of 5.0 litres per PRODUCT 100 kilometres by 2020. We are aware that new regulations are under discussion RESPONSIBILITY We are continuously reducing the CO2 emissions from our vehicle nationally; we also follow and participate in global emission target discussions. Our fleet and aim to be the leader in taking a holistic approach to premium goal is to align our research capacities as soon as possible with any new targets 2.1 Our management approach electromobility. in order to meet the newest emissions standards and regulations worldwide, as outlined in the BMW Brilliance and BMW Group policy. 2.2 Efficient mobility China faces many challenges to its environmental capacity, including a 2.3 Product safety shortage of resources and the rapid growth of its cities. In response, the 2.4 Customer satisfaction country is now imposing increasingly stringent emissions regulations, as is the case globally. In this context, our vision of sustainable mobility is becoming even more imperative to achieving business success. As part of 3 the BMW Group Efficient Dynamics strategy, we use innovative efficiency ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION technologies in all models. We are increasingly offering electrically powered and plug-in hybrid vehicles to our customers. Additionally, we 4 are providing innovative mobility services. SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 5 EMPLOYEES REDUCING FUEL CONSUMPTION 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP We are reducing the energy requirements of our vehicles through intelligent lightweight construction, innovations in energy management and consistently 7 optimised aerodynamics. We are also constantly expanding and further developing APPENDIX our efficiency technologies. These include efficient engines, forward-looking drive control, the Auto Start-Stop function, brake energy regeneration and tyres with reduced rolling resistance. Features such as ECO PRO can additionally reduce fuel consumption and emissions. 44 Introduction CO2 emissions of BMW Brilliance automobiles F.05 Fuel efficiency regulations in China 2013 2014 2015 Change to previous year 1 In China, the corporate average fuel consumption of passenger cars is g/km 174 168 165.4* –1.5% SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT regulated. For 2020, a corporate average fuel consumption target of * The CO2 emission value reported for China in the Sustainable Value Report 2015 of the BMW Group includes both 5.0 litres per 100 kilometres has been set. This regulation is valid for 2 all automotive manufacturers in China. Discussions about subsequent locally produced and imported vehicles, while the value in the present report includes locally produced vehicles only. regulations have already begun. In addition, weight-based consumption PRODUCT limits have been set for individual vehicles. RESPONSIBILITY Fleet fuel consumption F.06 Change to 2013 2014 2015 previous year 2.1 Our management approach l/100 km 7.30 7.06 6.95 –1.6% 2.2 Efficient mobility A big step in reducing our corporate average fuel consumption is the increasing 2.3 Product safety number of new energy vehicles which we offer our Chinese customers. Following We are fulfilling our responsibility to reduce CO2 emissions along the entire value 2.4 Customer satisfaction the successful introduction of the battery-driven ZINORO 1E (which is produced at chain. By continuously increasing the efficiency of our vehicles, we are also reducing our Tiexi plant), we launched the new plug-in hybrid version of the BMW 5 Series CO2 emission levels during their utilisation phase > Figure 07. Emissions in the supply in 2015 – the first locally produced premium plug-in hybrid model of its kind. Our chain also make a considerable contribution towards so-called Scope 3 emissions > 3 locally produced new energy vehicles are supported by the central government and Chapter 3.1. For this reason, we contribute to the aim of the BMW Group to improve ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION local authorities with benefits such as purchase tax exemptions, central and local the resource efficiency amongst our suppliers. 4 subsidies, as well as free license plate, depending on the respective implementation SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT rules. Indirect CO2 emissions (Scope 3) of BMW Brilliance automobiles* F.07 5 For our traditional vehicle models, a clear trend in 2015 was the preference for small Change to EMPLOYEES displacement engines. The overwhelming majority of our vehicles sold in 2015 had in t 2014 2015 previous year 1.6T and 2.0T engines. 6 Total emissions 9,392,718 9,285,353 –1.1% CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP Upstream chain (1) 1,989,978 1,989,117 0% 7 LOWERING CO2 EMISSIONS Utilisation phase (2) 7,244,557 7,138,095 –1.5% APPENDIX Disposal (3) 158,183 158,141 0% As a result of our efforts and the trend towards smaller engines, between 2014 and 2015 we were able to reduce the CO2 emissions of our newly sold vehicles in China * The emissions data shown in this table is not directly comparable to figures reported in the Sustainability Report 2014 of BMW Brilliance, which corresponded to imported and locally produced vehicles. Current figures are for to 165.4 grams per kilometre > Figure 05. The average fuel consumption of our locally produced vehicles only. vehicles in 2015 was 6.95 litres of petrol per 100 kilometres, 1.6% less than in 2014. (1) Emissions from the upstream chain are calculated based on the carbon footprints of representative vehicles from the product lines. (2) The fleet emissions are extrapolated from the average fleet emissions of the BMW Brilliance products sold in a given year. The calculation was based on an average mileage of 150,000 km. (3) Emissions from disposal processes are calculated based on the carbon footprints of representative vehicles from the product lines. 45 LEVERAGING THE POTENTIAL OF ELECTROMOBILITY Expanding the reach of ZINORO Introduction The ZINORO 1E is the first product of our ZINORO brand and the first premium Offering a premium plug-in hybrid model zero-emissions sports activity vehicle in China. The locally developed ZINORO 1E 1 In January 2015, we launched the BMW 530Le, the first locally produced premium is environmentally friendly, highly energy-efficient and satisfies the highest safety SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT plug-in hybrid of our luxury-class business sedan. The vehicle, which is produced at our requirements. Dadong plant, is based on the BMW 5 Series Long Wheelbase and sets benchmarks for fuel efficiency and emissions in its class. The vehicle’s fuel consumption can be In 2015, several hundred ZINORO 1E vehicles were delivered to car rental companies 2 as low as 2 litres per 100 kilometres with average CO2 emissions of 49 grams per in Beijing and Shanghai with the aim of expanding electromobility, increasing PRODUCT kilometre. Given its environmental friendliness, the BMW 530Le has been included consumer confidence and building up the popularity of new energy vehicles. RESPONSIBILITY in the New Energy Vehicles Recommendation Catalogue, which makes it eligible for a national subsidy. In October, the vehicle was presented at the China International Our rental partner eHi Car Services integrated 160 ZINORO 1E vehicles into its Exhibition on Energy-Saving and New Energy Automobiles in Beijing, together with Beijing fleet and made them available for rent to its corporate and private customers. 2.1 Our management approach the electric vehicle 1E of our ZINORO brand. Additionally, 160 charging pillars were delivered to eHi. Customers can flexibly pick 2.2 Efficient mobility up and drop off their ZINORO 1E in different parts of the city depending on their 2.3 Product safety needs. Within the “Zero Road Emissions for a Clear Sky” activity, ZINORO and eHi offered 4,000 days of free electric vehicle rental to eHi customers, providing them 2.4 Customer satisfaction with an opportunity to gain first-hand experience in electromobility and to improve air quality in Beijing. 3 In Shanghai, over 200 ZINORO 1E vehicles have become part of the EVCARD ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION electric car-sharing service of Shanghai International Auto City. The vehicles are 4 available at premium properties such as Sinan Mansions, Intercontinental Shanghai SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT Expo Hotel, Crowne Plaza Hotel Shanghai and Wheelock Square. The service focuses on efficient and effective transport, user-friendliness and flexibility. 5 Xin Guobin (centre), Deputy Minister of MIIT, listens to an introduction of the ZINORO 1E model and innovative rental business models by our representatives. EMPLOYEES Moreover, a second ZINORO brand showroom was inaugurated in Shanghai and the concept car ZINORO Concept Next was presented at Auto Shanghai 2015. The 6 design takes inspiration from traditional Chinese culture and incorporates features CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP that convey the flow of strength and the beauty of coherence, reflecting the origins 7 of our ZINORO brand. APPENDIX 46 OFFERING SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY SERVICES Introduction Developing the charging infrastructure 1 In September 2015, we launched the BMW Group charging service known SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT as ChargeNowTM. At landmark locations in Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Shenzhen, more than 500 charging pillars were installed in collaboration with our 2 partner Potevio. For BMW customers, the ChargeNowTM card provides access to the charging pillars, and BMW ConnectedDrive gives the driver updated information PRODUCT about charging stations in their immediate vicinity. Customers of other brands with BMW ConnectedDrive: A safer, more customised experience underscoring BMW’s trademark RESPONSIBILITY vehicles conforming to the China GB standard can also use the charging service leadership in automotive innovation. by purchasing a Potevio card from our partner. In this way we are contributing to a 2.1 Our management approach public charging service and supporting the development of electromobility at large. 2.2 Efficient mobility Our customers with private parking spaces can also receive private charging wall FORECAST 2016 2.3 Product safety boxes. In 2015, certified service providers, who meet our strict qualification standards, 2.4 Customer satisfaction were available to install these boxes in 34 cities across the country. For customers In January 2016, the new engine plant, a world benchmark in clean who do not have their own parking space in Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and production technology, is starting its operations. This allows us to equip Shenzhen, a special charging card package provides access to semi-public charging our locally produced models with the cleanest and most advanced 3and 3 stations in their residential compounds. 4-cylinder B-Series engines available. Furthermore, we are introducing ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION additional plug-in hybrid models and more compact models aimed at Furthermore, we are actively involved in the Sino-German electric vehicle charging better efficiency and reduced emissions. We are planning to officially 4 project, which brings together government officials, automotive companies and launch the next generation of our ZINORO in 2016 and to introduce LinkSUPPLIER MANAGEMENT scientific institutes. Together, they conduct research on topics related to the charging Services for our ZINORO brand, allowing the driver to retrieve real-time 5 of new energy vehicles at the invitation of the Chinese and German governments. information about traffic conditions and charging stations. We are also EMPLOYEES installing another 1,000 ChargeNowTM charging pillars in ten cities in 2016 Providing mobility information with ConnectedDrive and expanding the private charging network to 22 additional cities. 6 In 2015, BMW China and China Unicom launched the BMW ConnectedDrive Store, CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP an online commerce platform designed for our Chinese customers that allows vehicle owners to manage their ConnectedDrive services for easier and smarter 7 driving. ConnectedDrive is a package of intelligent technologies that interconnect APPENDIX the driver, vehicle occupants and the vehicle itself with the environment. It allows the driver to avoid traffic jams, for example, and thereby reduce fuel consumption. 47 Introduction 2.3 1 Product safety SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2 OUR STRATEGIC DIRECTION PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Our strategic approach matches that of the BMW Group. We protect our customers and other road users from injury by creating networks 2.1 Our management approach of active and passive vehicle safety systems. 2.2 Efficient mobility BMW Brilliance follows the global safety standards of the BMW Group to 2.3 Product safety provide premium products and services for individual mobility in China. 2.4 Customer satisfaction The safety of our customers and other road users is paramount and fundamental to our sense of product responsibility. We take an integrated approach to product safety, which encompasses both active and passive 3 safety systems. It also addresses such aspects as product labelling, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION safety training and avoidance of potentially dangerous materials, as well Forward collision warning system. as minimising emissions in vehicle interiors. 4 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 5 Our objective is to prevent risks for road users and any adverse health consequences EMPLOYEES in the event of an accident. Our technologies and strategies for the safety of all road users are based on systematic research into the causes of accidents, which the BMW 6 Group has been carrying out for over 30 years. Our integrated approach analyses CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP the entire process chain, from accident prevention to post-crash applications. Based on this analysis, we integrate active safety features into our vehicles to try to prevent 7 accidents from happening in the first place, and we apply passive safety features to APPENDIX mitigate their consequences. Surround view. 48 PREVENTING ACCIDENTS THROUGH OFFERING DRIVER SAFETY TRAINING Introduction ACTIVE SAFETY SYSTEMS BMW Brilliance also contributes to protecting road users through driver safety Active safety systems include perfect chassis coordination, optimal traction 1 training. We offer 14 different training courses, and 1,550 participants learned how and effective brakes. Electronic chassis control systems also contribute towards SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT to identify critical driving situations and respond properly during 2015. This included preventing accidents. how to avoid such situations, if possible, in the first place. 2 One of the main ways we increase safety is through driver assistance systems, which are being increasingly integrated into our model ranges. These systems provide a PRODUCT second set of eyes to observe what is happening on the road in order to warn RESPONSIBILITY and support the driver. In 2015, we added the lane departure and forward collision warning system to locally produced models of the BMW 3 and BMW 5 Series. The 2.1 Our management approach system warns the driver about critical collision and lane departure situations and is integrated into the camera-based driver assistance system. 2.2 Efficient mobility 2.3 Product safety 2.4 Customer satisfaction SAVING LIVES THROUGH PASSIVE SAFETY SYSTEMS Our vehicles have energy-absorbing crumple zones, safe passenger cells, restraint 3 systems, airbags and many other passive safety features that protect the lives and ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION USING SAFE MATERIALS IN OUR VEHICLES health of drivers. In order to provide drivers and passengers with the greatest possible 4 protection in the event of a collision, various safety elements work hand-in-hand. For each phase of the vehicle life cycle – from development through to use and SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT A networked system of highly sensitive sensors enables airbags to deploy in the disposal – our specialist departments ensure compliance with worldwide legal appropriate situation and at precisely the right moment. Pyrotechnically activated requirements for product safety and human health. In the early development phase, 5 seatbelt pretensioners and seatbelt force limiters further minimise risk of injury. The an interdisciplinary working group evaluates the potential materials to be used in a EMPLOYEES vehicle front has various devices installed to protect pedestrians, including a shock product to determine the risk potential and to eliminate any problematic options. absorber. This is integrated between the bumper carrier and panel to reduce leg 6 The working group can then intervene in the selection and development process as injuries in a collision. CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP well as in the production phase, as needed. 7 Qualifying the materials we use APPENDIX GUARANTEEING PRODUCT AND SERVICE INFORMATION We test all current and future products according to the standards of the BMW Group. As well as series-model parts, all auxiliary production substances and process We inform our customers about any potential risks and hazards related to our materials, such as paint and adhesives, undergo rigorous qualification processes. products, as well as the environmental performance and proper use of our products and services. For example, we report on the fuel consumption of our vehicles in We fully document all chemical substances that are used in our production processes. accordance with China’s vehicle fuel consumption regulations, making every effort These substances are first inspected to ensure their safety and then approved for to ensure our products fulfil the new China 6 regulation issued by the Chinese a specific application through our central recording system for environmentally government. We also report fuel consumption for each of our vehicle models on relevant substances. The system also provides detailed specifications and tips on the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology’s website. handling these products as well as on first aid, storage and transport. 49 SECURING AIR QUALITY IN OUR VEHICLES Introduction To assure air quality in our vehicles, we measure and control interior emissions along At both development and production stage, and to ensure the air quality in our 1 the production chain. Beyond testing materials for product safety and harmlessness vehicles, we focus on continuously improving the materials we use. We also constantly SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT to human health, we also check parts, components and complete vehicles at several strive to replace materials with products and technologies that can further reduce stages of the production cycle. Before market launch and at various intervals during emissions. We implement appropriate filter systems and conduct inspections along 2 a product’s lifespan, complete vehicles are tested and evaluated according to the relevant Chinese and international standards. Additionally, BMW Brilliance applies the supply chain to avoid contamination by auxiliary materials. PRODUCT internal standards and limit values for specific substances. RESPONSIBILITY 2.1 Our management approach 2.2 Efficient mobility 2.3 Product safety 2.4 Customer satisfaction 3 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 4 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 5 EMPLOYEES 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 7 FORECAST 2016 APPENDIX In the upcoming years, we will further strengthen both our active and passive safety features. In particular, we are introducing warning and emergency brake systems for all vehicle categories. In line with our vision to create highly automated driving experiences, we are planning to offer a range of modern driver assistance systems, which will allow us to come another step closer to the aim of accident-free mobility. 50 Introduction 2.4 1 Customer satisfaction SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2 OUR STRATEGIC DIRECTION IMPROVING CUSTOMER INTERACTION PRODUCT We aim to improve our customer interaction and support. The BMW Customer RESPONSIBILITY We aim to create a perfect “customer journey” with a goal of delivering Interaction Centre has been running a customer hotline service since 2005. The premium services to satisfied customers purpose of the centre is to gain customer satisfaction and loyalty by constantly 2.1 Our management approach providing high-quality services to create the maximum value for our customers. In 2.2 Efficient mobility 2015, the volume of inbound calls, a majority of which were customer inquiries, Our customers are at the heart of everything we do. Their satisfaction increased by over 40%. 2.3 Product safety with our products and services is a prerequisite for our business success, 2.4 Customer satisfaction today and in the future. By analysing our customers’ needs continuously, Direct communications and improving our products and services accordingly, we work to ensure We focus on optimising our customer communication with the aim of achieving greater customer satisfaction and loyalty. the best balance of efficiency and frequency. In 2015, we introduced an internal 3 mechanism, the Direct Communication Circle, to define which campaigns and ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION To maintain our success, we must look after our customers better than anyone else. contents are of interest to which group of customers. A personalised newsletter is Customer satisfaction is our number one priority and delivering premium customer sent to all prospects, owners and users via a multimedia messaging service with a 4 service is the responsibility of everyone at BMW Brilliance. We work hard not only link to their highly personalised landing page every month. SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT on improving our customer interaction, but also on continuously improving the 5 customer experience. Facilitating customer communication with our 360-degree customer EMPLOYEES view tool In 2015, we launched our 360-degree customer view tool to support customer 6 life cycle management. The software helps us, and more specifically our dealers, CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP to provide an individualised service to each of our customers more efficiently and increase customer satisfaction. 7 APPENDIX 51 Improving through customer surveys Ensuring comprehensive data protection Introduction Our Customer Satisfaction Index guides us on how to fulfil customer needs and Our Data Privacy Protection Office was established to protect customer data and its increase customer satisfaction. Our customers are invited to give feedback about usage through technical security. Customer data security is the highest priority for 1 our products and services at various opportunities. This direct feedback provides our our projects. We implemented our own data privacy protection process in 2014 and, SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT foundation for driving customer satisfaction and managing continuous improvement. additionally, both BMW Brilliance and our dealerships adhere to the customer data privacy protection process of the BMW Group. We continuously improve our systems In 2015, over 77,000 customers participated in interviews conducted by our Customer and processes to ensure our compliance with all data protection requirements when 2 Interaction Centre. Overall, satisfaction was high, with a customer recommendation handling our customers’ personal data. We offer various channels for customers to PRODUCT rate of 90%. Nearly all the interviewed customers gave feedback on service features, change the opt-in status based on their wishes. products and attitude. The customer feedback was forwarded to our dealers to help RESPONSIBILITY them better understand and address the issues that were raised. 2.1 Our management approach Additionally, we conducted an extensive customer study, interviewing 2,300 2.2 Efficient mobility customers via different channels including phone calls and focus group discussions. 2.3 Product safety The study focused on customer behaviour, driving factors, core needs and ways to improve the customer experience. We communicated the results to our dealers to 2.4 Customer satisfaction support them in better understanding customer needs and expectations, and to adapt their services accordingly. 3 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 4 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 5 EMPLOYEES 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 7 APPENDIX 52 INCREASING CUSTOMER SATISFACTION WITH Introduction DEALERSHIPS AND AFTERSALES SERVICE 1 In 2015, we launched a new aftersales strategy to improve our response to customer On-site coaching in customer treatment SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT needs by focusing on convenience, trust and care. Efficiency and reduced waiting In order to prepare our dealers to better serve their customers, specific on-site times are the key to improving customer convenience, while professionalism and coaching has been implemented to continuously improve customer treatment and transparency are fundamental to deepening customer trust. Customer care translates foster sustainability in the dealership. 2 into exceeding expectations with proactive service offerings, such as a free end-ofPRODUCT warranty check, the BMW accident hotline or the provision of roadside assistance. “Future retail” is our reinterpretation of the customer experience in dealerships, RESPONSIBILITY making it more personal, emotional and inspiring. Improved customer treatment Recruiting talent to our dealerships requires all dealership staff to have the right knowledge and attitude in order to 2.1 Our management approach The BMW Education of Service Technology – known as our BEST programme – provide the best customer experience possible. We have identified eight key helps us recruit young talent to our dealerships and ensure the best possible customer moments and attitudes that can enhance the emotional experience of the customer, 2.2 Efficient mobility service. The programme is operated by the BMW China Training Academy and which we convey to staff during their training. Since 2013, over 330 dealers have 2.3 Product safety vocational schools in China. It offers a variety of specialised training opportunities participated in our customer treatment on-site coaching programme. Twenty-two of that prepare students to work in aftersales services at BMW dealerships. The these dealers have already participated in the new version of the on-site coaching 2.4 Customer satisfaction programme has so far proven successful, with dealers appreciating the designated programme called “customer treatment sustainability”. qualification of its participants and with an increasing number of graduates being 3 employed at BMW dealerships. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 4 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 5 EMPLOYEES 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 7 APPENDIX Our sales consultants attending a customer event. 53 Training dealers in process improvement Introduction Our specialised on-site coaching programme, combined with regional dealer workshops, allow us to assure high levels of customer satisfaction, efficiency and 1 transparency in our aftersales services. Specific campaigns – such as the End-ofSUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Warranty Check, the Value and Mobility Service and the Sorry Activity on Recall, which are designed to fulfil our customers’ needs and increase their satisfaction with our services – were increased in 2015. 2 Fostering sustainability among dealers PRODUCT In 2011, BMW Group extended its sustainable development strategy to the retail field RESPONSIBILITY by introducing the 5S dealer certification programme. This approach incorporates the concept of sustainability into the traditional 4S dealerships. BMW is the first 2.1 Our management approach automotive brand to introduce and practice this new concept. BMW 5S dealers 2.2 Efficient mobility must reach a relevant sustainability standard, including their contributions to the local economy and employment, their commitment to community welfare and the 2.3 Product safety validity of their measures for resource use and carbon emission reduction at their 2.4 Customer satisfaction operations. In 2015, we added four new 5S dealers, bringing the total 5S network to 39. Moreover, 3 14 dealers were successfully recertified according to the 5S certification model, for ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION which renewal is required every two years. We held 348 person-days of training Exterior view of a 5S dealership. 4 based on the 5S model focusing on environmental protection and work safety. SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 5 EMPLOYEES 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP FORECAST 2016 7 In 2016, we are intensifying our customer interactions by implementing “BMW online chat” to provide more multimedia communication channels. We are also expanding APPENDIX our direct customer contact pilot platform, which employs SMS. To support our dealer network, we are continuing to provide our “customer treatment sustainability” on-site coaching programme. 54 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 3.1 Our management approach 3.2 Energy consumption and emissions 3.3 Waste reduction 3.4 Water Introduction STAKEHOLDER STATEMENT: Sustainability through intelligent production processes 1 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 3 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 3.1 Our management approach Ma Jian 3.2 Energy consumption and emissions Maintenance Planning Engineer, Tiexi Paint Shop, BMW Brilliance 3.3 Waste reduction 3.4 Water How does BMW Brilliance optimise its production processes to What are your plans to further improve the sustainability of your production continuously improve its sustainability performance? processes? We want to continuously improve towards our vision of sustainable production plants. In line with the 2020 road map, more and more environmental improvement 4 To achieve this, we worked with the BMW Group to set up an environmental target measures will be implemented. The planned well water cooling system will allow us SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT road map 2020. Our Environmental Sustainability Circle works on finding measures to reduce both water and electricity consumption. The limestone recycling project that enable us to achieve the expected results and reach the performance targets will reduce our hazardous waste and increase our recycling sourcing ratio. And given 5 the importance of Industry 4.0, BMW Brilliance will also invest in the digitalisation for 2020. EMPLOYEES of our environmental management. We will build up an environmental management Can you give an example of a concrete improvement in 2015? system to collect and analyse data, and to manage our targets. In this way we hope 6 We focused on reducing the baseload to improve our energy efficiency. Baseload to continuously improve our sustainability performance. CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP refers to the energy consumed during non-production periods. This energy 7 consumption does not create any value for the customer, but contributes to our CO2 APPENDIX emissions. We use our intelligent illumination system to help us shut off the lighting when it is not needed. We also control the air supply unit and adapt it to the working hours, reducing the ventilation and cooling when no one is working in the office. 56 Introduction 3.1 We focus on reducing the environmental impact of our activities in three key areas: energy consumption and emissions > Chapter 3.2 1 Our management approach waste reduction > Chapter 3.3 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT water consumption as well as process wastewater discharge > Chapter 3.4 2 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY We aim to be the leading and most resource-efficient premium automotive manufacturer in China. Like many countries in the world, Reducing our CO2 emissions along the entire 3 China is facing major environmental challenges, such as air pollution, value chain decreasing environmental resources and climate change. In these ENVIRONMENTAL circumstances, BMW Brilliance is focused on using energy and other Climate change is highly relevant for BMW Brilliance. Reducing CO2 PROTECTION resources more efficiently, in order to minimise our impact on the emissions not only makes environmental sense, it is also a business opportunity. Fewer CO2 emissions mean cost savings and a competitive environment and to reduce our costs at the same time. 3.1 Our management approach advantage, due to the consumption of less energy and the avoidance of CO2 levies. In addition, we see an increasing demand for vehicles with 3.2 Energy consumption and emissions reduced CO2 emissions. We are therefore reducing the CO2 emissions of INTEGRATING ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION INTO our vehicles at our own locations, as well as along the value chain. 3.3 Waste reduction OUR BUSINESS 3.4 Water Minimising emissions at company locations We focus on minimising CO2 emissions related to our operations, including Environmental protection is a fundamental part of our sustainability strategy. In emissions that are generated directly from burning fossil fuels (Scope 1), 4 December 2015, we established the Environmental Sustainability Circle with a and indirectly through our consumption of electricity and heat (Scope 2). SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT mandate to continuously improve our environmental performance. The circle aims Our reduction strategy includes increasing the energy efficiency of our to proactively contribute to achieving the BMW Group target for 2020, which is to plants > Chapter 3.2. 5 reduce resource consumption by 45%, per vehicle produced, compared to 2006. It EMPLOYEES identifies and implements key initiatives, reports directly to the executive team, and Reducing upstream and downstream emissions receives approval to fulfil long-term targets for energy, water, process wastewater, 6 We focus on continuously reducing emissions caused by the use and emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOC) and waste for disposal. Technology CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP heads and senior managers are members of the circle. It encompasses all activities disposal of our products, in our supply chain, in transport logistics and by employees commuting to and from work (Scope 3). The majority of these conducted at all of our plant locations, including technology planning and operations 7 emissions are generated during the use of our products (corporate level, functions, Human Resources’ Safety and Environment teams, as well as our APPENDIX not including upstream fuel). The BMW Group Efficient Dynamics strategy Strategies and Logistics Department. > Chapter 2 focuses on continually reducing the average fleet emissions of CO2 per kilometre. Additionally, we are continuously increasing the CO2 Our Board of Management appoints a representative to ensure the effective efficiency of our transport logistics > Chapter 3.2. implementation of our environmental management system. Our plant directors are responsible for the environmental management of our operations. 57 INTEGRATING ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION INTO OUR SHARING BEST PRACTICES Introduction PLANNING 1 During the planning of a new production facility, we conduct a detailed site We aim to reduce the environmental impacts of all our production plant locations. SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT assessment with input from internal environmental experts and from the Shenyang BMW Brilliance’s environmental management system is based on relevant legislation, Environmental Science Institute. This practice allows us to consider any potential international standards and BMW Group-related guidelines, as well as best practices. 2 environmental impacts at the outset of a project, and to implement any actions or We are thus following the principles of the United Nations Environment Programme PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY further improvements as necessary. It also allows us to continuously improve our (UNEP) Cleaner Production Declaration. TÜV Rheinland has certified all of our performance and implement best practices from across BMW Group plants. operating plant locations in accordance with ISO 14001. To ensure continuous 3 improvement, we conduct annual internal and external audits of our environmental For both our High Voltage Battery Centre, as well as the Research and Development management system. ENVIRONMENTAL Centre Phase 2 where construction started in 2015, environmental impact PROTECTION assessments were carried out and impacts were reduced to a minimum from each We have established Centres of Competence for energy, water, waste and emissions project’s outset. To further increase the energy efficiency of the building throughout that are managed by environmental experts from our different plants. Working groups 3.1 Our management approach its life cycle, the Research and Development Centre Phase 2 will be equipped with a meet regularly to discuss best-practice solutions for issues that may arise. 3.2 Energy consumption well water cooling system and a building automation system that will allow for better and emissions control of room temperature, ventilation and lighting. Our Environmental Policy and management system are fully aligned and integrated 3.3 Waste reduction with BMW Group-wide environmental policies, guidelines and management systems. As we are part of the BMW Group’s international environmental protection 3.4 Water network, our experts exchange ideas and approaches with environmental protection specialists from other BMW Group plants. The aim is to build the competence of 4 local teams and employees, and to share best practices globally. SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 5 EMPLOYEES 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 7 APPENDIX Our energy-savings project team implementing a pilot project at our Tiexi Main Office Building. 58 Introduction 3.2 1 Energy consumption and emissions SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY OUR STRATEGIC DIRECTION 3 BMW Brilliance contributes to the BMW Group’s environmental consumption and CO2 emissions, we focus on improving the energy efficiency of target. The BMW Group will reduce its resource consumption our buildings and production processes. ENVIRONMENTAL (energy, water, waste, solvents) per vehicle produced by 45% by PROTECTION 2020 (base year 2006). We rely on state-of-the-art technologies to help us achieve our efficiency targets. For example, at the Dadong plant we implemented a “steam to gas” project in 2015. 3.1 Our management approach At the paint shop, we collect condensed water from the heat recovery system and Climate change and air pollution are highly relevant topics in China. In view 3.2 Energy consumption use it to preheat water for the boilers, thus reducing overall gas consumption. of the planned introduction of a national carbon trading system by 2017, and emissions and of potentially stricter CO2 regulations in the future, we continuously 3.3 Waste reduction Furthermore, at the paint shop in the North Extension project of the Dadong plant, strive to minimise our environmental impact by increasing our energy 3.4 Water we have developed an integrated paint process that will utilise the latest generation efficiency and decreasing emissions throughout our entire value chain. of welding robots. Applying the newest technology allows us to implement high energy efficiency throughout our expanding operations. 4 To reduce CO2 emissions related to our production, we focus on increasing the SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT At our Tiexi plant, we have achieved additional energy savings in the paint shop energy efficiency of our plants. We are also continuously improving the CO2 by enabling the switch-off of equipment during non-production periods and by 5 efficiency of our transport logistics. Additionally, we reduce VOC emissions per optimising the shop’s process lighting. We also implemented a heat recovery system EMPLOYEES vehicle produced – one of the major environmental impacts associated with paint at the body shop, which allows us to use the energy from cooling the welding robots processes for automotive companies. to heat up the building during wintertime. Our Energy Saving Initiative implemented 6 first measures to optimise energy efficiency, for example by making use of daylight CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP whenever possible. In the face of rising energy prices, these innovations have allowed 7 BMW Brilliance to reduce our total energy costs and improve our profitability and INCREASING OUR ENERGY EFFICIENCY APPENDIX competitive position. The energy production in Shenyang, where our production plants are located, is We use the BMW Group’s Building Energy Consumption Standard for Sustainable mainly coal-based. This means that more CO2 and other pollutants are emitted than Construction when building new projects and for any building conversions. This in regions with more renewable energy resources. Nevertheless, we make every standard establishes principles and concepts for buildings and enables ongoing effort to buy cleaner energy wherever possible. Since 2015, for example, we have project monitoring. The aim is to minimise energy and resource consumption, as been using water from a thermal station, heated by a gas furnace, for heating in well as environmental impacts, during all phases of a building’s life cycle. the North Extension project of our Dadong plant. Additionally, to reduce our energy 59 Introduction Celebrating a green building award for our main office In 2015, our main office building in Shenyang was awarded Gold level LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) status, a green building certification 1 programme that recognises best-in-class building strategies and practices. SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2 The main office building’s design follows the concepts of green building and energy savings. These include: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY location choice energy and atmosphere indoor environmental quality 3 water efficiency resources and materials ENVIRONMENTAL Our main office building is considered a high-performance green building that is saving energy throughout its life cycle PROTECTION and contributes to BMW Brilliance’s energy targets. 3.1 Our management approach 3.2 Energy consumption and emissions Monitoring energy consumption and carbon footprint Energy consumption at all plant locations F.08 3.3 Waste reduction Following a 31% increase in electricity consumption between 2013 and 2014, Change to we reduced our electricity consumption by 6.5% in 2015, compared to 2014, by in MWh 2013 2014 2015 previous year 3.4 Water introducing LED lights at our Dadong plant and a building automation system at the Total fuel consumption from 115,477 109,895 132,326 20.4% Tiexi plant. We also further decreased our heating consumption with the introduction non-renewable resources of the “steam to gas” project at our Dadong plant. We were able to reduce our 202,558 4 Total electricity consumption 165,396 216,674 –6.5% overall energy consumption and energy consumption per unit in 2015. This was SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT Total heating consumption 162,627 153,660 143,539 –6.6% achieved despite higher production volumes, which required a longer runtime of 5 our production facilities, as well as the start-up of new operations and buildings, Total energy consumption 443,500 480,229 478,424 –0.4% EMPLOYEES including the new logistics centre at our Tiexi plant. 6 We have set targets for energy consumption, per unit produced, for our plants (Tiexi, Energy consumption per unit produced at all plant locations F.09 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP Dadong and our Powertrain plant) and for different production processes (i.e. the Change to press shop, body shop, paint shop and assembly). We have installed metering in MWh/unit 2013 2014 2015 previous year 7 systems to obtain accurate data on our energy consumption. These systems help APPENDIX 2.06 1.67 1.66 –0.6% us to closely monitor, target, address irregularities and implement any necessary measures to ensure our performance is on track. CO2 emissions per unit produced at all plant locations F.10 Improved energy efficiency and the use of cleaner energy sources have enabled Change to us to reduce our carbon footprint for every vehicle we produce. In 2015, we further in t/unit 2013 2014 2015 previous year reduced the CO2 levels, per unit produced, by 9.3% compared to 2014, and achieved 1.10 0.97 0.88 –9.3% a CO2 efficiency of 0.88 tonnes of CO2 per unit produced. 60 INCREASING TRANSPORT EFFICIENCY Introduction BMW Brilliance produces and supplies premium products and services that require A further transport improvement was the opening of a railway connection to our 1 the transport of large volumes of goods. Transport logistics are not only important Tiexi plant in late 2014. Finished cars can now be dispatched by train to different SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT to our business success, but also to how we are perceived by society. We are hubs, replacing truck shipments, and thereby increasing efficiency and reducing increasingly using low-carbon modes of transport and we are continuously improving emissions. The train connection is also used for incoming containers, facilitating the 2 our logistical efficiency. This strategy reduces overall costs to the business and transport of goods and reducing our dependence on trucks that are impacted by PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY minimises our environmental impact. weather and road conditions, especially in wintertime. 3 Our low-emissions strategy is twofold. We are increasingly using short sea shipment For our employees, we provide shuttle buses linking our plants and the city of main-haul transport via the ports of Shanghai and Yingkou for high-volume suppliers Shenyang to reduce the use of private cars and, consequently, CO2 emissions ENVIRONMENTAL generated during the commute. from the Greater Shanghai area. For long-distance transport we have implemented PROTECTION our full truck load strategy to ensure trucks are filled to capacity. This enables us to decrease carbon emissions during transport by using fewer trucks and minimising 3.1 Our management approach wasted container space, as cargo is directly collected from suppliers based on 3.2 Energy consumption production orders. and emissions 3.3 Waste reduction Furthermore, BMW Brilliance has launched a number of pilot projects to evaluate to 3.4 Water what extent standard-fuel truck transport can be substituted by liquefied natural gas and/or compressed natural gas technology. By doing so, we anticipate reducing CO2 emissions, as well as noise and other emissions. 4 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 5 EMPLOYEES 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 7 APPENDIX Diversified transport methods: Inbound train with imported materials at our Tiexi plant. 61 REDUCING OUR VOC EMISSIONS Introduction We are committed to reducing our VOC emissions from our production processes to 1 mitigate any risks and impacts on society. Due to technology improvements at both SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT our Tiexi and Dadong plants, we were able to drastically reduce our VOC emissions between 2012 and 2014. 2 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Our continuous improvement efforts led to a further 5.3% reduction in VOC emissions per unit produced, from 0.48 kg of VOCs in 2014 to 0.45 kg of VOCs in 3 2015. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Volatile organic compounds (VOC) per unit produced at all plant locations F.11 Change to in kg/unit 2013 2014 2015 previous year 3.1 Our management approach 3.2 Energy consumption 3.52 0.48 0.45 –5.3% and emissions 3.3 Waste reduction 3.4 Water FORECAST 2016 4 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT As our operations grow, we continue to expand the scope of our 5 environmental certifications. We are planning to include the new engine EMPLOYEES plant, which is starting production in January 2016, in our certification scope by year-end 2016. We are continuing to test and assess the potential of a 6 cleaning solvent without VOC emissions. If proven successful, it will have CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP replaced the previously used product well before the end of the year, thus contributing to a further reduction in VOC emissions. Furthermore, we are 7 implementing energy efficient technology in the North Extension project, APPENDIX which will begin production in 2017. The new plant will benefit from the use of LED lights, which will contribute to its overall energy savings. The paint shop at our Tiexi plant. 62 Introduction 3.3 1 Waste reduction SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY OUR STRATEGIC DIRECTION MANAGING OUR WASTE 3 BMW Brilliance contributes to the BMW Group’s target. By 2020, we aim to reduce waste by 45% per vehicle produced, compared to We have implemented the BMW Group’s waste information system – ABIS – to help us record and reuse the waste we produce. BMW Brilliance has customised ABIS ENVIRONMENTAL 2006. Our goal is to reduce all waste for disposal to a minimum. to meet requirements within China. We apply ABIS to determine the best disposal PROTECTION method for a particular type of waste. One of the major sustainability issues society faces is the global depletion 3.1 Our management approach of natural resources. Raw materials are becoming increasingly scarce, and We also use ABIS to help us document individual waste flows and to categorise waste 3.2 Energy consumption as demand increases, so too do business costs. In this context, we engage as hazardous or non-hazardous, in accordance with the Waste Pollution Prevention and emissions in recycling management throughout our product life cycles. We focus on and Control Law and the Hazardous Waste Catalogue of China. During 2015, there 3.3 Waste reduction continuously optimising our processes and reducing our waste volumes. were no incidents of illegal transport or disposal of hazardous waste. 3.4 Water This approach allows us to consider waste as a valuable resource, which might be successfully incorporated back into our production processes. It also reduces our costs, as well as environmental impacts, and is 4 essential to maintaining compliance with the Waste Pollution Prevention SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT and Control Law of China. 5 EMPLOYEES To achieve our objectives, we focus on managing the waste generated from our production processes and collaborating with our vendors on waste disposal. 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 7 APPENDIX 63 Implementing best practices Introduction Raising awareness among our employees When we recycle materials or waste, we comply with the same five-step hierarchical model used by the BMW Group, and as laid down by the European Union as best 1 practice: Disposable food packaging creates a considerable amount of waste and is SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT also a cost factor for BMW Brilliance. In 2015, we therefore implemented a campaign to reduce the food packaging waste generated in our canteens. 2 The campaign included hanging banners in the canteen and break areas PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Prevention: Where possible, we avoid creating waste in the first place. to raise employee awareness, reusable public mugs and a coupon system This is the best solution both in economic and environmental terms. for paper coffee cups, as well as a takeaway box as a gift for our employees. 3 Reuse: We reuse any viable waste material immediately. Otherwise, we The campaign achieved a positive response from our workforce and had ENVIRONMENTAL prepare it for reuse in its original area of application. an immediate visible effect: within less than a month, food packaging PROTECTION consumption was reduced by nearly 80%, from close to 35,000 units in Recycling: If reuse is not an option, we recycle the material in such a March down to less than 8,000 units in April 2015. 3.1 Our management approach way that we can reintroduce it to the cycle. It can then replace primary 3.2 Energy consumption raw materials. and emissions 3.3 Waste reduction Recovery: We deliver non-recyclable waste materials to vendors with 3.4 Water incineration facilities for heat recovery, whenever it is technically feasible and legally permitted. Other methods of disposal are also used. 4 Disposal: Only the small volume of non-recyclable waste that is then left SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT over is earmarked as waste for disposal. 5 EMPLOYEES 6 Minimising packaging waste CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP To reduce waste and to minimise our impact on the environment, we use recycled packaging for both imported and local parts during our vehicle production processes. 7 We also use returnable packaging for local parts whenever possible, which has APPENDIX drastically reduced our packaging waste. 64 Introduction 1 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 3 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 3.1 Our management approach 3.2 Energy consumption and emissions 3.3 Waste reduction 3.4 Water Paint shop press filter for waste sludge reduction. 4 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 5 Dewatering sludge from wastewater treatment Controlling waste management data EMPLOYEES In order to reduce the waste generated in our wastewater treatment plant, we Despite our efforts to reduce our waste to a minimum, the total quantities of waste installed new compact machines for the sludge dewatering process. With this new for disposal and waste for recycling have increased since 2014, as the table below 6 technology, the water content in the waste can be reduced by about 30%, which illustrates. These increases are mainly due to: CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP results in a reduced volume of waste for disposal. 7 an increase in sanitary waste due to a larger workforce at Tiexi plant; APPENDIX more frequent deep cleaning activities at Dadong paint shop; and an addition of wastewater sludge from the construction of the new engine plant treated at the Tiexi wastewater treatment plant. 65 Introduction Total non-hazardous and hazardous waste at BMW Brilliance F.12 Change to in t 2013 2014 2015 previous year 1 Hazardous waste for recycling 1,940 4,060 3,999 –1.5% SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Hazardous waste for disposal 384 1,034 2,000 93.4% 2 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Total hazardous waste 2,324 5,094 5,999 17.8% Non-hazardous waste 13,113 22,312 26,659 19.5% 3 for recycling Non-hazardous waste 563 597 641 7.4% for disposal ENVIRONMENTAL 30,658 PROTECTION Total waste for recycling 15,052 26,374 16.2% Total waste for disposal 947 1,631 2,641 61.9% 3.1 Our management approach Total waste 15,999 28,005 33,299 18.9% 3.2 Energy consumption and emissions 3.3 Waste reduction As is the case for total quantities, the waste for disposal per vehicle produced has also increased since 2014, mainly due to the reasons described above. 3.4 Water Waste for disposal per unit produced at all plant locations F.13 4 Change to SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT in kg/unit 2013 2014 2015 previous year 5 4.41 5.67 9.17 61.8% EMPLOYEES 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 7 APPENDIX 66 COLLABORATING WITH OUR VENDORS Introduction We work closely with several vendors on waste disposal to help ensure their 1 performance complies with national and local laws and regulations. In addition, we FORECAST 2016 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT conduct duty of care audits in order to review the management process of each vendor. We conduct such audits during our vendor selection phase. Furthermore, 2 In 2016, we are continuing to focus on minimising waste for disposal we audit the hazardous waste management systems of all our contracted vendors PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY and on devoting the necessary resources to recycling management. Our every three years. project to recycle the limestone used for our eco-dry scrubber system 3 in the Tiexi plant paint shop, for example, is ongoing. If successful, used limestone will not be treated as waste for disposal, but rather as a raw ENVIRONMENTAL material for cement production. At our new engine plant, which is starting PROTECTION production in January 2016, we are aiming to recycle 90% of the sand used in the foundry for the sand core process. With this new approach, up 3.1 Our management approach to 30 tonnes of sand per day can be recycled instead of being sent to the disposal company. 3.2 Energy consumption and emissions 3.3 Waste reduction 3.4 Water 4 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT Efficient waste sorting and disposal. 5 EMPLOYEES 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 7 APPENDIX 67 Introduction 3.4 1 Water SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY OUR STRATEGIC DIRECTION REDUCING WATER CONSUMPTION 3 BMW Brilliance contributes to the BMW Group’s target. By 2020, we will have reduced water consumption and process wastewater At our Tiexi plant, the use of state-of-the-art technologies contributes significantly to the plant’s water savings. They include: ENVIRONMENTAL by 45% per vehicle produced, compared to 2006. Our vision is to PROTECTION achieve wastewater-free production processes. closed-cycle water systems and the introduction of waterless processes at the paint shops; 3.1 Our management approach Water is becoming increasingly scarce and more valuable as the world’s 3.2 Energy consumption population and consumption rise. In Shenyang, Liaoning Province, where water-saving sanitary fittings that conserve 21,800 m3 per year compared and emissions our production plants are located, reduced availability of water creates to the traditional fittings; 3.3 Waste reduction challenges. We understand that careful use of this natural resource is increasingly important today, and for the future. We focus on reducing hybrid air-cooling towers rather than evaporative-cooling towers; and 3.4 Water our water consumption in our daily activities, in order to reduce our business costs and to minimise our impact on the environment, as well as recirculation of demineralised water in the paint shop’s paint-fume capture 4 on society. system. SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT Our water consumption is mainly related to the sanitary facilities for our workforce, 5 evaporation from the cooling towers in our production processes, and the water EMPLOYEES used at our paint shops. We therefore focus on continuously improving our water 6 efficiency in all of these areas. Additionally, we continuously improve our treatment of wastewater. A management system monitors consumption targets and levels at CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP each of our plants. We also regularly exchange best practices in water management 7 between representatives of all plants within the BMW Group’s international APPENDIX environmental protection network. 68 At our Dadong plant, we have introduced water recycling into our newly refurbished Introduction car washing system. Additionally, the recirculation of demineralised water in the paint booths at the Dadong paint shop supports our ongoing efforts to reduce the 1 amount of water consumed during the process. SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Monitoring our water use 2 Thanks to measures to limit our water consumption, we stabilised the amount of PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY water consumed per unit produced. We achieved this despite the opening of new buildings and an increased workforce with higher water consumption needs at our 3 Tiexi plant. Our measures also counterbalanced increased water consumption in the paint shop at our Dadong plant where process changes were required to adapt to A vehicle water leakage test being carried out using recycled water. ENVIRONMENTAL new materials. At the same time, we reduced the amount of process wastewater per PROTECTION unit produced to 0.46 m3. 3.1 Our management approach 3.2 Energy consumption and emissions Water consumption per unit produced at all plant locations F.14 3.3 Waste reduction Change to in m3/unit 2013 2014 2015 previous year 3.4 Water 2.72 2.18 2.18 –0.2% Our pretreatment water reuse system reduces water Our electrocoating ultrafilter system reduces consumption and wastewater discharge. wastewater discharge. 4 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT Process wastewater per unit produced at all plant locations F.15 5 2013 2014 2015 Change to FORECAST 2016 in m3/unit previous year EMPLOYEES 0.50 0.47 0.46 –1.9% In 2016, we are introducing closed-loop well water cooling systems in both 6 our Tiexi and new engine plants. We anticipate that this will reduce the CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP amount of water evaporated in the process as the use of the cooling tower can be minimised. Additionally, we are planning to treat the wastewater 7 TREATING OUR WASTEWATER from our laboratory. Throughout the year we will be monitoring and tracking APPENDIX the full impact of the Tiexi plant’s new water recycling system. We also In 2015, we introduced a wastewater recycling system at the Tiexi plant, where anticipate that the foundry process at the new engine plant will consume process water treated in the plant is used for gardening during summer months. substantial amounts of water. To lower consumption to a minimum, the This system can save approximately 200,000 m3 of potable water annually. foundry will use a water recycling system that allows the treatment and reuse of nearly all the process water. 69 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 4.1 Our management approach 4.2 Minimising supplier risk 4.3 Utilising supplier opportunities Introduction STAKEHOLDER STATEMENT: Sustainability in the supply chain 1 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 3 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Christian Kopp 4 General Manager, Yanfeng Plastic Omnium (Shenyang) Automotive Exteriors Systems Co., Ltd. SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT What is your understanding of sustainability? and full “design to just-in-time delivery” customer service. Today, we are proud to be 4.1 Our management approach For us at YFPO, sustainable value creation is at the core of what we do. As we are a leader in our field in China. While challenging at times, BMW Brilliance’s regularly 4.2 Minimising supplier risk working in a business-to-business environment, our first priority is always to meet evolving standards have been a blessing for us. I say without hesitation that without our customers’ needs and requirements. With respect to environmental and social them, we would not be as strong and competitive as we are now. 4.3 Utilising supplier opportunities performance, this means that we work closely with BMW Brilliance to maintain and How do you integrate sustainability into your everyday operations? further improve the sustainability of our activities. Throughout our operations, we seek An example is our paint process, for which we introduced a KPI to help us manage 5 to minimise our impact on the environment by reducing energy consumption and the amount of paint transferred to the actual product. This results in the elimination EMPLOYEES waste production. We are committed to providing safe working conditions, valuable of paint waste and reduction of volatile organic compound emissions. For our plastic career development opportunities and fair remuneration to all of our employees. injections, we have replaced our previous centralised cooling tower with individual 6 Sustainability is also about taking a long-term view of our customer relationships. energy-efficient coolers that we only use when necessary. This reduces our CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP This is reflected in our decision to locate our second plant in immediate proximity to energy consumption. We have also insourced the cleaning of support frames used the new BMW Brilliance plant. This allows us to support BMW Brilliance in the best 7 in the painting process, which allows us to optimise cleaning frequency, reduce possible way. APPENDIX unnecessary travel and minimise waste. How does the collaboration with BMW Brilliance help you optimise Do you have suggestions on how to improve collaboration with BMW your business operations in general and especially your sustainability Brilliance even further with respect to sustainable development in the performance, e.g. through eco-efficiency or responsible human resources future? measures? We see an opportunity for future new product testing to be conducted locally rather BMW Brilliance is a demanding customer with very high standards for both the than in Germany. This would not only result in lower delivery costs and a reduction production process and end products. Our collaboration with BMW Brilliance is a in CO2 emissions, it could also save time as well as internal resources. Our design constant learning process as they always push us to become better and better. With capabilities and our know-how of lightweight solutions (e.g. plastic fenders and BMW Brilliance employees frequently visiting our plant, we can share experiences, tailgates) could also be used to improve the sustainability of vehicles. At YPFO, further improve our understanding of their requirements and work together on we are prepared to put the breadth of our resources and skills at BMW Brilliance’s implementing these requirements on-site. Over the years, we have invested in our disposal to chart the course to a more sustainable future. lab equipment to allow for product performance learning, faster product qualification 71 Introduction 4.1 1 Our management approach SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY By developing shared objectives and targets, we can continuously improve product Our global supply chain network makes a major contribution to value creation, quality and innovation at BMW Brilliance. Our suppliers play quality, logistics processes, production procedures and sustainability standards. We 3 a significant role in helping us achieve our sustainability goals and in also discuss the challenges and opportunities we face, and together develop inENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION the sustainable development of society as a whole. As our business depth analyses on key issues as well as solutions to them. grows, so does the complexity of our supply chain and our potential 4 impact on the environment and society. Our supply chain includes Sustainability in our supply chain is incorporated into our overall approach to Supplier a wide network of suppliers and sub-suppliers, which presents Risk Management (SRM). In addition to finance, maintenance and delivery, we have SUPPLIER defined three specific sustainability areas: considerable challenges for us to maintain sustainability standards. MANAGEMENT However, it also provides us with opportunities to leverage the sustainability performance in our supply chain. We believe that by environment, health and safety (EHS) 4.1 Our management approach strengthening this performance we will achieve our long-term goals, 4.2 Minimising supplier risk deliver a premium experience to our customers and contribute to social responsibility 4.3 Utilising supplier opportunities sustainable development. We know that these goals can only be achieved in close collaboration with our suppliers. sub-supplier management 5 EMPLOYEES LEVERAGING OUR SUPPLIER RELATIONSHIPS 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP There are significant opportunities to add value to our processes and products 7 throughout our supply chain. We work closely with our suppliers to continuously APPENDIX improve product and production quality, ensure security of supply, enhance price credibility and enable innovation. We develop long-term partnerships with our suppliers in order to leverage our combined potential. By integrating sustainability standards into our supply chain we are aiming to achieve our sustainability goals and improve the sustainability performance of our suppliers as well. 72 Supplier risk management (SRM) areas F.16 Introduction 1 To measure, manage and respond appropriately to business risks SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT from BMW Brilliance suppliers 2 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 3 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Social Sub-supplier Finance EHS Maintenance management Delivery responsibility 4 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 4.1 Our management approach 4.2 Minimising supplier risk With our SRM approach we effectively identify and manage the sustainability risks locally significantly more than 40% of the total costs for goods and services needed 4.3 Utilising supplier opportunities in our supply chain. With our various supplier initiatives we work hand-in-hand with to manufacture vehicles at our Shenyang production plants. our suppliers to build sustainability capacity in our supply chain. By year-end 2015, we worked with 319 suppliers based in mainland China. That is 5 Description of BMW Brilliance’s supply chain an increase of more than 12% compared to 2014. Our suppliers are located across EMPLOYEES BMW Brilliance’s supply chain is complex, multi-tiered and highly diversified as 16 Chinese provinces. The number of suppliers located in Liaoning Province, where 6 we source not only huge quantities but also an enormous variety of products, our plants are also located, increased from 53 in 2014 to 70 in 2015. On a year-onCORPORATE CITIZENSHIP ranging from very simple parts, like screws, to high-technology electronic system year comparison, this is a disproportionate increase of 32% compared with the total components. increase of more than 12%. This increase is a clear result of our intention to bring our 7 suppliers closer to our plants. APPENDIX As we align our sourcing activities more closely with the BMW Group’s global strategy, we are currently shifting value creation along the supply chain towards our main sales market – China. We believe local sourcing provides numerous benefits for our business and for society. In addition to reducing our currency risks, this approach allows us to support our operating communities and regions. Local sourcing also improves our logistics by reducing our transport footprint, resulting in lower greenhouse gas emissions. For example, for several years now, all local automobiles produced by BMW Brilliance have had a localisation rate of more than 40%. That means we have been sourcing 73 Introduction Our 319 suppliers (by December 2015) F.17 1 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Yingkou, Liaoyang, Tieling Xinjiang and Dandong 3 1,000 km Changchun ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Beijing and Tianjin 4 1 SUPPLIER Hebei 39 MANAGEMENT 9 51 Shenyang 4.1 Our management approach 10 Dalian 4.2 Minimising supplier risk 25 14 4.3 Utilising supplier opportunities 14 Shandong and Shanxi 5 Anhui 51 Jiangsu EMPLOYEES 4 1 67 Shanghai 6 11 16 Zheijang CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP Hubei and Hunan 7 APPENDIX 4 Mianyang, Sichuan Fujian Guangdong and Shenzhen 74 responsibilities and accountabilities, as well as detailed procedures within BMW Introduction Purchasing volume in China F.18 Brilliance, for the integration of sustainability criteria into our supply chain. in billion RMB 1 BMW Brilliance abides by the principles of the UN Global Compact and the ILO. The SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 30 BMW Group Supplier Sustainability Standard summarises the BMW Group’s core 23.9 23.5 principles and standards for our suppliers in accordance with globally recognised 2 25 principles. It includes a commitment to environmental and social responsibility, as PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 20 17.9 well as to compliance with all internationally recognised human rights, local labour and environmental laws. 3 15 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 10 4 5 OUR SUPPLIER CONTRACTS INCLUDE 0 SUSTAINABILITY CLAUSES SUPPLIER 2013 2014 2015 MANAGEMENT BMW Brilliance’s supplier network overlaps with the BMW Group’s supplier network. During 2015, we finalised the harmonisation of contracts between the two supplier 4.1 Our management approach networks and established the same high-quality global processes for all of our local The parts purchasing volume of local suppliers has increased continuously over the 4.2 Minimising supplier risk past several years and remained at a high level in 2015. By locally sourcing parts for suppliers. 4.3 Utilising supplier opportunities our production, we contribute to the development of the local economy. We therefore adhere to the BMW Group’s International Terms and Conditions for We apply several criteria and considerations to the supplier selection process for the Purchase of Production Materials and Automotive Components. These include 5 China. One criteria is the size of automotive parts. We aim to source all major large parts specific provisions regarding environmental protection and social responsibility. All EMPLOYEES from China, in order to significantly reduce international shipping costs and related of our supplier agreements contain clauses based on the principles of the UN Global emissions. In most cases, BMW Brilliance works directly with the manufacturers and Compact and the ILO. These provisions require resource-efficient consumption of 6 raw material, energy, water and chemicals – as well as reduced greenhouse gas without the involvement of contractors, brokers, wholesalers, agents and others. CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP emissions. Furthermore, there is a ban on child and forced labour, bribery, as well as requirements for health, safety and environmental protection. Suppliers are 7 expected to contractually bind their sub-contractors and suppliers to comply with the APPENDIX OUR SUPPLIER PRINCIPLES AND STANDARDS sustainability terms of the BMW Group as well, in order to ensure a comprehensive approach throughout the whole value chain. We have developed and implemented several company-specific guidelines, procedures and policies to ensure our employees are aware of all local environmental, health, safety and labour laws, as well as legal requirements and international sustainability principles. These guidelines and policies enable our employees to drive forward the sustainability goals of our supply chain. For example, in the BMW Brilliance Environment, Health and Safety Purchasing Management Procedure, we have defined the purpose and applicability, relevant terms, definitions, abbreviations, 75 MANAGING OUR SUPPLY CHAIN OUR PROCESSES ALIGN WITH THE BMW GROUP PROCESSES Introduction All relevant departments at BMW Brilliance, including Research and Development, The BMW Group’s sustainability risk management process helps ensure that we 1 Purchasing, Quality Management and Logistics, are jointly responsible for ensuring meet our sustainability standards. The process consists of a sustainability risk filter SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT sustainable supply chain management. We focus on managing and minimising specifically designed for the BMW Group, a voluntary self-assessment questionnaire supplier risks and leveraging supplier potential, in order to ensure sustainability and and sustainability on-site assessments. Based on these assessments – which 2 continuous improvement throughout our entire supplier network. include logistics, quality, technical, cost and sustainability criteria – BMW Brilliance PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY receives a clear recommendation on supplier choice and selection. As a result, the 3 BMW Group’s comprehensive sustainability performance and risk assessments are ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION considered as preconditions of our own supplier management and reviews. 4 Responsibilities SUPPLIER The SRM process was established by the BMW Brilliance Purchasing and Supplier MANAGEMENT Quality Management (QMT) Department and Logistics Quality Management (LQS). QMT leads the implementation of the cross-functional SRM process. Currently, there are almost 120 people involved in ensuring the implementation of sustainability 4.1 Our management approach standards throughout our supply chain. The QMT Department maintains overall 4.2 Minimising supplier risk responsibility for the SRM. 4.3 Utilising supplier opportunities 5 EMPLOYEES 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 7 APPENDIX Dr. Klaus Draeger, BMW AG Board of Management Member for Purchasing and Supplier Network, visits our Tiexi plant (second from right). 76 Introduction 4.2 1 Minimising supplier risk SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY OUR STRATEGIC DIRECTION OUR APPROACH TO MINIMISING SUPPLIER RISK 3 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Our goal is to ensure compliance with the ten UN Global Compact We developed BMW Brilliance’s own SRM process to promote greater corporate Principles across our whole supply chain. We plan to achieve this responsibility among our suppliers and help them adapt to BMW Brilliance’s Chinagoal in close collaboration with our suppliers. specific circumstances. Following a pilot project in 2013, we officially launched our 4 SRM process in April 2014, and continued its implementation in 2015. In addition to the BMW Group processes, which apply to all BMW Brilliance suppliers, we SUPPLIER Our supplier risk management process is critical to ensuring that our had already assessed a total of 161 suppliers on-site by year-end. Additionally, we MANAGEMENT sustainability standards are met across our supply chain. We focus on identifying not only product risks, but also sustainability risks related adapted our internal procedures to manage our suppliers in accordance with the to workers and communities, as well as to environmental impacts. BMW standards required in the ISO 14001 Environment Management System and in the 4.1 Our management approach Brilliance is committed to addressing these sustainability risks, as we OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management Standards. 4.2 Minimising supplier risk continue to increase the amount of goods and services we procure from 4.3 Utilising supplier opportunities local Chinese suppliers. Additionally, sustainable supply chain topics are gaining more public attention as stakeholder expectations evolve over time. 5 EMPLOYEES We focus on understanding and addressing local conditions, as well 6 as any specific industry or related product risks, to ensure compliance CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP with our sustainability standards. Our priority is to ensure that all of our suppliers maintain the highest standards of operation and comply with 7 any associated legal requirements. APPENDIX Because sustainability covers several areas spanning different departments, we have created an internal team responsible for integrating sustainability into our supply chain. As three major departments are involved – QMT, Purchasing and Logistics – this team was internally named the “clover-leaf” team. The clover-leaf team continuously reviews our suppliers’ sustainability performance to ensure we are working with the right suppliers. If necessary, we help our current suppliers by providing support to ensure our sustainability standards are met. 77 Introduction Supplier sustainability management process overview F.19 1 BMW Group process BMW Group process BMW Brilliance-specific SRM process SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 3. Supplier risk management 2 1. Identity risk 2. Retrieve self-assessment on-site assessment PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 3 1a. 2a. 3a. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Identify high-risk supplier locations based Obtain self-assessment sustainability Supplier risk management on-site on sustainability risk filter questionnaire assessment internally by clover-leaf team 4 SUPPLIER 1b. 2b. 3b. MANAGEMENT Identify and analyse high-risk suppliers Develop supplier-specific corrective Corrective action plan based on based on media screening action plan assessment result 4.1 Our management approach 4.2 Minimising supplier risk 4.3 Utilising supplier opportunities IDENTIFYING RISKS THROUGH SUSTAINABILITY 5 RISK FILTER EMPLOYEES 6 Through our proprietary sustainability risk filter, we evaluate the environmental, CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP social and governance risk potential of all existing and new suppliers. The filter takes into account both location-specific and product-specific risks. This includes, for 7 instance, an assessment of social risks in certain countries, such as child labour or APPENDIX forced labour. We also consider environmental risks such as damage to nature, emissions and process materials containing substances that can be hazardous to health. In such cases, we assess the production facility of the supplier, rather than its head office. If sub-suppliers are repeatedly in breach of our sustainability standards, the supply chain is also evaluated using the sustainability risk filter. 78 ENSURING SUSTAINABILITY STANDARDS VIA Introduction SELF-ASSESSMENT QUESTIONNAIRES 1 Based on the results from the risk filter, the next step of our supplier sustainability SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT management process is to implement the supplier self-assessment via a questionnaire. 2 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY BMW Brilliance uses the same questionnaire as the BMW Group. This is an 3 industry-wide questionnaire based on guiding principles that apply to all original ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION equipment manufacturers (OEMs) > OEM Questionnaire. It ensures compliance with minimum standards throughout the industry. We have also introduced modular online assessments in order to ensure compliance with BMW Brilliance-specific and 4 other additional requirements. SUPPLIER When new suppliers offer us their services, they must make a clear commitment A supplier workshop tour. MANAGEMENT in their self-assessment to social standards, such as compliance with international human rights. Sustainable use of materials, such as secondary aluminium, is also 4.1 Our management approach verified at the “request for proposal” stage. The OEM questionnaire asks whether 4.2 Minimising supplier risk the environmental management system in place is in accordance with ISO 14001, 4.3 Utilising supplier opportunities and whether recycling is integrated into the product development phase. It also requests details on the supplier’s overall approach to recycling. After the proposal has been submitted, these details are included as key decision-making indicators in 5 the procurement process. EMPLOYEES 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 7 APPENDIX A supplier workshop on quality assurance. 79 CONDUCTING SUPPLIER ON-SITE ASSESSMENTS Introduction 1 We manage potential risks by assessing our suppliers according to our SRM process SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT on-site at the supplier’s plants. In doing so, we ensure our suppliers respect the standards we require of them. The SRM assessment process is divided into five 2 major steps. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 3 SRM process ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Kick-off meeting SRM audit LOP List and Follow-up with Close LOP and action plan open issues change light 4 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 1 4 An individual kick-off meeting with each supplier will be held after the supplier Follow-up the remaining open points with the supplier by clover-leaf team. 4.1 Our management approach sends the supplier check list and self-assessment. The supplier will be asked 4.2 Minimising supplier risk to provide check-list-relevant documents, such as business certification, financial statements and EHS documents (environmental impact assessment, 5 4.3 Utilising supplier opportunities occupational health and safety report and fire inspection certificate report). Close the LOP list, change the supplier status and ensure yearly review. 5 EMPLOYEES 2 Clover-leaf team implements on-site assessment, included QMT, Purchasing 6 and Logistics. A written assessment report will be developed with findings, CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP gaps and areas requiring improvements, and a corresponding corrective action plan. 7 APPENDIX 3 Within 14 working days, offer check list, list of open issues (LOP list) and corrective action plan will be sent to central management. The findings will be reviewed with management team from Purchasing and QMT Department on a monthly basis. 80 In 2015, we worked with 193 suppliers, out of a total of 319 suppliers, on our current Introduction production requirements. However, of those 319 suppliers, 126 are identified as parts suppliers for future automobile models that are not yet in production at BMW 1 Brilliance. Therefore these suppliers have not been integrated into the SRM process SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT yet. 2 In addition to the screening of all 193 suppliers for the current production through PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY the OEM Questionnaire, we conducted on-site assessments at 83 suppliers in 3 2015 covering environment, health and safety issues. As a result, at least 78% of our current suppliers have been involved in the full SRM process. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 4 On-site assessment results: Impacts on the environment F.20 On-site assessment results: Labour practices F.21 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT Meeting BMW Brilliance requirements Not meeting BMW Brilliance requirements Meeting BMW Brilliance requirements Not meeting BMW Brilliance requirements 180 180 4.1 Our management approach 160 160 160 152 4.2 Minimising supplier risk 140 129 140 132 4.3 Utilising supplier opportunities 120 120 100 100 5 EMPLOYEES 80 80 6 60 60 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 40 40 32 20 7 20 20 APPENDIX 1 0 0 0 Beginning of 2015 End of 2015 Beginning of 2015 End of 2015 81 Introduction 1 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 3 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 4 Our Very Narrow Aisle Storage (VNAS) system for efficient material logistics. SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT As a result of our SRM process, we reduced the number of identified suppliers with 4.1 Our management approach high risks in their environmental practices from 32 to 1 and labour practices from FORECAST 2016 20 to 0 by working together with the suppliers to develop and execute appropriate 4.2 Minimising supplier risk action plans to meet our requirements. We are currently working with the remaining 4.3 Utilising supplier opportunities In 2015, we continued to roll out our SRM process, which to date covers high-risk supplier in order to guide and support them to achieve an acceptable level. at least 78% of our suppliers for the areas of environment and labour The overall evaluation results of our SRM process are both quantitative measures practices. We will continue to identify supplier sustainability risks and 5 evaluate their performance, implement countermeasures and enable and qualitative judgements. Suppliers are given a green, yellow or red traffic light EMPLOYEES continuous improvement. In 2016, we are reassessing all critical suppliers based on their results in the above-mentioned six areas. who were identified as high-risk during the 2015 audit in order to guide 6 them towards compliance with our sustainability standards. We aim to CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP Green stands for low risk: suppliers are in good standing. cover most of the entry-level class product line (LU) suppliers with our 7 SRM process by the end of 2016. Yellow stands for middle risk: suppliers need to close open points. APPENDIX Red stands for high risk: suppliers need to close open points. On-site reassessment by BMW Brilliance. Based on the audit results, we provide direction and introduce performance requirements to suppliers based on legal, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 standards. In general, if the results of an audit show non-compliance or potential for improvement, we work with the supplier to develop a specific corrective action plan and provide assistance with its implementation. We require follow up on the action plan in a reasonable but timely manner. 82 Introduction 4.3 1 Utilising supplier opportunities SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY BMW Brilliance sees long-term and close collaboration with its 3 suppliers as an opportunity to integrate sustainability into our entire ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION value chain. We harness this potential by promoting employee and supplier training, by encouraging greater resource efficiency, and by sponsoring supplier education initiatives. 4 SUPPLIER We accomplish this by constantly aligning and improving our internal MANAGEMENT capacity to drive sustainability forward in our value chain. We also help our suppliers become more sustainable by encouraging them to create 4.1 Our management approach innovative and sustainable solutions. Supplier workshop. 4.2 Minimising supplier risk 4.3 Utilising supplier opportunities IMPLEMENTING INTERNAL INITIATIVES 5 We deliver key training opportunities to support the implementation of our supplier EMPLOYEES initiatives: 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP In 2015, we offered SRM training to our buyers and quality experts. The aim was to raise their awareness of sustainable supply chain management. All 7 supply-chain-related topics are now covered through this training. We held APPENDIX training sessions in our training centre covering all six SRM aspects, as well as on-site training for approximately 90 employees. In 2016, with new car model projects developing, we will deepen our SRM communication and cooperation with new and relocated suppliers. New model status day. 83 IMPLEMENTING SUPPLIER INITIATIVES COMMUNICATING OPENLY WITH OUR SUPPLIERS Introduction We aim to monitor and guide all of our suppliers towards achieving green traffic lights Since 2013, we have hosted three BMW Brilliance Supplier Days. In 2015, our event 1 in all areas. Suppliers who underperform are reviewed on a monthly basis by the focused on our new car model projects, bringing together suppliers and management SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT clover-leaf team. We provide individual coaching and communication support for for an open discussion forum. For new projects, over 70 suppliers from across 2 suppliers to answer their questions regarding our sustainability requirements or the China took the opportunity to share their information, expectations and challenges SRM process in general. with other members of our network. We discussed our future business plans and PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY opportunities to work together, as well as logistics and quality-related matters. 3 In cases where a supplier does not take effective action to counter its underENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION performance, we escalate the issue within BMW Brilliance. We use the assessment In particular, we discussed the challenge of addressing sustainability issues, results to optimise our value chain and sourcing stream, as well as to evaluate such as environmental and social responsibility. Our goal is to bring our suppliers environmental impacts and human rights risks, such as child labour. geographically closer to the BMW Brilliance plants in order to save logistics and 4 energy costs. SUPPLIER Each year, we begin with a re-qualification of all suppliers to ensure their performance MANAGEMENT meets our high standards. This approach guarantees there is always a high availability Our Supplier Days have been very successful in building, as well as deepening, of good-quality parts, combined with a reasonable cost structure and optimised important relationships with key suppliers and our own business partners. We have value stream. Furthermore, the SRM process helps to maintain greater awareness received positive feedback from our suppliers and from the government on this 4.1 Our management approach for issues such as social responsibility, health, safety and the environment. initiative. 4.2 Minimising supplier risk 4.3 Utilising supplier opportunities 5 EMPLOYEES FORECAST 2016 6 In 2016, we are continuing to integrate sustainability into our supply CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP chain and training our suppliers, as well as hosting regular events for our supplier network. For suppliers that did not pass our SRM audit process, 7 we will provide training and guidance on how to achieve our sustainability APPENDIX standards in the future. 84 EMPLOYEES 5.1 Our management approach 5.2 Attractive employer 5.3 Occupational health and safety 5.4 Training and development Introduction STAKEHOLDER STATEMENT: Opportunities for personal growth as the key to successful human resources management 1 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 3 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 4 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT Yan Song 5 Ms. Yan Song (centre). Section Leader, Dadong Assembly Shop, BMW Brilliance EMPLOYEES I had the fortune of joining BMW Brilliance in 2003. I was very excited about 5.1 Our management approach becoming a member of such a prestigious enterprise right after my graduation, and 5.2 Attractive employer proud to participate in the manufacturing of these world-class automobiles. The 5.3 Occupational health and safety 13 years I have worked here have elapsed so quickly. During this time, my skills and career have grown along with BMW Brilliance. While I witnessed the production 5.4 Training and development expansion from only one vehicle model to currently four models, I have personally grown from a production associate into a section leader. My engagement has been guided by our work ethic of diligence and accountability, and by the goal 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP of improving the quality of our products to guarantee client satisfaction. Driven by a strong sense of responsibility and mission, I strive to enhance our products 7 through proactive planning and by improving our workforce’s production skills APPENDIX and awareness of quality assurance. I have been trying to set a good example for my team, and encourage them to get involved in quality control and technical improvements on the spot. These initiatives aim to bring into full play the enthusiasm and creativity of our personnel and enable them to contribute to the sustainable growth of the whole company. 86 Introduction 5.1 1 Our management approach SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY HUMAN RESOURCES STRATEGY BMW Brilliance’s business has expanded at a rapid pace, also due 3 to our commitment to local production and procurement. This ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION expansion emphasises the importance of skilled employees to the In 2014, we developed a new corporate vision, goal and strategy road map for company. We make every effort to attract and engage the best talent BMW Brilliance: the BMW Brilliance STARS strategy. The “A” in STARS stands for 4 by developing a long-term strategy and by employing innovative Associates, and it describes the ambition to “develop our people, organisation and SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT human resources solutions. We have made it our goal to offer our enablers, ensuring we have the competencies for future growth”. We believe this is employees a variety of benefits and training opportunities, and a high the foundation that will allow us to achieve the goals set out in the other four strategic level of job satisfaction. All these factors position us as one of the 5 dimensions (Satisfaction, Top quality, Return and Sustainability > Chapter 1.1). most attractive employers in the Chinese automotive industry. Our EMPLOYEES increasingly diverse workforce is motivated, competent and highly Since 2015, we have been updating our Human Resources Strategy, which will effective. This is a core competitive advantage and helps to sustain advance our strategic approach to talent management while taking into account 5.1 Our management approach our business success. the “New Normal” pace of economic development. The development of this longterm guiding framework, based on our STARS strategy, is a collaborative effort with 5.2 Attractive employer Despite the slower pace of China’s economy, the Chinese automotive BMW China. During the initial planning phase in 2015, six strategic projects were 5.3 Occupational health and safety identified, including projects to: strengthen our employee brand and further develop industry is growing continuously. Our challenge within this context 5.4 Training and development is twofold: we want to ensure that our employees’ professional career human resources through innovative solutions; continuously develop our talent and development matches the pace of our business growth and help them performance reward mechanisms; and strengthen our leadership by establishing a develop to their full potential. This means our need for effective talent more professional human resources image. The new Human Resources Strategy 6 will be rolled out and implemented from 2016 to 2020. management is growing and the cost thereof is increasing. Furthermore, CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP attracting and retaining talent remains demanding in the face of increased 7 competition. We believe that human resources will be a proactive change APPENDIX agent for success and in enhancing our ability to manage these challenges, which is why we further developed our management approach during 2015. 87 EMPLOYEE PARTICIPATION Introduction A relevant component of managing our human resources is BMW Brilliance’s Labour 1 Union, which was established in 2007 to protect employees’ rights and interests. SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Today the Labour Union represents all local employees. It mediates disputes between 2 employees and the company. Over the past five years, management and the Labour Union have achieved a more than 50% cumulative increase in the salary rate. The PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Labour Union and Board of Management meet annually and decide collectively 3 which topics will be discussed. These topics include key areas such as health and ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION safety, compensation, benefits and employee support. After the meeting, a plan with At the annual employees’ meeting. agreed measures is implemented. 4 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT BMW Brilliance Associate Representatives Congress and Union Member Representatives Congress 2015 MANAGING OUR HUMAN RESOURCES 5 EMPLOYEES The importance of human resources management at BMW Brilliance is emphasised The BMW Brilliance Associate Representatives Congress and Union by our executive team. Our Senior Vice President of Human Resources, as a member Member Representatives Congress were held in Shenyang in April 2015. of the Board of Management and reporting directly to the CEO, is responsible for Both are important forums for employees to participate in democratic 5.1 Our management approach implementing BMW Brilliance’s Human Resources Strategy and reports on our resolution, democratic management and democratic supervision. 5.2 Attractive employer progress toward achieving the company’s long-term business direction. 5.3 Occupational health and safety The BMW Brilliance President and CEO and BMW Brilliance Labour 5.4 Training and development We implement human resources management practices through our human Union Chairman, along with senior company and union officials, met with resources guidelines and the accompanying Associate Handbook, which are binding 365 employee representatives to review the achievements of 2014 and on every employee. BMW Brilliance fully complies with China’s Labour Law, its health goals for 2015. 6 and safety laws and relevant regulations that prohibit forced, compulsory and child CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP labour. We are committed to the observance of fair working conditions and respect for The Labour Union Chairman, Mr. Byron Han, released the collective human rights, as they are set out in the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and consultation achievements and presented the work report of the Union 7 the Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work by the International on the past five years, spanning topics such as organisational building, APPENDIX Labour Organization > Chapter 1.3. Any violation of our human resource guidelines Union activities, safeguarding employees’ rights, social responsibilities or the Legal Compliance Code is filed with the Human Resources Department and and employee care. During the meeting, the Collective Contract on the Compliance Committee. Both our internal and shareholder audit teams conduct Labour Remuneration and the new Special Collective Contract on annual audits to ensure full compliance. Protection of Female Employees’ Rights and Interests were approved and signed. Furthermore, the Congress elected new Union and Union As part of our talent management, we regularly review the performance of our Audit Committees, and Mr. Han was re-elected as the Union Chairman employees, based on business target agreements and regular performance for another term. The meeting concluded by presenting awards to the requirements. The performance appraisal criteria are based on our company strategy, 2015 Excellent Employees, the Shenyang Vocational Skills Competition BMW Brilliance’s core values and the job requirements. The results of the review are winners and external prize winners. closely linked with compensation and benefits practices. 88 Introduction 1 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 3 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 4 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 5 EMPLOYEES 5.1 Our management approach 5.2 Attractive employer 5.3 Occupational health and safety 5.4 Training and development 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP At the annual Associate Representatives Congress and Union Member Representatives Congress. 7 APPENDIX We receive employee feedback through an employee survey, which we conduct every To ensure our future viability and to retain the best talent, we emphasise the three other year as part of the global BMW Group employee survey. The results allow us main pillars of human resources: to derive specific measures to improve our performance. The 2015 survey focused on questions regarding strategy, leadership, processes, team, culture, employer being an attractive employer and ensuring employee satisfaction > Chapter 5.2 attractiveness and diversity. It provided an opportunity for a status check and to identify potential risks and development fields for the company. During this year’s promoting employee well-being and preventing accidents > Chapter 5.3 survey, 92% of employees agreed that BMW Brilliance has an excellent reputation and 91% fully support our targets and are satisfied to work for the company. realising our employees’ full potential through talent development > Chapter 5.4 89 Introduction 5.2 1 Attractive employer SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY OUR STRATEGIC DIRECTION 3 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Our goal is to be the most attractive employer in the Chinese automotive industry. 4 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT As a leading employer, we want to attract, recruit and retain the best talent in the marketplace. We develop our highly skilled employees by providing 5 ongoing training and development opportunities. We believe this is critical to our goal of retaining our employees, who are the most valuable resource EMPLOYEES of our business. Our ability to provide unique opportunities, such as an English-speaking and internationally diverse work environment, helps us 5.1 Our management approach attract a high calibre of talented professionals. It also differentiates us 5.2 Attractive employer from other automotive companies. 5.3 Occupational health and safety 5.4 Training and development In China, we face talent acquisition challenges due to strong competition in the marketplace and our requirement for higher skill sets. We are addressing this by 6 communicating our Employer Value Proposition and by highlighting the excellent CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP development opportunities we offer at BMW Brilliance. 7 APPENDIX Dadong plant employees on a visit to BMW Group’s Spartanburg plant in the USA. 90 COMMUNICATING OUR EMPLOYER VALUE PROPOSITION Introduction Our goal is to remain the most attractive employer in the Chinese automotive industry, 1 and to become one of the top ten employers in China. To realise this ambition, we SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT emphasise our Employer Value Proposition when addressing new or potential talent. 2 The Proposition demonstrates our employer-branding concept and illustrates our attractiveness in three dimensions: People, Brand/Product and Culture. We believe PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY BMW Brilliance stands out from the competition in these areas. 3 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION The BMW Brilliance Employer Value Proposition F.22 4 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT SUCCESSFUL AND SUSTAINABLE 5 EMPLOYEES 5.1 Our management approach 5.2 Attractive employer 5.3 Occupational health and safety 5.4 Training and development BRAND/PRODUCT 6 “WHAT?” CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 7 PEOPLE CULTURE APPENDIX “WHO?” “HOW?” PASSIONATE APPRECIATIVE AND INSPIRING AND COLLABORATIVE 91 Human resources awards received in 2015 Strengthening our employer brand Introduction We inspire our employees to achieve top performance by providing them with a clear vision of our business strategy and goals for the future. Since 2014 we have introduced 1 “Charge Passion” as the theme for our internal associates and new candidates. With SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT the aim of motivating our employees and strengthening their link with the company, our main message was: “Passion is all you need to explore what drives you in your life 2 and learning with BMW”. Simultaneously, we introduced an internal campaign called PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY “Share your passion about BMW” and encouraged our current employees to express 3 why they like working at BMW Brilliance. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Meeting recruitment demands As a socially responsible company, BMW Brilliance provided more than 16,000 working 4 opportunities in 2015, thus fulfilling our recruiting needs, which were particularly high SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT for the new engine plant. Meanwhile, we also provided an internship programme and the Future Talent Programmes to help young talent complete their transition 5 from students to qualified employees > Chapter 5.4. In 2015, BMW Brilliance also established the BMW Joy Club, which provides activities and training for students to EMPLOYEES learn more about our company and to advance their career development. 5.1 Our management approach To engage and retain our employees, BMW Brilliance provides the following initiatives to enhance our market competitiveness and to ensure we are a leader in the Chinese 5.2 Attractive employer automotive industry: 5.3 Occupational health and safety 5.4 Training and development Best Employer in Auto Industry by Chinahr.com Best HRM Company in All Industries by 51job.com 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP Best Talent Recruitment & Retention Strategy by 51job.com 7 APPENDIX Best Employer Top 30 by Dajie.com Best Employer Award by LinkedIn Annual Extraordinary Employer Top 10 by Liepin.com An employee who received a recognition for outstanding work goes on a test drive with a car produced by his unit. 92 Recognising and rewarding excellence Remuneration Introduction At BMW Brilliance, we are committed not only to manufacturing the ultimate driving We reward our employees with total remuneration that is above average, parallel machine, but also to developing our employees to perform at their personal best. We with that of the BMW Group, and aligned with the upper-third of the respective 1 encourage a culture of mutual appreciation and dedication to BMW Brilliance’s core labour market in China. In addition to a fixed base salary and overtime payment, SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT values – a culture infused with passion, purpose and prosperity in our day-to-day our employees receive allowances and a variable bonus. We conduct an annual work. customised salary survey to ensure our competitiveness as a leading employer. 2 Differences in salary exist according to the level of responsibility, position and PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Offering attractive compensation and employee benefits performance. Remuneration is not dependent on seniority. One way to express appreciation for our workforce is to offer attractive employee 3 benefits. BMW Brilliance’s compensation and benefits philosophy is aligned with ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION our company vision and mission and aims to retain and motivate our key workforce. The compensation and benefits system acknowledges that different individuals Holidays 4 contribute to the business success in different ways. Performance, compensation To foster work-life balance for our employees, we provide statutory annual SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT and benefits are closely linked. All employees are entitled to rewards oriented towards leave as legally required and extensive vacation leave, such as corporate leave, performance, success and commitment of service to BMW Brilliance’s long-term in addition to national statutory holidays. Further, maternity/paternity leave, sick 5 performance: leave and compassionate leave satisfy our employees’ personal needs. EMPLOYEES 5.1 Our management approach Flexible benefits 5.2 Attractive employer We also provide employees with a highly competitive flexible benefits programme featuring a full range of insurance options, comprehensive medical 5.3 Occupational health and safety coverage and a pension savings plan that can be customised to best suit the 5.4 Training and development employee’s individual needs. 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP Car purchase and transport All BMW Brilliance regular local employees are entitled to participate in 7 the Associate Car Programme, which grants certain discounts and special APPENDIX purchase models. We also provide free shuttle bus service between plants and public transport centres around Shenyang. 93 Embracing flexible work-time Standard work-time for non-production employees Introduction BMW Brilliance has implemented three different work-time models. This enables us These contracts entitle the employee to a 40-hour work week, which complies to deal with fluctuations in the market and to ensure stable monthly salary payments. with China’s Labour Law. This work-time model applies to approximately 7% 1 We offer three types of work-time contracts: of our employees. SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Work-time accounts for production employees This is a tool that facilitates our annual production volume fluctuations, while 3 guaranteeing stable payment for our production employees. This work-time ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION model applies to approximately 75% of our employees. 4 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT Flexible work-time for non-production employees 5 Employees from a certain pay-grade level are entitled to flexible work-time. For some specific roles such as drivers, flexible work time is assigned according to EMPLOYEES job and functional requirements. This work-time model applies to approximately 18% of our employees. 5.1 Our management approach 5.2 Attractive employer 5.3 Occupational health and safety 5.4 Training and development 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 7 APPENDIX 94 MONITORING WORKFORCE GROWTH AND BMW Brilliance workforce Introduction F.24 ATTRITION RATES Year 2013 2014 2015 1 % total % total % total SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT At the end of 2015, our total workforce reached 16,573 (excluding employees from Rate of new dispatched contracts and the Future Talent Programmes > Chapter 5.4), growing employee hires 11% 23% 11% 2 by 8.6% compared to 2014. Women comprised 11.8% of our total workforce and New employees 11% 1,371 19% 2,920 11% 1,801 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 27.5% of our management team. Thus, the total share of female employees remained in Shenyang New employees relatively stable over the last three years, while there were 3% more women in 1% 113 1% 186 1% 128 3 in Beijing management positions in 2015 compared to 2014. Due to our continuous efforts to ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION New employee hires, ages <30 8% 1,062 16% 2,425 8% 1,384 develop local talent, Chinese employees accounted for 78.1% of our management 4 group, representing an increase of 2.4%. All employees are employed in full-time New employee 3% 405 4% 655 3% 523 hires, ages 30–50 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT contracts. New employee 0% 17 0% 26 0% 22 hires, ages >50 Female new 5 BMW Brilliance workforce F.23 employee hires Male employee 2% 227 3% 407 2% 329 9% 1,207 18% 2,699 10% 1,600 EMPLOYEES Year 2013 2014 2015 Change to previous year hires Voluntary 6% 2.9% attrition rate Workforce at year-end 13,024 15,257 16,573 8.6% 5.1 Our management approach Attrition rate at BMW Brilliance 6.8% 6.8% 3.8% 5.2 Attractive employer Share of female employees 11.9% 12.3% 11.8% –4.1% 5.3 Occupational health and safety Share of female employees in 26.7% 27% 3.0% management positions 5.4 Training and development Share of production employees 75% 73% 71% –2.7% Share of Chinese employees FORECAST 2016 76.3% 78.1% 2.4% within management group 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP We have always adhered to the principle of “hiring the best within the We closely monitor our employee attrition rate on a monthly basis. BMW Brilliance’s industry”. But as we face growing competition from other industries for 7 voluntary attrition rate decreased from 6% in 2014 to 2.9% in 2015. The overall new talent and tech-savvy employees, we understand that it is no longer APPENDIX attrition rate (voluntary and non-voluntary) decreased from 6.8% in 2014 to 3.8% business as usual in recruiting the best talent to our company. Therefore, in 2015. BMW Brilliance continues to succeed in retaining talent and creating high we are continuing to develop a diversified and innovative approach to build loyalty within its workforce. up our employer brand so that we can achieve our goal of being the most attractive employer in the Chinese automotive industry. 95 Introduction 5.3 1 Occupational health and safety SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY OUR STRATEGIC DIRECTION 3 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Through the effective management of health and safety risks in the 4 workplace, we prevent accidents and promote well-being. We aim SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT to reduce the accident frequency rate in our business by minimising the risks of workplace accidents. 5 BMW Brilliance’s health management is based on the five international EMPLOYEES medical standards of the BMW Group, which are primary health care, occupational health management, expatriate health management, health prevention and promotion, and medical crisis management. It is our goal to 5.1 Our management approach promote responsible behaviour and the corresponding work environment 5.2 Attractive employer to foster the long term health and performance of our associates. 5.3 Occupational health and safety 5.4 Training and development 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 7 APPENDIX A seminar on Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM). 96 MANAGING OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Introduction We act in accordance with the international best-practice guidelines of the BMW 1 Group Health and Safety Policy and implement health and safety practices in SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT accordance with relevant Chinese legislation. All production locations of BMW 2 Brilliance are certified according to the OHSAS 18001 standard by TÜV Rheinland. This helps to control and reduce our health and safety risks. We have also established PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY company-wide procedural and working instructions for employees based on the 3 OHSAS 18001 requirements and best practices. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Medical centre. Mother’s room. We have centralised safety management within our business and developed key 4 performance indicators to measure our safety performance. SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 5 Occupational health and safety F.25 EMPLOYEES Year 2013 2014 2015 Change to previous year Accident frequency rate 0.92 0.82 1.06 29.3% 5.1 Our management approach 5.2 Attractive employer Absentee rate 0.97% 0.98% 0.93% –5.1% Sports centre. Canteen. 5.3 Occupational health and safety 5.4 Training and development There were no work-related fatal accidents and 29 work-related injuries in 2015. Minor (first-aid level) injuries are excluded from the accident frequency rate. The accident frequency rate is calculated by the number of accidents with one day lost time or more, multiplied by one million hours worked, divided by total working hours of the month. The accident frequency rate for 2015 was 1.06, which is slightly higher than in 2014. This could be a result of the increased number of new employees who are still unfamiliar with the working environment, as well as the 6 implementation of new processes and the start-up of new facilities. The absentee rate only includes sickness leave. In 2015, it decreased to 0.93%. CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP We focus on reducing accident frequency and sickness among our employees by 7 concentrating on four main areas: health and safety training, the promotion of health APPENDIX checks, improving workplace ergonomics and implementing health initiatives. Health and safety training Training and information are the key to preventing accidents and illness. We provide health and safety training to all new employees, refresher training to long-standing employees and special safety training to high-risk groups. We also convey safety management knowledge to our process and equipment planning specialists, making sure safety and occupational health requirements are considered as early as possible. By year-end, 6,345 employees – including new employees – had received such training. 97 Promoting health checks Contributing to employee health through health initiatives Introduction In 2015, 13,384 of our employees participated in the annual health check programme, which is offered at all seven of our locations. The health check is not limited to the Mental resilience campaign 1 legal requirements of occupational health; it is a comprehensive health screening This programme is designed to raise awareness of how fundamental mental SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT that enables early diagnosis and treatment of any medical condition. This initiative resilience is to coping with lifestyle and mental well-being. In total, 13,650 supports employees in making informed decisions about managing their current employees, or 85% of our workforce, participated in this project in 2015. As 2 health status. We also offer the health check-up to family members who are able a result, 77% of the participants reported low stress levels and 23% reported PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY to take advantage of the BMW Brilliance discount. In addition, annual seasonal flu moderate/high stress levels. vaccinations are offered to all employees. During the 2015 winter season, 3,423 3 employees (20%) participated in this offer. Hepatitis B vaccinations are also provided Expatriate health management ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION to employees after the annual health check. This service forms part of the international medical standards we provide to 4 support expatriates and their spouses, which include basic medical services, SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT Contributing to ergonomic workplaces health promotion and specialist services. These services also include hospital In 2015, we conducted 75 ergonomic assessments at our production sites to consultations, translation services, hospital orientation tours and home visits. improve overall workplace design. At non-production sites, we conducted office 5 ergonomic assessments for 739 employees to improve the ergonomics within First aid training for teachers at school and kindergarten is also provided. EMPLOYEES the office environment. Employees are encouraged to raise ideas for ergonomic Equipment safety approval improvements at their workstations. To ensure safety standards are adhered to when purchasing equipment, we 5.1 Our management approach follow BMW Group safety best practices by conducting safety pre-acceptance Furthermore, a total of 4,963 employees participated in the pilot programme Fit to ensure all equipment meets our safety requirements and approval before it 5.2 Attractive employer for Future, a physical capacity test which aims to reduce the risk of injuries among leaves the supplier site. After the equipment is installed on-site, we conduct a 5.3 Occupational health and safety employees. We established that for 45% of the group, the risk of back problems was final acceptance to make sure the equipment is safe for handover to users. 5.4 Training and development increased. The findings led us to include the flexibility test in the Health Management 2020 programme > Forecast 2016. 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 7 FORECAST 2016 APPENDIX For further improvement, we are integrating BMW Brilliance’s new engine plant into our occupational health management and are pursuing its certification based on the OHSAS 18001 standard. Our training programmes focus on helping managers identify employees who are experiencing stress and on creating employee awareness about how to cope with such stress. We are also planning to implement an anti-smoking campaign and cessation programme, as well as a healthy beverages campaign and a safe walking campaign to prevent accidents. We are also establishing three Physical Assessment and Rehabilitation Centres as an integral part of our health services to support our efforts to improve the overall well-being of our employees. Furthermore, we are implementing the Health Management 2020 programme, which aims to promote the best possible performance by focused health measures and by encouraging healthy employee behaviour. 98 Introduction 5.4 1 Training and development SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY OUR STRATEGIC DIRECTION 3 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Through training and clear leadership, we develop and realise the 4 potential of our people. SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT The training and education of our employees is fundamental to the 5 sustainable success of our company. In order to keep pace with technological advancements, we provide state-of-the-art learning and EMPLOYEES development opportunities to suit the individual strengths of our trainees, skilled workers and leaders. 5.1 Our management approach 5.2 Attractive employer In 2014, BMW Brilliance launched “The Academy”, bringing together all training 5.3 Occupational health and safety departments of BMW Group subsidiaries in China. The Academy’s vision is to enable our sustainable business success by advancing the careers of our leaders 5.4 Training and development and employees through a passion for excellence. The philosophy of The Academy is based on a 70:20:10 formula. We foster a culture of life-long learning, where 70% At the launch of “The Academy”. of learning comes from on-the-job practice, 20% from peer feedback, and 10% 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP from classroom training. In 2016, we plan to launch an improved process to track trainer quality and its impact on student learning, with more focus on assessing 7 effectiveness. APPENDIX Our strategy for training and development focuses on three areas: further qualifying our employees; strengthening our leadership culture; and developing future talent. In 2015, we focused our resources on one of our core ambitions, which is to develop the next generation of skilled leaders through several new leadership programmes. 99 TRAINING OUR EMPLOYEES Introduction We focus on continuous improvement by measuring and evaluating our training 1 and development performance each year. In 2015, we concentrated on quality SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT improvements instead of expansions, and were able to raise the employee training satisfaction rate from 93% to 96% > Figure 28. The number of employee training 2 days organised by human resources decreased to 35,205 in 2015 > Figure 26 and PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Figure 27. 3 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Training days organised by Human Resources Department F.26 Training attendee satisfaction rate F.28 4 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 46,967 100.0% 50,000 40,742 96.0% 5 40,000 35,205 95.0% 93.0% EMPLOYEES 30,000 91.0% 20,000 90.0% 5.1 Our management approach 10,000 5.2 Attractive employer 0 85.0% 5.3 Occupational health and safety 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 5.4 Training and development 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP Average training days F.27 7 Year 2013 2014 2015 APPENDIX Average days of further 3.2 3.4 2.2 training per employee* Employees in production 1.9 1.3 1.1 Employees in non-production 7.1 9.7 4.7 Employees in 5.4 6.7 3.1 management positions Employees in non-management 3.1 3.4 2.1 positions * One man-day corresponds to 7 hours. 100 Driving transformation towards excellence Introduction The “Journey to Excellence (JtE)” programme is transforming BMW Brilliance by optimising our processes and by changing our mindset towards collaboration 1 and continuous improvement > Chapter 1.1. By the end of 2015, we delivered 23 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT sessions to 465 employees from 22 departments in “Do It the JtE Way”, a tailormade training programme to deepen participants’ understanding of JtE. Our goal is 2 to encourage employees to overcome obstacles to change. We want to enhance the PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY collaborative mindset of participants and help them positively influence others by 3 taking ownership of the optimisation process in order to achieve business excellence. In 2015, we began delivering “Do It the JtE Way” training with internal trainers. The ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION after-course satisfaction score for the 2015 sessions was 96%, which is four points 4 higher than the target. SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT Strengthening our leadership culture We recognise that leadership development is a critical factor of our ongoing success. 5 We believe that by focusing on the strengths of each individual employee, we can create a solid foundation for a company culture based on our Five Elements: Trust, EMPLOYEES Inspire, Open, Care, and Go Beyond. These Five Elements represent the values and leadership style we want to nurture in BMW Brilliance. 5.1 Our management approach 5.2 Attractive employer 5.3 Occupational health and safety 5.4 Training and development 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 7 APPENDIX In the centre of our assembly shop in Tiexi, a powertrain and an exhibition on our “Five Elements” motto greet plant visitors. 101 Our Standard Work Programme pursues the goal of enhancing problem solving and Introduction leadership through a culture of coaching and continuous improvement. We aim to ensure that our young production managers benefit from the experience of their 1 training coaches. The programme consists of four steps: enhanced understanding SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT of the Five Elements of BMW Brilliance’s Leadership Core Values; our Leadership Think Tank, which focuses on leadership reflection, manager development, and 2 individual and team leadership development; the Leadership Coaching Centre, which PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY provides training on how to develop BMW Brilliance’s unique coaching mindset; and on-the-job practice. By establishing a coaching culture, our managers will naturally 3 seek to improve the individual performances of their team members and encourage ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION continuous improvement throughout the organisation. 4 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT Standard Work Programme: Overview F.29 5 EMPLOYEES 5.1 Our management approach GOAL 5.2 Attractive employer 5.3 Occupational health and safety To enhance problem solving and leadership development by building a coaching culture in 5.4 Training and development production of BMW Brilliance. 6 STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 STEP 4 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 7 APPENDIX BMW Brilliance BMW Brilliance Leadership On-job Practice/Everyday Leadership Leadership Think Coaching Centre Application of Learning Five Elements Tank (1 day) (1 day) 102 Developing future talent In 2015, we celebrated five years of the Future Talent Programmes at BMW Introduction As part of the BMW Group’s global strategy to develop young people, we provide Brilliance. During this time, the Future Talent Programmes have expanded from programmes for vocational education and specialist traineeships. We began these three programmes to six and they have been instrumental in developing the talents 1 Future Talent Programmes in 2010 to develop and prepare young talent to assume of 1,857 qualified young students. Currently they work in different positions and SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT different positions within the company. From manufacturing to business departments, departments across the four entities of the BMW Group in China. In 2015, 184 these programmes are widely supported by our senior executives and are seen as a young people took part in the ongoing, practice-oriented programmes we offer at 2 the doctoral, master, bachelor and vocational education levels. valuable contributor to our pipeline of qualified talent. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 3 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION ProMotion Global Leader Development Programme 4 This doctoral programme was launched in 2014 with four students studying In 2015, we also launched the Global Leader Development Programme. SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT research and development, production planning, and process optimisation. This initiative is a joint effort with the BMW Group, and was created through In 2015, we were able to commit a further six PhD students to this three-yearthe integration and harmonisation of two existing training programmes. In long programme. Through their practical thesis work, these young talents are this leadership programme, candidates complete four different rotations in 5 transforming their academic values into productivity improvements. To foster various parts of the company and complete two international assignments, EMPLOYEES the young spirit of innovation, we plan to commit to a further four doctorate one of which is at the BMW Headquarters in Munich. At BMW Brilliance, three student placements to ProMotion in 2016. candidates were selected for the Global Leader Development Programme in 5.1 Our management approach 2015. 5.2 Attractive employer Fostering innovative university partnerships New Vocational Education Programme 5.3 Occupational health and safety Strategic university partnerships are one way in which we can In BMW Brilliance’s new training approach, we have learned from the 5.4 Training and development provide exciting and innovative training opportunities to BMW successful vocational training method in Germany, but have adapted the Brilliance employees. For example, we have a sound relationship training to make it suitable for the Chinese education system. After passing with Northeast University in Shenyang. Our close collaboration a series of systematic assessments conducted by their school and by the 6 on the PhD programme ProMotion allows students to engage company, the apprentices in the New Vocational Education Programme learn CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP in cutting-edge research, such as Industry 4.0 and Intelligent theoretical foundations at school, strengthen their practical skills at the BMW Manufacturing. Brilliance Training Centre, and in their third year they rotate among various 7 shop floors to practice their skills with the guidance of experienced employees. APPENDIX In 2015, 38 apprentices graduated from the Vocational Education Programme and became BMW Brilliance employees, while 173 students are still finishing their three-year programme. At a joint technology forum with Northeast University. 103 Introduction New Vocational Education Programme: Changing attitudes on vocational training in China 1 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT BMW Brilliance’s reputation for quality engineering and safety performance is built, in part, on the technical skills and capacity of our workforce. BMW 2 AG is a long-time supporter of Germany’s apprenticeship and vocational PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY training schools, as they provide senior high-school students with the opportunity to build the skills and capacities they will need to secure well3 paying jobs in the future. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Apprentices of our New Vocational Education Programme in training. 4 BMW Brilliance is working hard to instil the same appreciation for vocational SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT training to Chinese students. Traditionally, most Chinese parents want their children to enrol in famous universities and senior high schools, expressing concern about the lack of future opportunities at the vocational level. 5 Changing those attitudes is part of the challenge facing BMW Brilliance. FORECAST 2016 EMPLOYEES In 2016, The Academy is focusing on building up its team structure and We launched the New Vocational Education Programme in 2012, in conjunction with the Shenyang Equipment Manufacturing Engineering on playing a more proactive role in the business. It is also developing an 5.1 Our management approach internal trainer programme to keep up training momentum. As a result of the School. The students spend the first year in the classroom, acquiring 5.2 Attractive employer basic knowledge of the automotive industry; in the second year, they gain 2015 employee survey, The Academy is also further contributing to BMW 5.3 Occupational health and safety access to the BMW Brilliance Training Centre to enhance, for example, their Brilliance’s high-performance culture by developing new and innovative electrical and machine tooling skills; and in their final year, the apprentices approaches to corporate and leadership development. In the coming 5.4 Training and development work at BMW Brilliance plants to practice their skills on a rotational basis. years, there will be an increase in the demand for well-trained workers. This This way, a strong focus is put on on-the-job skill-building. In contrast to is particularly relevant in Shenyang, where potential future talents often their peers in regular high schools who spend only two or three weeks in leave university with little practical work experience. Meanwhile, strategic 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP skill-building lessons within one semester, students of this programme university partnerships can help us provide the right training to develop benefit from up to 36 weeks practical training during the programme. passionate employees who are able to deliver top-quality performance in 7 the workplace. APPENDIX Upon graduation, these apprentices become regular BMW Brilliance employees working at such key posts as technical maintenance, quality inspection and production operations. To date, over 83 students have graduated from the New Vocational Education Programme and are now working at BMW Brilliance plants. 104 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 6.1 Our management approach 6.2 Corporate citizenship Introduction STAKEHOLDER STATEMENT: A unique network of volunteering clubs in China 1 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 3 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 4 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT Zeng Li 5 BMW car owner, founder of EMPLOYEES Mr. Zeng Li (left). Chengdu BMW Warm Heart Customer Club 6 What makes the BMW China Social Activities so special, and where do you see the most relevant impacts? heritage (ICH). It brings together people from all walks of life including entrepreneurs, artists, designers and scholars. Their valuable contributions enable us to infuse new CORPORATE In my view, the BMW Warm Heart Fund’s (WHF) public welfare activities, e.g. the vigour into ICH products in a creative manner. We promote texts aimed at describing CITIZENSHIP BMW Culture Journey, have affected society in a positive way. Now, the WHF family ICH products in terms that are more vivid and concrete; encourage artists to innovate has grown to encompass 12 BMW Warm Heart Customer Clubs, resulting in a and refine their products further to make them more attractive to current generations; 6.1 Our management approach unique network of volunteering clubs in China. As an example, many BMW Warm and assist them in marketing the products by focusing on product descriptions and 6.2 Corporate citizenship Heart Customer Clubs worked together to offer hygiene-guaranteed lunches for four packaging. elementary schools in Yushu that has seen donations total RMB 200,000 in 2015 China’s ICH has been tremendously underrated. We are suggesting blending the alone. wisdom of modernity with the charm of conventional culture so as to bring forth a 7 greater value in cultural terms. We are now in a position to help build up the confidence Why did you decide to found the Chengdu BMW Warm Heart Customer APPENDIX of those ICH inheritors, which we like to think is an effective way of offering assistance. Club? The Chengdu BMW Warm Heart Customer Club is named “Chengdu Love & Joy Club” and was launched in 2013 in the context of an appeal for public donations for a What are your suggestions for future BMW China Social Activities? girl named Zhang Ting, who had been struck by leukaemia. Today, the Chengdu Love First, we hope that BMW’s various social responsibility programmes are here to & Joy Club helps donate books and sets up libraries in underprivileged mountainous stay, and more and more customers join the BMW Warm Heart Customer Clubs areas. Thus far, 11 Book Centres have been set up, benefitting 6,000 students. We and shoulder a greater load of social responsibilities. Second, efforts to preserve also offer financial assistance to elderly people and orphans. ICH should be further strengthened. We are compiling an exhaustive list of the ICH projects that we have supported thus far and are seeking to pool resources to infuse What are the results of the Family Heirloom Programme? even more energy into these projects. The Family Heirloom Programme was started in the wake of the 2015 BMW China Culture Journey visiting Shaanxi, and aims to conserve and protect intangible cultural 106 Introduction 6.1 1 Our management approach SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Corporate citizenship is integral to our vision. BMW Brilliance is 3 working jointly with other BMW entities in China to ensure that we ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION fulfil our social responsibilities. This chapter on Corporate Citizenship describes our joint initiatives and the results of our common 4 approach. Together, we believe we can inspire our stakeholders to SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT join us in making a positive contribution to society and in fostering sustainable development in China. 5 EMPLOYEES Our roots in China have grown since BMW Group first entered the market. The roll-out in 2013 of the BMW China Corporate Citizenship Strategy 6 has been a milestone on our journey. Our strategy focuses on three areas – resources, intercultural innovation and social inclusion, and education – At a 2015 BMW CSR media workshop. CORPORATE and follows the three principles of long-term commitment, efficiency and CITIZENSHIP all-party engagement. 6.1 Our management approach Our corporate citizenship strategy enables us to address social challenges 6.2 Corporate citizenship and trends in partnership with Chinese society, and to become more influential as an automotive manufacturer and a corporate citizen. Through our long-term commitment, we have brought together our stakeholders – 7 BMW employees, dealers, customers and the public – to help us fulfil our APPENDIX social responsibilities. Our management approach is explained in the present section > Chapter 6.1. Our various corporate citizenship activities are described in > Chapter 6.2. 107 OUR CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP PRINCIPLES Introduction Our corporate citizenship practice follows three principles: 1 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT First, we believe in making long-term commitments. Every programme is designed with a long-term view and delivered in a multi-year horizon, in order to provide real 2 benefits to recipients. For example, in 2005, we launched one of our first corporate PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY citizenship programmes, BMW Children’s Traffic Safety Education (CTSE), which 3 was one of the first such programmes by an automotive company. It has now been ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION running successfully for over 11 years. 4 Second, we are committed to programme efficiency. We are concerned about SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT China’s current social challenges that demand prompt solutions, such as the need to provide traffic safety education for children; to protect and pass down intangible 5 cultural heritage; to care for children who have been left behind by parents; and the EMPLOYEES need to protect the environment. All of our corporate citizenship programmes are based on these needs of Chinese society, combined with our own resources and 6 competencies. CORPORATE Third, we support all-party engagement. The BMW Warm Heart Fund, which was CITIZENSHIP established in 2008, has developed into an integrated platform covering the full spectrum of the BMW family in China, from employees to dealers and customers. 6.1 Our management approach Each member plays an important role in ensuring wide-ranging involvement of 6.2 Corporate citizenship stakeholders in our corporate citizenship activities and in liaising with communities. 7 APPENDIX 108 TAKING RESPONSIBILITY Introduction We aim to strengthen our profile as a responsible corporate citizen by taking an 1 efficient, professional and humanistic approach to caring for people, the community SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT and the environment. 2 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Our corporate citizenship strategy has been designed to reflect the realities of Chinese society. Our areas of strategic focus – resources, intercultural innovation 3 and social inclusion, and education – enable us to implement social initiatives that ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION align with our industry, while further promoting sustainable development in China. 4 The foundation of our corporate citizenship efforts is the CCF-BMW Warm Heart SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT Fund, established jointly with the China Charity Federation (CCF), which supports 5 a wide variety of programmes and partners. We encourage our employees, dealers and customer representatives to contribute to our corporate citizenship efforts. EMPLOYEES The Warm Heart Fund is focused on delivering results, and remains committed to operating in a collaborative, transparent and sustainable manner. 6 By the end of 2015, the BMW Warm Heart Fund had received a total of RMB 96 CORPORATE million in contributions from BMW entities in China, its stakeholders and the public. CITIZENSHIP To date, more than 250 BMW dealers and 80,000 customers and employees have participated in a variety of public campaigns that help address social issues in 6.1 Our management approach Chinese communities. 6.2 Corporate citizenship 7 APPENDIX Employees are posing to form the number seven in celebration of the BMW Warm Heart Fund’s seventh birthday. 109 Introduction BMW China Corporate Citizenship strategy and structure F.30 1 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT BMW China Corporate Citizenship 2 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 3 RESOURCES INTERCULTURAL INNOVATION EDUCATION ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND SOCIAL INCLUSION 4 Goal: Contribute to the sustainable Goal: Promote cross-culture Goal: Provide engaging road safety SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT development of China by understanding and social and general safety education. promoting innovations for resource inclusion, reduce social inequality 5 efficiency and sustainable and safeguard the social stability EMPLOYEES resource use with social benefits. and prosperity through innovative activities outside and inside the 6 corporation. CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP • 5S dealership • BMW China Culture Journey • BMW Children’s Traffic • BMW Sanjiangyuan • BMW JOY Home Safety Education Ecological Environment • BMW JOY Future • BMW Brilliance Quality 6.1 Our management approach Protection • BMW Yushu Care Initiative Education Open Course 6.2 Corporate citizenship BMW Warm Heart Fund 7 BMW China Corporate Citizenship Platforms APPENDIX With Fund support, project initiation and process partners engagement Led by the Vice President of Public Relations and CSR, our CSR team works with the In addition, our Board of Management provides crucial support and guidance to BMW Warm Heart Fund and Government Affairs teams to implement our corporate many of our corporate citizenship initiatives, and makes all the necessary planning citizenship programmes and report to senior management on the progress made and resource decisions. toward our corporate citizenship strategy and long-term business direction. 110 OUR AWARD-WINNING CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP Introduction PROGRAMMES 1 In 2015, we received several awards and honours for our charitable and CSR SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT programmes, as well as for our overall corporate citizenship performance. These included: 2 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY In January 2015, the “BMW JOY Home Children Companion Programme” received the “Best CSR Innovation Prize of 2014 CSR China Education 3 Award” from CSR China Education Award Committee initiated by China ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Philanthropist and China College Students’ Social Practice Promotion Committee of Chinese Communist Youth League. 4 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT In January 2015, “BMW China Culture Journey” was awarded the “2014 CSR China Culture Award” by National Humanity History. 5 EMPLOYEES In July 2015, the “2014 BMW Children’s Traffic Safety Education” programme was awarded the “2015 Excellent CSR Project” by Southern Weekly. 6 In July 2015, BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. was honoured for “2015 Best CORPORATE Corporate Social Responsibility” by Southern Weekly. CITIZENSHIP In July 2015, BMW China Automotive Trading Ltd. and BMW Brilliance During the BMW JOY Home “Paint for the Future” campaign. 6.1 Our management approach Automotive Ltd. received the “2014–2015 Most Respected Company” 6.2 Corporate citizenship award by The Economic Observer. In November 2015, BMW China Automotive Trading Ltd. and BMW Brilliance 7 Automotive Ltd. received the “2015 Most Responsible Corporate” award by APPENDIX China Newsweek. In November 2015, BMW China Automotive Trading Ltd. and BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. received the “Best Corporate Citizen” award by 21st Century Business Herald. In December 2015, BMW China Automotive Trading Ltd. and BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. were awarded the “Annual CSR Innovation Award of China Automotive Industry” by Auto Business Review. In December 2015, BMW Brilliance Automotive was honoured with a “CSR Annual Award” by China Auto News. 111 Introduction 6.2 1 Corporate citizenship SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY OUR STRATEGIC DIRECTION 3 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Due to our core areas of expertise, we believe that we have a leading Our corporate citizenship strategy focuses on three main areas: role to play in the area of corporate citizenship. 4 Resources SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT China’s economic development and environmental status has transformed Environmental responsibility is integral to our business. We promote initiatives 5 into what is being called the “New Normal”. Performance is no longer only that contribute to an efficient and sustainable use of natural resources for the EMPLOYEES measured by speed, it is also measured by the capacity to deliver higherbenefit of society and local communities. quality products and contribute to sustainable economic development. In order to address the wide range of social issues present in the New Intercultural innovation and social inclusion 6 Normal, and to contribute to achieving sustainable development in China, We promote intercultural innovation and social inclusion in a holistic fashion. Our goal is to reduce social inequality and to safeguard social stability and we endeavour to act as a responsible corporate citizen and to help drive CORPORATE prosperity in China. We are committed to preserving traditional Chinese progress on social issues. In our efforts, we seek to effectively integrate CITIZENSHIP innovation and corporate social responsibility. We continue to work culture. with our partners to contribute to environmental protection, to preserve 6.1 Our management approach Education traditional Chinese culture, and to support disadvantaged children and As part of our commitment to sustainable development, we support the 6.2 Corporate citizenship students in our society. education of future generations. We seek to do our part in helping society move forward and achieve prosperity for all. 7 APPENDIX 112 RESOURCES Introduction Supporting ecosystem protection in Sanjiangyuan 1 In August 2013, BMW Warm Heart Fund joined hands with the China Green SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Foundation and the Shanshui Conservation Centre to launch a new ecosystem protection programme in Yushu district’s Sanjiangyuan Nature Reserve. In July 2014, 2 BMW China announced that its cooperation with Shanshui Conservation Centre PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY would extend to 2016, investing RMB 3 million in total over three years for the eco3 protection of the Sanjiangyuan area, and to support the sustainable development ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION of the Yushu area. The programme includes a series of studies on the grasslands’ ecological system, community protection practices and training classes for local 4 green talent, as well as the active exploration and establishment of a community SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT protection and resource management model that fits local needs and promotes Yushu’s long-term development. In 2015, an extensive site visit was organised, 5 with BMW Warm Heart Fund’s support, for volunteers including our customers, EMPLOYEES employees, dealers and the media in China. Employees on site visit at the Sanjiangyuan Nature Reserve. 6 INTERCULTURAL INNOVATION AND SOCIAL INCLUSION CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP Protecting China’s cultural heritage We are dedicated to protecting traditional Chinese culture and promoting cross6.1 Our management approach cultural understanding and social inclusion. In 2007, we launched the BMW China 6.2 Corporate citizenship Culture Journey, a cultural odyssey, to raise public awareness about the preservation and inheritance of traditional Chinese culture. 7 In 2015, we made innovative efforts to promote the revitalisation and sustainable APPENDIX development of China’s intangible cultural heritage. Experts, artists, entrepreneurs 2015 BMW China Culture Journey: intangible cultural heritage visit in Shaanxi Province. and our stakeholders were invited to join the fleet and help raise public awareness about the preservation of intangible cultural heritage; increase public recognition by leveraging their online experience; and by engaging innovative forces, such as entrepreneurs, to actively participate in the Journey and help future generations sustain the existence of these heritage items. As the first long-term corporate citizenship programme focused on protecting China’s intangible cultural heritage, BMW China Culture Journey has visited more than 250 intangible cultural heritage items in 21 provinces and municipalities across China over the past nine years. In total, RMB 16.3 million have been donated to 90 heritage items in urgent need of protection as well as to related research programmes. 113 Supporting disadvantaged children and students Introduction BMW JOY Home Children Companion Programme is the first long-term public aid programme aimed at creating equal growth opportunities for disadvantaged children 1 in rural areas of China. Launched in 2011 by the BMW Warm Heart Fund, BMW JOY SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Homes – along with our dealers and customers – has to date built 56 homes in 28 provinces, benefiting more than 50,000 children. 2 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY In 2015, the newly launched BMW JOY Home events included a “Paint for Future” 3 painting theme campaign, which saw over 500 BMW warm-hearted customers and ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION employees volunteer their time to introduce long-term art education to children in 42 BMW JOY Homes. Additionally, a Teacher Training Programme was introduced, 4 in which 50 headmasters and teachers from 28 BMW JOY Homes received a threeSUPPLIER MANAGEMENT day training session in Beijing on five core topics about educational improvement. 5 Providing opportunities to students from low-income families EMPLOYEES Launched in 2008, the BMW JOY Future Students Grant Programme provides Yushu Care Initiative. financial assistance, educational opportunities and spiritual support to outstanding 6 students from financially challenged families. In 2015, this programme continued its three-year financial assistance for disadvantaged college students with the support CORPORATE of our fully engaged employees and dealers. We organised presentation skills CITIZENSHIP training, English classes, career instruction and public courses that can assist college students in planning their future and adapting to modern social life. To date, we have 6.1 Our management approach provided nearly RMB 22 million in aid to nearly 7,800 students in 16 provinces. 6.2 Corporate citizenship Emergency aid and long-term support to disaster-affected areas Since launching the emergency disaster aid programme – known as BMW Yushu 7 Care Initiative – in 2010, BMW Warm Heart Fund has arranged nine visits to Yushu, APPENDIX the site of a devastating earthquake in April 2010. Our last visit was in July 2015, when 60 volunteers, including our customers, employees, dealers and media, met with local pasturing families to learn more about how best to help them improve their situation. In total, by year-end 2015, we had distributed RMB 7.54 million in winter supplies and educational materials throughout the region, helping a total of 29,000 students and local herdsmen. 114 Introduction EDUCATION Ensuring children’s road safety 1 BMW Children’s Traffic Safety Education (CTSE) was introduced in 2005 as a In 2015, CTSE continued to explore and innovate in the field of safety education. pioneering programme in the Chinese automotive industry dedicated to children’s SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT We launched the new Train the Trainers (TTT) programme, which aims to train more safety education. In the 11 years since, we have leveraged a range of approaches, professional volunteers and provide traffic safety knowledge to more children and 2 rather than just “dry” textbooks or lectures, to guide children in spontaneous families. In 2015, we trained over 1,200 people in our TTT classrooms. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY exploration and learning, including situational experiences, role playing, interactive education and new media platforms. The goal is to turn “knowledge learning” into Additionally, 2015 saw the launch of the all-new CTSE application for Android3 “good habit cultivation” and to achieve practical “education through entertainment”. based handheld mobile devices to provide a larger and broader platform to engage ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION stakeholders and help raise children’s interest in traffic safety. We also redoubled our Since 2005, the CTSE programme has reached 63 cities, benefited 390,000 people 4 efforts to spread the 3D CTSE road safety film to children in remote areas. and resulted in the dissemination of 300,000 copies of the BMW Traffic Safety SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT Textbook for Schoolchildren, released in conjunction with the Ministry of Education. 5 We also shared this material with BMW JOY Homes in 2015. EMPLOYEES 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 6.1 Our management approach 6.2 Corporate citizenship 7 APPENDIX 115 Providing quality management education Supporting talent cultivation in the Chinese automotive industry Introduction In 2013, we officially launched our BMW Brilliance Quality Education Open Course. To further the local use of German “dual education” principles, BMW China Training The course places a focus on a “Quality Comes First” production philosophy. We help Academy initiated the BMW Education of Service Technology Programme (BEST). 1 middle and primary school students to better understand the importance of quality Established in 2006, BEST aims to cooperate with local vocational schools to launch SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT safety by teaching lessons through fun activities and by setting up a “Knowledge as primary and secondary education accreditation programmes for students. The Action” extracurricular study platform. programme focuses on the joint application of theoretical and practical knowledge 2 and has attracted a large number of high-level talents, with product knowledge and PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY In 2015, BMW Brilliance continued to improve the training programme and expand professional skills, to China’s automotive industry. This programme is also dedicated its reach. The activities were diversified to include content specifically designed for to cultivating teachers with professional training capacity, international ideas on 3 teenagers, such as automotive lectures, site visits and interactive programmes. During training, and the most advanced automotive technologies. Throughout the ten years ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION their on-site visits, students obtained first-hand experience of BMW Brilliance’s of its existence, BEST has contributed to creating win-win outcomes for schools, 4 leading position on environmental protection, quality assurance and technology. enterprises, students, dealers and society as a whole, and is a model for vocational SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT They were impressed by the high-tech demonstrations in BMW Brilliance’s key education in China. quality control labs, the acoustics, meteorology and vibration laboratories, and 5 the functioning of fully automated robots on site. The programme also provided To date, we have set up 15 training bases across 13 provinces in cooperation with EMPLOYEES opportunities for students to participate in the automotive mould assembly. It is over 300 dealers nationwide. The programme witnessed over 6,000 graduates, hoped that these activities will help foster students’ awareness for the importance of 30% of whom joined BMW dealerships as reliable forces for high-quality sales and 6 quality as a value guiding their daily lives. aftersales services. CORPORATE Encouraging student innovation CITIZENSHIP 2015 marked the 10th anniversary of the annual Shanghai Tongji University “BMW Day”, which over the past decade has been attended by a total of over 200,000 6.1 Our management approach college students. This event is aimed at inspiring young people to develop innovative ideas and to have the courage to pursue their dreams. The 2015 BMW Day, held 6.2 Corporate citizenship in October, was an opportunity for students to get to know BMW better and take part in a multimedia design competition for ConnectedDrive. In the future, we will 7 further our cooperation with China’s higher education institutions and contribute to Quality Education Open Course. APPENDIX the cultivation of talent. 116 Introduction BMW stakeholder volunteering 1 In addition to our corporate citizenship programmes, all BMW stakeholders Associate Social Responsibility (ASR) project SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT are encouraged to take part in various social responsibility initiatives. Our employees also contribute to addressing social issues. Launched in 2008, the Associate Social Responsibility (ASR) project is a voluntary 2 BMW Warm Heart Customer Clubs employee charity project designed to “devote love and care for others”, PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY The BMW Warm Heart Customer Clubs not only play an active role in with a slogan of “helping each other with one RMB per person every organising BMW customers to participate in our corporate citizenship month”. ASR is committed to providing financial support and spiritual care 3 activities, but they also mobilise and engage local charity forces to initiate to elders, orphans, handicapped and ill children, as well as to employees ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION various public service programmes to address local social issues. in difficult circumstances. 4 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT By the end of 2015, there were 12 BMW Warm Heart Customer Clubs By year-end 2015, volunteers organised by ASR have helped 250 across the nation, with more than 2,500 members. These clubs have homeless and disadvantaged elders in social welfare homes, 30 disabled 5 organised more than 150 public welfare activities each year, benefitting orphans in the Happy Dream Orphanage, twins with cerebral palsy, over 30 EMPLOYEES over 15,000 people. handicapped children and primary students. In addition, over 100 povertystricken patients with eye diseases were provided assistance to receive 6 eye surgery. CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 6.1 Our management approach 6.2 Corporate citizenship 7 APPENDIX Delivery of donated books to a primary school by a local Warm Heart Customer Club. 117 To promote stakeholder communication and engagement, the BMW Sustainability Introduction and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Forum was launched in 2013, providing FORECAST 2016 an open platform for all stakeholders to discuss sustainability and CSR issues and 1 for BMW entities to share our perspective on future trends. Under the theme of SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT “Innovation+, Joyful Future Powered by Responsibility”, the 2015 BMW Sustainability We have accomplished the goals we set for ourselves in 2015 by taking a and CSR Forum was successfully held in Shenyang on 9th December 2015. BMW long-term and systematic approach to developing our corporate citizenship 2 executives and representatives from government, academia and media gathered strategy and programmes. In 2016, we are taking further steps to align our PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY and shared their philosophies and practices on the use of technological and social corporate citizenship strategy and activities with the vision of “creating innovation to promote sustainability and corporate citizenship. They also explored shared value”. Our strategy will be adjusted to new social trends and we 3 are committed to constructively promoting social progress in an innovative ideas to advance the sustainable development of companies and communities ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION approach. In addition, we are further upgrading our flagship programmes in China’s New Normal environment. We also officially released BMW Brilliance’s by providing more resources and by increasing our engagement with the 4 2014 Sustainability Report at the forum. public. SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 5 EMPLOYEES 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 6.1 Our management approach 6.2 Corporate citizenship 7 APPENDIX At the BMW Sustainability and CSR Forum. 118 APPENDIX 7.1 About this report 7.2 UN Global Compact index 7.3 GRI G4 content index Introduction 7.1 1 About this report SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY The BMW Brilliance Sustainability Report 2015 has been published to provide stakeholders with comprehensive information about the 3 company’s sustainability ambitions and the progress made. Topics ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION have been selected and weighted in accordance with the findings 4 of a systematic materiality process. The report is based on the SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT requirements of the UN Global Compact Communication on Progress and has been developed in accordance with GRI G4 core. 5 EMPLOYEES Reporting period The reporting period is the 2015 calendar year. This report covers the period from 6 1st January 2015 to 31st December 2015. It is BMW Brilliance’s third Sustainability CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP Report. The last BMW Brilliance Sustainability Report was released in December 2015 covering the financial year 2014. The next Sustainability Report will be published 7 in mid-2017. BMW Brilliance reports on a yearly basis. APPENDIX Reporting scope The sustainability figures include the following production and operation sites of 7.1 About this report BMW Brilliance: the Shenyang plants, as well as the branch company in Beijing and its regional offices. The content and data of the report relate primarily to BMW 7.2 UN Global Compact index Brilliance. Joint initiatives with BMW China Automotive Trading Ltd. are included in 7.3 GRI G4 content index the areas of customer relationship management and corporate citizenship. There were no significant changes to the size of BMW Brilliance’s business or to the scope and aspect boundaries of the report during the reporting period. Third-party verification External auditors and experts audited indicators from the areas of environmental protection and occupational health and safety in accordance with ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. 120 Introduction 7.2 1 UN Global Compact index SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY BMW Brilliance is committed to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, and Principle 1: Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights is continuously integrating sustainability criteria into all corporate processes. We 3 actively promote compliance with internationally adopted standards and regulations COMPANY GUIDELINES AND MOST RELEVANT MEASURES REFERENCES ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION in the fields of human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and the MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS 4 fight against corruption. In this report, BMW Brilliance comments on the progress BMW BRILLIANCE we have achieved in complying with these principles. SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT Commitment to the UN Global Further elaboration of our most salient > 1.1 Compact Initiative human rights issues 5 The following tables list examples of established BMW Brilliance guidelines and Commitment to the ILO Declaration on Company-wide communication of > 1.3 EMPLOYEES management systems that support our compliance with the ten UN Global Compact Fundamental Principles and Rights at the relevant instruments and related Work documents principles, as well as progress made. 6 Human Resources Policy consisting Company-wide communication about the of Associates Handbook and Human BMW Brilliance SpeakUp Line CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP Resources Guidelines which are binding for every employee, include health, safety and environment practices, 7 handling of hazardous substances as well as anti-discrimination and antiharassment measures APPENDIX BMW Brilliance SpeakUP Line BMW Brilliance Legal Compliance Code 7.1 About this report 7.2 UN Global Compact index 7.3 GRI G4 content index SUPPLIERS BMW Group Supplier Sustainability Management (SRM) process > 1.1 Standard Yearly supplier audits to ensure suppliers > 4.1– 4.3 Purchasing conditions and sustainability are not complicit in human rights abuses contract clauses and to avoid child labour Supplier management DEALERS Fostering sustainability among dealers > 1.2 > 2.3 121 Introduction Principle 2: Make sure there is no complicity in human rights abuses Principle 4: Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour COMPANY GUIDELINES AND MOST RELEVANT MEASURES REFERENCES COMPANY GUIDELINES AND MOST RELEVANT MEASURES REFERENCES MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS 1 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT BMW BRILLIANCE BMW BRILLIANCE 2 > See principle 1 > See principle 1 > See principle 1 > See principle 1 > See principle 1 > See principle 1 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Human Resource Guidelines in SUPPLIERS compliance with China’s Labour Law and relevant regulations in relation to 3 forbidden, forced, compulsory and child > See principle 1 > See principle 1 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION labour 4 SUPPLIERS SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT > See principle 1 > See principle 1 5 Principle 3: Uphold the freedom of association and recognition of the right to collective bargaining EMPLOYEES COMPANY GUIDELINES AND MOST RELEVANT MEASURES REFERENCES MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP BMW BRILLIANCE Principle 5: Effective abolition of child labour > See principle 1 The Labour Union represents all local > See principle 1 COMPANY GUIDELINES AND MOST RELEVANT MEASURES REFERENCES 7 employees Over the past five years, management MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS APPENDIX and the Labour Union have achieved a more than 50% cumulative increase in BMW BRILLIANCE the salary rate > See principles 1 and 4 > See principle 1 > See principle 1 7.1 About this report SUPPLIERS SUPPLIERS 7.2 UN Global Compact index 7.3 GRI G4 content index > See principle 1 > See principle 1 > See principle 1 > See principle 1 122 Introduction Principle 6: Elimination of discrimination in respect to employment and occupation SUPPLIERS COMPANY GUIDELINES AND MOST RELEVANT MEASURES REFERENCES > See principle 1 Supplier Risk Management (SRM) > 4.1– 4.3 MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS process 1 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT BMW BRILLIANCE DEALERS 2 > See principle 1 > See principle 1 > See principle 1 5S certification of dealers including Promoted the 5S dealer concept by > 2.3 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY ecological criteria encouraging the voluntary involvement of SUPPLIERS authorised dealers nationwide to improve 3 sustainability standards > See principle 1 > See principle 1 Fostering sustainability among dealers ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 4 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 5 Principle 7: Support precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility EMPLOYEES COMPANY GUIDELINES AND REFERENCES MOST RELEVANT MEASURES COMPANY GUIDELINES AND MOST RELEVANT MEASURES REFERENCES MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP BMW BRILLIANCE BMW BRILLIANCE ISO 14001 certification for all plant BMW Brilliance contributes to the BMW > 2.1–2.4 > See principle 7 > See principle 7 > See principle 7 7 locations BMW Group internal Centres of Group environmental goals: to achieve a 45% reduction in energy consumption > 3.1–3.4 SUPPLIERS as well as water, wastewater, waste and APPENDIX Competence (CoCs) for water, process wastewater, energy, waste for disposal solvents per vehicle produced between and VOC emissions 2006 and 2020 > See principle 7 > See principle 7 7.1 About this report Consideration of environmental impacts in investment decisions DEALERS 7.2 UN Global Compact index Application of Cleaner Production Strategy of the United Nations > See principle 7 > See principle 7 7.3 GRI G4 content index Environment Programme (UNEP) Implementation of the BMW Group Efficient Dynamics strategy Strategy to develop and promote electric vehicles Certification of all products according to ISO 14020, ISO 14024 and the Chinese standard HJ 2532 Guidelines on interior emissions in vehicles 123 Introduction Principle 9: Development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Principle 10: Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery COMPANY GUIDELINES AND MOST RELEVANT MEASURES REFERENCES COMPANY GUIDELINES AND MOST RELEVANT MEASURES REFERENCES MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS 1 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT BMW BRILLIANCE BMW BRILLIANCE 2 > See principle 7 Relied on the latest state-of-the-art > See principle 7 Associate Handbook including an Ethics BMW Brilliance Compliance Committee > 1.3 technologies to achieve our efficiency PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY targets & Code of Conduct section (BCC) further strengthened Legal Compliance Code Established a comprehensive legal and Further developed New Energy Vehicles 3 including infrastructure in China Corruption and Prevention Guideline compliance monitoring network to help ensure continuous monitoring and impact ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Corporate Hospitality and Gifts analysis of ongoing legal changes and Instruction developments SUPPLIERS 4 Anti-Fraud Policy and Fraud Response Rolled-out mandatory online training Guideline modules on anti-corruption and antiSUPPLIER MANAGEMENT > See principle 7 BMW Brilliance Compliance fraud policies as well as IT security and Management System data privacy 5 Further promoted the SpeakUp Line EMPLOYEES SUPPLIERS 6 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP > See principle 1 7 APPENDIX 7.1 About this report 7.2 UN Global Compact index 7.3 GRI G4 content index 124 Introduction 7.3 1 GRI G4 content index SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY The following table lists the GRI Standard Disclosures and their location in BMW GENERAL STANDARD PAGE COMMENTS EXTERNAL DISCLOSURE ASSURANCE Brilliance’s report. This sustainability report was prepared in accordance with the 3 G4-12 p. 73–75 – Core option of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION G4-13 p. 120 – 4 G4-14 p. 16–18 – SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT G4-15 p. 20 – General Standard Disclosures G4-16 CAAM (China Association of Automobile Manufacturers) – 5 CAEFI (China Association of Enterprises with Foreign GENERAL STANDARD PAGE COMMENTS EXTERNAL EMPLOYEES DISCLOSURE ASSURANCE Investment) IAC (The Investment Association of China) LNAEFI (Liaoning Association of Enterprises with Foreign 6 STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Investment) CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP SYAEFI (Shenyang Association of Enterprises with G4-1 p. 3 Foreign Investment) BAEFI (Beijing Association of Enterprises with Foreign ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 7 Investment) ABNEA (Association of Beijing New Energy Automotives) G4-3 p. 128 APPENDIX G4-4 p. 8 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-5 p. 128 G4-17 p. 120 – 7.1 About this report G4-18 p. 16-18 – G4-6 p. 6 7.2 UN Global Compact index G4-19 p. 18 – G4-7 p. 9 7.3 GRI G4 content index G4-20 p. 18 – G4-8 p. 6 G4-21 p. 18 – G4-9 p. 6–7 14% of employees are working on a permanent G4-22 Where necessary and possible, restatements are – contract. Due to a different calculation method, the explained in footnotes to the respective graphs. data in 2015 is not comparable with data from 2014 G4-10 p. 95 or earlier. Self-employed workers and seasonal G4-23 p. 120 – variations are not relevant in the context of BMW Brilliance’s work. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-11 p. 88 G4-24 p. 25 – G4-25 p. 24 – G4-26 p. 20 – G4-27 p. 20 – 125 GENERAL STANDARD PAGE COMMENTS EXTERNAL Introduction DISCLOSURE ASSURANCE REPORT PROFILE 1 G4-28 p. 120 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT G4-29 p. 120 2 G4-30 p. 120 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY G4-31 p. 128 3 G4-32 p. 125–127 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION G4-33 p. 120 4 GOVERNANCE SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT G4-34 p. 16–17 According to the Articles of Association of BMW Brilliance, the highest authority of BMW Brilliance is 5 the Board of Directors (the “BoD”). The BoD has the power to make decisions on all major and important EMPLOYEES matters of BMW Brilliance as provided in the Articles of Association. A management organisation, the Board of 6 Management (the “BoM”), is established under the BoD, which is responsible for and in charge of the day-to-day CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP operation and management of BMW Brilliance. ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 7 G4-56 The 12 Basic Principles at BMW Brilliance are: Customer APPENDIX Orientation, Peak Performance, Responsibility, Effectiveness, Adaptability, Dissent (Frankness), Respect & Trust & Fairness, Associates, Leading By Example, 7.1 About this report Sustainability, Society, Independence. Core Values: Trust, Inspire, Open, Care, Go Beyond. 7.2 UN Global Compact index Norms of Behaviour: 7.3 GRI G4 content index Associate Handbook including an Ethics & Code of Conduct section Legal Compliance Code Corruption and Prevention Guideline Corporate Hospitality and Gifts Instruction Anti-Fraud Policy and Fraud Response Guideline 126 Introduction Specific Standard Disclosures MATERIAL ASPECTS DMA AND OMISSIONS AND COMMENTS EXTERNAL MATERIAL ASPECTS DMA AND OMISSIONS AND COMMENTS EXTERNAL INDICATORS ASSURANCE INDICATORS ASSURANCE 1 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Energy DMA: p. 44–47, Conversion factors: steamAnti-competitive DMA: p. 27–35 In 2015, there were no legal actions 59–62 consumption measured in GJ*0.277 Behaviour G4-SO7: regarding anti-competitive behaviour G4-EN3: p. 60 = MWh, gas-consumption in cubic or violations of anti-trust and 2 meters *10.82/1000 = MWh monopoly legislation. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY DMA: p. 44–47, Customer Health and DMA: p. 48–50 Emissions 59–62 Safety G4-PR1: p. 49 3 G4-EN3: p. 45 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Supplier Environmental DMA: p. 77–82 Products and DMA: p. 39–47, Assessment G4-EN33: p. 81 Services G4-EN27: p. 39–47 4 Supplier Assessment DMA: p. 77–82 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT Employment DMA: p. 90–95 Total number of new employee for Labour Practices G4-LA15: p. 81 G4-LA6: p. 95 hires not reported. Total number of employee turnover, as well as Supplier Assessment DMA: In 2015, no suppliers were assessed 5 breakdown by age group, gender for Impacts on Society G4-SO10: for impacts on society. EMPLOYEES and region not reported. Occupational Health DMA: p. 96–98 Data is not reported by gender. 6 and Safety G4-LA6: p. 97 Occupational diseases rate CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP (ODR), lost day rate (LDR) and injuries/occupational diseases for independent contractors working 7 on-site are not reported. There are no occupational disease cases in the company. We monitor accident APPENDIX frequency rate instead of LDR. Training and Education DMA: p. 99–104 Training days by gender not 7.1 About this report G4-LA9: p. 100 reported. 7.2 UN Global Compact index Anti-corruption DMA: p. 27–35 Total number of employees and G4-SO4: p. 29–30 number of business partners that 7.3 GRI G4 content index policies and procedures have been communicated to are not reported. Public Policy BMW Brilliance does not support political parties, their representatives or candidates for office with financial or in-kind political contributions. 127 Introduction We look forward to hearing from you. FURTHER INFORMATION AND PUBLICATIONS ARE AVAILABLE AT: 1 www.bmw-brilliance.cn/cn/en/csr/download.html SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2 Contact for questions regarding this report: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. Beijing Branch 25th Floor, Tower B, Gateway Plaza 3 18 Xiaguangli, North Road East Third Ring ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Chaoyang District Beijing 100027, P.R. China 4 Tel.: +86 (0)10 8455 7000 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT Report published by: 5 BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. EMPLOYEES 14 Shanzuizi Road Dadong District 6 Shenyang 110044 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP Liaoning Province, P.R. China Tel.: +86 (0)24 8455 6000 7 APPENDIX BMW Brilliance on the Internet: www.bmw-brilliance.cn 7.1 About this report www.zinoro.com.cn 7.2 UN Global Compact index 7.3 GRI G4 content index 128
